SENATE ADDS DOMENICI-BACKED RENEWABLE ENERGY TAX CREDIT EXTENSION TO HOUSING ASSISTANCE BILL
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today voted with the Senate to attach legislation he cosponsored to extend expiring clean energy tax credits to a housing assistance bill passed by the Senate today. 
   Last week, Domenici signed as an original cosponsor to the Clean Energy Tax Stimulus Act (S.2821). Today, the bill was offered and approved by a vote of 88-8 as an amendment to HR.3221, legislation intended to mitigate the economic impact of the current housing crisis.
   Like S.2821, the renewable energy amendment approved today would provide a one-year extension of the renewable energy production tax credit and an eight-year extension of the solar energy and fuel cell investment tax credit, and provide other incentives for clean energy and energy efficiency.
   "Our 2005 energy bill included some of the most sweeping tax credits for clean energy technology to date. We cannot let them expire. Recent work in areas such as solar technologies--including groundbreaking work at Sandia National Laboratories, and the advancement of wind technology in New Mexico--all faced big setbacks without this legislation," said Domenici.
   In addition to extending production and solar tax credits, the amendment authorizes $400 million for Clean Renewable Energy Bonds, and extends tax credits for those who modify or build energy-efficient homes and commercial buildings. The amendment also extends credits for energy efficient appliances such as dishwashers and refrigerators.
   While some have advocating paying for the tax credit extensions with specific offsets, Domenici reiterated his belief that it was unnecessary due to the stimulative effect of the tax credits.
   "As former chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, I have been committed to fiscal discipline for my entire career. But when one takes a larger view of these energy tax credits, it becomes obvious that they stimulate the economy, create jobs, and help America become less dependent on foreign sources of oil, which in my judgment is currently the biggest strain on our economy. It is therefore unnecessary to offset the tax credits, since the end result will be a benefit to our economy and energy security," Domenici continued.
   Among the technologies that benefit from the renewable energy tax credit are wind, biomass, geothermal, small irrigation power, landfill gas, trash combustion and hydropower facilities.
   Domenici supported and voted for the inclusion of clean energy tax credit extensions in the economic stimulus package earlier this year. Ultimately, Congress passed a stimulus package which did not contain the tax credit extensions.
   In terms of the Housing Bill (HR.3221), Domenici voted for the legislation, which passed by a vote of 84-12. It contains provisions to mitigate the economic impacts of the recent home mortgage and foreclosure crisis. Among other things, it calls for homeowner counseling, as well as tax breaks for responsible mortgage lenders.
 
 