SEN. DOMENICI HONORS DECORATED VETERAN JERRY MURPHY IN CONGRESSIONAL RECORD STATEMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today offered a Congressional Record tribute to Raymond "Jerry" Murphy, the Albuquerque Medal of Honor recipient who passed away April 6 after a long illness. 
   Domenici in January introduced legislation to name the Albuquerque Veterans Administration Medical Center as the Raymond G. Murphy Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman, who cosponsored the bill, had been working to get the Senate to pass the legislation before Murphy passed away. Funeral services are set for Friday in Albuquerque, with burial to follow at the Santa Fe National Cemetery.  
   The following is the text of Domenici's Congressional Record salute to Murphy: 
   "MR. DOMENICI. Mr. President, it is with a sad heart that I come to the floor today and honor my good friend Raymond Gerald Murphy. Jerry Murphy died last Friday at the age of 77. A burial with full military honors is planned for Santa Fe National Cemetery this week. 
   "Captain Jerry Murphy was the 39th US Marine to be awarded the Medal of Honor for heroism in the Korean War. He was decorated by President Dwight Eisenhower in a White House ceremony in 1953. In addition to the Medal of Honor, Captain Murphy was also awarded the Silver Star, the Purple Heart, the Korean Service Medal with two bronze stars, the United Nations Service Medal, and the National Defense Service Medal. Jerry Murphy was a hero in every sense of the word. 
   "What really made Jerry special though was his service to others. When he returned from Korea, he dedicated his entire life to taking care of other veterans. He spent twenty-three years working in the Albuquerque VA Regional Office. Upon his retirement, he continued to serve veterans as a volunteer until he became too sick to do so. Earlier this year, Senator Bingaman and I introduced a bill to rename the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Albuquerque, as the "Raymond G. Murphy Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center." I am very sad this was not completed before Jerry died, but I hope it will be completed soon. 
   "In addition to all of Jerry's military honors, he was also a family man. Jerry is survived by his wife Maryann, his sons John, Michael, and Tim, his daughter Eleanor as well as eight grandchildren. My thoughts and prayers are with the Murphy family this week; I know that they are proud of what Jerry accomplished in his lifetime. 
   "Jerry Murphy was a close friend and I will miss him greatly. I always valued his friendship and advice. Godspeed, amigo. You touched many lives and helped many people. Your legacy will not soon be forgotten." 
   Domenici indicated that he will continue to press the Senate leadership to move the Murphy bill as soon as possible for Senate passage. The measure is supported by the VA Department as well as the New Mexico Department of Veterans' Services, Albuquerque Armed Forces Advisory Association, American Legion, American Veterans, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Military Order of the Purple Heart and the Vietnam Veterans of America. 
   Murphy is one of fewer than 3,500 Americans who have ever been awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. He was given the honor following his heroic actions in Korea in February 1953, when as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps he organized and led--against orders--a daring mission to rescue wounded Marines pinned down by enemy fire on Ungok Hill. He was wounded himself, but refused treatment until all his fellow Marines were accounted for and treated. In addition to the Medal of Honor, Murphy also earned a Silver Star for bravery in 1952.
 
 