SEN. DOMENICI ENCOURAGES PUBLIC TO USE DOE EXTENDED COMMENT PERIOD ON NATIONAL LAB TRANSFORMATION PLANS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today encouraged New Mexicans to take advantage of an extended public comment deadline for the Complex Transformation proposal, which could affect the future of Los Alamos and Sandia national laboratories as part of the nation's nuclear weapons complex. 
   The public now has until April 30 to offer comment on the National Nuclear Security Administration's Draft Complex Transformation Supplemental Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (SPEIS). Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman informed Domenici of the extension as a response to Domenici's views on extending the comment period past April 10.
   "The public now has an additional 20 days to weigh-in on the Complex Transformation plan. I encourage New Mexicans to take advantage of this opportunity. The NNSA can take these comments and then use them to move on to productive solutions to improve our labs," said Domenici.
   "The Department has gone out of its way to solicit and accommodate input from the public. This extension is on top of an earlier decision to double the comment time and conduct public meetings and hearings in New Mexico and around the country. The high degree of interest from New Mexico is to be commended," he said.
   Domenici on Tuesday issued his formal comments on SPEIS to Bodman and NNSA Administrator Thomas D'Agostino, offering his recommendations on improving the science missions within the nuclear weapons complex. NNSA conducted 20 public meetings in New Mexico, including seven hearings, as part of SPEIS.
   The following is a link to the Federal Register notification outlining SPEIS: http://www.eh.doe.gov/NEPA/notices/2023.pdf
   Comments may be submitted to:
   Mr. Theodore Wyka
   Complex Tranformation SPIES Document Manager
   Office of Transformation, NA-10.1
   U.S. Department of Energy/NNSA
   1000 Independence Avenue, SW
   Washington, D.C. 20585
   Fax: 703-931-9222
   Email: ComplexTransformation@nnsa.doe.gov
 
 