SEN. DOMENICI WANTS COMMITMENT TO NEW MEXICO WATER DESALINATION GOALS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today strongly encouraged the Bureau of Reclamation to maintain a steady stream of resources for water purification projects, including the desalination effort now underway in Otero County. 
   Domenici is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that today reviewed the FY2009 budget requests for the Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation (BOR). Domenici addressed various New Mexico needs as part of his overall critique of the Bush administration's budget proposals for these agencies.
   The proposed FY2009 BOR budget request is for $926.8 million, which is $181 million less than the $1.107 billion provided by Congress in FY2008.
   For New Mexico, the budget recommends $32 million, but eliminates funding for water supply and recycling programs in Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Chimayo, Navajo-Gallup and eastern New Mexico.
   The budget does offer $1.6 million for the Brackish Groundwater National Desalination Research Facility in Alamogordo, but does not renew the $1.8 million Domenici secured last year for New Mexico State University desalination research and development.
   "Desalination and water purification technology is cutting-edge, and the Bureau should be solidly committed to this work. I believe we are very close to major breakthroughs that could profoundly and positively change the future of states like New Mexico and other arid areas that have vast quantities of brackish water," Domenici said. "The Bureau's budget is difficult, but we cannot let the water purification projects like we have going in Alamogordo slip."
   "While I will do what I can in my last year, I strongly encourage the Bureau to develop its capabilities to provide western states with water technology solutions that not only utilize existing water resources, but also enable us to use marginal and brackish water supplies," he said.
   Domenici was assured that operations and maintenance resources, as well as research and development funding, will be made available for the Tularosa Basin desalination program.
   Domenici also expressed concern about the Army Corps of Engineers budget, which requests $35.9 million, a $15.7 million cut from FY2008, for New Mexico. It funds construction of flood control work in Alamogordo ($4.2 million) and the San Acacia/Bosque del Apache floodway ($800,000), but zeroes funding for eight other construction projects around the state. It also cuts investigations funding for East Mesa flood control work in the Las Cruces area.
   "If Congress fails to restore the necessary funding the Corps will send out project cancellation notices and taxpayers will be forced to pay for the cancellation of these contracts, project costs will increase and the economic benefits will be deferred," Domenici said.
 
 