SEN. DOMENICI: $1.0 MILLION IN BLM FUNDING AVAILABLE TO IMPROVE WILDLIFE-ENERGY INTERFACE LANDS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the Bureau of Land Management is making $1.0 million available to continue habitat restoration work on about 40,000 acres in energy-producing areas of southeast New Mexico.  
   Domenici was informed Tuesday of the BLM decision to direct an additional $1.0 million in FY2007 Healthy Lands funding for a mesquite brush control project in areas of Chaves and Eddy County, particularly in energy production areas. The funding was announced Tuesday by Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne as part of a $3.0 million push involving six Healthy Lands initiatives in seven western states. 
   "The BLM has made progress in rehabilitating desert grasslands in areas east of Roswell, Artesia and Carlsbad. This work is good for the region's overall environmental condition and for having a suitable habitat for the Lesser Prairie Chicken and Sand Dune Lizard, both of which are candidates for listing under the Endangered Species Act," Domenici said. "I am pleased Interior Secretary Kempthorne and the BLM have decided to direct specific funding to southeast New Mexico to continue this work. I also commend BLM in New Mexico for making this work a successful priority and model for the rest of the country." 
   The work to rejuvenate desert grasslands and improve watersheds through the removal of mesquite is part of an ongoing BLM effort in New Mexico. In FY2006, the BLM and its partners treated 65,515 acres of BLM property and more than 20,000 acres of state and private land in so-called "wildlife-energy interface" areas. This work includes, among other things, reclaiming oil pads in energy-producing areas. 
   For FY2008, Domenici last month signaled support for the President's proposed $15 million for BLM to continue Healthy Lands work, of which $3.5 million is expected to be directed to the Permian and San Juan basins. The BLM predicts that this additional funding allow it to treat 101,000 more acres, improve 16 miles of streams and reclaim almost 150 oil pads. BLM has worked with the state of New Mexico, Natural Resources Conservation Service, and New Mexico Association of Conservation Districts to leverage funding for restoration work. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee that will soon begin development of the FY2008 Interior Appropriations Bill.
 
 