SEN. DOMENICI PRESSES ARMY CORPS TO SUPPORT BOSQUE PARK, LEVEE REPAIRS ON RIO GRANDE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today pressed the Army Corps of Engineers to support his effort to ensure greater funding for creation of a bosque park in the middle Rio Grande and for shoring up the river's aging levee system. 
   Domenici is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that today reviewed the FY2009 budget requests for the Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation. Domenici addressed various New Mexico needs as part of his overall critique of the Bush administration's budget proposals for these agencies.
   "Funding for the Corps and the Bureau is down substantially in the budget request. This seriously impacts the continuity of funding for ongoing construction projects," Domenici said.
   "Not only is the budget seriously lacking, the President's executive order requiring the earmark reduction poses serious problems for every ongoing construction project in New Mexico and throughout the country for which funding has not been requested. I believe this order will end up hindering their management of projects and funding, rather than restraining Congress," he said.
   The proposed FY2009 Corps budget is $4.74 billion, which is about $851 million lower than FY2008 funding. It suggests $1.4 billion of that funding for 82 construction projects, compared to 313 projects funded this year.
   For New Mexico, the budget requests $35.9 million, a $15.7 million cut from FY2008. It funds continued construction of flood control work in Alamogordo ($4.2 million) and the San Acacia/Bosque del Apache floodway ($800,000). However, it eliminates construction funding for eight projects including the middle Rio Grande flood control, northern New Mexico acequias, Central New Mexico Infrastructure Program (Bernalillo, Valencia and Sandoval counties), and tribal assistance. It also zeroes out operations funding for the Rio Grande bosque restoration and Albuquerque levee evaluations, but does include $311,000 for a feasibility study for the Middle Rio Grande Bosque Park feasibility study.
   "Clearly, I view this budget as extremely problematic for New Mexico, and for advancing projects already authorized and ready to go," Domenici said. "I hope the Corps is ready to work with to me on this budget to support projects like bosque restoration and the urban greenbelt park project that will be wonderful for the area's ecology and for the people. It will be a real credit to the Corps, and to New Mexico."
   Domenici asked Gen. Robert L. Van Antwerp, chief of the Corps, for an engineering opinion regarding the levees on the Rio Grande. Owned by the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District, the levees have reached the end of their economic life and additional work.
   "I would appreciate it if you could direct the local Albuquerque district office to help the community with its planning and repair of this vital flood control work. Unless these levees receive the appropriate repairs, FEMA will continue to consider this a flood prone area and will require residents to pay flood insurance," Domenici said.
   "If Congress fails to restore the necessary funding the Corps will send out project cancellation notices and taxpayers will be forced to pay for the cancellation of these contracts, project costs will increase and the economic benefits will be deferred," he said.
 
 