SEN. DOMENICI ASK FDA TO ENSURE FY07 FUNDING FOR NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOD SAFETY LAB
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asked the Food and Drug Administration to ensure continued funding for a critical food safety research laboratory at New Mexico State University in Las Cruces.  
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has written to FDA Commissioner Andrew C. von Eschenbach, M.D., stressing the importance of maintaining federal funding for the FDA Food Safety and Counter-terrorism Chemical Technologies (CTCT) Laboratories at NMSU. Because of the uncompleted FY2007 appropriations process, federal agencies are mostly free to determine whether to fund various projects for the remainder of this fiscal year. 
   Since 2001, the FDA and NMSU have collaborated on food safety initiatives through the development and operation of the Food Safety Laboratory and the CTCT Laboratory. 
   "I have supported the funding for these laboratories with the knowledge that their work provides important data on rapid methods for detection of pathogens and toxic agents in food products," Domenici said. "This funding has helped pull together a team of highly skilled professionals and over $1 million in state-of-the-art equipment." 
   Domenici reported that the labs' accomplishments include improvements in the FDA's Bacterial Analysis Methods (BAM), valuable contribution of information to numerous FDA and FERN (Food Emergency Response Network) programs, support in the recent spinach and Taco Bell E. coli 015:H7 outbreaks, and establishment of methods data to help accelerate the ability by FDA to detect poisons in foods. 
   "The scope of work has consistently been expanded to include increased evaluation, validation, and development of procedures for pathogens and toxins in specific foods. This work supports food safety as well as food security, both domestically and in the international supply chains, helping to protect American citizens," Domenici said. 
   Before the collapse of the appropriations process last year, Domenici secured $2.4 million in the Senate's FY2007 Agriculture Appropriations Bill to support continued operation of the labs that are within the NMSU Physical Sciences Laboratory. This funding level was consistent with FY2006 funding Domenici worked to secure for the lab. Domenici has requested $4.0 million for the labs in the FY2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill.
 
 