SEN. DOMENICI: NEW BORDER CONTROL CHANGES GOOD FOR VISITORS WHO FOLLOW U.S. LAWS
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today said he believes plans to clamp down on illegal border crossings are necessary as the nation continues to ward against terrorist threats.  
   The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Tuesday revealed its plans to make it easier for legitimate short-term travel by Mexican visitors to New Mexico and other Southwest Border states, while more widely using "expedited removal" for illegal immigrants caught crossing land borders between U.S. ports-of-entry. 
   "These new rules are aimed at broadening the dragnet for those attempting to enter the country illegally. The problem goes well beyond Mexican immigrants trying to slip across the border. The U.S. and Mexican governments are well aware of the problem of illegals from around the world trying to use Mexico as a conduit into the United States," Domenici said. 
   "Our two nations are working together on these initiatives and the rules are primarily directed at those illegal immigrants who are not citizens of Mexico or Canada," he said. "For those entering our country legally, the Department of Homeland Security wants to improve the entry process. I think this is a good move." 
   For legal short-term visitors from Mexico, DHS has proposed expanding the amount of time Mexican visitors using a border crossing card may stay in the United States, from the current 72 hours to 30 days. Such visitors are limited to the official border zone, which is 25 miles of the border in New Mexico and Texas, and 75 miles in Arizona. Those wishing to visit beyond the border zone or past the 30 days would be required to apply for an I-94 form and go through the US-VISIT screening process. 
   According to DHS, expedited removal has been used at U.S. border crossings since 1997, but applied on land borders between ports of entry. The new procedure will only apply to those caught within 100 miles of the Mexican or Canadian borders, and only if they are apprehended within their first 14 days in the United States. Apprehended illegal entrants will be returned to their home country as quickly as possible unless the migrant is deemed to have a credit claim to asylum in the United States. 
   For more information, visit: www.dhs.gov.
 
 