BUSH SIGNS GILA WATER RIGHTS BILL WITH NEW MEXICO WATER, FUNDING SECURED
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today praised President Bush's signing into law a long-awaited bill that will ensure that New Mexico receives 14,000 acre feet of water a year and at least $66 million to address future water supply needs as part of a decades-old Arizona water settlement.  
   The Arizona Water Settlement Act (S.437) was signed into law on Friday. Domenici and Bingaman - chairman and ranking member, respectively, of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee - negotiated for more than a year to finalize the New Mexico package with Arizona Senators Jon Kyl and John McCain. 
   S.437 ratifies outstanding water settlements involving the Central Arizona Project (CAP) and a series of other water claims involving American Indian tribes in Arizona. It grants New Mexico an annual entitlement of 14,000 acre feet of water and provides much greater certainty in the supply. The bill also guarantees New Mexico at least $66 million to address future water supply needs and potentially as much as $128 million if new infrastructure is needed. 
   "I'm pleased that President Bush has signed this long-awaited settlement into law. Finally, southwest New Mexico will be able to benefit from water that is part of the Central Arizona Project. The President's signature means that people in our state can be assured of access to water and associated benefits from the CAP," Domenici said. 
   "Our state stands to reap tremendous benefits from this new law. I'm glad that Sen. Domenici and I were able to work together to protect southwest New Mexico's interests," Bingaman said. 
   The law addresses New Mexico's original right to 18,000 acre feet of CAP water, as stipulated in the 1968 Colorado River Basin Project Act. However, southwest New Mexico has yet to be able to use any of this allotment. The legislation provides the state with the opportunity to exchange CAP water for water from the Gila River in New Mexico. 
   The law also holds interest for northwest New Mexico because the Navajo Nation is a Colorado River water user, and CAP water could be used in Arizona as part of the Navajo-Gallup pipeline project that is currently in the feasibility study phase. That project is the foundation of a proposed settlement of the Navajo Nation's water rights claims in the San Juan River Basin in New Mexico. 
   S.437 sets aside 6,411 acre feet of water (equal to the Window Rock portion of the water needed for the future Navajo-Gallup pipeline) contingent on a Navajo water rights settlement in Arizona. 
   Additionally, the Secretary must provide a report in 2016 on progress toward Indian water rights settlements in Arizona which will put pressure on all parties to continue negotiations.
 
 