SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO PASS CLASS ACTION REFORM, BILL CURBS LEGAS ABUSES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined the Senate to approve comprehensive legislation to reform class action lawsuits in a way that benefits consumers by cutting down on the abuses that are inherent in the current system.  
   The legislation, S.5, passed the Senate on a 72-26 vote. The bill now awaits consideration by the House of Representatives. Domenici is a long-standing supporter of class action reform, and President Bush called for action on the bill during his recent State of the Union address. 
   "It is important to continue to protect the rights of the American people. This bill cuts down on abuses in the class action system but still protects those who suffer harm. Our economy is being drained by ill-advised settlements that harm companies but don't help consumers. I look forward to House action on this bill so we can get it to the President's desk and make it law," Domenici said. 
   Last year, Senate Democrats filibustered similar legislation. In October 2003, the bill received 59 votes-one short of what was needed to end debate and proceed with a final vote. 
   "The current class action system is successful only in lining the pockets of wealthy trial lawyers. It does not operate in a way that benefits either consumers or the American economy. After working hard and coming up just one vote short in the past, I'm very pleased that this year the Senate has passed this bill and we can now move forward with improving our legal system," Domenici continued. 
   S.5 is bipartisan legislation addresses problems exposed by the explosion of class action litigation nationwide over the past 20 years, including abuses that allow the system to benefit attorneys more than their clients. These abuses have had an adverse affect on consumers, the economy and courts. Domenici was a cosponsor of similar legislation introduced in the last Congress. 
   The bill would create a "consumer bill of rights" that requires consumers involved in a class action suit to be informed of their rights. It would also impose stricter oversight of proposed settlements to ensure clients, not class action lawyers, are the primary beneficiaries. 
   The legislation would also close a loophole in the federal diversity jurisdiction rules to ensure that federal courts, rather than state courts, hear class action lawsuits that are truly national or interstate in scope.
 
 