SEN. DOMENICI SEES NEED FOR NEW FEDERAL JUDGESHIPS IN NEW MEXICO, INTRODUCES BILL TO ADD THEM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced new legislation that would give New Mexico's federal benches two permanent judges to alleviate the strain on overworked courts throughout the state.  
   The New Mexico Judgeship Authorization Bill would create two permanent district judgeships and one temporary judgeship for New Mexico. The bill also includes language that would make the temporary judge permanent after 10 years. 
   "Without additional judges, this problem of bloated caseloads will only continue to grow as the country focuses more intently on the security of our borders," Domenici said. "It is obvious that New Mexico has borne more of its fair share of cases over the years and is sliding into a crisis situation. I'm determined to see this problem resolved and I believe this bill will help get us there." 
   Domenici noted that according to the latest survey by the Judicial Conference, the weighted caseload for the District of New Mexico is now the fourth highest in the nation. In the 12 month period ending on June 30, 2002, the number of criminal filings per judgeship increased from 222 to 320-four times the national average of 81. During this same time period, the number of weighted filings increased from 673 per judgeship to 739. The national average is 504 and the Judicial Conference has set the benchmark at 430 weighted cases per judgeship. 
   "The Judicial Conference is expected to update its caseload report this year, and I'm sure it will show that the caseload problem in New Mexico is only getting worse. We need these new judges on the bench as soon as possible," Domenici said. 
   Last year, a Senate bill that was amended by the House created one temporary and two permanent judgeships in New Mexico. However, that bill died at the end of the 108th Congress. Despite the fact that a temporary judgeship was approved by Congress and filled by President Bush, the Judicial Conference recently recommended the creation of three more positions. Only two districts in California, one in Florida, and one in New York were recommended to get more judgeships than New Mexico.
 
 