SEN. DOMENICI IN SPEECH: WATER CRISIS CANNOT BE IGNORED
  Sen. Pete Domenici today warned that it would be unwise for the nation to ignore a mounting crisis in water quality and quantity, and encouraged the scientific community to apply its resources to solving these problems.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today addressed the nation's growing water needs at a conference hosted by the American Chemical Society and the Senate Science and Technology Caucus. 
   "Much like the debate as to whether there's a crisis with Social Security, there are arguments over whether this nation faces a serious water crisis. For most people, if the tap works and the lawn can be watered, there's no water problem. But water, like energy, is a key component to industry and the American economy. This is an escalating problem, not just in arid regions but all over the country," Domenici said. 
   "I believe we need to push cutting-edge research and its application to meet our water needs, not only for quality but also quantity," he said. "Our scientists and researchers must be engaged, and I will do what I can to support them where I have jurisdiction in the Senate." 
   Domenici, as both chairman of the energy committee and the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds federal water programs, committed to continue to push several major water bills in Congress this year, including his water technology legislation that would task national laboratory scientists to develop better and more economical water quantity and purification methods. 
   "Our scientists can help apply more affordable practices and technologies to our quest to give our people and industry cleaner and more abundant water," Domenici said. "We in the United States don't want to acknowledge that the water standards we impose sometimes deter water availability, especially in rural and poor areas. Yes, we need clean water standards, but they must be science-based. They cannot be so onerous that they break our towns and cities." 
   Domenici said he will reintroduce legislation he introduced in the 108th Congress to help rural communities meet water infrastructure needs (S.1732), overcome the high costs of arsenic water standards (S.1432), and utilize the nation's Department of Energy national laboratory resources (S.2658).
 
 