SEN. DOMENICI, ALBUQUERQUE MAYOR CH?VEZ ANNOUNCE 7.5 ACRE EXPANSION OF BULLHEAD MEMORIAL PARK
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Albuquerque Mayor Martin Ch?vez today announced that the USS Bullhead Memorial Park in southeast Albuquerque will be expanded by 7.5 acres to accommodate additional playing fields for the city's youth.  
   Domenici and Ch?vez, in a joint Washington-Albuquerque videoconference Wednesday, said the new park property abuts the existing Bullhead Park at 2800 Ridgecrest SE. 
   The acquisition was allowed to occur only after Domenici intervened with the General Services Administration (GSA), which late last year was moving to sell the former VA Hospital property at auction. After learning from Chavez of the city's interest in the surplus federal land, Domenici wrote the GSA requesting that the auction be suspended in order to allow the city to acquire the property for open-space use. 
   "Bullhead Park is already a great public space. Open space is extremely important to our cities, a fact I understood and followed while on the city commission years ago. Today, the acreage that we are adding to Bullhead Park will further benefit Albuquerque's youth and give the community additional space for constructive and healthy activities," Domenici said. "I appreciate the GSA allowing the city to get this land, and I commend Mayor Chavez for taking an active interest in getting the surplus federal property to put to good use for Albuquerqueans." 
   "On behalf of the Albuquerque community, I want to thank Senator Domenici for his help in acquiring 71/2 acres of federal property to construct more sports fields for our community. I look forward to working with the Senator to acquire the remaining 23 acres for soccer, baseball and other recreational facilities," Chavez said. 
   The city is currently working to complete paper work to finalize the GSA property transfer which will allow the city to develop at least three new sports fields at the park. Bullhead Park was established to commemorate the USS Bullhead--the last American submarine lost in World War II.
 
 