N.M. SENATORS GAIN LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY COMMITMENT TO DRILL TEST WELLS
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today said they are pleased that Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) has agreed to commence drilling four test wells in Los Alamos to test for possible traces of contaminants.  
   LANL and the New Mexico Environment Department (NMED) entered into an agreement in 2005 that set milestones for drilling and testing bore holes. That deadline has passed, and LANL has been fined thousands of dollars for noncompliance. 
   As a result of NMED's fines and at the senators' urging, LANL said it intended to begin drilling later this month. In a letter to LANL Director Michael Anastasio, the Bingaman and Domenici said they were concerned about the lab's missed deadline but are encouraged the labs is moving forward. 
   "Given the delays to date in meeting these milestones, we welcome the positive news that you have shared with our offices: that this required drilling will commence late this month and conclude by the end of February, with results submitted to NMED in mid-April. We appreciate that you have made a personal commitment that you will work to meet this timetable. The results will help address very legitimate health and safety concerns of the residents in the communities surrounding Los Alamos," they wrote. 
   "I'm concerned about the missed deadlines and the ongoing uncertainty that area residents have over possible contamination. But I'm pleased the lab director has committed to moving forward quickly," Bingaman said. 
   "We are concerned about noncompliance with the DOE-NMED consent order. I know that Director Anastasio is committed to cleanup and fulfilling the terms of the agreement. I also respect his decision to put the interests of the health and safety of the workers responsible for drilling and testing the bore holes. Nevertheless, the lab must do its level best to fulfill its obligations in a timely manner," said Domenici, ranking member of the Senate subcommittee that funds DOE and LANL.
 
 