SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS HUNGER ASSISTANCE LEGISLATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced his support for landmark legislation that will address hunger in America. 
   Domenici is a cosponsor of the bipartisan Hunger Free Communities Act of 2005 (S.1120) which aims to provide assistance for the estimated 23 million Americans who are at risk for hunger through competitive grants and information gathering.  
   The bill will establish for the first time an anti-hunger grant program, which will emphasize assessing hunger in individual communities and promoting cooperation among local anti-hunger groups. $50 million would be provided over 5 years for a grant program that would assist food banks and target areas in need of assistance. 
   A new report from the Food Research and Action Center shows that New Mexico ranks 13th in the nation in food insecurity, which is up from 5th last year. 
   "New Mexico is making progress combating hunger, but clearly there is still a lot of work left to do. This bill would set up an innovative $50 million public/private partnership grant program that will enable local communities and food banks to receive funds to address those most in need. Fighting hunger is a bipartisan issue, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to combat hunger across the country," Domenici said. 
   The bill also reaffirms Congress' commitment to cut hunger in half by 2010, and sets a new goal of eliminating hunger by 2015. It also directs the U.S. Census Bureau to collect annual data on food security and the Department of Agriculture to report yearly on hunger elimination so that Congress can keep a closer eye on the progress of anti-hunger campaigns. 
   The grants provided in the legislation will be available to private sector charities and food banks, which often are able to reach more individuals in need. 
   Domenici has long supported hunger assistance programs in New Mexico. He has secured funds for the Roadrunner food bank in Albuquerque, and even assisted the food bank with obtaining a warehouse. He has also secured federal funds for the Community Pantry in Gallup and the Community Action Agency food bank in Las Cruces.
 
 