SEN. DOMENICI HIGHLIGHTS INDIAN DIABETES PROGRAM PROGRESS AS SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES FISCAL 2006 IHS FUNDING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the $150 million in direct funding that will be provided to Indian Health Service (IHS) to continue widespread diabetes prevention and treatment programs for American Indians.  
   Domenici is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that Thursday approved the FY2006 Interior Appropriations Bill that funds the Indian Health Service and its diabetes outreach program. Committee approval clears the measure for consideration by the full Senate this summer. 
   The $150 million that will be added to IHS budget for the Special Diabetes Program for Indians represents the third year of a five-year extension of a program Domenici initiated in 1997 to focus more attention to the growing diabetes crisis among American Indians. Domenici gained a reauthorization for the program in 2003, ensuring that $150 million would be provided annually between FY2004 to FY2008. 
   "We are on course to provide more than $1.1 billion over a 10-year period to fight the diabetes epidemic among the Indian people. This program is making progress, and these resources are being widely distributed throughout Indian Country. So much more needs to be done to ensure that diabetes does not decimate entire generations of the Indian people," Domenici said. 
   "Diabetes is a particularly serious chronic disease that disproportionately affects American Indians and Alaska Natives and continues to be a major challenge for the IHS," he said. 
   Domenici gained committee approval to insert report language in the Interior Appropriations Bill that calls attention to a recent IHS interim report that provides information on the extent of diabetes among the Indian people, the best practice models developed to prevent and treat the disease, and the utilization of these federal funds to provide actual services to the peoples. 
   The IHS now has diabetes consultants in each of its 12 Area Offices, and has implemented model diabetes programs at 23 sites. In addition, diabetes prevention and treatment grants have been awarded to 318 communities in 35 states. 
   The Diabetes Prevention Center in Gallup continues to be funded under this program and focuses its work with the Zuni Pueblo and the Navajo Nation. 
   The federal program is allowing IHS-in collaboration with the Tribes and Pueblos, the Centers for Disease Control, National Institutes of Health, the American Diabetes Association and others-to develop a comprehensive approach to the diabetes problem afflicting American Indians and Alaska Natives. 
   Overall, the bill includes $3.1 billion for the IHS in FY2006, an increase of $79.3 million over FY2005.
 
 