ADDRESSING BOVINE TB, N.M. DELEGATION URGES FAIR TREATMENT FOR NEW MEXICO LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY
  The New Mexico congressional delegation today urged Agriculture Secretary Michael Johanns not to take any action that would harm the state's livestock industry, and to be ready to provide emergency funding for costs associated with destroying dairy herds affected by bovine tuberculosis (TB).  
   Last month, certain dairy cattle in Curry county tested positive for TB. As a result, the U.S. Agriculture Department appears poised to make a change in New Mexico's TB status to one that requires all ranchers and dairies - not only those in a portion of Roosevelt and Curry counties - to conduct expensive TB tests on their cattle. 
   In their letter to Johanns, U.S. Senators Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici, along with Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall and Steve Pearce, said they believe requiring all livestock producers in the state to test for TB is inconsistent with federal regulation. They also asked the secretary to make $24 million in emergency funding available to help the dairy owner depopulate the infected herd. 
   "This change would have dramatic consequences on the livestock industry in our state. Because we believe this change is not in accord with the USDA's existing regulations, we are requesting your prompt review of the decision," they wrote Johanns. "We also ask that you expedite a request for emergency response funds from the Commodity Credit Corporation to support efforts to control bovine TB in New Mexico." 
   The New Mexico lawmakers pointed out that the livestock industry is New Mexico's single most important agricultural commodity with total annual sales of milk and beef cattle totaling almost $2 billion. There are over 1.5 million cattle and calves in New Mexico, including 340,000 dairy cows. 
   "We believe that New Mexico continues to have in place the capability and resources to manage properly its existing TB status, including regulations on the movement of cattle, monitoring of animals in the restricted zone and full enforcement of tuberculosis eradication program. A downgrade of New Mexico's status could cost our producers more than $4 million per year. We urge you to adhere to the existing regulations and maintain New Mexico's current TB status. We appreciate your prompt attention to our request," the lawmakers wrote.
 
 