SEN. DOMENICI RECORDS 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, July 10, 2006.
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Marco Grajeda, KRWG Las Cruces
   * Angie Vigil, KSNX Las Vegas
   * Mike Jackson, KSVP Artesia 
   * Bill Dupuy, KSFR Santa Fe
   * Brianna Cox, KKOB Albuquerque
   REVIEW:
   00:00 - Domenici says the Senate's bill to fund border security work in FY2007 does not specifically indicate which border states will benefit, but gives assurances that New Mexico's border region will benefit from increased funding for homeland security. 
   02:06 - Domenici says the Border Patrol and the National Guard are working out the rotation schedule for Guard deployment on the border. He says the mere presence of the Guard on the Border has brought more stability to some areas of the border.
   03:32 - Domenici says he is very pleased that the Bureau of Reclamation has acted quickly to help the city of Las Vegas drill a new water well to help alleviate shortages due to the ongoing severe drought.
   05:15 - Domenici says a USDA Rural Development loan to the Rio Grande Electric Cooperative will mean better electricity service to consumers in rural areas of southern Otero and Eddy County, as well as rural parts of West Texas.
   07:20 - Domenici says he is pleased the city of Carlsbad has received a small Justice Department grant to help the city deploy new technology to battle drunk driving and drug abuse.
   09:07 - Domenici explains that the new management contractors have a responsibility to budget to meet New Mexico gross receipt tax payments. He says his Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee does include funding to support these payments, but that the contractors must manage those funds and meet state tax levies.
   11:43 - Domenici says he has no role in the dispute between the city of Albuquerque and the Albuquerque Public Schools regarding funding for after-school youth services. He suspects there is a measure of "hard-nosed politics" involved in the disagreement. 
   13:58 - Domenici says he is pleased that the Energy Department has released another grant to New Mexico to support weatherization program to improve energy efficiency for low-income homes. He says his Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee has begun work to restore proposed cuts to this program for FY2007.
   17:15 - Domenici says the federal government is investing in a number of new technologies to help local law enforcement battle drunk driving, including a recent Health and Humans Services grant to an Albuquerque company to develop a new device to measure blood-alcohol content.
   18:53 - Domenici discusses Italy winning the 2006 World Cup, saying he was thrilled that the team won and was shocked by the French player's foul that probably cost France the victory. He also notes that it has been 100 years since his father arrived in Albuquerque from Lucca, Italy. He says his father wanted his children to be more concerned about America, than Italy.
   20:57 - Domenici says he is not aware of any legislative action on a resolution he cosponsored to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the adoption of "In God We Trust" as the national motto.
   Audio Clip available at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309)
 
 