SEN. DOMENICI ATTENDS NAMING CEREMONIES FOR PALACE OF GOVERNORS ANNEX
  Sen. Pete Domenici today participated in ceremonies related to the naming of a New Mexico History Museum facility, which will serve as an annex to the historic Palace of Governors.  
   The new museum building will house numerous centuries-old treasures and artifacts that have been left neglected in the existing outdated and crumbling facilities. 
   Domenici secured $15 million to construct the new annex after Ambassador Frank Ortiz made the Senator aware of the space crunch at the Palace of Governors that was placing rare artifacts in jeopardy. 
   "I'm so pleased to be a part of constructing a new facility. Ambassador Frank Ortiz deserves so much credit for his tireless work to save New Mexico's valuable artifacts and preserve Hispanic heritage. I remember his trips to Washington where he brought awareness of the space crunch occurring at the Palace of Governors. Through the efforts of the Ambassador and many others, New Mexicans will have a first class facility to house our priceless collection of valuables," Domenici said. 
   "New Mexico history predates Jamestown and Plymouth Rock. American Indians, Spanish colonists, and others all called it home. The artifacts housed at the Palace provide a link to our rich and unique place in American history," he continued. 
   In 2000, Ambassador Ortiz, who serves as vice president of the Board of Regents for the Museum of New Mexico, testified before Domenici at a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing. Ortiz explained that the Palace of Governors had simply run out of room, and that many valuable artifacts had been stored in the basement of the structure and were being neglected. 
   "It was really unbelievable to me that the basement of a 400 year old building which was never intended to even be a museum was housing the same collection of treasures that President Teddy Roosevelt thought should be part of the Smithsonian's collection," Domenici said. "I am proud to be able to get the federal money for a proper place to house them, and now private sources have matched that, which brings us to this point, which celebrates moving forward with construction of the project." 
   The Palace of Governors was built in Santa Fe in 1610 and is the oldest public building in the United States. It houses an irreplaceable collection of pre-Columbian art, Spanish and Iberian Colonial paintings, historic artifacts, maps, books, guns, costumes, and photographs.
 
 