SEN. DOMENICI: FOREST SERVICE WILL SEEK ADDED OFFICE SPACE FOR EMPLOYEES MOVING TO ALBUQUERQUE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the U.S. Forest Service will begin advertising for bids for additional office space to lease in Albuquerque to accommodate hundreds of human resource workers being transferred to the city later this year.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, indicated that the Forest Service will accept bids through May 31 for an additional 45,000 to 60,000-square-feet of office space required to serve 280 human resource personnel positions being moved to the city. 
   "The addition of so many federal employees to the workforce is very good for the economy of Albuquerque and the state. As a part of the Forest Service consolidation effort, opportunities are created to provide workspace for these new workers. I'm pleased with the progress the Forest Service has made to make Albuquerque an important hub for its overall operations," Domenici said. 
   The Forest Service is currently in the process of consolidating and relocating its financial services center, human resources and information technology (IT) personnel to Albuquerque. In all, the Forest Service is transferring or filling more than 700 positions in New Mexico. 
   The Forest Service will move 280 human resources personnel to Albuquerque in late September. The first IT employees have already moved to Journal Center area of Albuquerque, and 365 budget and financial services workers began arriving this spring and should be in place by October. 
   An advertisement for bids will be published in this week's Federal Business Journal. The proposals will need to be sent to: Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, R-3 Southwest Region, 333 Broadway SE, Albuquerque, NM 87102 no later than May 31, 2005. 
   According to the Forest Service Region 3 Office, the agency seeks to lease 45,000 to 60,000 square feet of rentable office space in Albuquerque. Space may be in an existing or build-to-suit facility. Preference will be given to a site located within the following boundaries: Paseo Del Norte on the north, the southbound frontage road to I-25 on the east, Ellison on the South and the North Diversion Channel on the Southwest and Jefferson on the northwest side.
 
 