SENS. WANT BORDER SECURED IN COLUMBUS AREA
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today asked federal agencies responsible for U.S. border security and drug enforcement to provide the resources necessary to stop the growing drug-related border violence around Columbus, N.M. 
   New Mexico's senators issued letters to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Attorney General Alberto Gonzales requesting assistance to assure the security of American interests in southern New Mexico and to combat the drug-related warfare on the Mexico/New Mexico border. On Wednesday, they asked Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to actively work with her Mexican counterparts to control growing violence in the Palomas, Mexico region.
   "Our federal agencies must be ready to strengthen the border to ensure that violence related to illegal drug trafficking does not spread into our state. We do not want the Columbus-Palomas crossing to be seen as a weak spot for drug traffickers and the violence that follows them. These thugs are not playing with sticks and stones, and we shouldn't be either," Domenici said. "It will take U.S.-Mexico cooperation to quell this violence, not only to protect Americans but also the children who pass through that crossing every day."
   "While the violence is primarily a problem for the Mexican government to solve, it is important for us to ensure our federal authorities are engaged in the situation," Bingaman said.
   The Senators asked Chertoff to consider increasing the presence of Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel in the area to ensure the violence does not spread into New Mexico. They requested that Gonzales send additional Justice Department assets and personnel to counter drug-related activities.
   "Specifically, we request that you consider sending Department of Justice narcotic personnel to help local law enforcement agencies combat the illicit drug activities that are the root cause of this recent surge in violence," the Senators wrote Gonzales.
 
 