SEN. DOMENICI GAINS FIVE-YEAR EXTENSION FOR LOS ALAMOS-DOE LAND TRANSFER PROCESS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the Senate Armed Services Committee has agreed to his request to give the Department of Energy more time to transfer property to Los Alamos County. 
   The Armed Services Committee agreed to Domenici's request to add language to the FY2007 Defense Authorization Bill to give DOE until November 2012 to complete the land transfer process with Los Alamos. The existing deadline was 2007-10 years after Congress enacted Domenici-authored legislation authorizing DOE to transfer surplus land to Los Alamos County. The provision also pertains to Department of Interior and DOE efforts to transfer and San Ildefonso Pueblo.
   "I am very pleased DOE will have more time to carry out its land transfer commitments to Los Alamos and other parties. This extension is necessary. We've been pushed up against the first deadline because it is taking more time than we expected to complete environmental restoration requirements," Domenici said. "Committee approval bodes well for keeping this language in the bill that is finally sent to President Bush later this year."
   The FY2007 Defense Authorization Bill is now ready for consideration by the full Senate. Domenici serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittees which provide actual funding for DOE and the Department of Defense.
   In 1997, Congress approved long-sought legislation* that would make use of surplus DOE property associated with Los Alamos National Laboratory for economic diversity projects and community development in Los Alamos County. (* Public Law 105-119, Section 63)
   "After nearly 10 years and some fits and starts, Los Alamos County and DOE are making progress. A new business park being established at the entry of Los Alamos is evidence of that progress, but more needs to be done to make room for additional retail and housing development for the area," said Domenici.
   Domenici requested the language after it became apparent that DOE would need more time to meet 2005 projections to transfer more than 1,700 acres to Los Alamos County by the 2007 deadline.
 
 