SEN. DOMENICI PUBLIC SCHEDULE, MAY 10-14
  The following is the public schedule for Sen. Pete Domenici for the week of May 10-14. Contact the Domenici press office for event confirmation.  
   This week, Domenici will chair an Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing on last year's wildfires. He will also attend a Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing with Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and Joint Chiefs Chairman Richard Myers. 
   On the floor this week, the Senate will debate the FSC Jobs bill, which includes the tax provisions of the National Energy Policy Act. Also likely to see floor action is the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). 
   Senate Republicans are also seeking to overcome a filibuster on appointing conferees to move forward on the Highway Bill. 
   Still pending on the calendar awaiting Senate action is the confirmation of the judicial nomination of Judith Herrera of Santa Fe to be a U.S. District Court Judge for New Mexico, and Domenici's Salt Cedar and Russian Olive Control Demonstration Act (S.1516). 
   TUESDAY, MAY 11 
   10:00 am - Energy And Natural Resources Committee: Domenici will chair a hearing to gain an understanding of the impact and cost of last year's wildfires and prepare for what might occur in 2004. The hearing will address the problems that arose during last year's battles, and the strength and condition of aerial firefighting assets and crew. Testifying will be Mary Rey, Assistant Secretary of Natural Resources and the Environment and the Department of Agriculture, and Ms. P. Lynn Scarlett, Assistant Secretary for Policy, Management and Budget at the Department of Interior. Senate Dirksen Office Building, Room 366. 
   WEDNESDAY, MAY 12 
   10:00 am - Defense Appropriations Subcommittee: Domenici will attend this hearing to discuss funding and other defense issues. He will have the opportunity to question Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, and Joint Chiefs Chairman Richard Myers. Senate Hart Office Building, Room 216.
 
 