SEN. DOMENICI: POST-TRAMATIC STRESS BENEFITS NOT IN JEOPARDY ON EVE OF VETERANS DAY
  In an early celebration of Veterans Day, Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that 72,000 veterans will not experience any disruption in compensation to treat Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) now that a widespread review of cases has been abandoned.  
   Domenici appealed to Veterans Affairs Department Secretary James Nicholson in a September letter when it appeared that benefits for PTSD might be in jeopardy, asking that veterans be assured of consistent funding while a small number of cases were reviewed. 
   "This is great news for all of our veterans, especially on Veterans Day when we celebrate all those who have protected us here and abroad in the Armed Forces. I was concerned that benefits for vets suffering from PTSD might take a hit during the process," Domenici said. "I am pleased that Secretary Nicholson unearthed the problems with these files and called off plans for an across-the-board review that caused concern among our deserving vets." 
   The VA began reviewing PTSD cases adjudicated between 1999 and 2004 that appeared to have insufficient documentation, leaving room for a potential examination of all cases. The cases all resulted in 100 percent disability compensation awards based on occupational and social impairment. In these cases, PTSD is identified as the veteran's primary disability. 
   Many veterans had received notification that the VA may have collected inadequate evidence to substantiate individual disability claims. The VA canceled plans to review more cases when it found that the discrepancies were administrative and of no fault to the veterans. 
   "In the absence of evidence of fraud, we're not going to put our veterans through the anxiety of a widespread review of their disability claims," Nicholson said. "Instead, we're going to improve our training for VA personnel who handle disability claims and toughen administrative oversight." 
   Domenici, a leading mental health advocate in Congress, noted that the Senate Appropriations Committee on which he serves has approved $23.3 billion for VA medical services in FY2006. Aspects of this funding would be devoted to PTSD. This funding level includes Medical Services-$23.3 billion, which includes $1.977 billion to address a projected FY2006 shortfall. The Senate bill also includes language outlining congressional concerns that returning veterans from Operation Iraqi Freedom are experiencing PTSD at an extremely high rate. The appropriations committee requests that the VA establish a minimum of three PTSD "Centers of Excellence" across the country to better handle this serious health issue. The VA Department estimates it will spend at least $2.2 billion on specialty mental health programs in FY2006, and the entirety of health care supporting veterans with mental illness will approach $10.0 billion.
 
 