SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON VETERANS DAY 2005
  The following is a statement entered into the Congressional Record to commemorate Veterans Day 2005: 
   "We as Americans gather to honor all those who served, fought and sacrificed to defend our Nation throughout its history.  
   "During the 229 year history of our Nation, brave Americans have answered the call to defend their country's freedom and the freedom of people around the globe. Today, as in the past, our servicemen and women continue to embrace these twin goals. 
   "I encourage my fellow New Mexicans and all Americans to take a few moments to remember and honor the gallant men and women of our Armed Forces past and present. 
   "New Mexicans have a long distinguished history of military service. During the Spanish American War New Mexico guardsmen formed the bulk of the 2nd Squadron of the 1st Calvary Regiment which served with Teddy Roosevelt and his Rough Riders at the battle of San Juan Hill. When the United States entered the First World War, New Mexicans of the 1st Infantry Regiment served with the 40th Infantry Division in France. While participating in the Italian campaign of the Second World War, New Mexicans of the 104th Tank Destroyer battalion were awarded 8 Silver Stars, 60 Bronze Stars, and 135 Purple Hearts. Of course no one will forget the contribution to final victory the Navajos from our State made as "code talkers" or the bravery of the "New Mexico Brigade" in the Philippines. In the history of our Nation New Mexicans have served with great distinction from the swamps of Cuba, to the jungles of Vietnam and the deserts of Iraq. 
   "It is important that we never forget the sacrifice and dedication of these Americans. They left behind the comfort of home, family and friends to defend our country and its countless blessings. For this, many have paid an immense price, emotionally and physically, some enduring years of captivity and suffering, some never to return home. We Americans owe all that we have to these men and women. No praise or honor will ever be too great for these individuals. 
   "The service of veterans to our country has never ended with their departure from the Armed Forces. They have enriched every community in which they reside with their strength of character, hard work and devotion to family. For this we must also be grateful. 
   "Since 9/11, the men and women of our Armed Forces have been called away from home, and are today furthering the cause of freedom in Iraq, Afghanistan and all over the globe. Many of these individuals are National Guardsmen like the members of the 515th Corps Support Battalion that recently returned from Iraq and the servicemen and women from Holloman, Kirtland, and Cannon Air Force bases. They serve with the same courage and commitment shown by Americans of generations past and they, too, deserve our thoughts and prayers. May our United States continue to be blessed and may America forever remain the land of the free and the home of the brave."
 
 