SEN. DOMENICI PLEASED WITH SENATE APPROVAL OF HIS PLAN TO INCREASE U.S. MARSHAL BORDER PRESENCE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced Senate acceptance of an amendment he authored to increase security along our nation's southern border by authorizing the hiring of 250 new Deputy United States Marshals.  
   Domenici offered the amendment to the FY2008 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill, which would bolster border security with an additional 50 Deputy U.S. Marshal positions annually for the next five years. The expanded border security force would help the U.S. Marshals Service meet increased duties associated with transporting and guarding criminal illegal immigrants involved in federal judiciary cases. The amendment was accepted Oct. 4. 
   "The U.S. Marshal Service plays a significant role in immigration matters when illegal immigrants are placed in the federal judicial system," Domenici said. "Continuing to stretch thin our already over-burdened U.S. Marshal Service poses a serious threat to the security of our borders." 
   "While it's not a long-term solution to our nation's immigration crisis, this amendment will help our forces on the border with the resources and manpower they need to do their job. I will work to make sure this amendment is retained in the final bill and that funding is made available to put the additional Marshals in place," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   U.S. Marshals are involved in key aspects of the immigration process, including transport of criminal immigrants and guarding them in federal courthouses. Earlier this year, Domenici introduced S.475, a bill to increase the number of deputy U.S. Marshals that investigate immigration crimes. 
   The Senate is expected to complete the FY2008 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill next week. The measure will then go to a conference committee to reconcile differences with similar House-passed legislation. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, secured $1.2 million to construct a detention training center at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Artesia as part of the FY2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. The bill also included $569.8 million to hire 3,000 new Border Patrol agents to be trained at FLETC.
 
 