SEN. DOMENICI HELPS LAUNCH ARSENIC REMOVAL PROJECT IN RIO RANCHO
  With a deadline for stricter water standards looming, Sen. Pete Domenici today helped launch a demonstration of new arsenic treatment technology at a groundwater well in Rio Rancho.  
   In 2001, the EPA announced it would impose a stricter drinking water standard for arsenic, which will take affect in 2006. Since that time, Domenici, who serves as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds water projects, has been working to provide communities assistance in order to meet the new standard. 
   The demonstration in Rio Rancho is the third in New Mexico this year and is a joint effort between Sandia National Laboratories, WERC, the Awwa Research Foundation and the Environmental Protection Agency. Domenici has provided $3 million in DOE funding to develop arsenic treatment technology, and has appropriated $8 million for FY2006 for further research and development. 
   "I continue to believe that the imposition of a strict arsenic standard is unfair to rural communities. The only way for small towns in the West to meet this new standard is through affordable technology. Because of this, I have authored legislation that creates a grant program for communities that must meet the new standard, including Albuquerque and Rio Rancho. I'm also continuing to work with my fellow Senators to create additional programs," Domenici said. 
   "This particular demonstration at Rio Rancho is a result of a $10 million investment I allocated through Sandia and its partners to help provide lower cost solutions nationally. I'm pleased to see the progress made in developing technology already, and I look forward to seeing future investments pay off," he continued. 
   At least 80 communities in the state are subject to the new arsenic standard, which goes into effect in 2006. The estimated cost of compliance for New Mexico is over $500 million. Similar demonstration projects are underway in Anthony and Socorro. 
   Domenici is expected to soon meet with rural community leaders about their progress in meeting the new arsenic standard. 
   Domenici is the author of the Community Drinking Water Assistance Act (S.689), which establishes a major grant program for communities that need assistance meeting the new arsenic standard.
 
 