SEN. DOMENICI MARKS THIRD ANNIVERSARY OF 9-11 ATTACKS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today issued the following statement to mark the third anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the United States. In it he encourages New Mexicans to honor the victims and their families, and to stand resolute and united in facing down continued terrorist threats.  
   "As we remember the shock and anger of the events of three years ago, we must honor our lost loved ones by reaching out to ensure that the hatred and destruction fueled by terrorism does not infiltrate and divide the American heart. We must remain united in order to promise that terrorists will feel the full, undivided strength of our country. 
   "We cannot forget that this attack was unprovoked and worse yet, designed to strike thousands of innocent civilians in order to bring this country to its knees. We have not fallen, but have shown the world our great strength when we unite together. 
   "On this third anniversary of that tragic day, I ask all New Mexicans to stand resolute with all Americans in the face of continued threats from Al Qaeda. Our men and women in the armed services, many of them from our state, have left families and friends behind to fight in foreign lands and loosen the grip of tyranny. As Americans, we must recall the reason we asked them to give up so much-to defend our nation against brutal attacks on our soil. 
   "We must also look to the bright future of the world and the amazing progress we have made in the last three years. As a nation, we were all affected by 9/11. Since then, we have, as one nation, done so much to improve homeland security. We have taken the fight to our enemies and brought new hope to millions of people who lived under darkness in Afghanistan and Iraq. Much more needs to be done at home and abroad, but our progress has been substantial. 
   "As we mark this three year anniversary, we remember our loss, but more importantly we remember that a strong, unified America can overcome any sorrow and rebuild a world grounded in freedom and justice. 
   "My thoughts are with all New Mexican men and women overseas and their families and God bless this great country."
 
 