SEN. DOMENICI ENCOURAGED BY PETRAEUS-CROCKER TESTIMONY ON IRAQ
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said he is encouraged with the initial reports offered by General David Petraeus and Ryan Crocker, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, regarding the progress of the American military surge in Iraq.  
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, on Monday monitored the Petraeus and Crocker testimony to a joint session of the House Armed Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee. Petraeus and Crocker will appear before Senate committees Tuesday. 
   "I look forward to more carefully studying the report and recommendations being made by General Petraeus," Domenici said. 
   "I am extremely proud of the job U.S. military forces are doing in Iraq. General Petraeus' testimony in the House has highlighted the tremendous efforts of our troops to bring security to Iraq and to quell the threats posed by Al-Qaeda and sectarian militia. The surge seems to me to be working on the security front," he said. 
   "I am encouraged by General Petraeus' recommendation to begin bringing troops home as soon as this fall with the redeployment of a Marine Expeditionary Unit involved in the surge and completing the return to pre-surge levels by July 2008," he said. "At the same time, I share the frustrations expressed by Ambassador Crocker about the slow pace of progress by the Iraqi government to achieve national reconciliation. The lack of progress is unacceptable." 
   Domenici on Monday also signed a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid decrying a full-page New York Times advertisement placed by MoveOn.org that personally attacks Petraeus. The letter said, in part: "The ad is distasteful and frankly, below the level of respect that America's commanding general in Iraq has earned. No matter whether any senator supports or opposes the war in Iraq, we should all voice recognition and appreciation of General Petraeus' long and distinguished record of service to our country." 
   "The MoveOn.org's preemptive strike on General Petraeus in today's New York Times is reprehensible. General Petraeus has served this country with integrity and honor for nearly 35 years. He deserves our respect and gratitude, not baseless, personal attacks," Domenici said.
 
 