SEN. DOMENICI SUPPORTS ACT HONORING INDIAN CODE TALKERS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced his support for federal legislation to increase congressional recognition of American Indians who have used their native languages during foreign conflicts. 
   Domenici is a cosponsor of the Code Talker Recognition Act (S.2681), which would ensure that all Native American and Alaskan tribes whose members have served as Code Talkers are honored with specially issued congressional medals recognizing their service. The bipartisan legislation was introduced by Senators James Inhofe (R-Okla.) and Tom Harkin (D-Iowa).
   "Code Talkers provided undeniable support to our nation's efforts in past military conflicts, saving the lives of countless Americans. The Navajo Code Talkers are arguably the most renowned, but the efforts of so many other tribes deserve comparable recognition," said Domenici. "It is important that Congress take the time to remember and honor the contributions of so many brave American Indians who, along with the Navajos, ensured the safe transmition of crucial messages during foreign battles."
   S.2681 would authorize the creation of gold medals unique to each federally recognized tribe whose members have served as Code Talkers. Duplicate silver medals would be presented to each living Code Talker, or the next of kin, with bronze medals available for public purchase.
   Companion legislation (HR.4544) has been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Representative Dan Boren (D-Okla.). The tribes that would be recognized in this legislation include the Hopi, Comanche, Sioux, and Choctaw.
   In 2000, Domenici cosponsored legislation, authored by Senator Jeff Bingaman that resulted in the presentation of Congressional Gold Medals to the original 29 Navajo Code Talkers in a July 2001 Capitol rotunda ceremony.
   Code Talkers developed a secret code based on their native languages to transmit military messages during foreign conflicts. Code Talkers have been noted as especially successful during World War II, as foreign enemies were never able to decipher the messages transmitted by American Indian Code Talkers. Because of their unique contribution, American Indian Code Talkdrs have been credited with saving countless American lives and helping to end World War I and World War II.
 
 