SEN. DOMENICI SAYS N.M. NATIONAL GUARD EQUIPMENT SHORTAGE UNACCEPTABLE, AFFECTS MISSION CAPABILITIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today was highly critical of the funding situation that has left the New Mexico National Guard with the worst dual-use equipment ratio in the nation, and warned military leaders that the lack of equipment could affect the overall effectiveness of the Guard to fulfill its missions.  
   Domenici and Lt. Gen. H. Steven Blum, chief of the National Guard Bureau, on Wednesday discussed the state of the National Guard in New Mexico during a Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing to review the proposed FY2008 budget for the National Guard and Reserve. 
   "We can't leave New Mexico in this condition very long. We have to get this fixed," Domenici said. 
   "Whatever brought us to this situation, I don't believe we could have done worse by the New Mexico National Guard," he said. "My concern is that we face a situation that is not good and may not get better. The lack of sufficient equipment leaves the Guard in a situation that affects their ability to fight a war or respond effectively to emergencies at home." 
   Blum told Domenici that added federal funding is not the sole answer to ensuring acceptable equipment levels for National Guard units across the country, and recommended that congressional appropriators specify--as they did in providing funding to the National Guard after Hurricane Katrina--that equipment must be deployed to Guard units. He said such clarity would ensure that funding provided for the Guard and Reserves would be used as intended. 
   Blum told Domenici that the FY2008 budget request should allow about 2,200 pieces of equipment to be delivered to the New Mexico National Guard by the end of FY2008 which would bring its equipment ratio over a 40 percent threshold. 
   A General Accountability Office (GAO) report in January said the New Mexico Guard has only 33.8 percent of the total amount of authorized dual-use equipment, which can be used for emergency missions at home or on the battlefield. It was the lowest ranking in the nation. Blum pointed out that similar shortages have occurred across the nation. The GAO report, "Reserve Services: Actions Needed to Identify National Guard Domestic Equipment Requirements and Readiness," is available at: http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d0760.pdf 
   Domenici also gained assurances that equipment needed in New Mexico to allow the National Guard to respond to emergencies would be made available from other states should a natural disaster or other emergency occur. 
   Overall, the Pentagon has requested $43 billion to recruit, man, train, operate and equip National Guard and Reserve Forces. For FY2008, Domenici has also requested $38.1 million in military construction funds to build a new Army Aviation Support Facility in Santa Fe to increase aircraft storage space and reduce emergency response time. 
   In addition, the Senate-passed FY2007 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill would provide $1.0 billion for National Guard and Reserve equipment needs. In the short term, the Army National Guard is $2.0 billion short of essential dual-use gear needed for combat missions and emergency situations within the United States.
 
 