SEN. DOMENICI VOTES ON STEM CELL RESEARCH
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted for Senate passage of legislation authorizing federal funding for stem cell research that does not involve harming human embryos.  
   The Senate today voted on two stem cell-related bills. Domenici voted for the Hope Offered Through Principled and Ethical Stem Cell Research Act (S.30) to allow federal funding for stem cell research as long as that research does not involve the destruction of human embryos. This measure passed/failed on a 70-28 vote. 
   Domenici voted against the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (S.5) which would allow federal funding for human embryonic stem cell research on lines that may have been derived by destroying human embryos. President Bush has issued a veto threat on this measure, which passed 63-34. 
   "I want to make it clear that my ethical problem is not with stem cell research itself, but rather with the destruction of embryos. I believe there is potential for advances in stem cell research that does not involve the moral dilemma of destroying an embryo in the process. It is for this reason that I support S.30," Domenici said. 
   "It is my deeply held and personal belief that an embryo is an actual living being. It is not merely a potential living human being," he continued. "I cannot accept the diminished status of the human embryo in order to justify their destruction in the course of research solely because they may theoretically provide potential benefits for another human being sometime in the future." 
   S.30 would advance alternate forms of stem cell research by intensifying research on methods that do not involve the destruction of human embryos. It instructs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop techniques for the isolation, derivation, production, and testing of stem cells, provided that such techniques do not involve the creation of human embryos for research purposes; or the destruction or discarding of, or risk of injury to, a human embryo. 
   "Scientists have shown they have the skill and ability to pursue the potential benefits of stem cell research without endangering human life in the process. I support these alternative approaches because I truly believe that they have the potential to help people while still maintaining ethical guidelines. This is the best way to allow federal science-research on stem cells without offending the beliefs of millions of Americans," Domenici said.
 
 