SEN. DOMENICI SAYS BETTER DOE DECISIONS NEEDED TO ADVANCE CLEAN ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today tackled some of the Department of Energy's budget recommendations for promoting research and development of cleaner, renewable energy sources, and again advocated full implementation of a federal loan guarantee program to advance these technologies.  
   The Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee today conducted its third hearing on the FY2008 DOE budget, focusing Wednesday on the department's major energy supply research and development accounts--the offices of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability; Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy; Nuclear Energy; and Fossil Energy. 
   Domenici, ranking member on the subcommittee, advocated moving the DOE budget more toward fulfilling research priorities included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct) to accelerate the leverage of federal funding to bring affordable, first-of-a-kind renewable and alternative energy technologies to the marketplace. 
   "These offices have developed innovative research initiatives such as the cellulosic biomass program, GNEP, Future Gen and Solar America, which have the potential of deploying cleaner burning fossil fuel technology as well as zero emission technologies such as nuclear, solar, and wind generation," Domenici said. "However, I'm not convinced this budget puts priorities where they should be to make these technologies affordable and readily available. It does support many research priorities in EPAct but more is needed." 
   Domenici, for instance, said the DOE's proposed loan cap for the Title 17 loan guarantee program of EPAct is less than half the $18 billion the Export-Import Bank provides in loan coverage to support U.S. overseas commercial investments. 
   "Title 17 was designed to make sure that innovative energy technology doesn't stay in the lab but will be deployed to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions as well as make our country less dependent of foreign energy sources. If we are to make a serious difference in our generation mix to deploy clean burning or no emissions technology, it is very clear to me that the federal government must be a partner in this effort," Domenici said. 
   "I am very frustrated with all the stalling going on with implementing the loan guarantee program. I believe Congress should look at forcing the administration to get this done. I know investment overseas is important, but I do believe we have a serious problem when the administration provides greater assistance to sell nuclear reactors to China, than it provides for the deployment of nuclear reactors in our own country," he said. 
   DOE officials testified that they believed implantation of Title 17 is "essential" to advance new clean energy technologies. 
   Domenici suggested that congressional appropriators, in light of budgetary pressures, would take a critical look at the DOE budget recommendations that are not necessarily warranted. He pointed to the $30 million requested within the Office of Nuclear Energy for the Advanced Fuel Cycle Facility, which would consolidate all existing fuel R&D efforts from national laboratories to a single brand new facility. 
   "We have to question as to whether this is a luxury or a necessity. I think the funding would be better spent by investing in existing laboratories to perform the same goal of developing transuranic fuel to be used in an advanced reactor," Domenici said.
 
 