SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEXICO HIGHLANDS UNIVERSITY GAINS FOREST RESTORATION FUNDING
  Sen. Pete Domenici reported today that New Mexico Highlands University (NMHU) will receive $250,000 from the U.S. Forest Service to support its work to preserve and develop forest and water resources in New Mexico.  
   NMHU currently operates the New Mexico Forest and Watershed Restoration Institute which seeks to provide information on forest and watershed restoration, collaborate with private and public entities to support that goal, and promote ecological restoration and forest management efforts in New Mexico. 
   The Institute is part of a consortium of fellow schools--Northern Arizona University (NAU) and Colorado State University (CSU)--that work together to form the Southwest Ecological Restoration Institutes. 
   "New Mexico's water and forest health related needs make it a good fit for the goals and objectives of the Southwest Ecological Restoration Institute. It is good to see federal support for state-level efforts to preserve and improve the ecological environment in our state," said Domenici. "I hope these funds will help pave the way for future improvements to New Mexico's watershed and forests." 
   NMHU will receive funds along with NAU ($1.75 million) and CSU ($200,000), which carry out similar activities to further ecological conservation goals. The New Mexico Forest and Watershed Restoration Institute currently works on issues related to forest health. 
   The Southwest Ecological Restoration Institutes were formed as a result of the Southwest Health and Wildfire Prevention Act of 2004 (P.L. 108-317), which authorized institutes at NMHU, NAU, and CSU to work with other institutions and entities to achieve comprehensive ecological restoration. The educational institutions entered into the charter in cooperation with the governors of each respective state. Domenici played a pivotal role in securing passage of the bill as then-chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   Domenici is now the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. He is also a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which is plays a pivotal role in determining funding for land management, including those carried out by the U.S. Forest Service and other federal land agencies.
 
 