SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS & ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Tuesday, April 11, 2006.  
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Jack Nixon, Radio Las Cruces 
   * Bill Dupuy, KSFR Santa Fe 
   REVIEW: 
   00:00 - Domenici says partisan politics scuttled the border security and immigration reform bill in the Senate, including a compromise plan he supported. He says the plan would have given Americans what they want most--border security and an orderly plan for dealing with undocumented workers. 
   03:00 - Domenici says "amnesty" is not the point when discussing what undocumented workers who have been in the United States for a long period must do to gain legal status. He discusses these requirements, including work histories, background checks and fines. 
   04:22 - Domenici bemoans the partisan politics being played with the border security and immigration reform issue, and expresses hope that the Senate will be able to revive the legislation. 
   05:12 - Domenici says talk about an impending United States military attack against Iran's nuclear program is "just talk and speculation." He says the U.S. national security apparatus is always studying various scenarios and plans, but that does not mean action is imminent. He discusses ongoing diplomatic attempts to get Iran to cease its nuclear program. 
   08:06 - Domenici says it is good news that the Air Force is initiating an environmental assessment at Holloman to clear the way for basing two squadrons of F-22A Raptors there after the F-117A stealth fighters are retired. He discusses the public scoping meetings scheduled next week for Ruidoso Downs, Truth or Consequences and Alamogordo. 
   11:04 - Domenici discusses the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee field hearing in Albuquerque on Wednesday, April 19, to receive testimony on the severe drought conditions in the state. He reviews the witnesses scheduled to testify at the hearing, including Ruidoso Mayor Ray Nunley and Larry Perkins of the Agricultural Science Center at Tucumcari.
 
 