SEN. DOMENICI: MORE NEEDED TO TACKLE METH PRODUCTION, USE IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today outlined his support for additional federal resources to combat the growing methamphetamine epidemic throughout New Mexico, including innovative new legislation to better control the common ingredients used to make the highly-addictive and illegal drug.  
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Justice Department, joined prominent law enforcement leaders Thursday to highlight his efforts to abate the methamphetamine epidemic that has infiltrated many regions of the state. 
   At his request, Domenici was briefed by representatives of the U.S. Marshall's Office, Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and other agencies on the methamphetamine problem and its correlation to violent crimes in the state. 
   Domenici also relayed his work to restore funding for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA), a successful program that links federal, state and local law enforcement agencies in the battle against illegal drugs. 
   "Methamphetamine production and usage has increased alarmingly over the last decade in New Mexico as labs have cropped up everywhere from urban neighborhoods to remote areas. These facts paint a bleak picture, but we are not without hope because we are fighting hard in the war on meth starting with legislation I am cosponsoring that will give law enforcement officers additional tools needed to fight this problem," Domenici said. 
   Between 1992 and 1998, the number of people treated for methamphetamine abuse in New Mexico more than doubled. In 2000, almost five percent of adult male arrestees in Albuquerque tested positive for meth use. The amount of meth seized on New Mexico interstates increased from approximately three kilograms in 1999 to over 40 kilograms in 2000. 
   To crack down on meth production, Domenici is cosponsoring the Combat Meth Act of 2005 (S.103) that has been approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
   The bill tightly regulates the sale of the primary ingredients used in meth production, pseudoephedrine and ephedrine, which are commonly found in many over-the-counter cold and sinus medicines. The bill also creates new law enforcement tools to apprehend and prosecute meth producers. 
   The rampant drug problem in New Mexico is attributed, in part, to the ease with which meth can be produced in home-made labs using common and accessible medicines and the transportation of Mexican cartel-produced methamphetamine contraband through the state. 
   Domenici reiterated that sufficient support of HIDTA, a key drug program implemented in several New Mexico counties, is a logical step to containing the meth problem. 
   "I have seen first-hand the work that HIDTA has done in the southwest since 1990, and I am pleased that the program will be adequately funded to help Bernalillo County and others dismantle drug trafficking rings," Domenici said. "The fight against meth use is a difficult one, but the HIDTA program remains a valuable tool in that fight." 
   Domenici has been a strong proponent of federal cooperation with local law enforcement in addressing illegal drug problems. He has helped 13 New Mexico counties become involved in the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program to bring more focus on methamphetamine, heroin, and other illegal drugs in the area. 
   With Domenici's support, $227 million for the HIDTA program has been included in the Senate's FY2006 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (TTHUD) Appropriations Bill.
 
 