SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES FUNDS FOR CUMBRES & TOLTEC SCENIC RAILROAD
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici announced today that the Institute of Museum and Library Services has awarded $300,000 in Save America's Treasures funding to the Cumbres and Toltec Scenic Railroad.  
   The railroad is one of 31 historic entities receiving a collective total of over $7.6 million in Save America's Treasures grants. It will use funds to restore an historic narrow-gauge steam locomotive, Engine No. 463, which was built by Baldwin Locomotive Works in 1903. The engine is one of two remaining Class K-27 steam engines in the world. 
   "I've been a strong supporter of historic preservation and restoration through the Save America's Treasures grant program, and I'm always pleased when funds are directed to preservation efforts in New Mexico," said Domenici. "The Cumbres and Toltec Scenic Railway has provided thousands individuals with an authentic historic railway experience. I look forward to more train rides as a result of this grant." 
   The Cumbres and Toltec Scenic Railway is the most authentic steam era railroad in operation in North America, and has been designated as a national Historic Site and listed in the National Register of Historic Places. The railway operates along a 64 mile stretch of railway that was originally constructed in 1880. 
   In October, Domenici joined Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) in unveiling the Preserve America and Save America's Treasures Act (S.2262). The legislation would, for the first time, formally codify the Preserve America and the Save America's Treasures programs. Both are grant programs that were started through presidential executive orders. Administered by the Department of the Interior with the cooperation of other federal agencies, the programs have operated without congressional authorization since their inception. 
   The Save America's Treasures grant program funds "bricks and mortar" improvements to historic structures and assets by providing competitive grant to encourage sustainable historic resource management through heritage tourism.
 
 