CONGRESS SET TO GIVE FINAL OKAY TO SEN. DOMENICI PLAN TO ENSURE DOE SUPERCOMPUTING CAPABILITIES
  The House and Senate are poised to give final approval to a defense policy bill that includes a plan authored by U.S. Senator Pete Domenici to require an independent review of the Department of Energy's advance computing programs, which could lead to greater resources for the high-computing initiatives carried out by the national laboratories.  
   The Domenici advanced computing provisions within the final version of the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill authorize an independent scientific advisory group assessment of the DOE's strategic plan for advanced computing. The conference report on this legislation (HR.1585) is expected to gain House and Senate approval before the Christmas holiday. 
   "This authorization is intended to ensure that the Department of Energy and NNSA have a coordinated strategy for advancing the state-of-the-art in computing. I do not believe the department should be moving to reduce computing capabilities at the labs when they are clearly making great strides in this work," Domenici said. 
   The Defense Authorization provisions also build on related legislation Domenici is trying to work into the FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill to better integrate and coordinate computing efforts within a joint program office for high performance computing led by NNSA and the DOE Office of Science. This office would develop a high performance computing technology roadmap and acquisition strategy for the DOE. 
   Each of the nuclear weapons laboratories--Sandia, Los Alamos and Lawrence Livermore--support computing platforms. The labs' advanced computing capabilities have been widely recognized, including in a recent Washington Post article.* 
   The world's current fastest supercomputer is Lawrence Livermore's "Blue Gene," which recently exceeded 280 "teraflops" or trillions of calculations per second. The Oak Ridge "Jaguar" system and Sandia's "Red Storm" are second and third, each exceeding 100 teraflops. 
   Los Alamos National Laboratory is advancing its "Roadrunner" petaflop high performance computer that would be able to perform a thousand trillion computations per second. This will give LANL the capability to simulate complex physics experiments to validate the reliability of the U.S. stockpile, without underground testing. 
   "I am proud that the first petaflop computer in the world is likely to be at Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico. Working in conjunction with IBM, LANL's 'Roadrunner' computer holds out the promise of immense advances in almost every aspect of scientific inquiry," said Domenici as part of a recent Congressional Record statement. 
   "One of the most interesting uses of this enormous computing power is its ability to make advanced scientific calculations that can be applied to national security missions, climate change, materials research and biomedical problems," he said. 
   (* - Washington Post, Dec. 3, "Faster Computers Accelerate Pace of Discovery" http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/12/02/AR2007120201403.html)
 
 