SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES CONTRACT TO REPLACE NAVAJO'S OJO ENCINO DAY SCHOOL
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici praised the award of a $16.4 million contract to build a new day school at the Ojo Encino Chapter, a project that will give more than 250 students in rural New Mexico a better place to learn.  
   Domenici announced that the Army Corps of Engineers, on behalf of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, has awarded the contract to a Colorado builder to replace an existing day school that serves students in grades kindergarten to eighth grade. The Ojo Encino Chapter is located in eastern McKinley County, near the Sandoval County line. 
   "It has taken a lot of time to get this project moving forward, but I am excited that this contract has been issued for work at Ojo Encino. The construction of this new day school is part of a concerted effort over the past seven years to accelerate BIA school construction. The process is still time consuming, but I am pleased this work in New Mexico might soon get underway," Domenici said. 
   As a member of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici worked to provide funding in the FY2005 spending bill for BIA education facilities. That year, Congress agreed to provide $267.1 million to continue a BIA tribal school construction demonstration project and for BIA school replacement projects. That bill listed three New Mexico projects--the Ojo Encino project, the Beclabito Day School at Shiprock and the Bread Springs Day School near Gallup. 
   The Alutiiq International Solutions LLC of Aurora, Colo., is expected to complete the Ojo Encino school replacement project by August 2009. The total contract is worth a total of $14,498,562. 
   "I look forward to the day when students at Ojo Encino can enjoy a modern school," Domenici said. "The need for improved school facilities remains high in Indian country and I will continue to do what I can to see that we continue to make progress on improving learning environments for these children." 
   The FY2009 budget submitted by the White House to Congress earlier this month seeks $115 million for BIA school construction and repair. Since 2001, more than $1.7 billion has been approved for Indian school construction.
 
 