SEN. DOMENICI RAISES CONCERN OVER USDA CONSERVATION FLAP WITH HARDING COUNTY RANCHERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today raised concerns about the collateral impact of an ongoing dispute in which Harding County landowners say U.S. Agriculture Department agencies are reneging on land conservation contacts.  
   Domenici, ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said the conflict over USDA Continuous Conservation Reserve Program (CCRP) contracts could ultimately affect the success of a newly-created federal salt cedar eradication program, and has asked federal officials to carefully review the aspects of the dispute. 
   "This dispute is problematic on several fronts. The contract dispute could result in financial hardships for ranchers and other landowners participating in this conservation program, and it could in turn throw a wet blanket on future local participation in such programs," Domenici said. 
   In a letter to the heads of the USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service and Farm Service Agency in Washington, Domenici wrote that constituents informed him that the agencies want to redefine their contractual obligations for CCRP work carried out and financed by landowners on the Ute Creek, a tributary of the Canadian River in northeast New Mexico. 
   This conservation work included establishing riparian buffers to fence out livestock, allow salt cedar and nonnative species eradication and improve stream flow. The landowners also agreed to certain maintenance expenses associated with the project. The dispute is currently on appeal with the USDA National Appeals Division. 
   "These ranchers have informed me that FSA and NRCS now wish to redefine the contractual obligations of the parties resulting in significant monetary loss to the land owners. I am fearful that this situation places the livelihood of these ranchers on the line because of the financial obligations they undertook in reliance on their contracts. I am requesting that you look into this matter further," Domenici wrote NRCS Chief Arlen Lancaster and FSA Administrator Teresa C. Lasseter. 
   Domenici, the primary sponsor of the recently-enacted Salt Cedar and Russian Olive Control Demonstration Act, expressed his concern that this case could dampen local cooperation in demonstration programs in New Mexico and the West to study chemical, mechanical and biological means of eliminating nonnative species. 
   "To be successful we must all work together in a cooperative effort to accomplish the purpose of the law. I believe private land owners, including farmers and ranchers, play an important role in conservation and salt cedar activities, and this situation does not help to promote cooperation and trust," Domenici wrote.
 
 