SEN. DOMENICI REINTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO PROTECT UNIQUE 'SNOWY RIVER' AT FT. STANTON CAVE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reintroduced legislation to provide federal protection to one of the most unique cave formations ever discovered in New Mexico--the Snowy River formation within the Fort Stanton Cave in Lincoln County.  
   The Fort Stanton-Snowy River National Cave Conservation Area Act would provide permanent protection to the Snowy River and secure it for future research and educational purposes. The bill was passed by the U.S. Senate during the last session of Congress, but was not acted on by the House of Representatives. 
   In 2005, Domenici announced the discovery of the cave, which is believed to be the longest continuous calcite formation in the world. 
   "The Snowy River formation was a remarkable geological find. I was pleased that the Senate passed my legislation to ensure its protection during the last session of Congress, but since the House did not act, I have reintroduced my bill. This legislation would make sure that scientists have access to the cave so that they can tap into its great potential. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get it passed through both houses of Congress," said Domenici, the ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, is an original cosponsor to the bill. The committee is expected to pass the bill next week for Senate consideration. 
   "This legislation creates a conservation plan for the Snowy River passage, ensuring this unique find is protected. We already have strong support for this bill in the Senate and I hope we can pass it this year in the House of Representatives, as well," Bingaman said. 
   The bill will create a Fort Stanton-Snowy River National Cave Conservation Area to protect, secure and conserve the natural and unique features of Fort Stanton Cave and the Snowy River passage, including the more than two-mile-long continuous calcite formation. In creating a conservation area for the passage, the Domenici legislation would authorize the Bureau of Land Management to develop a map and legal description of Fort Stanton Cave, and to develop a comprehensive, long-term management plan for the cave area. 
   The bill would: 
   * Conserve the unique features of the cave for scientific and educational purposes, as well as other public purposes that are deemed safe and appropriate pursuant to a BLM management plan; 
   * Allow the BLM to work with colleges, universities, and scientific institutions to better understand the significance of this discovery; 
   * Protect the caves from mineral leasing and mining operations; and 
   * Allow for recreational opportunities under the supervision of the BLM. 
   The continued scientific research and discoveries in the cave may yield valuable information on the hydrology, geology and microbiology in the region. For instance, investigations of the Snowy River formation may provide information on past water chemistry, weather trends, and flood and drought cycles.
 
 