SEN. DOMENICI RENEWS BILL TO AID N.M. WATER ASSESSMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced the reintroduction of legislation that would give the New Mexico Office of the State Engineer (OSE) federal help to carry out its work to assess New Mexico's water resources and plan for future use.  
   Domenici authored the New Mexico Water Planning Assistance Act last year. Cosponsored by U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman, the bill cleared the Senate and the House of Representatives separately in the 109th Congress, but was not signed into the law by the President. 
   The new bill is expected to receive Energy and Natural Resources Committee approval next week and be forwarded to the full Senate for consideration. 
   The new bill authorizes the state of New Mexico to receive technical assistance from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). It authorizes a total of $12.5 million ($2.5 million per year for 2006-2010) for the OSE to perform hydrologic models of New Mexico's most important water systems, basins and tributaries. 
   "I'm pleased to see this bill reintroduced because I believe it contains important measures to combat water shortages in New Mexico. We have worked hard to make sure it addresses the issues inherent in New Mexico's water problems. As we work together in the 110th Congress, I am confident we will have the support we need to see this legislation through to its successful enactment," Domenici said. 
   "The complex water issues we face in New Mexico require the efforts of local, state and federal governments acting together. This bill will ensure that the Department of Interior is providing resources and expertise to help our state secure the information needed to manage water effectively and efficiently," Bingaman said. 
   The federal agencies aiding the OSE will provide technical assistance, such as acquiring hydrologic data, assessing existing water resources, coordinating efforts with federal water management initiatives, and assisting with numerical analysis and modeling to provide an integrated understanding of water management options.
 
 