NEW MEXICO SENATORS OFFER AMENDMENTS TO PROPEL SPECIAL OPERATIONS TRANSITION AT CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
  U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today offered a series of amendments to a defense policy bill that would authorize the expenditure of military construction funding at Cannon Air Force Base to support the new Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) mission there.  
   The three Domenici-Bingaman amendments have been offered to the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill (S.1585) which the Senate is expected to debate through next week. The amendments are intended to clear the way to meet so-called "unfunded requirements" at Cannon to support the AFSOC mission. 
   "These amendments are one more attempt to try to speed up the military construction timetable at Cannon. Senator Bingaman and I will work together to have one or more of these provisions added to this defense bill. Their acceptance would make it possible for the appropriations committee to direct actual funding for these AFSOC projects," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "We must continue to prepare Cannon for its exciting new mission, and this amendment would put us on track for making necessary upgrades at the base," Bingaman said. 
   The first amendment would authorize $68 million for all AFSOC military projects included in an "unfunded requirements" list at Cannon, including: $31 million for C-130 Fuel Cell and Corrosion Control Hangars; $17.5 million for a UAV squadron operations building and ground control stations; $12 million for a MC-130 squadron operations building; and, $7.5 million for a CV-22 simulator facility. The cost of the amendment would be offset from Air Force operations and maintenance accounts. 
   The two subsequent amendments specify authorizations for the $31 million C-130-related hangars and $7.5 million for the CV-22 simulator facility. 
   The following Cannon AFSOC projects were recommended in the president's budget request and included in the Senate FY2008 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill: $7.5 million to construct an MC-130 Flight Simulator Facility, and $1.7 million to alter an existing hangar to accommodate C-130s. The bill also adds $855,000 sought by Domenici and Bingaman for planning and design work on a $31 million hangar project needed to support AFSOC aircraft.
 
 