SEN. DOMENICI: FEDERAL ANTI-DRUG OFFICE FREES GRANT FUNDS FOR NEW MEXICO HIDTA PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today reported that the Office of National Drug Control Policy has agreed to free grant funding that had been suspended this spring for a federal anti-drug program involving 16 New Mexico counties.  
   The ONDCP has informed Domenici of its decision to restore grant funding for New Mexico's participation in the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program. The funding was suspended in March over ONDCP concerns that the New Mexico program repeatedly failed to comply with federal guidelines over three years on the use of HIDTA funding for core HIDTA purposes. 
   "The resumption of HIDTA funding for work in New Mexico is important. I am glad the New Mexico program has made adjustments to ensure that these federal funds are put to use to curb the influx of illegal drugs in our state," Domenici said. 
   After grant funding was suspended in March, Domenici asked the ONDCP to work closely with the New Mexico HIDTA operation to resolve problems with the program and encouraged the ONDCP to restore New Mexico's funding. The national HIDTA program generally receives about $220 million annually, and the New Mexico HIDTA has been allotted between $5.0 million and $7.0 million a year. 
   "We need the HIDTA program. The cooperative nature of this program to pool federal and local resources to battle illicit drug trafficking makes it useful," Domenici said. "I am pleased the funding has been restored, and I'll continue working to support the program." 
   Currently, 16 counties are part of the HIDTA program in New Mexico, which is part of the Southwest Border HIDTA that also includes counties in Texas, Arizona and California. Last year, Domenici successfully convinced the ONDCP to add Sandoval, Valencia and Torrance counties-all surrounding the Albuquerque metropolitan area-to the HIDTA program. Other counties include: Bernalillo, Chaves, Do?a Ana, Eddy, Grant, Hidalgo, Lea, Lincoln, Luna, Otero, Rio Arriba, San Juan and Santa Fe. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee that Thursday will set FY2008 funding for HIDTA within the FY2008 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Bill.
 
 