SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS & ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, June 11, 2007. 
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Nick Layman - KUNM Albuquerque 
   * Bill Dupuy - KSFR Santa Fe 
   * Tim Keithly - KRUI Ruidoso 
   * Whitney Jones - KRWG Las Cruces 
   TOPICS: 
   No Confidence Resolution on Attorney General Alberto Gonzales 
   Impasse Over Border Security and Immigration Reform Legislation 
   Proposed Budget Cuts for New Mexico-based DOE Laboratories Budget Cuts 
   Republican Presidential Candidates 
   REVIEW: 
   00:00 - Domenici says he will not support the effort to have the Senate consider a resolution of no confidence on Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. 
   01:37 - Domenici says he has not been advised that there is any reason why he should not take votes related to the proposed no confidence resolution. 
   02:31 - Domenici expresses his belief that the Senate could resume consideration of the stalled Border Security and Immigration Reform Bill if accommodations are made to consider additional amendments to the bill. 
   04:49 - Domenici explains that border security is too important an issue to allow the Senate bill to fail. He says continuing to ignore lax border security and associated problems could eventually ruin the country. 
   05:58 - Domenici says he understands that he and Representative Steve Pearce differ on aspects of the border security bill, but states that the Senate plan, if properly enforced, would be good for the nation. 
   07:06 - Domenici explains why the no confidence resolution on the Attorney General would set precedence under the United States' federal government, as opposed to a parliamentary-style government. 
   09:07 - Domenici discusses the budget cuts recommended by the House Senate Appropriations Subcommittee leaves Los Alamos National Laboratory without sufficient funds to carry out its national security missions. He says the result will be massive layoffs of lab workers. 
   10:09 - Domenici says LANL is already working on the global climate change and renewable energy technologies. He says the Senate will try to make the House bill fairer, adding that he expects DOE will determine that the House funding plan has serious problems. 
   12:24 - Domenici says the House cuts go well beyond pit production programs at LANL. He says the rationale behind the House plan is difficult to understand. He says it would require more funding, not less, and more time to properly implement a new mission for LANL. 
   14:49 - Domenici says he is skeptical that the House wants a new mission for LANL, and that the FY2008 appropriations situation will be difficult to rectify. 
   15:51 - Domenici says the Republican presidential primary race is showing a number of viable candidates. 
   17:02 - Domenici says he wants to find a way to get the Border Security and Immigration Reform Bill back on track, including the consideration of new amendments. He wants a number of his amendments considered, but their inclusion in the bill would not be considered a "deal breaker" by him. He says he is ready for the bill to pass.
 
 