SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES ALBUQUERQUE INDIAN SCHOOL LAND TRANSFER ACT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation what would put another 18.3 acres of the old Albuquerque Indian School property in Albuquerque into trust for future development by the 19 pueblos in New Mexico. 
   The Albuquerque Indian Schools Act of 2006 (S.3635) would consolidate two parcels of federal property south of I-40 on 12th Street, and put it into trust for the pueblos. The bill, which is cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, will be referred to the Senate Indian Affairs Committee.
   "I believe this property, once transferred, would receive greater utilization by being available for education and economic development for the 19 pueblos," Domenici said.
   "I have seen the progress have made after an initial 1984 property transfer. With the addition of these two tracts the 19 Pueblos will be able to continue their successful economic development of the Albuquerque Indian School Property which will benefit not only the 19 New Mexico Pueblos but each individual tribal member," said Domenici, who is a member of the Indian Affairs Committee.
   "Passing this bill will be good for the pueblos and for the surrounding communities because the measure encourages the development of several deteriorating structures," Bingaman said. "I hope we can win support for this measure quickly and send it to the House for approval."
   The parcels--one being 12.38 acres and the other 5.92 acres--would be taken into trust by the Department of the Interior for the pueblos. The bill outlines that the property would be available for "the educational, health, cultural, business or economic development purposes of the 19 pueblos." The bill also prohibits gaming on the property. The 19 pueblos began the process to request this conveyance in 2003.
   The Domenici legislation represents the second such transfer related to the old Albuquerque Indian School property. Following a 1981 request, the Congress in 1984 approved the transfer of 44 acres of the Indian School property into trust for the pueblos. This real estate, north of I-40, has been developed by the pueblos to include two major Interior Department office buildings to house the BIA Southern Regional Office, the National BIA Training Center and the BIA Data Center. In addition the pueblos are starting construction on a hotel and are preparing to begin several retail projects.
   The 19 New Mexico pueblos that will benefit from this bill include: Acoma, Cochiti, Isleta, Jemez, Laguna, Nambe, Ohkay Owingeh, Picuris, Pojoaque, San Felipe, San Ildefonso, Sandia, Santa Ana, Santa Clara, Santo Domingo, Taos, Tesuque, Zia and Zuni.
 
 