SEN. DOMENICI NOTES 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF CANNON AIR FORCE BASE NAMING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today noted the 50th anniversary of Cannon Air Force Base getting its name, and took the occasion to remark on the future of the eastern New Mexico military outpost.  
   Formerly known as Clovis Air Force Base, the base was named after Gen. John Kenneth Cannon on June 8, 1957. Domenici marked the anniversary in a Congressional Record statement. 
   "On this Anniversary I would like to like to pay tribute to the men and women who have and continue to serve at Cannon," Domenici said. "For the last 50 years the servicemen and women who called Cannon home have been deployed numerous times around the world to ensure the national security of our country. They have performed their duty faithfully and in a manner that I am sure would make General Cannon proud." 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and its defense subcommittee, noted that Cannon will soon see major changes as the 27th Fighter Wing is deactivated in preparation for the impending arrival in October of the Air Force Special Operations Command and its 16th Special Operations Wing in October. 
   "In the coming years, I am sure the 16th Special Operations Wing will continue the 27th Fighter Wing's long tradition of excellence at Cannon," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that the Senate Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee is scheduled to take up the FY2008 Military Construction-VA Appropriations Bill Wednesday, with the full Senate Appropriations Committee expected to approve the measure Thursday. The bill is expected to include funding for Cannon projects. Domenici has been lobbying to get additional funding to facilitate the AFSOC transition at Cannon. 
   Gen. Cannon commanded Army Air Corps forces in the Mediterranean and later was commanding general of all Army Air Corps forces in Europe during World War II. Following the war, he was Commander in Chief of U.S. Air Forces in Europe and Commanding General of Tactical Air Command. During his military service, Cannon earned four Distinguished Service Medals, a Legion of Merit, a Bronze Star, and the Air Medal. He also received decorations from Great Britain, France, Italy, Poland, Yugoslavia and Morocco.
 
 