NEW MEXICO DELEGATION SAYS APOLOGY TO NEW MEXICO NATIONAL GUARD A 'GOOD FIRST STEP'
  The New Mexico congressional delegation today acknowledged the letter of apology from the U.S. Army to the New Mexico National Guard that expresses regret that Guard members felt subjected to race-based discrimination in the line of duty.  
   Senators Pete Domenici and Bingaman and Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall, and Steve Pearce welcomed the letter as an important first step in clarifying the allegations and rectifying the wrong-doing. The letter, signed by Army Brigadier General Rodney L. Johnson and addressed to the Officers and Soldiers of the 111th Combat Support Brigade, admitted that the investigation had been "gravely mishandled." 
   "I am glad the Army is apologizing for the treatment that these New Mexico soldiers endured during their service. It is a positive first step. I've also had productive conversations with Army leadership that indicate this serious matter is being appropriately handled. I am anxious to further hear from the Army regarding their plans to fully investigate the situation," said Domenici. 
   "The Pentagon recognized that its actions in this case were inappropriate, and that is a positive step. But an apology is not a substitute for a thorough investigation into whether racial discrimination was at the center of this unfortunate incident. The Army needs to get to the bottom of this as soon as possible," Bingaman said. 
   "General Johnson did the right thing by apologizing. His apology appears to be sincere and heartfelt," said Wilson. 
   "I hope the General's apology is an indication that a thorough, high-level investigation into the degrading incident will soon be launched," said Udall. "His apology is greatly appreciated, however, the members of Task Force Cobra deserve nothing less." 
   "It is wholly appropriate that the Pentagon apologize for this unfortunate incident. We must now move forward to ensure that this kind of thing is never repeated," said Pearce. 
   In an April letter to the Acting Army Secretary Pete Geren, the New Mexico lawmakers expressed their deep concern over the situation and urged the Army to immediately and fully investigate the claims and promptly report its findings to the delegation. A formal response to the delegation's request for an investigation is forthcoming. 
   Members of the New Mexico Guard say they were subjected to intrusive physical searches in Kuwait last year. Allegations have been made that racism within the Army may have played a role in the searches which were reportedly conducted to determine whether gang members were in the New Mexico Guard unit.
 
 