SEN. DOMENICI VOTES AGAINST AMENDMENTS RESTRICTING COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF DEPLOYMENT POWERS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici voted against a troop deployment amendment to the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill (S.1585) because it would restrict the ability of the commander-in-chief to deploy American troops where they are needed.  
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Committee, voted against limiting debate on the deployment amendment offered by Senator Jim Webb (D-Va.). The Webb amendment mandated that no active duty member of the Armed Forces may be deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan unless the period between the soldier's deployments is equal to or longer than the period of the soldier's previous deployment. It also stipulated that no member of the Guard or Reserve may be deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan if the member has been previously deployed to one of those areas within the previous three years. 
   Domenici opposed the amendment because the provisions would eliminate the flexibility the commander-in-chief has relating to operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and sets a dangerous precedent for all possible future conflicts. The amendment failed on a 56-41 procedural vote. 
   "I have not, and will not, support congressional efforts to micromanage the war from the halls of Congress or to infringe on the President's constitutional power as commander-in-chief. I understand the great stress being experienced by our men and women in uniform, and their families, as they carryout American missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Webb amendment was not the way to go about relieving the pressures they face as members of the Armed Forces, and it sets a bad precedent for the presidency," Domenici said. 
   Domenici is part of a bipartisan group that intends to offer an amendment based on the Iraq Study Group Recommendation Implementation Act (S.1545), which he cosponsored. 
   "This amendment is not a call for an immediate withdrawal, but rather a bipartisan push to change the mission for U.S. forces in Iraq so that the Iraqis will do more for themselves and give us a better chance to bring our troops home more quickly," Domenici said. 
   Under S.1545, the U.S. military could maintain a long-term but more limited presence in Iraq-focused on protecting American personnel and interests, training and advising Iraqi forces, and carrying out counterterrorism and special operations missions.
 
 