SEN. DOMENICI JOINS SENATE TO PREVENT TAX INCREASE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined the Senate to approve a measure that will extend certain provisions of the tax code thereby preventing a tax increase on capital gains and dividends. 
   The Senate Thursday approved the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act (HR. 4297), which extends the reduced rates for capital gains and dividends. The Treasury Department estimates that 121,000 New Mexicans currently benefit from the reduced tax rates.
   In addition to the capital gain and dividend extensions, the package will increase and extend the exemption allowed under the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), which directly affects middle class taxpayers. It also will extend small business tax exemptions. With Senate passage, the bill is now ready for President Bush's signature.
   "The bottom line is that without passage of this bill, taxes would be going up for millions of taxpayers. The tax relief passed in 2001 and 2003 has had a remarkably positive effect on the economic by spurring robust growth and low unemployment. There is no reason to undo the progress we've made by raising taxes, which is why I voted in favor of this bill.
   "This legislation also adds to the much needed relief, at least for another year, from the AMT. This tax was never intended to target the middle class, but that is exactly who is suffering from it. We are taking a step in the right direction," Domenici said.
   Under current law, capital gains and dividend income are taxed at a 15-percent rate. The rate will be reduced to zero in 2008 for taxpayers in the bottom two income brackets. However, if Congress had not extended the tax cuts, these rates would have increased. The extensions will ensure the lower rates remain in place until 2010.
   The bill will extend the AMT exemption-which had expired after 2005-at a higher rate. Married couples making under $62,550, and individuals making under $42,500 will now be exempted from the tax. Over 15 million taxpayers nationwide are expected to benefit from the new exemption levels.
   Also included in the bill is an extension of small business exemptions. Small businesses are exempted for expenses up to $100,000 under current law, which will be in place for another five years.
 
 