SENATE PASSES DOMENICI ENERGY TAX PACKAGE WITH JOBS BILL, INCENTIVES BODE WELL FOR N.M. PRODUCTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today celebrated a lop-sided victory to protect the $14 billion energy tax package that he added to a major jobs bill that passed the Senate Tuesday evening.  
   The Senate Tuesday defeated, 13-85, an amendment offered by Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.) that would have effectively stripped the Domenici energy tax package from the Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income Act (FSC-ETI or JOBS Bill, S.1637). 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, counted the vote as the first significant victory for gaining passage of the comprehensive national energy policy bill developed over the past 18 months. The overwhelming vote in favor for the energy tax policy successful completes the first step of a strategy outlined by Domenici in April to pass the overall package in two pieces. 
   "This is probably the most significant vote we've had on the getting this energy bill through the Senate and enacted. This half of the energy bill is very important to the nation and to New Mexico. It means we're closer to breathing new life into the tax credit for wind energy and renewable resources. It means that wind farm, biomass plants and other renewable energy projects that have been on hold may soon move forward," Domenici said. 
   "For New Mexico, the tax package will mean more incentives for oil and gas production from marginal wells. These provisions stimulate increased domestic production of oil in approved areas at a time when record-high crude oil prices are a strain on our economy and our individual pocketbooks," he said. 
   "The bottom line is that protecting these tax credits sends an important signal that we want to be more energy independent, that we're ready to take matters into our own hands to maximize the production of American energy," the chairman said. "I have not given up on passing the policy half of the energy bill, and today's vote may very well give us more momentum to do just that." 
   The Senate gave final passage to the FSC-ETI Bill on a 92-5 vote. The House of Representatives has yet to act on the legislation. 
   Among other things, the energy tax package will provide incentives for encouraging investments in: the electricity grid; a natural gas pipeline from the Alaska to the lower 48 states; oil and gas production from the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico and other unconventional sources; energy conservation; energy efficient home construction; energy-efficient appliances designs; and energy-efficient cars purchases. 
   Domenici worked closely with Majority Leader Bill Frist and Finance Chairman Charles Grassley to add the $14 billion energy tax package to the JOBS bill. 
   "I thank my colleagues for the support they have shown from these provisions. Majority Leader Frist, Chairman Grassley and I decided in a meeting on March 31 to attach the energy tax package to the JOBS bill. From the moment we left that meeting, senators in this body-Republican and Democrat alike-have stood firm for the passage of these vital provisions. For six weeks, my colleagues have joined me in working to preserve and pass this package," Domenici said.
 
 