SEN. DOMENICI BACKS MEASURE TO KEEP STRONG FEDERAL SUPPORT FOR BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today backed an effort to extend federal support for the Boys and Girls Clubs of America. The Clubs need to be reauthorized in order to continue receiving federal funds.  
   In 1995, Domenici authored an amendment that first made the Boys and Girls Clubs eligible for Department of Justice funding. Boys and Girls Clubs of America is now the fastest growing youth development organization in America, with more than 3,800 clubs in 50 states, including 62 clubs in New Mexico. 
   Domenici is now a cosponsor of S.2363, which will extend authorization for funding to the Boys and Girls Clubs of America through 2010. The bill was introduced by Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
   "The Boys and Girls Clubs of America is an organization devoted to giving young people a caring, nurturing environment, even when they face difficult circumstances," Domenici said. "The clubs have a major presence in disadvantaged communities, and provide supervision and character-building programs for reasonable costs. I firmly believe that the federal government should continue to invest in aiding this organization, and its work to provide children with constructive and educational after-school activities." 
   The Boys and Girls Clubs of America serve 4 million children, 41,000 of them in New Mexico. The clubs are prevalent in economically depressed areas, including Indian Country. In fact, there are 17 clubs serving Native Americans in New Mexico alone, and 171 in the United States. 
   Overall, the organization aims to serve 5 million youth in 5,000 clubs by 2010. 
   Domenici has been a major advocate for Boys and Girls Club funding. He worked to ensure that the FY2004 Commerce, Justice and State Department (CJS) funding bill contained $80 million for national club efforts. He recently submitted a request to the CJS Appropriations Subcommittee, on which he serves, for $90 million for FY2005.
 
 