SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS MAJOR WOMENS' HEALTH BILLS
  Sen. Pete Domenici agreed today to cosponsor two important women's health bills, S.573 HEART for Women Act and S.579 Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act. The two pieces of legislation would expand research and other initiatives to help combat two of the leading women's health concerns, heart disease and breast cancer. 
   "As we approach Mother's Day, on which we celebrate the important women in our lives, we must make sure the federal government is using all necessary resources to protect the health of women," said Domenici.
   "The two women's health bills that I am cosponsoring could help make important advancements in the treatment and prevention of devastating diseases that threaten the lives of women across the nation," he said.
   The HEART Act seeks to lessen the serious and often deadly impact heart disease and other cardiovascular diseases have on women's health by improving prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. The key provisions of the legislation include patient and health personnel education, data and research, and improved screening for low-income women with a heightened risk of cardiovascular disease.
   The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act, which was first introduced in 1999, contains critical research provisions that could be instrumental in finding a cure for the disease, which affects hundreds of thousands of U.S. women each year. The bill would institute a national strategy to investigate any correlation between breast cancer and the environment.
   Domenici, a longtime health advocate and member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has worked successfully with the Labor and Health and Human Services (Labor-HHS) Subcommittee over the years to secure vital funds to support and expand health care facilities and programs in New Mexico.
   Through Labor-HHS appropriations, Domenici has helped fund new community health and wellness centers, expand medical education and research facilities, and leveraged technology such as "telehealth" to provide medical services to rural New Mexico communities.
 
 