SEN. DOMENICI WANTS RAMP UP OF THINNING IN TINDER-DRY WESTERN; COMMITTEE ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT GROUNDED SLURRY AIRCRAFT FORESTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today strongly encouraged land managers to accelerate their work to improve forest health and reduce wildfire threats in federal forests, especially in New Mexico and much of the West where an ongoing drought has created a tinderbox.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today led a hearing on the outlook of the summer 2005 fire season and ability of the U.S. Forest Service and Interior Department to combat what is expected to be a treacherous wildfire season. 
   "Several western states, including New Mexico, have suffered devastating losses from wildfire in the last few years. We've lost towns, neighborhoods, wildlife, watershed and, most tragically, human life," Domenici said. "I appreciate that the Forest Service has done more than it's ever done before to treat vulnerable forests, particularly those near homes. But we have 90 million acres at critical risk for wildfire. Much of it is land near homes and municipal watersheds. We simply can't take 25 years to treat this land." 
   Last year, the Forest Service treated 2.6 million acres, and expects to treat just under four million in 2004. Last year in New Mexico, over 39,000 acres of forests were treated, including nearly 24,000 acres of wildland urban interface areas. However, at the dawn of 2004 there were more than 4.7 million acres of Condition Class III forests in New Mexico that are at the highest risk for catastrophic wildfire, and almost five million more acres identified as Condition Class II. 
   This year in New Mexico, the Bureau of Land Management expects to treat 41,600 acres while the Forest Service is expected to tackle 256,739 acres in its Region 3 (New Mexico and Arizona). 
   "The Forest Service hopes one day to be able to treat 10 million acres a year. I urge the agency to make that day sooner rather than later," Domenici said. "I urge agency chiefs to streamline its strategies and procedures. I recommend the agency more accurately assess the actual cost of this effort and ask Congress for what it needs at the beginning of the annual appropriations process, not late in the year when the agency is in crisis. Finally, I ask the agency to maximize the impact of every dollar and the efforts of every man and woman engaged in this important effort." 
   Domenici cited ongoing concerns with wildfire and forest health budgets for the Forest Service and BLM. Since 1990, the agencies= expenditures in fighting wildfires exceeded appropriated funds every year. In FY2002, Congress appropriated $383 million for fire suppression and an additional $320 million for emergency fire suppression contingency. However, firefighting costs reached approximately $1.4 billion. 
   Domenici and other members of the Energy Committee also expressed growing concern about the Forest Service and BLM handle the decision to ground multi-engine slurry planes. 
   "These agencies need to let us know how they expect to fill this void in their firefighting arsenal," Domenici said. "We have asked them to provide us with detailed plans for alternative aerial support units to accomplish the firefighting that these aircraft provided. I will be closely monitoring this issue."
 
 