SEN. DOMENICI EXPECTS BROADER USDA DROUGHT DISASTER DESIGNATION FOR NEW MEXICO
  With six New Mexico counties named as part of a disaster area for much of Arizona, Sen. Pete Domenici today said he expects the Department of Agriculture to soon issue a broad drought disaster designation for most of New Mexico. 
   The USDA included San Juan, McKinley, Cibola, Catron, Grant and Hidalgo counties in western New Mexico as contiguous counties eligible for USDA assistance as part of a drought disaster area designation for 14 of 15 counties in Arizona.
   "I expect word soon from the USDA that virtually all agriculture and livestock operations in New Mexico will fall under a federal drought disaster designation. The ramifications of virtually no snowpack and little precipitation will ripple throughout our state economy. The official designation I expect for New Mexico will open doors to federal aid that might help our agriculture producers make it through the year," Domenici said.
   Under the designation issued by the USDA, farmers in the six contiguous New Mexico counties will be eligible to apply for Farm Service Agency low-interest emergency loans based on the extent of losses, security available and repayment ability.
   "I understand that there is a feeling that existing federal drought assistance is wanting, but I hope producers will avail themselves of this aid if it can help them continue operations," Domenici said.
   Domenici noted that he will be part of the House-Senate negotiation team that will debate whether the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Bill will retain the nearly $4.0 billion in agriculture and drought assistance included in the Senate-passed bill. The President has issued a veto threat against the supplemental package, including the drought aid.
   Domenici supported the drought package during Senate debate and outlined $17.0 million in USDA Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) funding-$12 million for Texas and $5 million for New Mexico-for emergency water enhancing activities such as water hauling, in addition to working in cooperation with land owners and users who have experienced watershed damage from fire.
   Last week, Domenici joined Nebraska Senator Ben Nelson in introducing the National Integrated Drought Information System Act (NIDIS), which would establish a program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to improve national drought preparedness, information collection, and analysis. NIDIS would provide reliable and timely drought forecasts and assessments, which will aid in preparing for and reaction to droughts.
 
 