SEN. DOMENICI SLAMS OBSTRUCTIONIST FILIBUSTER TO SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH INSURANCE MEASURE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today bemoaned a Senate vote that signaled a filibuster against a measure intended to provide small business employees with an avenue to gain health insurance. 
   The Senate leadership pulled the Small Business Health Plans Bill (S.1955) from further debate after the Senate voted 55-43, largely along party lines, not to move toward further debate and passage of the plan.
   "The American people are tired of excuses and they are tired of the status quo. They want to see change for the better. This vote stopped an effort to make things better, and improve this bill," Domenici said.
   "By allowing small businesses to band together, as this bill did, an economy of scale could have been created and small businesses would have been able to leverage their larger purchasing power to lower health care costs. This would have hopefully enabled more employers to afford such coverage and ideally reduce the number of small firm workers without health insurance," Domenici said.
   "Unfortunately, this effort has been dashed by those would rather be obstructionists than to get something good done," he said.
   There are about 143,909 small businesses in New Mexico, and of these small businesses, about 37 percent of firms with fewer than 50 employees do not health insurance. In small businesses with five or few workers, 56.2 percent do not offer health insurance.
   In New Mexico, almost 25 percent of the population does not have health insurance-the second highest rate of uninsured in the country.
   "New Mexico's situation is unacceptable. Working people deserve better. Some in the Senate today effectively voted not to take the real first step to providing more access in a market where small business is currently struggling," Domenici said.
   Heeding numerous concerns about the bill raised by health advocacy groups, Domenici Thursday joined Senators Olympia Snowe (R-Me.), Robert Byrd (D-W.V.) and Jim Talent (R-Mo.) to offer a bipartisan compromise amendment that would have required any condition or illness that receives mandated coverage in 26 states to be included in Small Business Health Plans.
   This compromise would have ensured that key areas such as mammograms, diabetes and mental illness still fall under mandated coverage.
   "The amendment I cosponsored with Senator Snowe is a good and workable compromise that alleviates one of my primary concerns with the Small Business Health Plan Bill. This compromise could have helped ensure that millions of Americans will continue to receive health care coverage for most areas, including mammograms, diabetes care and mental illnesses. If we had been allowed to proceed on this bill, we could have offered this amendment and substantially improve the bill," Domenici said.
 
 