LAS CRUCES, SANTA FE FIRMS WIN DOE BUSINESS INNOVATION FUNDING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that Scientific State Systems in Las Cruces has been awarded a grant by the U.S. Department of Energy as part of the DOE Small Business Innovation Research Program (SBIR) to assess the feasibility of a project that would advance technological research.  
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee which has funding jurisdiction over DOE. 
   "I appreciate the DOE recognizing the efforts of Scientific Data Systems," Domenici said. "I hope their concepts materialize so they can apply for Phase II funding to begin work on their projects." 
   The DOE has awarded Scientific Data Systems in Las Cruces $100,000 for the project Low Cost Open Grid Services Architecture Storage Systems to allow more efficient sharing of very large data sets from data-intensive scientific experiments. 
   The Phase I grants are expected to begin July 13, 2004. After completion of Phase I, the grantee will be eligible to compete in FY2005 for Phase II funding, which is the principal research and development phase of the program. 
   The DOE has also chosen the following Santa Fe companies for grants: 
   * Southwest Sciences, Inc. - $100,000 for the project Widely Tunable External Cavity Quantum Cascade Diode Laser for Multiple Trace Species Measurements to develop an instrument that can measure multiple greenhouse gases simultaneously. 
   * STAR Cryoelectronics - $99,595 for the project Sensitive SQUID-Based Detectors of the Magnetization of Polarized Nuclei to develop a detector with improved manufacturability that can be used for nuclear physics research and commercial applications. 
   * TechSource, Inc. - $99,159 for the project Electron Cloud Diagnostic for Quadrupole Magnets to develop a design for electron diagnostics used in quadrupole magnets to study electron cloud formation and trapping. 
   The DOE Small Business Innovation Research program is a part of overall federal government effort to stimulate technological innovation and use small businesses to meet federal research and development needs, as well as strengthen the technological competitiveness of small businesses in the United States.
 
 