SEN. DOMENICI CALLS TO MIND SACRIFICE OF YOUNG LAS CRUCES SOLDIER AT VETERANS MEMORIAL DEDICATION
  In a special celebration of Veteran's Day, Sen. Pete Domenici today helped dedicate a memorial to soldiers past and present who have served in conflicts around the globe, saying he feels "humbled, grateful and inspired" by the service of so many New Mexicans.  
   The Las Cruces memorial is inscribed with the names of 6,393 veterans who entered the Armed Forces from Do?a Ana County and served during major conflicts. Eventually, soldiers serving during the Persian Gulf, Afghanistan and Iraqi conflicts will be added to the Veterans Memorial Wall. 
   Domenici solemnly acknowledged Army Pfc. Mario A. Reyes - one of Las Cruces' own who died Nov. 7 in Baghdad - saying that the loss of such a young man makes his sacrifice more difficult to accept, but that he was part of a greater effort to bring lasting freedom and peace to a troubled land. 
   "Many New Mexicans have paid an immense price for their country, emotionally and physically. Some endured years of captivity and suffering, some never returned home. We as Americans owe all that we have to these men and women. No praise or honor will ever be too great for these individuals," Domenici said. 
   Domenici, who helped secure $200,000 funding for the memorial, commemorated the national anniversary by helping dedicate the Veterans Memorial Wall. The tribute honors New Mexicans from southern regions of the state who have continued the proud tradition of defending the nation's liberty in the armed services. 
   "I am humbled to know that millions of extraordinary men and women have volunteered to wear the uniform of our Armed Forces. Generation after generation of Americans has put country before self. I am grateful for the freedom our veterans have won. For the many opportunities this nation provides, we must say "thank you" to the veterans who fought, stood watch, and served in countless capacities to ensure our freedom. 
   "I am inspired by the promise of a bright future for America. Generations to come will be inspired by this wall and the values for which all veterans stand. And that inspiration will drive them to carry the torch of freedom for America with a sense of duty to those who came before them," he said. 
   The ceremony, held in Veterans Memorial Park, included performances by the Native American Buffalo Dancers and New Mexico State University Symphonic Winds. 
   Domenici submitted a statement for the Congressional Record recalling the long distinguished history of New Mexicans in military service from the Spanish-American War to the "code talkers" of World War II.
 
 