SEN. DOMENICI BREAKS GROUND ON SILVERY MINNOW SANCTUARY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today helped break ground on a one-of-a-kind facility that will be a major part of a cooperative solution to the dilemma posed by the endangered status of the Rio Grande silvery minnow.  
   The groundbreaking of a near-natural sanctuary on the Rio Grande launches what is expected to be a nearly year-long construction effort. The sanctuary idea was initially promoted by Domenici to possibly help resolve the significant and ongoing challenges to use the river's much-needed water. 
   "The silvery minnow sanctuary represents the different approach I have proposed for this problem. Instead of bringing water to the fish, we are taking the fish to the water," Domenici said. "This new and unique sanctuary is part of a cooperative effort to find ways to allow the minnow to thrive and repopulate. A lot of work has gone into designing this sanctuary to balance the needs of water users in the Rio Grande with the needs of the endangered silvery minnow." 
   The sanctuary is designed to mimic natural conditions. Gates and fish screens will allow fish and eggs to be held in a channel and eventually released back into the river. The Bureau of Reclamation is the lead agency in charge of construction. They are joined by the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District, the Fish and Wildlife Service, and the city of Albuquerque. 
   As chairman of the Senate's Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee which funds federal water projects, Domenici has been instrumental in providing a solution that strikes a balance between protecting the ecosystem and making sure there is sufficient water for citizen and commercial use. 
   Domenici provided $700,000 in FY2005 for design of the sanctuary, and has set aside $2 million in next year's bill, which is still subject to final approval, for construction. Construction is expected to be completed by late summer 2006. 
   The sanctuary is similar to a minnow habitat facility at the Rio Grande Biological Park. The new project will help fulfill requirements of the 2003 Biological Opinion by creating one of two new facilities for the captive propagation and rearing of silvery minnows. The minnow sanctuary will complement other restoration projects including the Tingley Ponds and Route 66 projects and the upcoming Middle Rio Grande Bosque Restoration Project.
 
 