SENATE PASSES GILA WATER RIGHTS BILL WITH NEW MEXICO WATER, FUNDING BENEFITS
  The Senate late Sunday passed an Arizona water settlement bill that includes provisions worked out by Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman that will ensure New Mexico receives 14,000 acre feet of water a year and at least $66 million to address future water supply needs.  
   The New Mexico benefits are included in the Arizona Water Settlement Act (S.437). Domenici and Bingaman-chairman and ranking member, respectively, of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee-negotiated more than a year to finalize the New Mexico package with Arizona Senators Jon Kyl and John McCain. 
   The New Mexico Senators indicated their expectation that the House will pass the Senate settlement bill during a lame duck session in November. From there it could go to the President. 
   S.437 ratifies outstanding water settlements involving the Central Arizona Project (CAP) and a series of other water claims involving American Indian tribes in Arizona. It grants New Mexico an annual entitlement to 14,000 acre feet of water and provides much greater certainty in the supply. The bill also guarantees New Mexico at least $66 million to address future water supply needs and potentially as much as $128 million if new infrastructure is needed. 
   "Senate passage is crucial in process to get this bill enacted. I hope this action will help prompt the House to act, probably during a lame duck session this November. Having reached this point, it would be a disappointment not to pass it," Domenici said. "This bill clearly gives New Mexico the assurances of water and resources it rightfully deserves as part of this pact." 
   "While this bill primarily settles water claims in Arizona, I'm pleased that it is written in a way that protects New Mexico's interest as well. It provides significant financial resources to the state to address water needs in southwest New Mexico. Should that region decide to look to the Gila River to meet its future water needs, the legislation ensures that such a move will be possible," Bingaman said. 
   The bill addresses New Mexico's original right to 18,000 acre feet of CAP water, as stipulated in the 1968 Colorado River Basin Project Act. However, southwest New Mexico has yet to be able to use any of this allotment. The legislation provides the state with opportunity to exchange CAP water for water on the Gila River in New Mexico. 
   The bill is also holds interest for northwest New Mexico, because the Navajo Nation is a Colorado River water user, and CAP water could be used in Arizona as part of the Navajo-Gallup pipeline project that is in the feasibility study phase. That project is the foundation of a proposed settlement of the Navajo Nation's water rights claims in the San Juan River basin in New Mexico. 
   S.437 sets aside 6,411 acre feet of water (equal to the Window Rock portion of the water needed for the future Navajo-Gallup pipeline) contingent on a Navajo water rights settlement in Arizona. 
   Additionally, the Secretary must provide a report in 2016 on progress toward Indian water rights settlements in Arizona which will put pressure on all parties to continue negotiations.
 
 