PRESIDENT TO RECEIVE SEN. DOMENICI BILL AUTHORIZING SUPPORT FOR UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO HIBBEN CENTER
  Legislation authored by Sen. Pete Domenici to provide federal funds to complete the Hibben Center for Archeological Research at the University of New Mexico (UNM), a facility to protect and showcase over 1.5 million ancient Chaco Culture artifacts, passed the Senate late Sunday.  
   The House of Representatives passed the Domenici bill on Sept. 29 after making a technical correction. The Senate on Sunday accepted the House change, giving the bill final approval. The legislation will now head to President Bush's desk for his signature. 
   "Final passage of my bill to complete the Hibben Center is excellent news, and means that all is required now is President Bush's approval, which I expect shortly. Passage of this bill is a great tribute to Dr. Frank Hibben, whose vision will now be fully realized. I look forward to the construction of the center so that more light can be shed on the remarkable Chaco Culture," Domenici said. 
   The Domenici legislation authorizes the federal expenditure of $3.7 million to complete construction and to help equip the state-of-the-art structure that will house the National Park Service's Chaco Collection-a collection that has been housed in facilities around the UNM campus. 
   Domenici named his bill in honor of the late Dr. Frank Hibben, a world-renowned archeologist, anthropologist, big-game hunter, author, philanthropist, and a former Professor Emeritus of Anthropology. Hibben donated $4 million of his own funds to construct the center. 
   Domenici inserted a provision into the FY2005 Interior Appropriations Bill confirming that the Park Service would be occupying a portion of the Hibben Center and recommending that funds be allocated for the operation of the center. 
   In 1907, President Theodore Roosevelt founded the Chaco Canyon Culture National Historical Park in northwest New Mexico to preserve the extensive prehistoric pueblo ruins in Chaco Canyon. From 1907 to 1949, the University owned the land within the Park boundaries, until it deeded the land to the federal government. 
   Since 1971, the National Park Service, through memoranda of understanding and cooperative agreements with the University of New Mexico, has maintained a research museum collection and archive at the university. Both the Park Service and the UNM have large, significant archaeological research collections stored at the university in multiple, inadequate, inaccessible and cramped repositories. Insufficient storage at the UNM makes research on and management, preservation, and conservation of the archaeological research collections difficult.
 
 