SEN. DOMENICI: MARK MURPHY OF ROSWELL APPOINTED BY BUSH TO NATIONAL AIR, SPACE MUSEUM BOARD
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the presidential appointment of Mark B. Murphy of Roswell to serve on the advisory board to the National Air and Space Museum, one of the most popular Smithsonian Institution museums in Washington. 
   President Bush has announced his intent to name Murphy to serve as one of three public members on the board, which provides counsel to the Air and Space Museum on advancing its collection of historic aircraft, spacecraft and equipment associated with aviation development. Board members serve at the pleasure of the President for an unspecified term. The appointment does not require Senate confirmation.
   "Mark Murphy has a life-long interest in aviation and I believe he brings a good perspective to making the Air and Space Museum an even better educational institution. I am confident his knowledge of aviation has been influenced by Roswell's rich history in aviation, from Robert H. Goddard's rocket experiments, to the former Walker Air Force base, to the reported UFO crash, to the ongoing efforts to expand the aviation industry there," Domenici said.
   "I am proud to see Mark get this new opportunity, and I expect he will build on his record of community service with this appointment," he said.
   The 11-member board, which meets at least twice a year, is also made up of representatives from the U.S. Military, the administrators of NASA and the Federal Aviation Administration, and the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The other two appointed civilian members of the advisory board are former Senator and astronaut Jake Garn of Utah and John Etchart of Helena, Mont.
   Murphy is president of the Strata Production Co., and is a certified private pilot. He has served with the Independent Petroleum Association of America, the New Mexico Oil and Gas Association and National Petroleum Council. He has previously served in advisory capacities to the secretaries of Energy and the Interior. He has associations with the National Eagle Scout Association and the nonprofit Arc of Roswell, a children's advocacy organization.
   The Air and Space Museum includes the museum on the National Mall and the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center near the Washington Dulles International Airport in Virginia. (http://www.nasm.si.edu/)
 
 