SENS. DOMENICI-DODD RESOLUTION SETS 2004 NATIONAL CHARACTER COUNTS WEEK, OCT. 17-23
  Sens. Pete V. Domenici and Chris Dodd (D-Conn.) today announced Senate passage of the 2004 National Character Counts Week resolution that sets aside seven days to emphasize the importance of strong character in today's youth.  
   The Senate on Sunday approved the bipartisan National Character Counts Week Resolution, designating Oct. 17-23 for special events to highlight character education and the achievements of Character Counts in promoting the six pillars of good character: trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring and citizenship. 
   "The Character Counts program began as a small seed in an Albuquerque school and has flourished into a fruitful program. All over New Mexico, parents and teachers help youth understand that good character is just as valuable in development as fractions and spelling," Domenici said. "This week is set apart for special activities and events that highlight the successes of Character Counts." 
   "For 10 years now we have had a winning formula that has helped create a strong moral fiber that resonates throughout a child's school years and continues into adulthood. We can justly celebrate a decade of teaching children the merits of being responsible and considerate individuals. I am proud of the way New Mexicans have embraced this program and infused the six traits of good character into everyday lessons. With the continued support of the community, I hope to see another 10 years of success," Domenici said. 
   The two Senators authored a resolution designating this week as National Character Counts Week and are long time supporters of the program, both in their home states and nationally. 
   "I am pleased that we are continuing our efforts today to help expand States' and schools' abilities to make character education a central part of every child's education," said Dodd. "While our schools may be built with the bricks of English, math and science, character education is the mortar. The qualities taught by this initiative give youth the most effective foundation on which to build a successful, positive future." 
   Domenici, and then Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) first introduced a congressional resolution calling for National Character Counts Week in 1994. Since then, New Mexico's program has grown from an idea at an Albuquerque elementary school to a statewide effort that incorporates character education into the public, private and parochial classrooms of at least 200,000 students every day. 
   Congress passed a Domenici-Dodd amendment in 2002 that makes permanent a 1994 demonstration program they created to promote character education programs at the state and local level, providing three-year grants of at least $500,000 to eligible entities. Domenici and Dodd authored legislation that created a $25 million demonstration grant program in 1994, which led to character education programming in 36 states using federal and state funds. 
   This year, the Senate's FY2005 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations is expected to budget $24.8 million to promote character education in schools.
 
 