SEN. DOMENICI: PETRAEUS TROOP WITHDRAWAL TESTIMONY SUPPORTS IRAQ STUDY GROUP RECOMMENDATIONS
  Following a second day of testimony from the commanding American general in Iraq, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said the congressional hearings have not dissuaded him from believing Congress should not mandate a "hard-and-fast withdrawal" of U.S. forces from Iraq.  
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, said the testimony from General David Petraeus shows that U.S. military forces are making progress in Iraq and that a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq could have disastrous effects on Iraq and strengthen Al-Qaeda. Domenici also noted that the troop withdrawal recommendations offered by Petraeus are consistent with the recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group plan the Senator has cosponsored. 
   "The good work of our American troops has improved conditions on the ground to a point that will allow an earlier withdrawal of surge forces than once anticipated. I am encouraged with this military progress, and praise General Petraeus for his leadership," Domenici said. "Americans should be happy that we can begin to reduce troop levels months ahead of schedule." 
   "General Petraeus' testimony reinforces my support of the Iraq Study Group plan, which recommends transitioning the role of American forces out of combat missions into more of a support role as the Iraqi Security Forces increase their capability to act independently. Any transition out of Iraq must be based on our military's assessment of conditions on the ground and not arbitrarily mandated by Congress," he said. "I do not believe a hard-and-fast withdrawal date serves the interest of the United States. It would destabilize the greater Middle East." 
   Petraeus testified that U.S. troops involved with the military surge could be drawn-down beginning in September, with U.S. force levels reaching pre-surge levels by July 2008. 
   Petraeus and Ryan Crocker, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, on Tuesday appeared before two Senate committees to report on the progress of the American military surge in Iraq, as well as Iraqi government efforts to achieve national reconciliation. The back-to-back Senate hearings followed a day-long hearing in the House Monday. 
   "Although I am optimistic about progress on the local level, I remain disappointed by the Iraqi Government's failure to make significant progress on national reconciliation efforts. Like Ambassador Crocker, I believe everyone is frustrated with the lack of political progress," Domenici said.
 
 