ON 9/11 ANNIVERSARY, SEN. DOMENICI NOTES CHANGES TO LIFE IN U.S.
  Sen. Pete Domenici today commented on the changes in the Unites States five years since the terrorist attacks that led to thousands of deaths at the Pentagon, the World Trade Center and in Pennsylvania. 
   Domenici is scheduled to take part in a congressional 9/11 commemorative service at 6 p.m. (Eastern) at the U.S. Capitol.
   As part of the day's remembrance events, Domenici also issued a Congressional Record statement that, among other things, pays tribute to flight attendant Al Marchand of Alamogordo who died on United Airlines Flight 175 on 9/11. It also saluted the 28 men and women from New Mexico who have died in the Global War on Terror.
   "I would like to offer my condolences to the family of Al Marchand from Alamogordo, New Mexico, a flight attendant on United Airlines Flight 175 and one of the first casualties on this horrific day. Since that day, many New Mexicans have volunteered to serve their country by entering the ranks of our Armed Forces. Some lost their lives in this war to protect our way of life," Domenici said.
   "I also want to pay tribute to Lieutenant Colonel Marshall A. Gutierrez and Lance Corporal Shane P. Harris, the two most recent casualties from New Mexico in the ongoing Global War on Terror," he said.
   Domenici also paid tribute to the ongoing work in New Mexico to improve U.S. homeland security, citing the work of the National Infrastructure and Analysis Center (NISAC) to predict the outcomes of potential terrorist attacks so government officials and first responders for large and complex crises can prepare their responses to such incidences.
   "We are more prepared as a nation for these types of dangers than we were prior to September 11, 2001. But this is a struggle that will not end with the same clarity and decisiveness of battles past. So as we continue to adjust to the new sense of normal, I hope all Americans take time to reflect on the events of September 11, 2001, honor those that have fallen, and rededicate themselves for the struggle ahead," Domenici said.
   Domenici serves on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, as well as the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. Both panels were impaneled after 9/11 prompted the creation of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
   Text of Domenici statement:
   http://domenici.senate.gov/legislation/record.cfm?id=262789
   Audio clip available at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
 
 