SEN. DOMENICI BILL WOULD INCREASE HOUSING GRANTS FOR HOMELESS MENTALLY ILL, PARTICULARLY FOR RURAL STATES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation to update a successful 16-year-old federal program that helps the homeless, particularly the homeless mentally ill. 
   Domenici on Thursday introduced a bill that will increase funding for the Projects for Assistance in Transition from Homeless (PATH) grant program and improve the distribution formula for PATH grants so that states like New Mexico can access more funding to help the homeless. U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman is among the bill's cosponsors. 
   "PATH is a proven program that has been very successful in moving people out of homelessness. Its services are a key element in the plan to end chronic homelessness," Domenici said. "I have worked closely with organizations in New Mexico such as Albuquerque Health Care for the Homeless. I've seen firsthand the difficulties faced by the more than 15,000 homeless people in New Mexico, 35 percent of who are chronically mentally ill or mentally incapacitated. We should do better by these organizations and the people they help." 
   "I am pleased to support this legislation. Federal funding is critical to ensuring states can continue to provide services that make the difference in the lives of homeless men and women, setting them on a path to restoring their lives," Bingaman said. 
   Domenici is a long-time advocate for the homeless, particularly those afflicted with mental illnesses. He authored the initial PATH legislation that was enacted in 1991. 
   The PATH program, established in 1991, currently provides services through formula grants of at least $300,000 to each state, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and $50,000 to eligible U.S. territories. Subject to available appropriations, the Domenici bill will raise the minimum allotments to $600,000 to each state and $100,000 to eligible U.S. territories. 
   Congress has increased PATH funding over the years to about $55 million annually, but the formula for distributing grant funding has not been updated. As a result, New Mexico and 25 other mostly rural states and territories have not received increased PATH funding. 
   "Under the existing formula, many states and territories will never receive an increase to their PATH program, even with increasing demand and inflation," Domenici said. "Unquestionably, homelessness is not just an urban issue. Rural and frontier communities face unique challenges in serving PATH eligible persons and the PATH program funding mechanisms must account for these differences."
 
 