N.M. SENATORS OPTIMISTIC ABOUT QUICK PASSAGE OF THEIR BIOFUELS LEGISLATION
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today said they are looking forward to quick passage of their legislation to dramatically expand the use of renewable fuels in America over the next two decades.  
   Bingaman and Domenici today held a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing on their Biofuels for Energy Security and Transportation Act of 2007 (S.987), a bill that builds on the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to create new renewable fuel standards and promote their usage and development. 
   "This bipartisan bill will increase our use of home-grown biofuels and reduce our dependence on imported oil. We have made biofuels a top priority, and will work to gain quick passage of the bill in our committee, so that the full Senate can consider this important bill next month," Bingaman said. "I'd like to get a bill to the president as soon as possible." 
   "Our bipartisan legislation supports the President's vision by focusing on the importance of biofuels. Over the last 18 months, we have seen a surge of interest in ethanol and other biofuels. The Energy Policy Act's renewable fuels standard is greatly responsible for that. Our BEST Act builds on that law in order to significantly ramp up biofuels production," Domenici said. 
   The Biofuels for Energy Security and Transportation Act of 2007 requires America's fuel supply to contain higher amounts of renewable fuels, from 8.5 billion gallons in 2008 to 36 billion gallons in 2022. From 2016 to 2022, the bill requires an increasing portion of the renewable fuels consumed to be advanced biofuels, such as celluosic ethanol, biobutanol and other fuels derived from unconventional biomass feedstocks. 
   S.987 also supports the development of advanced biofuels by increasing Department of Energy funding for bioenergy research and development by 50 percent over fiscal years 2007 to 2009. This increased funding will allow for the establishment of seven bioenergy research centers throughout the country and will also establish grants for research in renewable technologies in states with low rates of ethanol production. 
   Finally, S.987 clarifies and strengthens the loan guarantee program first created in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The bill authorizes up to $250 million for each biofuels production facility and requires DOE to guarantee 100 percent of loans for cellulosic ethanol projects.
 
 