SEN. DOMENICI SAYS LOS LUNAS MINNOW REFUGIA MOVES STATE PAST 'EITHER-OR' USE OF RIO GRANDE WATERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed the start of the second refugia on the Rio Grande that will provide another facility for ensuring the future of the endangered silvery minnow in New Mexico and breeding stock for minnows to be introduced at Big Bend, Texas.  
   Domenici deployed field staff to represent him in Los Lunas Thursday where the New Mexico Interstate Stream Commission led a groundbreaking ceremony for the second silvery minnow refugia on the Rio Grande. It is being built at a site on the University of New Mexico campus at Los Lunas. 
   "Managing the Rio Grande, or for that matter any of the river systems in New Mexico, is no longer an either-or proposition. We can't look at management as either the water users are successful or the environmental advocates are successful. We have to find the balance that allows all our needs to be successful. In defining how to provide a wet environment for the silvery minnow we are in fact protecting the right to divert water for beneficial uses and protecting the environmental and cultural heritage we leave for our children," Domenici said in a message delivered at the event. 
   "Today is a historical moment where we celebrate the state of New Mexico's investment in propagation and management of the Rio Grande silvery minnow, once one of the most abundant minnow species in the Rio Grande basin. I applaud the state's efforts and hope that we can continue along the path to balancing the water demands along the Rio Grande," he said. "Balancing the water and ecological needs of the Rio Grande has required almost super human effort on the part of all the organizations that manage the river." 
   The Los Lunas minnow refugia is being funded by New Mexico ISC in partnership with the Office of the State Engineer as part of the state matching fund requirement under the 2003 U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Biological Opinion. Work on the first minnow sanctuary at the Albuquerque Biopark has been built primarily with federal funding through the Bureau of Reclamation in partnership with the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District, the city of Albuquerque and the Fish and Wildlife Service and should be finished in December. 
   Domenici, a leader on the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, has provided all the federal funding for the Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Act Collaborative Program that involves federal, state and local parties. For FY2007, the collaborative program is funded within $27.6 million in Bureau of Reclamation funding provided for the Middle Rio Grande Project.
 
 