AT HOBBS ROTARY, SEN. DOMENICI CALLS FOR STRONG RESOLVE AGAINST TERROR, LAUDS GROWING ECONOMY
  Sen. Pete Domenici told members of the Hobbs Rotary Club that Americans must stand tall against terrorism in Afghanistan and Iraq, while pointing to strong growth in the economy as evidence that Americans should be optimistic about the future.  
   The Senator joined Congressman Steve Pearce at a luncheon with Hobbs Rotary Club members. Domenici and Pearce have teamed up on numerous economic development projects in the region. 
   Domenici outlined his support for the war on terrorism in Afghanistan and Iraq, discussing his support for the Bush doctrine of preemptive strikes that calls on taking the fight to the enemy rather than waiting until the enemy kills more Americans. 
   "War requires sacrifice, patience, and unity. I believe we are right to be in Iraq. We know that President Bush was right when he said that Iraq had ties to terrorist organizations like Al Qaida. He was right when he said that Iraq wanted to destroy America. And, he was right to remove one of the most barbaric and dangerous men in the world-Saddam Hussein," Domenici said. 
   Domenici pointed out that the since the handover from U.S. to Iraq governance, significant progress in establishing a democracy has been made and there is good reason to have hope for the future of Iraq. 
   The Senator also expressed optimism about the state of the economy, both in New Mexico and nationally. The economy has shown 11 straight months of job growth, creating 1.5 million jobs during that period, including 17,000 in New Mexico. The 5.5 percent unemployment rate is lower than the average unemployment rate for the 1970s, 80s and 90s. 
   "We are seeing steady job growth in New Mexico and across the country. It is a great testament to the resilience of the American economy and the sound fiscal policies of the Bush administration. In fact, here in Lea County, these policies have led to just 4.8 percent unemployment, well below the state and national average. Although some want to roll back the tax cuts, I believe they are needed to keep the momentum growing," Domenici said.
 
 