COMPETED DEFENSE POLICY BILL INCLUDES SEN. DOMENICI-SUPPORTED PLAN TO IMPROVE MENTAL HEALTH ACCESS FOR TROOPS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said the final version of the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill includes a provision he cosponsored to ensure greater access to mental health service for military personnel, particularly in rural states, by increasing mental health reimbursement rates.  
   The mental health reimbursement provision is within the final version of the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill, which is expected to gain House and Senate approval before the Christmas holiday. 
   The directive, passed by the Senate in September, gives the Secretary of Defense the flexibility to increase mental health reimbursement rates for TRICARE, the health care program for members of the military and their families. The amendment was offered in response to reimbursement rate cuts for mental health professionals who treat military personnel. 
   "The plan to cut health care reimbursement runs counter to what we know the needs are for our military today. Today we have a greater understanding of the stress and traumatic brain injuries that can affect the mental health of our military personnel in combat situations," Domenici said. "I am pleased that this amendment is included among the defense policy changes we will send to President Bush." 
   The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) earlier this year reduced its reimbursement rate for psychologists and social workers by 9 percent. Because the Defense Department bases its reimbursement rates for TRICARE providers on the rates designated by CMS, this rate reduction led to an equivalent decrease of 9 percent in rates for mental health providers who treat military personnel and their families. 
   Since psychologists and social workers provide almost all of the TRICARE psychotherapy and testing services, this cut in reimbursement rates has had the detrimental effect of limiting access to mental health care for soldiers and their families. Many psychologists and social workers have indicated they may have to reduce their caseloads or leave the TRICARE program altogether. 
   The mental health amendment, authored by Senator Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), was also cosponsored by Senators Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii).
 
 