SEN. DOMENICI RECEIVES 'GRANDE MEDAILLE' AT EUROPEAN NUCLEAR CONFERENCE, FIRST AMERICAN GIVEN PRESTIGIOUS HONOR
  The French Nuclear Energy Society today bestowed its highest award, the Grande Medaille de l'Academie des Sciences, on Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee.  
   Domenici accepted the honor Monday at a European nuclear conference being held this week at the Palais des Congres at the Place du Chateau de Versailles in Versailles, France. Domenici is the first American to receive the award. 
   The Grande Medaille is the highest award bestowed by the French Nuclear Energy Society and is given in recognition of outstanding contributions to the nuclear energy cause. (For more information on the conference and the French Nuclear Energy Society, visit: http://www.sfen.fr/enc2005/ and http://www.sfen.org/). 
   "I look forward to a global renaissance in the use of nuclear energy. No other energy provides as much economic promise to developing nations or as much hope for the global environment we share and cherish as does nuclear power," Domenici said. 
   "In 1997, I predicted the resurgence of nuclear energy in the United States. For the past eight years, I have worked to help make that renaissance a reality. I am pleased to let you know that following the enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, eight utilities have announced plans to build 13 nuclear power plants in the United States. I will continue working to help make these plans a reality," he said. 
   "I would like to thank the people of France for their global leadership in the use of clean and affordable nuclear energy. You have sustained a form of energy that I believe is vital to the economic and environmental future of the world. In doing so, you have set an example for the rest of us," he said. 
   As part of the conference, Domenici will meet with industry leaders and government officials from France and Japan to discuss nuclear energy matters of interest to the three countries. While in Europe, Domenici will also tour Urenco's SP5 uranium enrichment plant at Almelo, Netherlands. Urenco has announced plans to build a similar plant in Lea County, N.M.
 
 