SEN. DOMENICI: ENERGY POLICY ACT HAS AMERICA 'ON THE MOVE' - BUT MORE MUST BE DONE
  In marking the 18-month anniversary of the enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Sen. Pete Domenici said the major energy policy law has the United States "on the move," but stressed that more can be done to improve American energy security. 
   Domenici, the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, addressed the Senate Monday to note the anniversary of EPAct, which was enacted in August 2005 in Albuquerque. Domenici was chairman of the committee and spearheaded the bipartisan effort to pass the measure. 
   "This law has helped strengthen our energy security, stimulate our economy, create American jobs and diversify our nation's fuel supply. Simply put, since the passage of the Energy Bill, America is on the move," Domenici said.  
   He noted, among other things, that the bill has led to groundbreakings for 73 new ethanol plants, plans for six nuclear power reactors, new investment in wind energy, thousands of new hybrid vehicles on U.S. roadways, tax credits for clean coal projects, designs for 159 coal-based facilities, and plans for seven new or expanded liquefied natural gas terminals. Domenici also noted that EPAct has helped create 160,000 American jobs. 
   As Congress considers building on EPAct, Domenici said he believes lawmakers should rely on and foster American ingenuity to find answers to global climate challenges and other energy-related issues. 
   "I continue to look for more to be done," Domenici said. "In this Congress, I will focus my efforts on convincing my colleagues and the American people that the solutions to our energy and environment challenges lie in the genius of the American people. I will not support energy policies that burden the American people with higher energy costs. I oppose the creation of additional, unmanageable bureaucracy with its potential for punitive and burdensome regulations that harm the American worker. We will meet the challenge of providing clean, affordable, and abundant energy supplies to this nation by facilitating and unlocking the ingenuity of the American people." 
   The following is the prepared text of Domenici's floor statement: 
   Mr. President, I rise to speak about the great success of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. And, I urge policymakers in the Administration and this Congress to commit ourselves to investing the time, energy, and economic resources to fully implement this important Act. We must achieve all that we envisioned in passing this comprehensive energy policy. 
   This past week marked the 18-month anniversary of the enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. I rise today to speak about the gains that we have made in strengthening our nation's energy security and the even greater promise that lies ahead. 
   On August 8, 2005, President Bush signed the Energy Policy Act of 2005 in my home State of New Mexico. This legislation is the catalyst of our nation's nuclear renaissance and the driving force behind new investments in clean coal technology. Passage of the Energy Bill also marks the genesis of a secure American electricity grid and the transformation of an agricultural enterprise into an energy industry. This Act has helped strengthen our energy security, stimulate our economy, create American jobs and diversify our nation's fuel supply. Simply put, Mr. President, since the passage of the Energy Bill, America is on the move. 
   We are starting up a renewable fuel industry in America through the first-ever Renewable Fuel Standard and a production tax credit. These policies have helped create approximately 160,000 American jobs across almost all sectors of our nation's economy. In just 18 months, 73 new ethanol plants have broken ground, spurring us to exceed the biofuel mandate for 2006 by at least 800 million gallons. As a result of the Energy Bill, 759 E-85 ethanol pumps have been installed around the country. Today, there are over six million alternative fuel vehicles on the road. I stand here today to tell you that even more can be done. I am pleased that President Bush and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle are committed to an even stronger, more robust biofuels policy. I intend to work on this important energy issue with Chairman Bingaman in the Energy Committee, and we will build on our Energy Bill success. 
   Because of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, we are making significant breakthroughs in coal--America's most abundant and affordable energy resource. Because of the clean coal provisions in this legislation, there are 159 new coal-based facilities in various planning stages. And, over the next 5 years, the United States will add an estimated 60,000 coal miners to the American workforce. 
   The Energy Bill will accelerate the development of a new generation of clean coal technologies. Because of Title 13 of the Energy Bill, the Administration recently announced that it would award $1 billion in tax credits for clean coal projects such as IGCC projects for electricity generation, gasification projects, and other projects using innovative technologies. With $650 million in tax credits to come next year, we are providing incentives for the American people to make better choices about the kind of energy we will use. And, because of the Energy Bill, those choices will be clean energy choices. 
   Today, 50 percent of our nation's electricity comes from coal, and EIA estimates that by 2025, 54 percent of electricity consumed will be generated from coal. In China, they are building a coal-fired power plant every 10 days. Let it be our mission to invest both the human and capital resources to the goal of zero-emission coal-based power generation. This will take our best scientific and engineering minds and it will take more private and public investment. Let us dedicate ourselves to choosing a free-market, incentive approach rather than a punitive, regulatory approach to solving this global problem. 
   On nuclear energy, what did we do? In advancing nuclear power, Congress affirmed sound science and technology and rejected irrational fear. By doing this, we strengthened the nuclear renaissance in America. We provided federal risk insurance for the first six nuclear reactors, production tax credits, and loan guarantees. And, we renewed the Price-Anderson Act. All these initiatives and more provided evidence of our renewed support for clean, nuclear power. 
   Until the passage of the Energy Bill 18 months ago, the world was passing us by on nuclear power. The renaissance was fading. Then Congress acted, and since that time as many as 32 new nuclear reactors are in the planning stages. These nuclear plants would provide enough electricity to power 28 million American homes. And, if these plants come to fruition, they will displace 270 million metric tons of carbon dioxide each year. Consider this--when all of those plants are operating for five years, it is estimated that they will have displaced the same amount of carbon emissions that the 230 million cars on the road in America today produce each year. Mr. President, this is what is at stake as we implement the various provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   We must do more to solve our nation's growing nuclear waste problem and we must do more to show Americans what the rest of the world already knows--nuclear power is the largest source of clean, carbon-free energy in the world. And, advancing nuclear power is essential for our economic strength and environmental well-being. 
   With the passage of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, we helped to stabilize the long-term price of natural gas by providing the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with the tools necessary to ensure the safe operation and reliability of our nation's Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) assets. Since the passage of the Energy Bill in August of 2005, FERC has approved seven new LNG terminals or terminal expansions. Working with private sector operators, FERC has brought on-line the capacity equivalent of 1.34 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas, with the potential to increase that to 13.3 billion cubic feet per day. 
   And, we must continue to look for ways domestically to find additional supplies of natural gas, as we did last year with the passage of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006. 
   Mr. President, in passing the Energy Policy Act of 2005, we substantially advanced renewable sources of energy in America. By the end of 2007, two million American homes can be powered by new wind power as we bring on-line 6,000 megawatts of new wind power this year, part of the $4.5 billion in wind power investments spurred by the Energy Bill. As a result of the wind power brought on-line after August of 2005, we will displace 11 billion pounds of carbon dioxide annually. 
   And there is so much more that we did here, Mr. President. We promoted a modernized electricity grid, invested in solar-energy, tax provisions that helped add almost 340,000 hybrid vehicles onto our nation's roads. The list goes on and on, Mr. President. 
   But I continue to look for more to be done, Mr. President. In this Congress I will focus my efforts on convincing my colleagues and the American people that the solutions to our energy and environment challenges lie in the genius of the American people. I will not support energy policies that burden the American people with higher energy costs. I oppose the creation of additional, unmanageable bureaucracy with its potential for punitive and burdensome regulations that harm the American worker. We will meet the challenge of providing clean, affordable, and abundant energy supplies to this nation by facilitating and unlocking the ingenuity of the American people. 
   That, Mr. President, is what we did in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. And, that is what we will continue to do.
 
 