SEN. DOMENICI ASKS DEFENSE OFFICIALS TO OUTLINE PLANS TO EQUIP N.M. NATIONAL GUARD
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici asked Pentagon officials to provide more details on how a $49 billion budget request to recruit, train and equip National Guard and Reserve Forces will be used to make up equipment shortages being experience a by the New Mexico Army National Guard.  
   Domenici offered the inquiry at a Senate Budget Committee hearing on the FY2009 Defense Budget and War Costs. Witnesses at the hearing included Deputy Defense Secretary Gordon England, Joint Chiefs of Staff Vice Chairman Gen. James Cartwright, and Defense Department Comptroller Tina Jonas. 
   The President's $49 billion request for the Guard and Reserve was included in the administration's budget plan sent to Congress last week. Domenici is seeking clarification on the Department of Defense's short and long-range plans to correct dual-use equipment deficiencies outlined in a November 2006 General Accountability Office report. The GAO report, highlighting equipment needs across the nation, showed Army National Guard forces in New Mexico ranked last in the nation in terms of equipment readiness. 
   "I am interested in how the Defense Department intends to use FY2009 funding to address the serious equipment shortfalls in New Mexico and many other states," Domenici said. "There is no question that our military campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan are costly, but we need a clear indication of how to keep our National Guard forces best equipped to manage their jobs at home and abroad." 
   "Correcting the Guard and Reserve equipment shortfalls will not be quick or easy. We need the Pentagon to indicate the actions it is taking to ensure our forces are well equipped and ready to serve, whether overseas or answering the calls for emergency aid here at home" said Domenici, noting New Mexico Guard's efforts in digging out northern New Mexico after a recent snow storm. 
   The Senate Budget Committee hearing was part of a series it will conduct to review aspects of the administration's FY2009 budget plan as the committee moves to develop a 2009 Budget Resolution that will serve as a fiscal blueprint for Congress this year. 
   At the time of its report, the GAO noted that the New Mexico Army National Guard had less than 40 percent of the total amount of dual-use equipment it is authorized to have for war-fighting missions. 
   Domenici serves on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that last year added $980.0 million for National Guard equipment nationwide, whereas the initial budget requested nothing for the procurement of National Guard equipment. 
   At a hearing last May, Defense Secretary Robert Gates told Domenici it could require $22 billion between FY2008-2013 to adequately meet Army National Guard equipment needs.
 
 