SEN. DOMENICI ADVOCATES TAKING CHARACTER COUNTS 'PARTY PATROL' STATWIDE TO BATTLE UNDERAGE DRINKING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today campaigned to help other communities around the state establish programs similar to the Albuquerque Police Department's "Party Patrol" to curb underage drinking and increase parental accountability.  
   Domenici was at hand today in Albuquerque for the unveiling of a three-tiered marketing campaign that partners APD with Character Counts. Billboards, radio and television spots, and a teen training video will be used to support the city's MIP, or Minor in Possession, policy. 
   "I know that part of this campaign includes asking the legislature to help fund the expansion of the MIP teen education program statewide. And I hope Mayor Chavez will join me in encouraging Governor Richardson to make the Character Counts Party Patrol proposal a part of his call for more effective DWI legislation," Domenici said. 
   Albuquerque's Party Patrols use tips and gathered information to find and break up teen drinking parties, cite underage drinkers, and call parents to pick them up. 
   "Having organized teams of police officers conducting orchestrated raids on underage drinking parties is a much more effective way to cite MIPs," Domenici said. "These patrols notify parents who are sometimes completely unaware of their child's behavior and can levy far more impressionable consequences." 
   Domenici joined Character Counts Leadership Council President Paula Maes, Mayor Martin Chavez, Albuquerque Public Schools Superintendent Dr. Beth Everitt and Albuquerque Police Deparmtent officials at the unveiling. 
   "Increasing accountability for irresponsible and harmful actions closely aligns with the six pillars of good character stressed through Character Counts," Domenici said. "I believe that combining these two successful programs will really make a difference in our campaign against underage drinking and its damaging consequences." 
   Character Counts is a ten year old character education initiative that Domenici has helped promote in New Mexico and across the nation. Character Counts is used in most public schools in New Mexico, many parochial and private classrooms, and by several youth organizations including the YMCA, Boys and Girls Clubs and 4-H organizations. 
   Character Counts promotes six pillars of good character: trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring and citizenship.
 
 