SEN. DOMENICI BREAKS GROUND FOR NEWEST SOUTH VALLEY WASTEWATER UPGRADE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today used the new Coors Sanitary Sewer Vacuum Station groundbreaking ceremony in Bernalillo County to praise cooperative efforts to alleviate some of New Mexico's water and environmental problems.  
   Domenici joined Congresswoman Heather Wilson, and Army Corps of Engineers and Bernalillo Co. officials to kick off construction of the new Coors Sanitary Sewer Vacuum Station. 
   "Right now in New Mexico, we are facing many daunting water issues. Water shortages, lower arsenic standards for our drinking water, and out-dated or non-existent water infrastructure are just a few of our problems. But the good news is we are addressing Bernalillo County's needs in part by building this facility," Domenici said. 
   "This new station will improve our water infrastructure, promote a clean environment, decrease contamination possibilities, and encourage water savings," he said. 
   The vacuum station, which is also part of the North and South Valley Project that improves water infrastructure in parts of Albuquerque and Bernalillo County, will provide sewer service to approximately 600 properties at an estimated cost of $2.8 million. The Corps of Engineers will pay about $2.1 million of that figure. Construction for this project is scheduled for April 2005 to December 2005. 
   "Since 1992 when I first began petitioning for South Valley, we have made steady progress in bringing modern wastewater services to the Valley. It hasn't always been easy, but we are getting the job done," Domenici said. 
   Domenici, in cooperation with Congressman Heather Wilson, has secured more than $20 million in federal dollars over the last six years on behalf of Bernalillo County's North and South Valley water projects as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   Additional amounts were secured through the authorization and funding of Section 593 through the Army Corps of Engineers. Domenici secured another $15.5 million for the South Valley projects in 1995. 
   The Coors project is funded through Section 593 of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), authored by Domenici, to allow federal and state collaboration and cost sharing on New Mexico projects involving water, wastewater, flood control, and related matters. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that has funding jurisdiction for the Army Corps on Engineers and is working to extend the Section 593 program and to increase its authorization from $25 million to $75 million for New Mexico projects. The WRDA project represents Domenici's ongoing efforts to aid the city of Albuquerque and Bernalillo County in addressing the water and wastewater infrastructure needed in the South Valley.
 
 