SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, June 12, 2006.
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Mike Jaxson, Artesia Radio
   * John McBreen, Millenium Media Gallup
   * Bill Dupuy, KSFR Santa Fe 
   * Steve Shadley, KUNM Albuquerque
   REVIEW:
   01:20 - Domenici says he was pleased to have time during his trip with President Bush to Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia to promote the community and the facility. He says FLETC-Artesia should remain the focal point for federal law enforcement training for at least another decade, particularly as work continues to security the border.
   03:07 - Domenici says the President was impressed with FLETC-Artesia and the caliber of personnel and training being carried out there.
   03:59 - Domenici discusses how the Senate may approach conference negotiations with the House on immigration reform and border security legislation. He speculates that Senator Bingaman could be named as a Democratic conferee for the Senate.
   06:07 - Domenici says there is no telling how the border security and immigration reform conference talks will turn out. He says the issue is made more difficult because House Republicans have to determine whether a compromise with the Senate is useful or detrimental to them politically. He says the House has stuck to its very limited and strict bill, which could make it hard to accept a compromise with the broader Senate bill.
   08:18 - Domenici says he is hopeful that the Senate can compromise on reforming the federal Death Tax. He says he voted aye last week to failed attempt to keep debate on the death tax. He said he would support a compromise that increased the eligibility threshold before an estate would be taxed.
   11:24 - Domenici says that despite the arrests of suspected terrorists in Canada, the United States is still right to focus on securing the border with Mexico. He suspects that there is less of a terrorism threat from illegal crossings from Mexico than Canada. He says it will take more than more personnel to track terrorist threats related to Canada and its immigration policies.
   12:58 - Domenici says he believes it is only a matter of time before the Osama bin Laden is killed or captured. He says the death of Iraqi terrorist leader al Zarqawi showed how the associates and support groups needed to serve a terrorist leader can lead to his downfall.
   15:02 - Domenici says he is confident that the issue of remote handled waste at the Waste Isolation Plant will be resolved. He says it is a manageable issue that is well understood and can be resolved technically. He says WIPP is a "phenomenal example of technical achievement" and that the remote handled waste issue isn't nearly as difficult to resolve as technical challenges already surpassed to open and operate WIPP.
   16:39 - Domenici says he hopes the death of al Zarqawi in Iraq will result in fewer insurgent attacks against the American military and Iraqi civilians. He says insurgent attacks in Iraq continue to muddle the American mission, but says the al Zarqawi death might have created enough discord among terrorists in Iraq to disrupt further massive attacks.
   19:29 - Domenici says the security breach of National Nuclear Security Administration computers is "a huge embarrassment" and another example of the cyber-security risks to the government. He is thankful that classified information was not taken, but stresses the seriousness of the problem for the personal information taken from DOE contract workers. He says NNSA bungled the need to alert officials and employees of the problem.
   22:19 - Domenici says he will review the Supreme Court decision related to last-minute appeals for death row inmates to challenge lethal injections as cruel and unusual punishment. He says he supports capital punishment and does not see lethal injections as cruel and unusual. He speculates that the Court may be moving the country closer to a position that will make it harder for states to carry out death penalty sentences.
   25:31 - Domenici says he was surprised to see Republicans retain the California seat held by convicted Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham. He says election prognosticators and Democrats expected to win the seat. However, he says the election probably should not be applied to the national outlook. He also notes that the war in Iraq was a wash for both Republican and Democratic candidates in the southern California race.
   Audio clip at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309).
 
 