SEN. DOMENICI: PROGRESS REPORT CONFIRMS CONCERNS OVER LACK OF IRAQI PROGRESS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said his concerns about the Iraqi government's lack of progress of stabilizing and securing Iraq have been confirmed in the report issued by the White House.  
   The administration has released an "Initial Benchmark Assessment Report," as required by Congress in the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007. The report cited 18 benchmarks, judging the Iraqi government "satisfactory" on less than half those standards. 
   "Let me say again that it is not our American forces who are failing in Iraq. They are doing well, but the Iraqi government has failed to capitalize on the efforts of our U.S. forces to stabilize the nation and control conflict there," Domenici said. "The interim benchmark assessment report on Iraq confirms my worst fears that while the Iraqi government is making some progress on some benchmarks, it's not moving fast enough to make meaningful or lasting progress." 
   Domenici reiterated his concern that the Iraqis are not doing enough to dismantle militias, establish a self-sufficient army and police force, distribute oil revenues equitably, or enact new de-Baathification processes. 
   "The Iraqi government's continued failure to advance the interests of the Iraqi people is a legitimate reason to question whether we should not change the current U.S. strategy in Iraq. This does not mean an immediate or arbitrary withdrawal from Iraq or any type of reduction in funding for our troops. Instead, I want a change in our military, political and diplomatic strategies as a way to force the Iraqis to do more and transition our American forces away from direct combat positions," Domenici said. 
   Domenici this week has visited with President Bush and National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley about the situation in Iraq. 
   Domenici is among a bipartisan group that will offer an amendment to the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill (HR.1585) that is based on the Iraq Study Group Recommendation Implementation Act (S.1545), which he cosponsored. Under S.1545, the U.S. military could maintain a long-term but more limited presence in Iraq-focused on protecting American personnel and interests, training and advising Iraqi forces, and carrying out counterterrorism and special operations missions. The mission changes are among 79 recommendations included in the Iraq Study Group Report. 
   "We will continue to have a security mission in Iraq. We can support the Iraqis, help them, and conduct counter-terrorism operations against al Qaeda and other terrorists. But the Iraqi government must do far more in this Iraqi conflict," Domenici said. 
   The Initial Benchmark Assessment Report assesses Iraqi progress based on a January 2007 baseline. The report rated progress as "unsatisfactory" in these areas: Iraqi political authorities not undermining Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) independence; independent ISF operation capabilities; removing political intervention form ISF; eliminating militia control at the local level; equitable enforcement of laws; provincial elections and election law enactment; de-Baathification reform; and enactment of an oil revenue sharing law.
 
 