SEN. DOMENICI SUGGESTS HOMELAND SECURITY USAGE OF PENDING REGIONAL AIR SERVICE BETWEEN ROSWELL, DALLAS/FORT WORTH
  Sen. Pete Domenici today recommended that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) consider possible budget savings related new regional air service to southeast New Mexico and the cost of getting personnel and trainees to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia.  
   In a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, Domenici asked the department consider the cost and time savings associated with using regional air service between the Roswell International Air Center and the Dallas/Fort Worth International (DFW) Airport. Passenger service is scheduled to begin Sept. 5 with twice daily flights by American Eagle, an American Airlines affiliate. 
   "I believe the Homeland Security Department should consider utilizing this new service because Roswell's proximity to Artesia would allow for shorter trips to FLETC-Artesia," Domenici said. 
   "Congress is demanding a lot from FLETC-Artesia as we work to hire and train thousands of federal officers to protect our borders and secure U.S. air travel. The new air service to southeast New Mexico could prove to be both time-saving and cost effective for the department," he said. 
   In his letter to Chertoff, Domenici recommended that Department consider using the flights to shuttle FLETC personnel, as well as trainees and personnel from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and Transportation Security Administration (TSA), to FLETC-Artesia, consistent with all rules, laws, and regulations. 
   "As you may know, in 2004 DHS explored utilizing air service to travel to FLETC-Artesia but found the service to be cost prohibitive. However, American Eagle's decision to operate daily commercial flights to and from Roswell should reduce the costs of flights for DHS personnel," Domenici wrote. 
   Personnel from the FLETC, CBP and TSA currently fly to El Paso or Albuquerque, and then drive 200 or more miles to FLETC-Artesia. Roswell is 40 miles north of Artesia, which would allow for much shorter travel times to the FLETC facility. 
   Domenici, as a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, on Wednesday will take part in drafting the FY2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill that funds FLETC operations in Artesia, Glynco, Ga., Charleston, S.C., and Cheltenham, Md. 
   Among other items, Domenici has requested $1.2 million for a detention training center at FLETC-Artesia. The funding measure is also expected to contain additional funding to hire thousands of new Border Patrol agents who will be trained at the Border Patrol Academy based at FLETC-Artesia.
 
 