SEN. DOMENICI MARKS 65TH ANNIVERSARY OF HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today marked the 65th anniversary of Holloman Air Force Base at Alamogordo, pointing to significant milestones in the base's history while looking toward its new mission as home to F-22A Raptor fighter aircraft. 
   Domenici marked the anniversary in a Congressional Record statement. Holloman was created on June 10, 1942--six months after the United States entered World War II. It was launched as a training center for B-17, B-24 and B-29 bomber crews. Over the course of the war, 20 bomber groups trained at Holloman before serving in the European and Pacific theaters.  
   "Since its founding, Holloman has played an important role in the development of new technologies and has been home to the world's most advanced aircraft. Most importantly though, I believe it is the men and women who serve at Holloman that make it one of this country's premier military installations," Domenici said. "I have no doubt the work done at Holloman will continue to contribute to the national security of the United States for the next 65 years and beyond." 
   In recounting Holloman history, Domenici also pointed to the impending mission change for the base as the F-117 Stealth Fighters are retired and F-22A Raptor fighter aircraft are put in position for the 49th Tactical Fighter Wing. 
   Domenici has indicated that he will continue to use his position on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee to push for funding for F-22 fighter aircraft procurement. The Senate is expected to authorize and fund President Bush's request for $3.7 billion in FY2008 to purchase 20 additional F-22s. Holloman is expected to begin receiving the aircraft in early 2009. 
   The F-22A Raptor is a new aircraft that will form the backbone of military air operations in the future. The aircraft has stealth and supersonic capabilities and is equipped with the latest avionics and weapons systems. It is suited for both air-to-air and air-to-ground combat missions. 
   Holloman is slated to be the third base to receive the aircraft, with F-22A squadrons first being sent to Langley and Elmendorf Air Force Bases. 
   In his overall statement, Domenici discussed post-World War II developments at Holloman, including missile and unmanned aircraft development and testing, rocket-propelled sled tests, a 1960 world record-setting skydive, and the advent of the 49th Tactical Fighter Wing in 1968. 
   The following is the text of Domenici's tribute regarding the Holloman anniversary: 
   MR. DOMENICI. Mr. President. Today, I would like to commemorate the 65th anniversary of the founding of Holloman Air Force Base near Alamogordo, New Mexico on June 10, 1942. 
   Established six months after the United States' entry into the Second World War, Holloman served as a training center for B-17, B-24, and B-29 Bomber crews for the duration of that conflict. Over the course of the War twenty bomber groups trained at Holloman before serving in the European and Pacific theaters of the war. 
   After the war, Holloman became the primary Air Force base for the testing and development of guided missiles and unmanned aircraft. Holloman was also the site of several notable events including a 1954 rocket propelled sled test that reached speeds of 632 miles per hour and earned Dr. John P. Stapp the title of "Fastest Man Alive." Additionally, Holloman was the location of Captain Joseph W. Kittinger Jr.'s 102,800 feet skydive in 1960 that broke four world records and it was there that ENOS, the chimpanzee who made the first American animal orbital flight, received his training. 
   In 1968, a new era at Holloman began with the arrival of the 49th Tactical Fighter Wing. For the last 39 years, the 49th has called Holloman home and has flown F-4 Phantom IIs, F-15 Eagles and in 1992 became the only Air Force unit equipped with the F-117 Nighthawk also known as the Stealth Fighter. Holloman also serves as the home to the German Air Force Tactical Training Center. 
   Today, Holloman is preparing for another major transition as the F-117 is retired the 49th will begin to receive new F-22 Raptors. Since its founding, Holloman has played an important role in the development of new technologies and has been home to the world's most advanced aircraft. Most importantly though, I believe it is the men and women who serve at Holloman that make it one of this country's premier military installations. I would like to thank all those who served and continue to serve at Holloman for their hard work and dedication. I have no doubt the work done at Holloman will continue to contribute to the national security of the United States for another 65 years.
 
 