SEN. DOMENICI EYES OUTLOOK FOR U.S. MILITARY FUTURE IN IRAQ, VIEWS NEW ABUSE EVIDENCE
  Amid the outrages surrounding stories of prisoner abuse and the decapitation of an American citizen in Iraq, Sen. Pete Domenici today pressed Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld on the role of American military personnel after control is transferred to a provisional government in late June.  
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that today received testimony from Rumsfeld and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Richard Myers. 
   Domenici aired his concern that Iraqi prisoner abuse investigations and the outrage over the decapitation of American Nick Berg could deflect attention away from the expected transfer of authority to an Iraqi provisional government on June 30. 
   In addition to today's hearing, Domenici attended a classified viewing of additional photographs and videos depicting apparent abuses perpetrated on detainees in Iraq. 
   "These are very hard and troubling times. The disturbing evidence of how some Iraqi prisoners have been treated is almost unimaginable. At the same time, I have solidarity with the New Mexicans who are outraged over the brutal murder of an American," Domenici said. 
   "Amid all these shocking events, it is incumbent that we stay on course to help the Iraqis establish a new government. Only in this way can we get more of our military men and women back home and begin ratcheting down our military expenditures there," he said. 
   About 50 New Mexicans have called Domenici's offices Wednesday to express outrage over the beheading of Nick Berg of Pennsylvania and the website broadcast of the crime. 
   At today's hearing, Domenici asked Rumsfeld how confident he was that the June 30 transfer of authority would succeed. He sought assurances that an organizational structure is being developed regarding Iraqi self-governance, security and infrastructure requirements. 
   "We are only 49 days away from turning this country over to the Iraqi leadership, whatever form that will be. I am very worried about how prepared the Iraqis are to take over this responsibility and, secondly, what we have done to prepare ourselves and them to work together and make this work," Domenici said. "I worry that we won't have an organizational structure that will do anything other than having Americans fighting and a need for more funding and resources to support that." 
   Rumsfeld testified that an organizational structure is being developed by the Coalition Provisional Authority, the Iraqi Governing Council, the United Nations, and others. However, he stated his belief that governance and security must take precedent under a new government. 
   "You're not going to get infrastructure to proceed if, in fact, security isn't sufficient to protect it. You're not going to get governance to go forward if there isn't some progress on infrastructure and essential services. So that understanding is there," Rumsfeld said. "My personal view is that the critical ones are governance and security, and that infrastructure will be something that will probably lag behind somewhat."
 
 