SEN. DOMENICI: CRITIAL BORDER INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDS SHOULD REMAIN IN VETO-THREATENED EMERGENCY SPENDING BILL
  With the Senate set to renew debate on border security Monday, Sen. Pete Domenici today joined an effort to save more than $1.9 billion approved by the Senate to fund critical one-time investments in more border patrol vehicles, aircraft, new stations, upgraded communications systems and targeted fencing in high-traffic areas.  
   The Senate approved the funding as part of its $109 billion FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill (HR.4939). Domenici will be among the Senate negotiating team working with the House negotiators to finalize a package that fit within President Bush's current $94.5 billion threshold and avoids a veto. Leaders hope the bill can be finalized before Memorial Day. 
   Domenici is among the Senators who have sent a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran expressing their belief that the final supplemental bill can, and should, include the $1.9 billion border security provisions. Domenici cosponsored the amendment that added this funding to the bill. 
   This border security funding, which is offset and would not add to the deficit, includes almost $18 million for upgrades at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia. It is also expected to direct funding to the El Paso/New Mexico sector of the U.S. border. 
   "The Senate has proposed a responsible plan for making resources available now for some of our most immediate needs for border security," Domenici said. "The House-Senate conference negotiators must understand that this funding, which is offset, is needed if we're serious about doing what is necessary to gain better control over our international borders." 
   The $1.9 billion would, among other things, provide: $80 million to replace Customs and Border Protection (CBP) patrol vehicles; $100 million for CBP sensor and surveillance technology; $790 million to replace and recapitalize CBP helicopters and aircraft; $50 million for law enforcement communications systems; $120 million for construction and renovation of CBP stations and checkpoints; and $80 million for Immigration and Customs Enforcement. 
   For FLETC Artesia, the package provides $18.0 million to construct a new language arts facility and upgrade the information technology and telephone infrastructure. Domenici said he is confident that the $790 million included in the amendment for CBP air assets can be used to replace the Vietnam-era helicopters now assigned to New Mexico. 
   The Domenici-signed letter to Senate leaders, which was authored by Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Judd Gregg, stresses the importance of this supplemental funding to national security. 
   "A large part of national defense must be securing our borders so that we know who is coming into our country and most importantly know whether or not they are coming into our nation to do us harm," the Gregg-Domenici letter said. "Unfortunately, we are limited in our ability to increase the number of agents, officers, and detention beds, and to bulk up other capabilities along the border, because the infrastructure to support these efforts is unable to support larger and faster increases. We simply cannot train more personnel, fly more missions, or conduct more patrols due to outdated, broken, and obsolete buildings, vehicles, aircraft and equipment."
 
 