SEN. DOMENICI: ABANDONED MINES UNDERSCORE NEED FOR REFORM
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources committee, today said that the thousands of abandoned mines that dot the nation's landscape underscore the need for reform of the 1872 Mining Law. 
   Domenici today took part in an Energy Committee hearing on "Hardrock Mining: Issues Relating to Abandoned Mines and Uranium Mining," which is part of the committee's oversight on reforming the 1872 law. Among those testifying were Navajo Nation President Joe Shirley, Bill Brancard of the New Mexico Mining and Minerals Division and Interstate Mining Compact Commission, and New Mexico State Senator David Ulibarri of Grants.
   Over 160,000 abandoned mines have been identified, with an estimated 30,000 of those believed to pose environmental risks. Domenici has been a forceful advocate for Mining Law reform, which would include collecting a royalty on hardrock mineral extrication that would generate funding for abandoned mine clean up.
   "In the context of mining law reform, abandoned mine land reclamation is our most significant opportunity to improve the environment. We know we have a considerable amount of work ahead of us to deal with these abandoned mines. This work won't be finished overnight, but there is now evidence that we are on the right track. We must proceed with Mining Law reform to keep this progress going and obtain the funding necessary to reclaim the land," Domenici said.
   Domenici noted the growing importance of minerals in America's energy mix. Solar cells are built with six different minerals, and 75 pounds of copper is needed for every hybrid vehicle.
   In addition, uranium is essential for the growth of nuclear power, which will play a pivotal role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Domenici noted resolutions passed by Cibola and McKinley counties, as well as the city of Grants, in support of domestic uranium production.
   While Domenici strongly supports Mining Law reform, the Senator also has stated that successful legislation must be narrowly focused on addressing the most serious problems in a way that is not punitive toward the mining industry.
   "Mining law reform offers a chance to create an efficient clean-up program for abandoned mines. But we will not find success unless we face the realities of what can actually pass the full Senate. We should remember that our ability to clean up abandoned mines-to have the funds available for reclamation-is contingent upon the existence of a healthy mining industry," Domenici said.
   Today's hearing marked the third such oversight hearing on mining law reform this year. Domenici has been working with Senator Jeff Bingaman, Majority Leader Harry Reid and others to put together bipartisan Senate legislation to update the law.
 
 