SENS. NELSON, DOMENICI DROUGHT PLANNING BILL INTRODUCED
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that he has joined with Sen. Ben Nelson (D-Neb.) to introduce legislation that will create a national drought policy that improves drought preparedness, mitigation and response efforts. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, co- introduced the National Integrated Drought Information System Act (NIDIS) to head off the devastating consequences of drought with comprehensive policy and planning. There have been 12 different drought incidents since 1980 that resulted in damages and costs of over $1 billion each.
   "The bottom line is that we are facing a severe water shortage throughout the west this year. Early predictions are that New Mexico's river water supply will be at 54 percent this season. But its important to recognize that this is a long term problem which needs a long term solution. We're acting now on getting immediate help to farmers and ranchers, but we need a national policy. I've been working to get us there for some time now, and I'm pleased to be a part of this effort," Domenici said.
   The bill establishes the National Integrated Drought Information System within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to improve national drought preparedness, information collection, and analysis. The system will aim to create reliable and timely drought forecasts and assessments, which will become available to decisions makers at every level in order to prepare them for what lies ahead.
   Domenici held special field hearings of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee in Albuquerque to hear first hand the effects the drought has already started to have. The Senator invited local officials, farmers and ranchers to testify before the committee.
   "Drought has a devastating impact, not only on farming and ranching but on quality of life and tourism. It increases the risk of serious forest fires. There is little we can do in the short term on a season by season basis to mitigate the impact of drought. Long term planning is the answer, and establishing a system that will utilize technology and experts within the NOAA will give us a tremendous advantage over time," Domenici said.
   The legislation introduced by Nelson and Domenici would authorize a total of $59 million for drought planning through 2011. The actual amounts appropriated would depend on Congressional intent.
   The Bush Administration has expressed its support for the NIDIS system.
 
 