NEW MEXICO SENATORS: FULL FUNDING VITAL TO KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE STARFIRE RESEARCH WORK
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today urged their Senate colleagues to fully fund important research being done at Kirtland Air Force Base. 
   Starfire Optical Range, an Air Force research complex at Kirtland Air Force Base, is developing and testing lasers and adaptive optics to obtain high-resolution images of objects in space.
   The Senators today took issue with House Armed Services Committee action to cut $6.5 million from a proposed $21.4 million budget that funds Starfire, also known as 11SP. The House bill leaves only $14.9 million for the program. The House members did so because they mistakenly believed Starfire researchers are involved in advanced weapons work.
   The New Mexico lawmakers believe this reasoning is flawed, noting that the Starfire is expected to have practical benefits for society and national security. For example, acquiring a greater understanding of atmospheric distortions will make it easier to fix the problems that satellites encounter in orbit.
   In letters to the top Senators on the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Bingaman and Domenici stressed that Starfire is not a weapons program and urged their colleagues to approve the full $21.4 million for the program in the pending FY2007 bills to authorize and fund Defense Department programs.
   "Simply put, 11SP is not a weapon; it uses low power lasers to compensate for atmospheric turbulence and to illuminate space objects for tracking and imaging; it takes pictures of passing satellites by performing atmospheric compensation and beam control" the Senators wrote.
   "The atmospheric correction technology being developed by the Air Force under this program is being used in almost every new civilian telescope being built around the world," they wrote.
   The Senators also said in their letters that they do not support investing in advanced space weapons capabilities.
   To address the House Committee's concerns, the New Mexico Senators intend to offer an amendment to the FY2007 Defense Authorization Bill when it comes to the Senate floor later this month directing that none of the funds authorized for the program be used for the development or demonstration of laser space technologies with anti-satellite weapons purposes.
   They will also request the Senate Appropriations Committee include this language in the FY2007 Defense Appropriations Bill.
   Domenici serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
 
 