SEN. DOMENICI SEES NEED TO SUPPORT BERNALILLO MENTAL HEALTH COURT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said that the tragic case of murder suspect John Hyde is further evidence of the need for a greater coordinated social and judicial system to avert tragedies linked to those who suffer from mental illnesses.  
   Domenici, a long-time mental health advocate, visited the Bernalillo County Mental Health Court to be briefed on the accomplishments and goals of the three year old program. The county court was created in 2002 under the auspices of the federal mental health court law coauthored by Senator Mike DeWine (R-Ohio) and Domenici in 1999. 
   Domenici asked to be briefed on the mental health court operation following the recent murder of five Albuquerque area residents, including two police officers. John Hyde, diagnosed with serious mental illness and now charged for the murders, did not have previous interaction with the Bernalillo County mental health court program. 
   "If the John Hyde tragedy taught us one thing, it is that more attention must be paid to those with serious mental illnesses, particularly those clearly showing signs of criminal or violent behavior. The mental health court in Albuquerque is showing success because it provides specialized treatment for individuals who, if untreated, have a high rate of recidivism. By ensuring that mentally ill offenders receive the help they need, the public is safer and the system is more just," said Domenici. 
   During his visit to the mental health court, Domenici toured the facilities, attended an actual session, and met with judges who preside over the court. The mental health court, as part of the Bernalillo County Metropolitan Court, is the first program of its kind in the Southwest, and is used as a model by others who aim to establish similar programs. 
   "The truth is that more law enforcement, health care and social workers must learn to identify the characteristics of mental illness and try to find the type of aid that is beneficial to those suffering as well as the public. It is a challenging balance. Jails should not be the most convenient place to put the mentally ill, and those who are clearly a risk to themselves and others must be helped before tragedy strikes," he said. 
   Domenici, who credited Bernalillo County for its progressive approach to mental health, said he is interested in seeing whether its mental health court could benefit from the federal mental health court program that was funded at $400,000 in FY2005. At Domenici's urging, $2 million has been allocated in the Senate version of the FY2006 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill. Domenici serves on the appropriations subcommittee that drafted the bill. 
   Mental health courts operate with a separate docket and are specially geared toward the mentally disabled, with personnel trained in understanding mental illnesses. The court includes a training component so that law enforcement is better able to recognize signs of mental illness. 
   In early August, Domenici was briefed on and toured the future home of the Metropolitan Assessment Treatment Service (MATS), a program to be operated by Bernalillo County to treat individuals suffering from drug or alcohol addictions. The program will include a component related to mental illnesses, which too often are related to these addictions.
 
 