PRESIDENT SIGNS LEGISLATION TO FIGHT SALT CEDAR, RUSSIAN OLIVE
  Rep. Steve Pearce and Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced that President Bush has signed HR.2720, the "Salt Cedar and Russian Olive Control Demonstration Act," legislation that establishes demonstration programs and an extensive study to find the best means of controlling salt cedar and Russian olive trees. 
   HR.2720 was introduced by Pearce and passed the House by voice vote on May 5. A companion Senate bill (S.177) was introduced by Domenici and cosponsored by Bingaman.
   Originally brought to the American Southwest in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, salt cedar and Russian olive trees have detrimentally impacted New Mexico's water supply, imperiling sensitive riparian ecosystems. These invasive species have also increased the risk of wildfires.
   "Ensuring this critical bill became law has been one of our top priorities since we first developed and introduced similar legislation over three years ago," Pearce said. "Salt cedar may consume as much as 2 million to 4 million acre-feet of water per year, drastically impeding our precious water supply and crowding out native plants. Through this initiative, we can finally begin attacking a serious threat to New Mexico's environment, economy, and public safety."
   "Controlling invasive species like salt cedar is just one aspect of the comprehensive actions we need to address water and water availability issues in New Mexico and the West. I am very happy that we now have a law in place to find the best ways to get rid of these pesky plants and improve our riparian systems," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "Our work now is to see that his program is faithfully funded and implemented. I will focus on that now."
   "This new law will help New Mexico get rid of this noxious plant, while improving our state's watersheds," Bingaman said.
   HR.2720 mandates at least five demonstration projects to be conducted through partnerships, which may involve public and private entities at the federal, state, and local levels. These demonstration projects will study chemical, mechanical, and biological ways of eliminating salt cedar and Russian olive trees while evaluating the consequences of such removal to surrounding ecosystems.
   HR.2720 also requires the U.S. Secretary of the Interior and the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture to cooperate on a study that ascertains the "the acreage of and severity of infestation by salt cedar and Russian olive trees in the western United States;" the state of current science regarding Salt Cedar and Russian olive control; "the feasibility of reducing water consumption by salt cedar and Russian olive trees;" "the methods and challenges associated with the revegetation or restoration of infested land;" and the approximate "costs of destruction, ... related biomass removal, and revegetation or restoration and maintenance of the infested land."
   H.R. 2720 authorizes $20 million in appropriations for fiscal year 2006 and $60 million over the four subsequent fiscal years.
   Audio Clip available at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309
 
 