SEN. DOMENICI ASKS U.S. LABOR DEPT. TO AID LAID OFF LEA COUNTY DAIRY WORKERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that he has asked the U.S. Department of Labor to work closely with local and state officials to help the dozens of workers who are losing their jobs at the Dairy Farms of America plant in Lovington.  
   Domenici contacted the Labor Department Thursday and on Friday sent a letter to Labor Secretary Elaine Chao alerting her to the cessation of operations of the dairy and the loss of 61 jobs in Lea County. 
   He has asked that the Labor Department aid in having local One Stop Career Centers prepared to assist these workers transition to new jobs. 
   "Yesterday, I was in contact with the U.S. Department of Labor and I made a formal request that 'Rapid Response Services for Laid Off Workers' be provided. Through their network of One-Stop Career Centers, the Labor Department can work with the New Mexico Department of Labor to provide employment services to the workers dislocated by the closing of this plant," Domenici said. 
   There is a "One Stop Career Center" located in Hobbs, and additional centers in Portales, Artesia, Carlsbad and Roswell. These centers offer dislocated workers access to services such as resume preparation, job search, placement, and other supportive services. 
   Domenici said a Rapid Response briefing should be provided to the affected workers to make sure they are aware of the services available to them and how to access those services. 
   "The closure of this plant is due to economic vulnerabilities. This closure is not the result of foreign trade or shifts in production out of the United States. Although this may affect the services that might be available to this community, it obviously does not alleviate the difficulty that the workers displaced by this closure will face. The closure of this plant will have a tremendous impact on this community," Domenici wrote Secretary Chao. 
   "I am requesting that the United States Department of Labor provide all available resources to assist Lovington at this time and ease the burden on these workers and their families," he wrote.
 
 