NEW MEXICO PROJECTS IN WRDA BILL CLEAR SENATE HURDLE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that a major national water infrastructure bill containing three priority water projects for New Mexico - including middle Rio Grande bosque restoration - cleared an important hurdle Wednesday.  
   The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee approved the new Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). Domenici worked with EPW Chairman James Inhofe (R-Okla.) to include the projects in the bill, which is now ready for action by the full Senate. WRDA, which is up for reauthorization, sanctions water resource projects, study authorizations and policy modifications for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. 
   "I am very pleased that the EPW Committee swiftly passed the WRDA Bill. This legislation contains three priority water projects. Such quick committee action is a recognition of the seriousness of the water crisis our nation is facing. This is a universal problem, but it is especially acute in New Mexico. WRDA authorization will make it easier to gain resources we need to better cope with our water situation," Domenici said. 
   "After almost 15 years of work on the Rio Grande bosque, it is very gratifying to see the restoration of this ecosystem included in this bill. Having the project included in the chairman's mark save us a great opportunity to complete the first step of the restoration project and improve the river. Over time, the public will be able to enjoy the area, meaning that this project has both environmental and recreational benefits," Domenici said. 
   The following are brief summaries of the three New Mexico WRDA projects submitted by Domenici, who is chairman of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that has actual funding jurisdiction for the Army Corps on Engineers: 
   Bosque Restoration: Authorizes a total of $25 million for the implementation of restoration projects in the middle Rio Grande region, from Cochiti Dam to the headwaters of Elephant Butte Reservoir. The program would allow for the removal of unnecessary jetty jacks, reduction of non-native species, increase of cottonwood woodland, removal of dead and down trees, extension of open meadows to reduce fire hazard, and improvement of recreational and educational opportunities throughout the Middle Rio Grande Bosque. Non-Federal interests must provide 35 percent of the total cost of bosque restoration projects. 
   Rio Grande Environmental Management Program: Authorizes a total of $25 million and establishes a continuing authority for addressing environmental restoration and management on the Rio Grande and its tributaries in New Mexico. The program would support two main components: (1) planning, design and construction of small habitat rehabilitation and enhanced projects and (2) a long-term river data acquisition to assist in managing the Rio Grande watershed. Construction projects approved through this program must be cost-shared on a 65-35 basis with a local entity. 
   Southwest Valley Flood Damage Reduction Study-Albuquerque: Authorize approximately $19.5 million to support the construction of flood control infrastructure for Albuquerque's Southwest Valley, which is subject to flooding. The federal government will fund 65 percent of the project, with 35 percent of the project coming from non-federal sources. The estimated completion date for the project is 2013.
 
 