SEN. DOMENICI SUPPORTS CHANGES IN HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT DISTRIBUTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today supported committee passage of legislation to reconfigure the distribution of Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant funding, which is expected to result in more homeland security grant monies for New Mexico.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee that today approved the Homeland Security Grant Enhancement Act of 2005 (S.21). This legislation is intended to better coordinate and simplify the distribution of federal DHS grant funding for traditional first responder activities at the state and local levels. The bill next goes to the full Senate for consideration. 
   "This necessary bill follows recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission-namely that threat-based funding be more strongly incorporated into the distribution of first responder and homeland security funding. At the same time, we are streamlining the process and assuring state and local governments a stable and reliable level of support," Domenici said. "I believe this Senate bill is a good one that it is beneficial to New Mexico." 
   Under the revised formula, states would receive 0.55 percent of the total amount appropriated for the overall DHS formula grant program. This compares to the minimum 0.75 percent now allocated from only the State Homeland Security Grants and Law Enforcement Prevention Grants, with the remainder of these grants awarded based on population. Domenici expects this change to result in New Mexico gaining additional funding from a broader pool of money. The Congressional Research Service estimates New Mexico's gain at about $5 million. 
   Through S.21, 50 percent of the remaining grant funds would be allocated to the Urban Area Security Initiative (New Mexico has yet to qualify for these funds), while the remaining 50 percent would be distributed at the DHS Secretary's discretion based on risk, threat and needs, regardless of population. This change could potentially result in making New Mexico-as home to two national laboratories and several Homeland Security operations-eligible for additional funding at the DHS Secretary's discretion. 
   "This bill is important for the nation's homeland security efforts as well as New Mexico's needs. There are some important provisions that are beneficial to New Mexico, including the recognition that international borders are an important factor for the Homeland Security Secretary to take into account in prioritizing the distribution of threat-based grants," Domenici said. 
   "Another factor the Secretary has to take into consideration in prioritizing grants is whether a state is at risk because of key assets. I have pointed out that New Mexico has several key national assets, including our national labs, FLETC-Artesia, the Playas first responder training center, and our military bases," he said. 
   During the committee business meeting, Domenici supported the approval of an amendment directing the DHS Secretary to establish up to three demonstration projects on the southern U.S. border to test cross-border interoperable communications. 
   For state and local grant applicants, the bill also establishes a clearinghouse to: improve access to homeland security grant information; coordinate technical assistance for vulnerability and threat assessments; provide information regarding homeland security "best practices"; and compile information on equipment purchased with federal funds. The bill also provides greater flexibility in the use of unspent federal grant funds. 
   Domenici, who also serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, in March announced an $18.7 million DHS grant to the New Mexico Department of Public Safety to support homeland security activities in the state.
 
 