SEN. DOMENICI, GEN. BLUM TALK NATIONAL GUARD NEEDS
  In a follow up to this week's Senate hearing, Sen. Pete Domenici today called National Guard Chief Gen. Steven Blum to discuss the growing needs of the National Guard, not only in New Mexico but nationwide.  
   In his discussion with Blum, Domenici reiterated his concern with the Guard's standing within the Pentagon and reported his support for the National Guard Empowerment Act of 2007 (S.430). Domenici is cosponsoring this bill to give the National Guard a seat on the Joint Chiefs of Staff and make the National Guard Chief a four-star general. 
   "I am troubled that the National Guard doesn't have the tools it needs. We need to change that, I hope that I can work with General Blum to help the National Guard receive the resources it needs," Domenici said. "Improving the Guard's standing within the Pentagon will ultimately improve the situation of our own Guard in New Mexico. The men and women of the New Mexico Guard and Reserve, and their families, make great sacrifices to serve and we must get them the equipment they need." 
   S.430 would allow the National Guard Chief a more prominent role in decision-making. The bill also would require the President's annual budget request to specify separate amounts for National Guard training and equipment for military and domestic missions as well as an annual report to Congress on the Secretary of Defense's plan for coordinating the National Guard and Armed Forces responses to natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other emergencies. 
   At a Senate hearing Wednesday, Domenici addressed the dual-use equipment needs of the New Mexico National Guard, which has the lowest amount of this equipment in the nation. Some of that equipment is part of the Army National Guard's current $2.0 billion shortfall for essential dual-use gear needed for combat missions and domestic emergency operations. 
   "I appreciate the Guard's efforts in New Mexico, but I am nonetheless concerned about the equipment shortage," Domenici continued. "This is not General Blum's fault. He is trying to do his best with the resources at his disposal. I assured him today that I intend to work to ensure that Congress and the Pentagon know that the National Guard is too important to be overlooked in the appropriation of federal resources." 
   During today's call Domenici also thanked Blum for the Guard's ongoing work to shore up border security. The Guard's Operation Jump Start assists in border patrol operations. 
   "The National Guard has been useful in efforts along New Mexico's southern border," said Domenici. "This is another area where we should ensure the Guard has the resources it needs to make this mission work as well as possible." 
   Overall, the Pentagon has requested $43 billion to recruit, man, train, operate, and equip National Guard and Reserve Forces. Domenici has also requested $38.1 million in military construction funds to build a new Army Aviation Support Facility in Santa Fe in order to increase aircraft storage space and reduce emergency response time.
 
 