SEN. DOMENICI RECOGNIZES CENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY OF RUNNING N CATTLE IN EASTERN N.M.
  Sen. Pete Domenici has issued a Congressional Record statement recognizing the centennial anniversary of the Running N Cattle Company of Kenna, N.M. 
   Domenici issued the statement to pay tribute to a family-run ranching institution in an era when such enterprises find it more difficult to survive. The Running N Cattle Company is ending it centennial year of operation. The Running N brand appears on cattle in Roosevelt, Chaves, Lea, DeBaca, and Guadalupe counties. 
   "I am proud of the success of this hard working family. This family carries on all the traditions of the ranching lifestyle, in New Mexico and in the West. They take great pride in the land in which they have worked for many years. I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their continued contributions to the state of New Mexico. I congratulate them on their success and wish them many successful years in the future," Domenici said.  
   The company has been a family-owned partnership since its inception in 1906 when William H. Cooper and his wife and five adult children each acquired 160 acres northwest of Kenna through the Homestead Act. 
   Since then four generations have continued the family's ranching tradition. Dr. John and Jenny Clemmons and Jackie Martin have operated the Running N Cattle Company for the past 36 years as the fourth generation to do so. 
   A full copy of Domenici's statement follows: 
   STATEMENT OF SENATOR PETE V. DOMENICI 
   RECOGNIZING THE 100 YEAR ANNIVERSARY 
   OF RUNNING N CATTLE COMPANY 
   MR DOMENICI: Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the Running N Cattle Company of Kenna, New Mexico that is currently celebrating its centennial year of operation. The Running N Cattle Company's 100th anniversary date was in May of 2006. 
   The Running N Cattle Company is a family owned partnership that began in 1906. William H. Cooper and his wife Elizabeth left Hopkins County in East Texas, with their five grown children, to acquire free land through the Homestead Act in New Mexico. The Act promised 160 acres of land for each adult and an abundant supply of water. All seven members of the Cooper family made their claim on 160 acres, just north and east of what is now the small village of Kenna, New Mexico. William and Elizabeth settled, making Kenna their home. Out of their five children, Joseph (Joe) Cooper was the only child who remained at the original homestead. 
   In 1909 Joe moved back to East Texas to marry his high school sweetheart, Gertrude Jackson. Shortly after, they traveled by train back to the Homestead at Kenna where they continued ranching and began raising a family. Joe eventually purchased the pieces of land his brothers and sisters had claimed in 1906. Although, Joe ran both sheep and cattle on his land, he eventually made the decision that he wanted to concentrate all his efforts on raising cattle. Joe and Gertrude had four children; Lewis Cranford Cooper born in 1915 was their only child that decided to join his father in the ranching business. 
   In 1937, Lewis Cooper married Lucille Martin in Clovis, New Mexico. In 1940 they moved to the headquarters of the ranch near his parent's home. Lewis was a sharp cattle tender and bought and sold cattle from California to Kansas. Lewis enjoyed the ranching business and had a keen eye for good horses. Lewis grew up in Kenna and Elida where he stayed actively involved in his community, working to make it a pleasant place to live. Lewis and Lucille had two daughters Virginia Ann (Jenny) and Jacqulin (Jackie). Lewis and Lucille continued ranching until Lewis died, in 1971, Lucille now makes her home in Portales where she stays involved with her church, grandchildren, and two great-grand sons. 
   Jenny Cooper, older daughter of Lewis and Lucille, married Dr. John Clemmons in 1968 at the ranch home in Kenna. John has been active in the stocker yearling business at this location since Lewis' death in 1971. John has served as the general manager since 1971, along with that title, he also embraces ownership duties. The Running N Cattle Company has been continuously owned and operated by the same family. For the past 36 years John and Jenny, along with Jackie are the fourth generation to own the partnership and continue the business. Throughout the years the family has been able to purchase additional pieces of land allowing the ranch to expand. The Headquarters is kept in the same location as the original Homestead between Kenna and Elida, New Mexico. The Running N Brand appears on cattle in the counties of Roosevelt, Chavez, Lea, DeBaca, and Guadalupe. 
   Mr. President I am proud of the success of this hard working family. This family carries on all the traditions of the ranching lifestyle, in New Mexico and in the West. They take great pride in the land in which they have worked for many years. I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their continued contributions to the state of New Mexico. I congratulate them on their success and wish them many successful years in the future. 
   I ask unanimous consent that my statement be printed in the Record in its entirety. Thank you, Mr. President.
 
 