SEN. DOMENICI EXTOLS DEFENSE WORK DONE AT HONEYWELL-ABQ, FIRM GETS BIG CHUNK OF NAVY CONTRACT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today congratulated Honeywell Inc. for being selected to conduct the majority of modifications on the F/A-18F Super Hornet as part of an $8 million contract between McDonnell Douglas Co. and the Department of the Navy.  
   Honeywell Inc. in Albuquerque will furnish these multi-mission aircraft with advanced multi-purpose displays (MPDs) that increase visibility, efficiency and precision. 
   "Honeywell, as a subcontractor for McDonnell Douglas, once again provides an invaluable service to the nation by outfitting these fighters with more sophisticated technology that better serves our troops abroad," said Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "I believe it is a top priority for our military to have the best equipment and technology available to complete our mission and get them home safely," he said. 
   Honeywell will conduct 86 percent of the work to install 42 MPDs-large format, high-resolution, all-weather-capable displays. These advanced screens increase the ability to accurately identify targets and navigate through hostile territory and challenging terrain. 
   First introduced in 1995, the F/A-18F Super Hornet is a long-range, all-weather strike fighter with two weapon stations to accomplish both air-to-air and air-to-ground combat missions. In contrast with its earlier counterparts, the Super Hornet was designed with 17 cubic feet of "growth space" to accommodate new technologies as they become available. 
   The versatility of this aircraft means missions range from day and night strikes, air support, fighter-escort, aerial refueling, and reconnaissance. Used during Operation Desert Storm, Super Hornets were able to engage enemy fighters and bomb hostile targets during the same mission. 
   Honeywell is a leading global provider of integrated avionics, engines, systems and service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, business and general aviation, military, space and airport operations. 
   In the past, Honeywell has partnered with the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Air Force to upgrade and retrofit display panels on two variations on the Navy's F/A-18 Hornet and the AV-8V Harrier, and the Air Force's F-16 Fighting Falcon aircraft.
 
 