SEN. DOMENICI WELCOME HOME 720TH TRANSPORTATION COMPANY FROM OPERATION IRAQI FREEDOM DEPLOYMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed home the New Mexico National Guard's 720th Transportation Company from a 15-month tour in Iraq, praising them for their service and sacrifice in the nation's fight against terrorism.  
   Domenici joined the community in honoring their hard work and commitment during the homecoming celebration which included a formal ceremony, a parade through downtown Las Vegas, and a picnic at New Mexico Highlands University's Perkins Field. 
   "The mission you have successfully completed was a noble one. The service you have given continues a long tradition of New Mexicans answering the call to defend freedom," Domenici, a long-time backer of New Mexico's military installations, said during the welcome home ceremony. 
   "Not only have you made your family and your state proud, you have made your country proud. For that I say thank you, God bless you and welcome home," he said. 
   The 127 service men and women, who returned to Las Vegas last weekend, drove a total of 2.5 million combat miles while transporting cargo and supplies despite being threatened by Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and insurgent attacks. 
   "We know that your job of transporting cargo and supplies was very dangerous. Despite the constant danger, you performed your job with true professionalism, earning seven Purple Hearts during your deployment," Domenici said. "For your bravery and sacrifice, we say 'thank you'." 
   Domenici also gave a special thanks to the families and friends of the 720th, commending their courage for sending loved-ones into harm's way and reiterating the strength their support lends to the mission of the New Mexico National Guard. 
   "The families and friends of the 720th also deserve our gratitude for the sacrifices they have made and the support they have given while our men and women serve overseas to promote democracy and fight the war on terrorism. It's not easy on them when they have someone serving in a faraway land, but their love and support is so important to those who volunteer to serve in the Armed Forces," Domenici said. 
   Domenici will also take part in a ceremony Saturday to honor Rio Rancho members of the New Mexico National Guard 720th Transportation Company at the Rio Rancho Veterans Memorial Park. 
   The 720th, based in Las Vegas, has members from Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Taos, Gallup, Rio Rancho and Santa Rosa. They began their tour on April 23, 2003 after receiving additional training in small arms, biological, nuclear and chemical warfare at Fort Bliss in El Paso.
 
 