SEN. DOMENICI ADDRESSES N.M. WATER WELL NEEDS, PROPOSED PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES FUNDING CUTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today addressed ongoing emergency water well needs in New Mexico, as well as proposed cuts to an important Bureau of Land Management program for the state's counties.  
   Domenici addressed a variety of issues Wednesday as Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne appeared before the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to defend the Interior Department's FY2009 budget requests. 
   Domenici has asked Kempthorne to justify the administration's rationale for again recommending steep cuts for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program administered by the BLM. The budget plan offered last week recommends only $195 million for PILT in FY2009, almost $34 million below the $228.9 million supplied by Congress for FY2008. 
   "The budget recommendation for PILT is just one area where the Interior Department must explain its rationale behind these cuts. New Mexico and other states in the West rely on PILT and other federal payments that are based on federal holdings in their state. There are a number of instances in this budget where the West takes a hit, and I predict states are getting fed up with it," Domenici said. 
   All New Mexico counties, with the exception of Curry County, rely on annually PILT payments, and the state generally receives the highest annual level of PILT funding-$22.7 million in 2007. 
   Domenici also asked Kempthorne to determine whether the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) has sufficient Emergency Drought Assistance funding to complete the drilling of water wells for New Mexico communities and begin new projects in the state. The BOR in December began allotting some of the $11 million in emergency funding Domenici secured early last year to 10 well-drilling projects in New Mexico. This includes $1.9 million for wells in Hagerman, Regina, Brazos, and Luna County; $1.7 million for four wells for the Acoma, Isleta, Nambe, and San Felipe pueblos through the Indian Health Service, and another $910,000 for wells in Carlsbad and Eunice. 
   "Despite recent heavy snows in northern New Mexico, the water availability will continue to be a difficult issue for communities across the state. This emergency well program has been useful, and I want assurances that the BOR will continue to make progress on these water supply projects," Domenici said. 
   Domenici successfully secured funding in 2006 that has been used to support emergency water well drilling for Ruidoso Downs, Las Vegas, Ruidoso, Cloudcroft, and Capitan. 
   The BOR Emergency Drought Assistance Program provides assistance to states, tribes, and some nonprofit organizations hard-hit by drought conditions to minimize losses and damages associated with severe drought conditions through on-the ground relief including well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, water banking, and conservation. 
   For the wide-ranging hearing, Domenici also asked Kempthorne about budget proposals that would: 
   * Again take 2 percent of the state's share of royalties for mineral leasing activities on public lands-a plan that could cost New Mexico an estimated $16 million annually; 
   * Make permanent a fee charged for oil and gas permitting activities and direct those funds to the U.S. Treasury instead of the BLM Permit Processing Improvement Fund; 
   * Eliminate the royalty relief provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005.
 
 