REP. DOMENICI THROWS SUPPORT BEHIND LOS ALAMOS BOND ISSUE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today issued an open letter to the people of Los Alamos County in support of a bond issue to authorize $75 million for community improvements, leading to more space for economic development and housing growth. In the letter, Domenici encourages residents to study Bond Ordinance 529 and support its passage in a special mail-in election that ends Jan. 30. Ordinance 529 will allow Los Alamos County to issue up $75 million in bonds to finance various capital improvement projects, including the relocation of school and county facilities from the Trinity Site, road infrastructure improvements, and other capital projects throughout Los Alamos County. 
   "I have proudly represented New Mexico, Los Alamos County, and Los Alamos National Laboratory for 34 years. I championed your interests in Washington to improve the funding for science and improve LANL facilities. However, people need more than modern work facilities. They need places to shop, eat, and recreate indoors with their families," Domenici said.
   "With the Special Election on Bond Ordinance 529, the residents of Los Alamos County will decide how much they are willing to invest in the future of this great community. I hope you will agree with me that the best years of Los Alamos are ahead and not in the past," he said.
   While the Ordinance will not fund new development on the Trinity Site, it will allow development to be pursued on the parcel. Domenici authored the 1997 law authorizing the transfer of surplus Energy Department property to Los Alamos County for economic diversity projects and community development. The program was expanded in 2004 to include the Los Alamos schools, and last year Domenici gained a five-year extension to complete the transfers.
   "With the Special Election on Bond Ordinance 529, the residents of Los Alamos begin the new year of 2007 with an opportunity to shape the community's future for years to come," Domenici said, adding that a yes vote on the question will "send a message to the rest of the nation that money invested in Los Alamos is money well spent."
   Domenici pointed out that Ordinance 529 does not approve or authorize any specific project. Individual projects will still have to follow the standard approval process, including public meetings, before bonds could be issued and funds could be spent to implement them. Also, Ordinance 529 will not raise current property tax rates or Gross Receipts Tax rates.
 
 