SEN. DOMENICI COMMENDS ADDED EFFORTS TO RESTORE RIO GRANDE HABITAT
  Sen. Pete Domenici pointed to the commencement of work by the Interstate Stream Commission (ISC) on the Middle Rio Grande Habitat Restoration project as yet more evidence that progress is being made to improve the river ecosystem.  
   The ISC today announced that it will begin work on a phase 1 of a project that will treat 24 acres of the Rio Grande with low-impact amphibious excavators. The project meets the components of the 2003 Biological Opinion, which Domenici protected as the document that should govern river management. 
   "For years, I have urged the agencies involved in the middle Rio Grande to bring the minnow to the water, rather than trying to keep the entire Rio Grande flowing in the hottest parts of the summer. I'm pleased that the Interstate Stream Commission is acting on that suggestion and embarking on this project, which will restore the habitat in an area with consistent water flow," said Domenici. 
   As chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Committee, Domenici secured $28.07 million in the Bureau of Reclamation's Middle Rio Grande Project this year, including $12.9 million for cooperative projects associated with the endangered Rio Grande silvery minnow. This funding includes $2.0 million to construct the off-channel minnow sanctuary in the Albuquerque bosque, for which the Senator broke ground in October. 
   Domenici is also the author of the Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Collaborative Program Act (S.1540), which formally authorizes the Endangered Species Act Collaborative Program tasked with protecting the silvery minnow and the southwestern willow flycatcher and those species' riparian habitat. 
   The Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Collaborative Program was established five years ago in 2000 and was formalized by the current program signatories in 2002. The program partners federal, state and local governments as well as pueblo and community residents to come together and forge solutions through collaborative agreements, rather than litigation. 
   The Interstate Stream Commission's work is an example of that collaborative approach. The project will be funded with $728,000 from the New Mexico Water Trust Board, $336,000 from the Commission, and $272,000 from the ESA Collaborative Program itself. 
   Domenici's legislation, cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, is awaiting a hearing in the Environment and Public Works Committee.
 
 