SEN. DOMENICI: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT AID AVAILABLE FOR COMBATING METH SCOURGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today encouraged New Mexico law enforcement agencies to avail themselves of technical assistance available from the Justice Department for combat methamphetamine production and associated criminal activity.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the U.S. Department of Justice and provided $63 million this year for grants to encourage law enforcement to fight illegal drug crimes. The Department's "Tools for Combating Meth" program offers law enforcement guidebooks on various aspects of the methamphetamine problem, including lab dismantlement practices, identify theft and prescription fraud. 
   "There isn't a corner of our good state that is not affected by the meth problem. The Justice Department material can be useful in helping our law enforcement officers identify and go after the methamphetamine producers and users. Whether in Albuquerque or the most rural county, this is useful information for our officers," Domenici said. 
   The Justice Department's "Tools for Combating Meth" material can be accessed at: http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/Default.asp?Item=1647 
   Domenici also indicated his expectation that Congress may reach an agreement to pass the Combat Meth Act of 2005 (S.103), which would limits access to cold medicines containing the primary ingredients used to make meth. Domenici is a cosponsor of this bill. 
   The bill's language, along with anti-meth measures favored by the House, were included in the USA-Patriot Act reauthorization conference report in December. The House of Representatives has approved that conference report, but the Senate has yet to take action on it. 
   "This bill encodes a policy that will work to better inhibit meth production. We need to get it on the books nationwide as soon as possible, and I hope that will be soon after the Congress reconvenes this month," Domenici said. 
   The rampant drug problem in New Mexico is attributed, in part, to the ease with which meth can be produced in homemade labs using common and accessible medicines as well as the moving of Mexican cartel-produced meth contraband through the state. 
   Meth labs have been found throughout New Mexico, with serious problems in the Four Corners area, the greater Albuquerque metropolitan region, and areas near the Mexican border.
 
 