SEN. DOMENICI SHARPLY CRITICAL OF EPA 'AFFORDABILITY' STANDARD AS UNFAIR TO SMALL, LOW-INCOME TOWNS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today criticized the Environmental Protection Agency for having a tin ear in terms of heeding the pleas of small impoverished communities and congressional intent in determining the affordability of its regulations. 
   Domenici is part of a bipartisan group of Senators who have signed an extensive letter to EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson expressing their opposition to proposed changes related to determining affordability compliance rules related to disinfectant byproducts (DBPI). The Senators take particular umbrage with the EPA failure to include federal arsenic water standards in the proposed rule change as directed by Congress in 2002 legislation.
   "The EPA needs to go back to the drawing board," said Domenici. "I think the EPA has a tin ear when it comes to fairly figuring out how to keep its regulations from imposing unduly harsh costs on small and poor communities. New Mexico towns and small water systems are struggling to find affordable means for adhering to the arsenic standards, but they aren't going to find much help with these proposed rule changes."
   Domenici and other signatories recommend that EPA redraft the proposed rule, impose a moratorium on enforcing small communities, and agree to apply new affordability criteria retroactively for the arsenic and disinfectant byproducts rules, among others. The Senators offered to work with EPA for find acceptable solutions to problems associated with the affordability of these regulations to small communities--primarily those serving fewer than 10,000 people.
   "With the publication of this proposal, EPA has acknowledged that previously promulgated regulations are unaffordable. We must question the wisdom of forcing small and disadvantaged communities to comply with rules such as arsenic and DBPI, when they are so clearly unaffordable and infeasible to so many of these communities. We would urge the Agency to support a moratorium on enforcement until this matter is corrected," Domenici and other Senators wrote Johnson.
   The detailed letter expressed sharp criticism of the agency's process for developing the affordability criteria, complaining that the proposed rule flies in the fact of congressional intent, which was to better define affordability for large and small communities.
   "EPA needs to make the legally binding economic determinations for small and large communities fair. It is not fair for the affordable level in small communities to be higher (more expensive) than the feasible level for large communities. EPA acknowledges in the proposal, the Act's level of 'feasible' equates to the Act's level of 'affordable.' Therefore, if the affordable level is set higher than the feasible level, the affordable level will be unfeasible for some communities. Thus the problem that Congress asked EPA to look it - the unaffordability of some rules to some communities - has not been solved. If EPA cannot implement the statue with this parity or fairness for small and large communities - please tell this to Congress to allow us to address the problem," the letter said.
   Domenici, chairman of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Committee, has been highly critical of the stricter 10 parts per billion arsenic drinking water standard that EPA began enforcing in January. He has also used his positions in the Senate to provide funding to advance technological breakthroughs that might make compliance more affordable, especially to small, rural and impoverished water systems.
 
 