SEN. DOMENICI TO OFFER BILL TO CLOSE SUPERFUND LOOPHOLE ON LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today indicated that he will soon introduce legislation intended to close a loophole in the Superfund law that could expose farmers and livestock producers to lawsuits aimed at industrial polluters. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said the legislation will be a companion bill to HR.4341, which aims to clarify the intent of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA, more commonly known as the Superfund law) by providing an exemption for manure derived from agriculture operations. He plans to offer the bill early next week.
   In short, the legislation would not allow livestock emissions--already regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency through the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and others--to be classified as industrial pollutants under CERCLA and the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA).
   "When Congress wrote the Superfund law its intent was to protect the public from the worst toxic industrial pollutants, not livestock manure. American farms and livestock operations are already some of the most regulated businesses in terms of environmental protection," Domenici said.
   "Allowing CERCLA to be applied to this new area could be devastating to the agriculture industry, from the family farmer to large dairy operations. I believe Congress should clarify the law and close the door to unnecessary lawsuits in this new realm that could break the back of the agriculture industry," he said.
   The Senate bill, which is expected to have 22 cosponsors upon introduction, would not affect state and local permitting and regulatory standards for farm and livestock operations. Instead, it would clarify that animal manure is not a toxic waste that would necessitate emergency response and the creation of a Superfund site under CERCLA and EPCRA.
   At least one Superfund-related lawsuit is pending in Oklahoma that would set a precedent by holding a dairy operation liable for naturally-occurring emissions of ammonia, hydrogen sulfide, and organic phosphorous which would be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA and EPCRA. Such an action could allow livestock operations to be subject to fines of $27,500 a day per violation under CERCLA.
   Domenici noted that this clarification is important to the growing dairy industry in New Mexico, and that applying CERCLA to these operations could have significant economic ramifications to dairy producers, alfalfa growers and implement suppliers.
   New Mexico currently ranks seventh in the nation for milk production and eighth in cheese production. The states approximately 180 dairies have the largest average herd size--1,600 to 1,700 cattle--in the nation. Dairies in 12 New Mexico counties (Chaves, Roosevelt, Curry, Do?a Ana, Lea, Eddy, Valencia, Socorro, Sierra, Bernalillo, Torrance and Luna) have an estimated $1.15 billion annual impact on the state's economy, and generate about 17,000 dairy-related jobs in the state.
   (http://spectre.nmsu.edu/dept/docs/DAIR/NM_Dairy.pdf)
 
 