SENS. DOMENICI, CRAIG INTRODUCE CLEAN PORTFOLIO STANDARD
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today formally offered an amendment to establish a federal 20 percent Clean Portfolio Standard (CPS).  
   Domenici, along with Senators Larry Craig (R-Idaho), Robert Bennett (R-Utah), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) introduced the CPS amendment as an alternative to a proposal by Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M) to establish a more narrow 15 percent federal Renewable Portfolio/Electricity Standard (RPS). 
   The Domenici alternative includes renewable technologies like wind and solar energy, but also allows clean energy resources like nuclear, new hydropower, fuel cells, and others to count toward the 20 percent standard. 
   "The Clean Portfolio Standard I have introduced is a better way to promote clean energy technology. Our CPS would bring more states into the clean energy fold, while not resulting in massive cost increases for consumers like a narrow RPS proposal would. And CPS would actually result in lower emissions, since it sets a 20 percent standard for clean energy technology. I look forward to a full debate on both amendments," Domenici said. 
   "The costs associated with a RPS would be prohibitive--over $175 billion for our nation, according to one estimate. States that lack the natural resources to meet the mandate--primarily wind energy, which many states don't have--would beat the brunt of the costs. Regardless of whether some states would see savings from RPS, costs would still go up for consumers in states that don't meet the standard. For that reason, the RPS proposal is unfair and unaffordable," Domenici continued. 
   "If we insist on forcing electricity generators to reach specific targets on the use of clean energy sources, then let's make sure we allow all clean sources to be considered. In expanding the sources of clean energy we can have an even greater impact on the environment," Craig said. 
   "Congress should not be picking technology winners and losers, and we have to recognize regional differences in resource availability or else we can expect to see states shelling out money to the Federal Treasury. A Clean Portfolio Standard (CPS) is the fairest, most flexible, and environmentally responsible way to move forward," he continued. 
   The Domenici-Craig CPS allows utilities to use solar, wind, geothermal, ocean, biomass, landfill gas, hydropower, nuclear, fuel cells, inherently low emissions technology, and energy efficiency measures to meet the 20 percent mandate. In addition, other clean energy sources certified by the Department of Energy would be eligible. 
   If a state is still not able to comply with the CPS mandate, the funds collected in penalties would be transferred directly back to the state to be used to promote clean energy production. 
   The Domenici-Craig CPS would allow states that already have RPS standards to continue using them by allowing the Governor of each state to certify that there is an existing RPS. This would allow states to continue to tailor their low emissions mandates to meet the resources available in their states.
 
 