SEN. DOMENICI: DOE SENDING $3.8 MILLION TO NEW MEXICO TO HELP LOW-INCOME FAMILIES SAVE ON ENERGY BILLS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised a $4.8 million grant from the Department of Energy (DOE) that will help low-income families reduce their electric bills by making their homes more efficient with better insulation and appliances.  
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee which has funding jurisdiction over DOE's Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy office and its Weatherization Assistance Program. 
   "This program makes permanent improvements that help eliminate the need for families to rely on aid to pay their bills. The proper insulation, air conditioning and heating can reduce the amount of energy used every month so bills are lower and less of a financial strain," Domenici said. "As temperatures climb during these summer months, I am very pleased New Mexico families will have some control over their monthly bills because of this partnership with the DOE." 
   The New Mexico Mortgage Finance Authority (MFA) will receive a total of over $4.8 million to help low-income families permanently reduce their energy bills by making their homes more energy efficient. The MFA contracts a network of local, community-based agencies that deliver weatherization services throughout the state. 
   Crews will install blower doors, air sealing, windows, heating, water heaters, air conditioning, and electrical appliances. The Weatherization Assistance Program is the country's longest running energy efficiency program and has provided weatherization services to more than 5.2 million low-income families for the last 27 years. 
   "In addition to lowering energy bills, weatherization can benefit the local community and economy by creating jobs and increasing the value of homes in the area," Domenici added. 
   Weatherization will make these homes more affordable and more attractive in the market by reducing long-term energy costs. The growing program also provides jobs in the home improvement industry. In addition, saving low-income families dollars every month increases their spending power. 
   Weatherization technologies include a wide range of energy efficiency measures for retrofitting homes and apartment buildings. Weatherization service providers choose the best package of efficiency measures for each home based on an energy audit of the home. 
   In the 27 years experience of the Weatherization Assistance Program, these technologies have grown from measures like caulking and weather-stripping to addressing the whole spectrum of energy-consuming systems in low-income homes.
 
 