SEN. DOMENICI IS PRIMARY COSPONSOR OF RURAL HEALTH CARE BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today again joined fellow members of the Rural Health Caucus to introduce a wide-ranging rural health care bill that includes provisions he has championed to improve Medicare and Medicaid payments to physicians who treat seniors in rural, under-served areas. 
   Domenici is an original cosponsor to the bipartisan Craig Thomas Rural Hospital and Provider Equity (R-HoPE) Act of 2007, which was introduced Wednesday by Senators Kent Conrad (D-N.D.), Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), and Pat Roberts (R-Kan.). They, like Domenici, are all Senate Rural Health Caucus members. The bill will be renamed in honor of the late Senator Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.), a previous sponsor of similar legislation who last week died of cancer. 
   This bill, a Rural Health Caucus effort, takes several steps to shore up health care in rural states like New Mexico and includes a number of provisions supported by Domenici in the past. It would extend expiring rural health provisions from the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) of 2003, the prescription drug benefits law.  
   "New Mexico is among large rural states that are consistently challenged to provide health care to their citizens. The states' economic condition has improved, but that does not diminish hardships faced by small town hospitals and clinics in attracting and retaining physicians and health care workers," Domenici said. 
   "In addition, there are many areas where rural hospitals and clinics need special attention because they cannot realistically keep pace with health care demands and rising costs," he said. 
   Included in the R-HoPE Act is an extension of provisions-included in the MMA that Domenici first authored and offered as legislation in February 2003-to put rural physicians more on par with urban doctors in terms of Medicare reimbursement levels. The R-HoPE Act would extend these Physician Fee Schedule Work Geographic Adjustment provisions through Jan. 1, 2010. They are set to expire at the end of this year. 
   Medicare bases physician payments, in part, on geographic adjustment factors. The purpose of the geographic index is to reflect relative cost differences in a given area compared to the national average. Payments to physicians in rural areas are adjusted downward by this geographic index, thus lowering the reimbursements to rural caregivers. 
   Domenici also pointed out that the bill contains a provision to benefit community health care centers and rural health clinics, which play an important role in health care delivery for many low-income and rural New Mexicans. The bill increases the all-inclusive payment rate cap for rural health clinics from $63 to $92 per patient to more appropriately cover service costs. 
   Overall, the R-HoPE Act would extend benefits to all of New Mexico's 27 rural hospitals that serve a disproportionate share (DSH) of low-income Medicaid recipients and rural hospitals. It would, for instance, reinstate the "hold harmless" provisions for small rural hospitals with fewer than 100 beds. It would also provide aid to low-volume rural hospitals, as well as expand Medicare reimbursement eligibility to mental health care providers in rural areas, including marriage and family therapists. 
   Preliminary estimates demonstrate that if all the provisions in the Act were to be enacted the financial impact on New Mexico's rural facilities could result in as much as a 15 percent increase in Medicare revenues. 
   Rural Hospital and Provider Equity (R-HoPE) Act of 2007 
   Section 1: Short Title; Table of Contents 
   Section 2: Equalize Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital Payments 
   Hospitals receive add-on payments to help cover the costs of serving a high proportion of uninsured patients. While urban facilities can receive unlimited add-ons corresponding with the amount of patients served, rural add-on payments are capped at 12% of the total amount of the inpatient payment. Our bill removes this cap for rural hospitals, bringing their payments in line with the benefits urban facilities receive. 
   Section 3: Reinstate the Hold Harmless for Rural Hospitals under the Outpatient Prospective Payment System 
   The Medicare outpatient prospective payment system (PPS) went into effect on August 1, 2000. In 1999, the Balanced Budget Refinement Act (BBRA) included provisions that would hold harmless rural hospitals with less than 100 beds. Essentially, the BBRA allowed small rural hospitals to continue being reimbursed under pre-PPS rules. The BBRA mandated that Congress should receive recommendations on whether the hold harmless should be lifted, or made permanent. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act (MMA) of 2003 extended the hold harmless provision for small, rural hospitals as well as Sole Community Hospitals located in rural areas through December 21, 2005. 
   The Deficit Reduction Act (DRA) of 2005 extended the hold harmless only for small rural hospitals having 100 or fewer beds that are not sole community hospitals. Additionally, the DRA mandated step-down payments to these rural hospitals paying 95 percent of the difference between the prior payment system and the hospital outpatient payment system. In 2007, that percentage falls to 90 percent, and drops again in 2008 to 85 percent. This was not a MedPAC recommendation. 
   In fact, the March 2005 MedPAC report suggested extending hold harmless payments through calendar year 2006. This one year extension was to provide analysts time to better determine the reasons that some rural hospitals are not performing as well under Medicare. Once identified, policies would be developed to address the specific issues these hospitals face. 
   Given that data is not available to determine whether the hold harmless should be lifted, this section would reinstate the original hold harmless policy for small rural hospitals and sole community hospitals until January 1, 2009. 
   Section 4: Assistance for Low Volume Hospitals 
   Current inpatient payment rates do not account for the fact that most rural facilities cannot achieve the same economies of scale as large hospitals. To help address this situation, MedPAC recommended implementing a payment adjustment for certain small rural hospitals that serve a low-volume of patients. The MMA established a graduated adjustment/add-on payment for low volume hospitals. Eligible hospitals are those located more than 25 miles away from another hospital and have less than 800 discharges in a given year. The maximum total adjustment is 25 percent of the otherwise applicable prospective payment rate. 
   This section builds on the MMA provision as the payment adjustments are designed to decrease as the level of inpatient admissions rises, and would phase out completely for facilities that discharge more than 2,000 patients per year. This provision would help rural hospitals that cannot make ends meet under the PPS system, but that do not want to be forced to convert to Critical Access Hospital status. Approximately 500 rural facilities nationwide would be eligible for this assistance. 
   Section 5: Continuation of Geographic Reclassification for Certain Hospitals in Sparsely Populated States 
   Under current law, hospitals can apply to re-classify their wage index to another area if they believe their labor costs are more reflective of another market. As part of this process, hospitals must be located in a county that is adjacent to the county in which they propose to re-classify. There are concerns that this criteria is unfair to many small urban and rural facilities, many of which compete for the same labor pool, but are not located as close to their competitors as facilities in large urban markets. To address this problem, the MMA included an appeals process that allowed hospitals located in sparsely populated areas (states with fewer than 10 people per square mile of land area) to re-classify if they are otherwise eligible for re-classification aside from not meeting the current proximity/adjacency requirement. This provision would provide a continuation of this reclassification and allow the Secretary to continue the reclassification for other rural hospitals deemed appropriate. 
   Section 6: Reasonable Lab Costs Payment Extension for Rural Hospitals 
   This section would extend Section 416 of the MMA as amended by Section 105 of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 which provided reasonable cost reimbursement for clinical lab tests performed by rural hospitals as part of their outpatient services (i.e. for area patients receiving care at home or in nursing homes). Oftentimes, a local rural hospital is the only lab facility serving a given region, and although lab work conducted for patients in the hospital or in a local nursing home is the same, hospitals are reimbursed at a lower rate for clinical lab work for patients that do not have specimens drawn in the hospital. This drives up the overall cost of lab work for patients in the region and could lead to greater inaccessibility for lab work conducted for home bound patients or those who live far from the actual hospital. 
   Section 7: Critical Access Hospital (CAH) Improvements 
   This section includes a variety of provisions aimed at improving the CAH program. These provisions include: 
   A. Critical Access to Clinical Lab Services 
   The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) requires a patient to be "physically present" in a CAH when a laboratory specimen is collected in order for the CAH to receive cost-based reimbursement. Many CAHs provide laboratory services in Rural Health Clinics (RHCs) and nursing homes in smaller, neighboring communities, as well as in home health settings. This means Medicare beneficiaries will have to travel to a CAH to have lab specimens drawn. The additional time and expense these patients incur is unnecessary if staff of the CAH are willing and able to provide service at the point of patient care and transport the specimen back to the CAH for analysis. This policy imposes a burden on patients, particularly the sick and the elderly, jeopardizing access to care. This provision would reinstate cost-based reimbursement to CAHs for lab services provided to patients who are not physically present in the hospital. 
   B. Eliminate CAH "Isolation Test" for Ambulance Reimbursement 
   Under current law, CAHs can only receive cost based reimbursement for ambulance services if they are the only provider within a 35-mile drive. This provision would eliminate the 35-mile requirement, ensuring that CAHs are appropriately reimbursed for providing emergency medical services. 
   Section 8: Capital Infrastructure Loan Program 
   This program would make loans available to help rural facilities improve crumbling buildings and infrastructure. In addition, rural providers could apply to receive planning grants to help assess capital and infrastructure needs. This program would be authorized through September 30, 2011, and funding would be subject to the annual appropriations process. 
   Section 9: Extend the Medicare Incentive Payment Program 
   The Medicare Incentive Payment (MIP) Program provides 10 percent bonus payments to physicians practicing in Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs). The MMA built upon this program by requiring CMS to identify eligible rural providers and automatically provide the 10 percent add-on payment to all Medicare claims. This legislation would extend the MIP program until January 1, 2010. 
   Section 10: Extend the Physician Fee Schedule Work Geographic Adjustment 
   Medicare payments for physician services are based upon a fee schedule, intended to relate payments for a given service to the actual resources used in providing that service. There are three components of this fee schedule - liability, practice, and work. CMS defines "physician work" as the amount of time, skill, and intensity necessary to provide services. Each component of the fee schedule is multiplied by a geographic index designed to adjust for variations in cost. The geographic index as it relates to "physician work" is lower in rural areas than in urban areas. Thus, although rural physicians put in as much or even more time, skill, and intensity into their work as physicians in urban areas, rural physicians are paid less for their work. The MMA increased the work geographic index to a base of one over a two year period for any locality for which such index was below one. Those fee schedule areas that are currently at or above one are not affected. Section 102 of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 allowed this adjustment to continue through calendar year 2007. This section would extend current law until January 1, 2010. 
   Section 11: Services Provided to Home Health and Hospice Patients 
   Under existing Medicare policy, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and clinical nurse specialist are not allowed to directly prescribe home health or hospice care. This restriction limits these provider groups' ability to offer needed services to patients, especially those living in rural and frontier areas. This section ensures physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists - who have no financial relationship with a home health or hospice agency and are legally authorized to perform the services - will be eligible to directly prescribe home health and hospice care. These providers will be reimbursed by Medicare at 85 percent of the physician fee schedule for such services. 
   Section 12: Rural Health Clinic Reimbursement 
   Rural Health Clinics (RHCs) receive an all-inclusive payment rate that is capped at approximately $63. Various analyses have suggested that payment rate does not appropriately cover the cost of services for most RHCs and that the cap should be raised to address the shortfall. This provision would raise the RHC cap to $92 making it comparable to the payment rate Community Health Centers (CHC) receive. 
   Section 13: RHC and CHC Collaborative Access Expansion 
   Current CHC legislative and regulatory requirements mandate these facilities offer a single model to deliver essential health care services. While this model works in urban areas, it does not always work well in rural and frontier communities. Building facilities offering a full range of services is ideal, but can be impractical for many small rural towns. The current delivery system often puts up barriers or prevents collaboration, networking, innovation, and sharing of resources. This makes accessing care much more difficult. This provision would make it easier for RHCs and CHCs who choose to work together to share services, coordinate care, and combine financial resources to improve patient care in rural, underserved areas. 
   Section 14: Rural Home Health Add-On Payment 
   The Deficit Reduction Act extended a 5 percent add-on payment increasing reimbursements to home health agencies for services furnished in rural areas. That provision expired. Section 14 would reinstate the add-on payment through January 1, 2009. 
   Section 15: Temporary Ground Ambulance Payment Extension 
   Ambulance providers are closing their doors due to inadequate Medicare payments and inappropriate payment denials by Medicare claims processors. These difficulties often jeopardize the level of care that ambulance services can deliver, and ultimately may increase the time it takes to respond to patients. To help alleviate this situation, the MMA (Section 414 d) increased payments by 2 percent for rural ground ambulance services. The MMA provisions expired at the end of 2006. This section would reinstate the add-on payment for rural ambulance providers in 2008 and 2009 and increase it to 5%, in response to the findings of a recent Government Accountability Office report on EMS services. 
   Section 16: Mental Health Provider Reimbursement 
   The Medicare program only permits psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, and clinical nurse specialists to bill Medicare for mental health services provided to seniors. However, the vast majority of rural areas are designated as mental health professional shortage areas and most rural counties do not have a psychiatrist or a psychologist. This section would permit marriage and family therapists and licensed professional counselors to bill Medicare for their services and be paid the rate of social workers. These providers are much more likely to practice in a rural setting and are often the only mental health professional available in remote rural and frontier areas. 
   Section 17: Physician Pathology Services Extension 
   In 1999, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) made an unexplained regulatory change mandating hospitals (not Medicare) pay independent laboratories for services provided to beneficiaries. This CMS regulation would have added a new financial burden on many small, rural independent laboratory facilities. 
   The Benefits Improvement and Protection Act (BIPA) of 2000 temporarily prohibited this payment change from taking place. BIPA allowed rural, independent laboratories to continue billing Medicare directly, but only for a few years. The MMA extended the provision through 2006. Then, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 extended the provision through 2007. Section 17 of this legislation would extend this policy for two years. 
   Section 18: Technology Projects to Improve Home Health Services 
   This section would require the Secretary of HHS to create pilot projects providing incentives for home health agencies to purchase and utilize home monitoring and communications technologies. These pilot projects must use technology to enhance health outcomes for Medicare beneficiaries and reduce spending under the Medicare program. 
   Section 19: Facilitating the Provision of Telehealth Services Across State Lines 
   Telehealth has helped to bring health care into rural areas that otherwise lack access to such services. Medicare has recognized the value of telehealth and provides reimbursement for certain providers and services. However, a problem exists when telehealth services are provided across state lines because of individual state licensure laws. This provision would direct the Secretary of HHS to work with stakeholders to adopt regulations to facilitate multistate practice.
 
 