SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN OFFER AMENDMENTS TO BOOST HOLLOMAN AFB, WSMR PROJECTS
  New Mexico Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman have offered two amendments to the FY 2008 Defense Authorization Bill that would deliver federal funding for research and development activities at Holloman Air Force Base and White Sands Missile Range.  
   The first proposed Domenici-Bingaman Holloman amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill would authorize $7.0 million to upgrade of the Holloman High Speed Test Track to a magnetic-levitation propulsion system. This upgrade would allow for more realistic rocket sled tests by minimizing track vibration and increasing maximum test speeds. 
   "The Holloman High Speed Test Track amendment would help Holloman Air Force Base make important upgrades to its testing facilities, allowing the Air Force to conduct research critical to its missions at home and abroad. I will continue to work to ensure that funding is made available to Holloman for its research activities," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "The high speed test track is essential to the work performed at Holloman Air Force Base and this amendment would help ensure its completion in a timely fashion," Bingaman said. 
   The second amendment would authorize $8.0 million to fund the Joint Directed Energy Test Site (JDETS) at White Sands Missile Range. JDETS fulfills a critical time-sensitive capacity and capability gap in the development and testing of high power and broadband directed energy jamming and negation systems for defeating improvised explosive devices (IEDs) by improving and establishing a robust environment and instrumentation suite in a remote area at White Sands Missile Range. 
   "The Joint Directed Energy Test Site is a top priority project at White Sands, and along with Senator Bingaman, I will do all I can to help secure funding for this project in the Defense Authorization Bill," said Domenici. 
   "IEDs have killed and injured many of our servicemen and women serving in the Middle East. Making this important upgrade at WSMR would allow for continued improvement of the technology needed to safety destroy these deadly devices," Bingaman said. 
   The New Mexico Senators have already offered three amendments to clear the way to meet so-called "unfunded requirements" at Cannon Air Force Base to support the base's new Air Force Special Operations Command mission. Debate on the Defense Authorization Bill (H.R.1585) is expected to continue through next week.
 
 