SEN. DOMENICI REMEMBERS FALLEN POLICE OFFICERS IN NATIONAL POLICE WEEK TRIBUTE
  As part of National Peace Officers Week, Sen. Pete Domenici today paid tribute to fallen law enforcement officers from New Mexico and called special attention to the death of a New Mexico State Police Officer nearly 33 years ago and the sacrifice of a Tucson officer raised in Artesia.  
   Domenici on Thursday submitted a Congressional Record statement as part of National Police Week and the National Peace Officers Memorial Day on May 15. 
   In his statement, Domenici salutes law enforcement officers. He paid special tribute to an Artesia native, Patrick K. Hardesty, who was killed last May as a Tucson police officer. He also returned the spotlight to New Mexico State Police Officer Robert Rosenbloom, who was gunned down on I-40 west of Albuquerque in November 1971. The suspects in the Rosenbloom killing remain in Cuba under the protection of Fidel Castro. 
   "I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the unselfish dedication of Robert Rosenbloom and Patrick Hardesty, and all the brave men and women who have devoted their lives to public protection and service," Domenici said. 
   "We remember their dedication to protect and serve, and the tragic price they paid for that devotion. We also remember the families of these two officers and the sacrifices they have incurred because of a deep-seated commitment to duty and public service. All of us from New Mexico owe a debt of gratitude to each and every officer who has lost their lives in the line of duty," he said. 
   Hardesty's is among the new names engraved on the National Peace Officers Memorial Wall in Washington this year. It will be unveiled as part of a candle-light ceremony Thursday evening. Last year, the names of Damacio S. Monta?o of Los Lunas and Jeffrey Cole Russell of Albuquerque were added to the wall. 
   In his statement, Domenici noted that he had nominated Hardesty, a 1981 Artesia High School graduate and Eagle Scout, for military academy admission. Hardesty had a career in the Marine Corps before joining the Tucson Police Department. 
   In remembering Rossenbloom, Domenici reiterated his call for the Cuban regime to agree to extradite the suspects who fled to Cuba after hijacking a commercial jet in Albuquerque shortly after the murder. 
   National Peace Officers Day and National Police Week have been commemorated since 1962, which Congress passed a law designating them. National Peace Officers Memorial Wall includes the names of fallen New Mexicans dating back more than 100 years. (For more information, visit: http://www.1nleomf.com/) 
   "The men and women of law enforcement, through their service, are most worthy of our thanks and highest respect. To all who have paid the ultimate price and to those who continue to serve, may we forever be grateful and never take for granted what you do," Domenici said. 
   Domenici's full statement is posted on his website: http://domenici.senate.gov/
 
 