SEN. DOMENICI QUESTIONS EPA PLAN FOR U.S.-MEXICO BORDER WATER & WASTEWATER PROJECTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today aired criticism of several approaches that the Environmental Protection Agency want to take toward water-related issues affecting New Mexico, including funding changes recommended for a U.S.-Mexico water and wastewater infrastructure program. 
   Domenici discussed his concerns with EPA Administrator Stephen L. Johnson during a Senate Interior and Environment Appropriations hearing Tuesday on the EPA's FY2008 budget proposal. The Senator also commented on the affordability of arsenic standards and the rescission of funds for the New Mexico Rural Water Association.  
   "The EPA, like most federal agencies, must deal with tighter budget realities. But I expect that Congress will shift priorities to better suit the realities we are hearing of directly from our constituents," Domenici said. 
   Domenici sought clarification concerning how New Mexico border projects could be affected by the distribution of nearly $300 million in unobligated funding within the EPA's U.S.-Mexico Border Program. Because of the level of unobligated funding, the administration's budget only requests $10 million for this program in FY2008 (a $39 million, or 80 percent, reduction from the FY2006 enacted level). 
   "The EPA must assure us that the Border Environmental Infrastructure Fund will not be negatively impacted by the low $10 million request for the U.S.-Mexico Border Program, and whether border-related water projects in New Mexico could use some of the unobligated balance," Domenici said. "Water is a critical resource in the border region, and projects supported by the U.S.-Mexico program are beneficial to the environment and quality of life in the region. It would be unwise to let this program slip." 
   New Mexico benefits from funding through this EPA program, particularly through Border Environmental Infrastructure Fund (BEIF) projects administered by the Border Environmental Cooperation Commission (BECC). According to BECC, all program funds allocated to BEIF through FY2006 have been obligated to projects through the BECC certification process or have been reserved for projects selected by the FY2005/FY2006 prioritization process. 
   The BECC has used this EPA program for a variety of water and wastewater programs throughout southern New Mexico, including projects in such communities as La Union, San Pablo, Elephant Butte, Lordsburg, Chaparral, San Miguel, Columbus, Mesquite, and others. 
   At Tuesday's hearing, Domenici also noted hardships imposed on New Mexico communities required to comply with a new arsenic standard that went into effect in January 2006 requiring public water systems to reduce arsenic levels from 50 parts per billion (ppb) to only 10 ppb. About 20 percent of New Mexico water systems are affected by the new standard and 93 percent of those are small communities that have median household incomes well below the national average. The EPA originally assessed affordability for the arsenic standard and determined that families could afford to pay as much as $1,000 more a year to pay for arsenic compliance systems. 
   "I am pleased the EPA agreed to consider revision to the national level affordability methodology for small drinking water systems. However, the development of a new methodology with a lower affordability threshold by itself may not help our poor communities," Domenici said. "I would like to see the EPA change the affordability methodology and commit to applying it retroactively to the arsenic requirements." 
   Johnson would only commit to continuing to "aggressively" assist communities as they try to comply with the 10 ppb standard. 
   Domenici, who has directed arsenic research funding to the DOE national laboratories, noted the recent release of a Sandia National Laboratories report on the affordability of five leading arsenic treatment filtration materials. The report is based on tests in Socorro, N.M. 
   "This report should help communities in New Mexico and other places around the country correctly choose the best treatment option without costly local testing," Domenici said. 
   The report describes the head to head cost and performance test of 5 leading arsenic treatment filtration materials at the Socorro Springs water system. The results show that one material provides significantly better treatment than the others for this water type. The report, "Pilot Treatment of Arsenic Adsorptive Media Treatment Technologies at Socorro Springs, New Mexico: Materials Characterization and Phase I Results," is available at: http://www.sandia.gov/water/docs/FinalSocorroRprtP1-SAND2007-0161.pdf 
   Domenici also asked Johnson to explain the EPA decision to rescind funding for operator training, wellhead protection and other programs provided through the National Rural Water Association and its affiliate, the New Mexico Rural Water Association. The EPA said it does not intend to pay for these services after Oct. 1, 2006, which will force the New Mexico Rural Water Association to repay $95,000 in already-expended funds. 
   "The EPA needs to explain how it intends to maintain this l training if it insists on discontinuing this funding," Domenici said.
 
 