SEN. DOMENICI VOTES WITH SENATE TO REAUTHORIZE EDUCATION BILL FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici joined his colleagues to pass an extension of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act (IDEA), the 1975 law that guarantees equal education to children with disabilities.  
   The Senate-amended 2004 reauthorization bill (H.R. 1350) will fully fund the federal government's commitment to cover up to 40 percent of the additional costs that is required to education students with disabilities. 
   "IDEA is an important part of America's commitment to treat all people equally," Domenici said. "The reauthorization that we have undertaken will strengthen that commitment for people with disabilities. It will increase funding for education, and it will also incorporate the flexibility and streamlining of No Child Left Behind. I'm pleased the Senate has finally acted to pass this bill." 
   Domenici supported an amendment by Senator Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) that increases education funding by $2 billion per year to reach $26.1 billion by 2011, which represents the "full funding" status that the federal government has committed to provide. 
   H.R. 1350 will align IDEA with the principles of the No Child Left Behind Act, which passed in 2001. These include accountability for results, state flexibility, paperwork reduction, parental involvement, and research-based practices. For instance, the bill includes provisions that will give states discretion to let parents choose the appropriate early intervention services for pre-school aged children. 
   Under President Bush's FY2005 budget, New Mexico will receive at least $88.3 million in IDEA-related funding, an increase of $35.8 million (68 percent) since the beginning of the Bush Administration. Under the Senate-passed version of H.R. 1350, New Mexico is likely to receive far more funds for IDEA. 
   The bill will now head to a House-Senate conference committee to resolve differences between the measures passed in each body.
 
 