SEN. DOMENICI: ADDED NATIONAL GUARD FUNDING FOR EQUIPMENT & BORDER SECURITY ROLES NOW LAW
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said he expects the National Guard in New Mexico to benefit from the nearly $1.0 billion signed into law Tuesday to continue remedying equipment deficiencies across the nation. 
   President Bush has signed into law the FY2008 Defense Appropriations Bill, a $471.1 billion spending measure for the Defense Department. In addition to the equipment funding, the new law also funds National Guard counter-drug and border security activities in New Mexico.  
   Domenici, as a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, pressed to include the National Guard equipment funding in the measure following reports earlier this year that the New Mexico National Guard had the lowest levels of available dual-use equipment in the nation. He also pushed for funding to continue Operation Jumpstart on the Southwest Border despite Bush administration plans to phase out this Guard border security initiative. 
   "The National Guard has proven over and over again how valuable it is to the overall dynamic of our national security efforts. The fact that the New Mexico National Guard needs to resupply its equipment stocks meant making funding available was a priority," Domenici said. "The money this bill will not immediately solve the dual-use equipment needs of the Guard in this country, but it is a healthy installment to correct this deficiency." 
   The new law provides $980.0 million for National Guard equipment nationwide, whereas the initial budget requested nothing for the procurement of National Guard equipment. In January, the Government Accountability Office reported that the New Mexico National Guard ranked last in the nation for inventory level of dual-use equipment. At a hearing in May, Defense Secretary Robert Gates told Domenici it could require $22 billion between FY2008-2013 to adequately meet Army National Guard equipment needs. 
   Domenici also reported that the enacted law will provide $20 million to continue the National Guard's counter-drug programs, including $3 million specifically for the initiative in New Mexico. Overall, $984.8 million is provided for drug interdiction and counter-drug activities. 
   In addition, the bill provides $247 million to continue Operation Jump Start on the Southwest Border in 2008, a variation of an amendment cosponsored by Domenici during development of the Defense Appropriations Bill. 
   Operation Jumpstart was launched in 2006 as a temporary border security operation to station National Guardsmen on the Southwest Border until more border patrol agents and border security technology could be put in place. As more border patrol agents have been hired, the administration has begun reducing the number of Guardsmen on the border. Domenici has opposed this reduction and has advocated for maintaining the current level of 6,000 Guardsmen in 2008. 
   "This funding will allow Operation Jumpstart to continue on the U.S.-Mexico border at least until the Customs and Border Protection directorate gains greater operational control of that border. We're not at that point yet, so it is prudent to keep the successful Operation Jumpstart rolling," said Domenici, who also serves on Senate appropriations and authorizing committees for the Department of Homeland Security. 
   The new law has $105.3 billion for military personnel, including a 3.5 percent basic pay raise for all service members. As a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici worked to secure more than $68.8 million in the bill for specific military activities in New Mexico. 
   The bill also includes a continuing resolution (CR) that will extend FY2007 funding levels for the federal programs and agencies--including Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories--through December 14. The current CR expires Nov. 16. 
   New Mexico would benefit from the following funding in the bill: 
   * $3.1 billion in acquisition funding for 20 F-22A aircraft, the fighter jets that will be stationed at Holloman Air Force Base after the retirement of the F-117 fighter jets; 
   * $453.7 million for Air Force purchase of V-22s, and $238 million for Special Operations Forces to modify CV-22s; 
   * Resources to support the Army's research, development, and acquisition of Future Combat Systems equipment, which is tested at Ft. Bliss, Texas, and White Sands Missile Range (WSMR).
 
 