SEN. DOMENICI ASKS BUSH TO NAME FEDERAL COORDINATOR OVER LONG-TERM HURRICANE KATRINA RECONSTRUCTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici has authored a letter to President Bush asking him to name a coordinator within the White House to oversee the long-term rehabilitation and reconstruction of areas damaged by Hurricane Katrina.  
   Domenici is currently working to gain cosigners to his letter which outlines the case for naming a single federal leader to oversee the recovery effort that is expected to take years. The letter encourages President Bush to soon issue an Executive Order and appoint a director to take direct responsibility for overseeing all of the plans for rehabilitating and reconstructing the Gulf Coast. 
   Such a coordinator and office within the White House is needed, Domenici said, to most effectively "respond to the confusion, destruction, suffering, displacement, and pollution that have affected hundreds of thousands of people across several states," adding that, "this job will take several years." 
   "We believe there must be someone within the federal government who will work with local leadership to create a plan addressing the best ways to rehabilitate and rebuild the Gulf Coast with our taxpayers' dollars; someone who will coordinate the federal, state, and local roles in implementing that plan; someone who will answer for how that plan is carried out. If such an office is not created, we fear that we will have disorder following disaster," the Domenici letter states. 
   While state and local leaders in areas directly impacted by Hurricane Katrina will play a major role in long-term rehabilitation and reconstruction planning, the federal government will also play a significant role in reconstruction efforts. 
   Domenici contends that pinpointing one person who represents the federal government in all reconstruction efforts will allow Congress and the administration to: coordinate all the work being done along the entire Gulf Coast; create a single source to work with and respond to local leadership in developing long-term rehabilitation plans; and avoid the confusion that will arise without sufficient coordination. 
   Domenici pointed out that such a federal rehabilitation coordinator was named after 1972's Category 1 Hurricane Agnes which caused extensive damage and flooding along the Eastern Seaboard. 
   The formal request to President Bush follows Domenici's personal effort over the past week that included discussing the idea at Majority Leader Bill Frist's Sept. 7 Committee Chairmen's Meeting, a Senate floor speech, and a call to White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card. 
   Among the Senators currently signed onto the Domenici letter are Senators: Craig, Grassley, Gregg, Inhofe, Santorum, Sessions, Sununu, and Voinovich. 
   To date, Congress has provided $62.3 billion in emergency funding for Hurricane Katrina emergency response and recovery activities.
 
 