PO'PAY STATUE WILL COMPLETE U.S. CAPITOL'S STATUARY HALL, CEREMONY SET FOR SEPT. 22
  The New Mexico congressional delegation next week will host a U.S. Capitol Rotunda ceremony to formally present the state of New Mexico's statue of the pueblo Indian revolt leader Po'pay for display in the Capitol.  
   The Po'pay statue ceremony is scheduled for 1 p.m. (Eastern), Thursday, Sept. 22, in Washington. (Required media credential information below.) 
   sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, along with Reps. Heather Wilson, Tom Udall and Steve Pearce, and New Mexico Indian Affairs Secretary Benny Shendo Jr., are all expected to take part in the ceremony. 
   Members of the delegation Tuesday introduced resolutions in the Senate and House to authorize the presentation ceremony and its acceptance. Domenici, as the most senior member of the delegation, will serve as emcee of the ceremony. 
   Members of the leadership in the House and Senate will formally accept the Po'pay sculpture, which will be the 100th and last state-sponsored statue to be placed in the U.S. Capitol's Statuary Hall collection. All 50 states are allowed to contribute two statues in the Capitol. The first New Mexico statue, which was of the late U.S. Senator Dennis Ch?vez, was installed in 1966. 
   Po'pay (or Popé) led the Pueblo Revolt of 1680 that drove Spanish settlers from northern New Mexico. 
   The New Mexico legislature in 1997 selected Po'pay to be New Mexico's second statue in Statuary Hall. The statue was carved from Tennessee marble by Jemez Pueblo sculptor Cliff Fragua. 
   Media not currently credentialed to work in the U.S. Capitol should visit www.senate.gov/galleries or call the individual galleries for instructions and applications for temporary credentials to cover the Po'pay statue ceremony: Press/202-224-0241; Radio-Television/202-224-6421; Photographers'/202-224-6548. 
   For more information on the National Statuary Hall collection, visit: http://www.aoc.gov/cc/art/nsh/index.cfm
 
 