SEN. DOMENICI EXPLORES NEED FOR MORE LOW-INCOME ENERGY EFFICIENCY AID AS EXPENSIVE WINTER SEASON APPROACHES
  Concerned about the potential for high heating costs during the upcoming winter season, Sen. Pete Domenici today asked Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman to estimate how much additional funding the federal government may need to provide this year for weatherization assistance to help low-income families better afford the higher heating prices.  
   The Senator also urged the Secretary to utilize programs in the Energy Bill that provide support for energy efficient equipment at the local level in the Gulf Coast region affected by Hurricane Katrina. 
   Domenici, who serves as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, conducted a hearing last week about the current energy situation and outlook, in which experts testified that home heating oil will cost 31 percent more this winter compared to last year. While the Senator's Energy and Water Appropriations Bill continues a $15 million increase for the Weatherization Assistance Program, Domenici believes that more can be done to offset energy prices. 
   Weatherization programs allow families to install more efficient heating and cooling systems in their homes, and could include items like new windows and better heating equipment. 
   "It is becoming clear that heating homes this winter will cost quite a bit more than last year. For low-income families, the higher prices could create real hardships. One of the ways to combat this problem is to help them install technology that will conserve energy. I believe that after an assessment by Secretary Bodman, Congress should consider allocating additional funds for weatherization programs that could help families use less energy," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also pointed to provisions in his recently passed Energy Policy Act of 2005 that create an Energy Efficiency Pilot Program for States (Section 140) and a Low-Income Community Energy Efficiency Pilot Program (Section 125) that could help those in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama rebuild their houses using energy efficient technology. 
   "We should not miss this opportunity to rebuild the region in an energy efficient manner so that energy costs for the people of the Gulf Coast region can be reduced. The programs in the newly enacted Energy Bill could be targeted to the affected region and help provide resources to those seeking to rebuild using the latest and best technology," Domenici said.
 
 