SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS TO NATION ON IRAQ WAR, PETRAEUS RECOMMENDATIONS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici tonight issued the following statement in response to President Bush's address to the nation on the Iraq war recommendations offered by General David Petraeus' that would soon begin U.S. force reductions.  
   "I am pleased the President is listening to the reports from our battlefield commanders and will adopt General Petraeus' proposed modifications to our strategy in Iraq. General Petraeus' recommendation to redeploy our troops and begin withdrawal tracks with the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, which I support. 
   "It is my hope that the President will continue to transition the role of U.S. forces out of combat missions based on the recommendations of our military leaders on the ground. A mandated timeline for withdrawing all U.S. forces would be catastrophic for the United States, the Middle East, and the global community. Congress, like the President, should call on the guidance and leadership of our commanders on the ground to determine how best to eventually bring our troops home from Iraq." 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, said the President's endorsement of the report delivered by General David Petraeus to Congress this week is an important step toward transitioning the Iraq mission without a precipitous U.S. withdrawal that would further destabilize Iraq and strengthen Al-Qaeda. Domenici also noted that the troop withdrawal recommendations offered by Petraeus are consistent with the recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group plan the Senator has cosponsored. 
   This week, Petraeus testified that U.S. troops involved with the military surge could be drawn-down beginning in September, with U.S. force levels reaching pre-surge levels by July 2008. Petraeus and Ryan Crocker, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, on Tuesday appeared before two Senate committees to report on the progress of the American military surge in Iraq, as well as Iraqi government efforts to achieve national reconciliation. The back-to-back Senate hearings followed a day-long hearing in the House Monday.
 
 