SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN CALL FOR 'HEIGHTENED VIGILANCE' BY FTC ON GASOLINE PRICE GOUGING, MARKET MANIPULATION
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today called on the Federal Trade Commission to use "heightened vigilance" in monitoring and investigating possible gasoline price gouging and energy market manipulation.  
   The New Mexico lawmakers, with the bipartisan membership of their committee, today sent a letter to FTC Chairwoman Deborah Platt Majoras addressing recent gasoline prices escalations. 
   "It is important that the federal agencies entrusted with responsibility for consumer protection, such as the FTC, be on heightened vigilance for such behavior, and communicate that vigilance to both the industry and consumers," Domenici and Bingaman wrote Majoras. 
   "The recent trend of rising gasoline prices and their immediate increases in the wake of Hurricane Katrina has elevated concerns about price fairness," they said. "As American consumers face potentially unprecedented retail energy prices, many are concerned about the possibility of market manipulation and price gouging." 
   The lawmakers also advised Majoras to provide Congress interim reports related to a congressionally-mandated investigation into energy market manipulation and price gouging. The recently-enacted National Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Section 1809) directs the FTC to carry out an investigation and report to Congress by Nov. 6. 
   "In light of the heightened awareness of the issue of high gasoline prices, it would be useful if the FTC could issue interim reports of its findings, as appropriate, to help maintain both awareness of the heightened scrutiny that is taking place and to assure the public that any improper behavior will be uncovered and dealt with quickly," the Senators wrote. 
   Average gasoline prices in New Mexico are currently 11.1 cents less than the record high set on Sept. 7, but 33.8 cents more than a month ago and $1.085 more than a year ago, AAA New Mexico today reported. The national average is $2.956, which is up 39.2 cents since last month and $1.117 higher than last year. 
   The Energy Department has set up a toll-free hotline (1-800-244-3301) for consumers to report suspected gasoline price irregularities. Reports can also be logged at http://gaswatch.energy.gov. These reports will be shared with the FTC, U.S. Department of Justice, and state Attorneys General.
 
 