SEN. DOMENICI TOUTS SUCCESS OF 'OPERATION FALCON' IN NABBING FUGITIVES IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded the highly successful Operation FALCON, conducted by the U.S. Marshals and local authorities, which resulted in the arrest of 10,340 violent fugitives across the country, including 181 in New Mexico.  
   Operation FALCON, which stands for "Federal and Local Cops Organized Nationally," took place during the Department of Justices' National Crime Victims' Rights Week, April 4-10. The initiative sought to apprehend violent fugitives who were wanted for gang-related crimes, homicides, sexual assaults, kidnappings, unregistered sex offenders, and crimes against children and the elderly. 
   "Attorney General Alberto Gonzales is off to an excellent start with the success of Operation FALCON," said Domenici, who is a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee which funds the Department of Justice. 
   "This is an example of the good things that can happen when federal and local law enforcement work together. The result of this operation is that almost 200 criminals in New Mexico are now off the street. I applaud this effort and urge similar operations in the future to put criminals behind bars where they belong," he said. 
   In the New Mexico component of Operation FALCON, the U.S. Marshals received assistance from the N.M. Department of Corrections, N.M. Department of Public Safety, NMSU Police, the Sheriffs Department and District Attorney's office of Bernalillo and Do?a Ana Counties, and the Police Departments in Albuquerque, Las Cruces, Roswell and Santa Fe. 
   All told, 193 outstanding warrants in New Mexico were cleared. Of the 181 fugitives arrested, two were charged with homicide, 52 with assault and battery, six for sex offenses, 87 for narcotics, and 13 for weapons offenses. 
   Nationally, 3,100 law enforcement officers worked together. Among the 10,340 arrests made, over 160 were homicide suspects and 154 were known gang members. 
   For FY2006, Domenici is supporting the administration's proposed $42.6 million budget increase for the U.S. Marshals, to $790.2 million. In 2002, the Senator was honored by the U.S. Marshals for his federal support for the agency, including security upgrades to the federal courthouses in Roswell and Santa Fe. 
   Founded in 1789, the U.S. Marshals Service is the nation's oldest and most versatile federal law enforcement agency. An arm of the U.S. Justice Department, the U.S. Marshals Service includes 95 district offices and personnel stationed at more than 350 locations throughout the 50 states and its territories.
 
 