SENATE APPROVES SEN. DOMENICI-COSPONSORED RESOLUTION COMMEMORATING ARMY RESERVE CENTENNIAL
  Commending the unique role of the U.S. Army Reserve, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined fellow lawmakers to recognize its 100th anniversary. 
   The Senate today approved a joint congressional resolution congratulating and thanking the U.S. Army Reserve during its centennial year, which will be formally celebrated April 23.
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, joined Senators Mark Pryor (D-Ark.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) as a cosponsor to the bipartisan resolution earlier this month.
   "Just as it has in past conflicts, the U.S. Army Reserve has proven itself invaluable in defending our nation today. As it commemorates this milestone anniversary, I believe it is important that we remember past and present Army Reservists, thanking these brave men and women who continue to serve on behalf of America's safety and security," said Domenici, noting that New Mexico is home to over 900 Army Reserve soldiers in 30 local units.
   Today, the U.S. Army Reserve composes 20 percent of the Army's organized units, supporting the Army's active service forces. Reservists serve in personnel capacities, including hospitals, civil affairs, transportation, and public affairs.
   "The needs of America's defense forces are always changing. Despite the challenges of leaving their daily lives, communities, and families, Army Reservists from New Mexico have provided the assistance that our active duty forces need in order to effectively defend and protect our nation," said Domenici.
   The resolution notes that over 180,000 Army Reserve soldiers from over 1,100 communities and 975 centers have served in Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, as well as other areas since September 11, 2001. Additionally, 42,000 of these soldiers have been deployed more than once.
   For more information on the U.S. Army Reserve visit: www.armyreserve.army.mil.
 
 