SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN APPEAL FOR FUNDS FOR PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES, RURAL COUNTY PROGRAMS
  U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today urged key Senate leaders to approve federal funding for federal programs that will direct millions of dollars to help New Mexico counties offset revenue due to tax-exempt federal lands within their jurisdiction. 
   Both New Mexico senators signed a letter urging Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd D-W.Va.) and ranking member Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) to include reauthorization of a four-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 as well as full funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program as part of this year's emergency supplemental appropriations bill.
   The Senate Appropriations Committee, on which Domenici serves, is expected to begin work on a 2008 supplemental spending bill this month.
   "The thousands of counties that rely on these programs currently are facing enormous economic challenges. Many counties have experienced a dramatic downturn in the real estate market, which has a particularly acute impact on local budgets. As a result, it is even more urgent today than it was last year to provide counties with both the immediate support and the ability to plan a long-term recovery strategy that the four-year extension would provide," wrote the Senators.
   The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, which has previously passed the Senate, supports counties, in states like New Mexico, whose economies are dependent on national forest lands. PILT program awards are delegated to counties based on tax-exempt federal lands within their jurisdiction. Payments are made directly to the counties, and are generally used to fund basic services.
   "Without reauthorization of and funding for these programs, the predicament will be an emergency without rescue for hundreds of counties across America," the letter noted.
   Every New Mexico county, with the exception of Curry County, relies on annual PILT funding. With more than 22.5 million acres of federal entitlement lands, New Mexico has traditionally received the largest portion of any state-$22.7 million worth last year.
   The letter was also signed by a bipartisan group of 21 other senators.
 
 