SEN. DOMENICI VISITS WITH EASTERN N.M. PEANUT PRODUCERS
  During a visit with eastern New Mexico peanut producers, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici reported today that while he is optimistic about peanut and agriculture industry in New Mexico, much remains to be accomplished as the Senate prepares to take up the 2007 Farm Bill.  
   Domenici visited Sunland, Inc., a Roosevelt County peanut processor, where he toured their peanut butter operation. Sunland, Inc. devotes 60 percent of its production to peanut butter and uses only local peanuts grown in eastern New Mexico and west Texas. Following the tour, Domenici met with members of the local farming industry to discuss issues regarding the upcoming Farm Bill. 
   "Despite challenges, New Mexico's agriculture industry is still going strong and making valuable contributions to the nation's farming and food industry," said Domenici. "I am pleased to have seen this first-hand at Sunland's Portales facility, as well as during my discussion with area growers." 
   Sunland, Inc. employs approximately 150 individuals from the Portales area to roast, shell, and produce peanuts and peanut butter. New Mexico's peanut industry is a $50 million cash crop and serves as the nation's primary source of Valencia peanuts. 
   During the meeting, New Mexico agriculture producers expressed concern with key provisions in the upcoming Farm Bill that would affect payments they currently receive as part of a federal peanut storage and handling program. 
   In addition to plans to restore peanut storage and handling funding, Domenici reported that he will also focus efforts on measures to protect New Mexico's large dairy herds and increase funding for specialty crops. 
   "Although New Mexico's industry is strong, there is still much to be done as the Senate takes up its FY2008 appropriations and the Farm Bill this fall. Upcoming deliberations will play a pivotal role in the development of New Mexico's agriculture," noted Domenici. 
   In late July, Domenici sent a letter to the Senate Agriculture Committee requesting the inclusion of funding for these provisions in its draft of the legislation. The Committee is now drafting the 2007 Farm Bill, which the full Senate is expected to take up later this year. Earlier this year, he met with New Mexico Peanut Growers Association members to discuss reauthorization of the Farm Bill and its importance to the state's peanut industry.
 
 