SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS FY09 FUNDING SOURCE FOR SAN JUAN ENDANGERED FISH PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today asked the Interior Department to ensure that its future budget plans for the Upper Colorado Basin Recovery Program be sufficient to support endangered fish recovery efforts in the Four Corners region. 
   Domenici joined Colorado Senator Wayne Allard (R-Colo.) and others in writing Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne asking for his assurance that two critical items for the Upper Colorado and San Juan River endangered fish recovery programs are included in the President's 2009 budget request to Congress. The Interior Department is already working on developing its FY2009 budget submission.  
   The Senate letter seeks $1.7 million for the San Juan fish program in FY2009 to construct a fish screen on Hogback, a major Navajo diversion along the San Juan River. The fish screen will allow continued diversions by the Navajo Nation without entraining endangered fish species. 
   "This program is designed to meet the dual objectives of recovering endangered fish species while water development proceeds," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   The San Juan River sub-basin is the second largest of the three sub-basins that comprise the Upper Colorado River Basin. From its origins in the San Juan Mountains of Colorado, the San Juan River flows approximately 31 miles to the New Mexico border, 190 miles westward to the Four Corners area, and another 136 miles to Lake Powell. 
   This spring, a devastating landslide blocked the flow of water in the Farmers Mutual Ditch and sent debris into the San Juan River. In July, Domenici toured the landslide site. Subsequently, he has been working with the Bureau of Reclamation, the Fish and Wildlife Service and others to assess whether the San Juan Basin Recovery Program might be a means to solve both the negative impacts of landslides on endangered species recovery efforts and on water conveyance along the San Juan River. 
   "My support for the San Juan Basin Recovery Program is based on its long-term benefits to the region, but it is my hope that we can work together to solve both our endangered species and water conveyance issues along the San Juan River," said Domenici. 
   The San Juan River Basin Recovery Program is a cooperative agreement begun in 1992 between the Jicarilla Apache Nation, Navajo Nation, Southern Ute Indian Tribe, Ute Mountain Ute Indian Tribe, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the states of Colorado and New Mexico. 
   The program protects the genetic integrity of the wildlife, protects and augments habitats, protects and enhances water quality, encourages interaction between native and nonnative fish species, and manages this data. The letter also requested $6.0 million in FY2009 funding to settle payment commitments to the Colorado River Water Conservation District associated with enlarging the Elkhead Reservoir on the Yampa River under the Upper Basin Recovery Program 
   "We very much appreciate your support of these recovery programs. The programs have enjoyed strong bipartisan support from four Administrations and Congress. The programs are geared to recover four endangered species while respecting state water and wildlife laws, and interstate compacts allocating water among the Upper Basin states. Actions by the programs provide the Endangered Species Act compliance for more than 1,600 water projects depleting 2.9 million acre-feet/year. No lawsuits have been filed on ESA compliance for these projects," the letter to Kempthorne said.
 
 