SEN. DOMENICI & ENERGY COMMITTEE CONSIDER WATER SUPPLY FOR RURAL EASTERN N.M. COMMUNITIES
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today joined chairman Jeff Bingaman at a field hearing to receive testimony on the Bureau of Reclamation's Rural Water Supply Program and a proposed water supply project to sustain rural communities in eastern New Mexico.  
   Domenici participated in the hearing to assess the status of the Bureau of Reclamation's implementation of the Rural Water Supply Act, enacted by Congress in late 2006. Witnesses also testified before the committee on the Eastern New Mexico Rural Water Supply Project, a measure to construct the Ute Reservoir Water pipeline, the New Mexico Senators have been pushing for several years. 
   "While authorization and construction of the Ute Pipeline will go a long way toward addressing the municipal and industrial water supply situation, it is abundantly clear that the economic well-being of this region will require continued creative thinking and concentrated leadership," said Domenici. 
   "It is for this reason I welcome efforts to couple a field hearing on the Ute Pipeline with oversight on the Bureau of Reclamation's new Rural Water Supply Program," he continued. 
   The Rural Water Supply Act of 2006 authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to create a rural water supply program to address the water needs of rural communities in the 17 western states. One such water supply program, which is pending but currently unauthorized, is The Eastern New Mexico Rural Water Supply Project, which would carry by pipeline 16,400 acre-feet of water per year from the Ute Reservoir to the municipalities of Clovis, Elida, Grady Melrose, Portales, and Texico, as well as other locations in Curry and Roosevelt counties and Cannon Air Force Base. 
   In 2006, Domenici and Bingaman introduced the Eastern New Mexico Rural Water System Act of 2006, which would have authorized the Bureau of Reclamation to provide financial assistance to the Eastern New Mexico Rural Water Authority for the planning, design, and construction of a water pipeline from the Ute Reservoir to communities in eastern New Mexico. 
   The Ute Reservoir was constructed and is managed by the State of New Mexico. The proposed pipeline, however, has been on the drawing board for over forty years but has not yet been authorized by Congress. 
   "I urge the Bureau of Reclamation to actively seek to engage the rural communities of the western United States, such as Clovis and other eastern New Mexico municipalities, and to take leadership in resolving the growing water supply crisis," Domenici said. It is estimated that at one time the Ogallala Aquifer, which supplies much of eastern New Mexico, contained as much water as Lake Huron. For more than 65 years, however, it has been depleted to the point that many communities on its periphery have been forced to drill new wells to supplement the dwindling water supply. 
   "I want to caution the communities involved in this project that, while I strongly support finding a solution to the very real water needs of this region of New Mexico, authorization is only the first step. Providing the hundreds of millions of dollars to fund construction of the Ute Pipeline will remain a difficult task," said Domenici.
 
 