SEN. DOMENICI TO HELP COMMISSION TULAROSA DESALINATION FACILITY
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced that he will join Bureau of Reclamation officials in hosting a ribbon cutting ceremony and tour of the new Brackish Groundwater National Desalination Research Facility at Alamogordo later this week.  
   Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, will cut the ribbon and give remarks at Thursday's ceremony, followed by a tour of the desalination facility which is set to find more efficient and affordable ways to expand water sources in arid states. The Otero County facility will be the nation's leading research facility dedicated to studying inland desalination and other impaired waters. 
   "We have long worked with the Bureau of Reclamation and other partners to make this badly-needed facility a reality. It is my hope that it will help us identify and pursue more efficient and affordable ways to sustain the water needs of New Mexico and other arid states," said Domenici. "I am pleased to play a part in the desalination facility's commissioning, and I sincerely look forward to the knowledge and ingenuity it will bring." 
   The 15,000-square-foot facility was completed in June and is currently in a commissioning phase and will be tested in preparation for full operation in the coming months. The facility will provide research space to develop solutions to concentrate management problems, renewable energy/desalination hybrids, desalination technologies for produced waters, and small-scale desalination systems. (http://www.usbr.gov/pmts/water/research/tularosa.html) 
   Over the past four years, Domenici has secured more than $20 million in Bureau and Department of Energy science funding to facilitate the construction of the facility and launch of research capabilities with partners like Sandia National Laboratories. 
   "New Mexico bears the unique environmental factors that are key to this kind of research, along with access to the best and the brightest in the science and research communities," Domenici said. "My state, along with other arid states across the nation, stands to benefit from the work that will be conducted here at the Tularosa Basin desalination facility." 
   Domenici pushed for the facility to be built in the Tularosa Basin because it provides one of the most ideal locations in the world for desalination research due to the abundant availability, easy accessibility and variability of its saline water supplies. The northeast portion of the basin alone contains over 200 million acre-feet of saline water ranging from 1,000-10,000 parts per million total dissolved solids (TDS), with over 20 million acre-feet that is less than 4,000 ppm TDS. In addition, water levels are relatively shallow, allowing easy access to the saline groundwater supplies. 
   The FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill was approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee in June. The legislation will next be considered by the full Senate for passage. This bill funds the Bureau of Reclamation and the Army Corps of Engineers.
 
 