BILL TO THWART METH PRODUCTION INCLUDED IN USA PATRIOT ACT REAUTHORIZATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded action to include a measure within the USA Patriot Act Reauthorization conference report that will help reduce New Mexico's vulnerability to methamphetamine production and trafficking. 
   Domenici cosponsored the Combat Meth Act of 2005 (S.103) which limits access to cold medicines containing the primary ingredients used to make meth.
   A Senate-House compromise adds the methamphetamine measure to the USA Patriot Reauthorization Act. The House and Senate are expected to debate the final bill this week.
   "I applaud the persistent efforts to adopt a measure that would rein in the unchecked ease in which criminals can obtain meth ingredients. I hope the Senate will take into consideration the destructive nature of this drug and the importance of getting law enforcement the resources necessary to thwart the production of homemade meth labs in New Mexico and areas across the country," Domenici said.
   The rampant drug problem in New Mexico is attributed, in part, to the ease with which meth can be produced in homemade labs using common and accessible medicines as well as the moving of Mexican cartel-produced meth contraband through the state.
   Meth labs are found throughout the state, with serious problems in the Four Corners area, the greater Albuquerque metropolitan region, and areas near the Mexican border.
   The provisions in the Patriot Act reauthorization bill would direct that pseudoephedrine and ephedrine be sold only by a pharmacist or pharmacy technician, with buyers limited to 9 grams of products containing this ingredient per month.
   In addition, the bill would authorize the expenditure of federal funds to:
   * Support the Meth Hot Spots program that trains state and local law enforcement to investigate and lock-up meth offenders and expand funding available for personnel and equipment for enforcement, prosecution and environmental clean-up; and,
   * Create rapid response teams to help children affected by meth production ($20 million for both FY2006 and FY2007).
   Domenici has been a strong proponent of the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program, helping 13 New Mexico counties focus on methamphetamine, heroin, and other illegal drugs in the area. With Domenici's support, $227 million was approved for the program in FY2006.
 
 