SENATE PASSES '07 FARM BILL WITH SEN. DOMENICI-BACKED PEANUT, SPECIALTY CROP PROVISIONS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined the Senate to approve the FY2007 Farm Bill, a measure that will restore a peanut storage and handling payment program that is important to New Mexico farmers. 
   The peanut program provisions are among the policies included in the Senate-passed bill that will affect agriculture activities in New Mexico, according to Domenici. The overall measure also includes Domenici's land transfer legislation for the Jornada Range in Do?a Ana County. The bill passed 79-14.  
   "I believe the Senate has come up with a bill that can be brought to the House to get a new Farm Bill. I'm proud that our bill includes measures that will be good for New Mexico's peanut and specialty crop industries. The dairy provisions remain, I believe, unfair to our growing dairy industry," Domenici said. 
   The bill will now be referred to a conference committee to reconcile differences in House and Senate-passed versions of the bill. The five-year $288 billion measure reauthorizes farm policies, as well as USDA nutrition programs for schools and the disadvantaged. 
   Earlier this year, the Senate Agriculture Committee adopted a Domenici recommendation to continue peanut storage and handling payments that allow New Mexico's peanut industry to increase its productivity and competitiveness. Congress failed to extend the program earlier this year. The loss of the program could cost peanut growers up to an additional $50 to $60 per ton, which represents at least $74 million to peanut producers. 
   "The peanut provisions should allow New Mexico peanut growers to remain viable, and I will work to ensure the Senate bill retains this program," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also worked to protect specialty crop production provisions that will benefit such crops as chile, pecans, pistachios, and fruits and vegetables in New Mexico. The bill authorizes $365 million in mandatory funding for USDA Specialty Crop Block Grants, $80 million for specialty crop research, and $24 million to overcome export barriers for U.S. specialty crops. 
   "New Mexico famers should be able to benefit from Senate provisions that are intended to expand specialty crop preproduction. These provisions will also involve better nutrition for school children and the general public," Domenici said. 
   To promote child health and nutrition, the Senate's Farm Bill expands the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program to every state in the country and targets benefits to low-income children. 
   Prior to today's vote, the Senate accepted Domenici's Jornada Experimental Range Transfer Act (S.366) as an amendment to the Farm Bill. This provision would permanently allot up to 1,000 acres of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Agriculture Research Service (USDA-ARS) property north of Las Cruces to the Chihuahuan Desert Nature Park. 
   The Chihuahuan Desert Nature Park provides hands-on science education to as many as 14,000 K-12 students and more than 5,000 adults. It provides classroom presentations, field trips, schoolyard ecology projects and teacher workshops. 
   "Authorizing this Jornada land transfer will have long-lasting benefits that will help thousands of children increase their understanding the Chihuahuan Desert and environment. This will allow the Nature Park to reach more people," Domenici said. 
   Domenici said he regrets there was insufficient support in the Senate to change aspects of the bill would broaden the Milk Income Loss Contract program (MILC). Under the Senate bill, MILC would be renewed and payment rates beginning in October 2009 would increase from 34 percent to 45 percent. The bill also increases the quantity of milk that is eligible to receive MILC payments from 2.4 million pounds to 4.15 million pounds. 
   "The MILC provisions will certainly mean that our dairies will have to continue to prop up less productive and efficient dairy operations in other states. This is unfair, but those of us who oppose the MILC program are outnumbered at this point," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also noted the following miscellaneous provisions within the Senate's 2007 Farm Bill that should benefit New Mexico: 
   * Provides lower interest rates to rural electric cooperatives for renewable electric energy production. 
   * Applies mandatory funding to pending applications for rural water and wastewater assistance.
 
 