SEN. DOMENICI ADVISES NEW MEXICO TO GET SET FOR FUNDING WOES SHOULD FY2007 SPENDING BILLS BE ABANDONED
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said a tentative plan adopted by Senate and House Democratic leaders "will likely have serious negative consequences on a large number of New Mexico projects and activities." 
   Domenici released the following statement regarding the appropriations plan proposed by the Democratic leadership dealing with remaining FY2007 appropriations bills. The proposal would involve a joint funding resolution through Oct. 31, 2007--foregoing all the funding priorities set this year by the House and Senate appropriations committee. Funding for all federal activities outside the departments of Defense and Homeland Security would be limited to the lower amount of either FY2006 or approved FY2007 appropriated levels.
   Domenici, outgoing chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds about $5 billion annually directly in New Mexico, said the Democratic leadership plan "is probably unprecedented in congressional history, will kill or delay many New Mexico projects, and may ultimately be a complete surrender of congressional responsibilities under the Constitution."
   The following is Domenici's statement:
   "I have reviewed the proposed draft plan, the so-called Joint Resolution released by the incoming Democratic leadership of the House and Senate, outlining a plan to handle the remaining 2007 fiscal year appropriations bills.
   "The Democratic proposal, if adopted, would have serious negative consequences on a large number of New Mexico projects and activities and would likely lead to delays in important initiatives and some layoffs at facilities in our state.
   "The plan released would worsen the already chaotic state of the FY2007 appropriations. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I would have opposed this plan if it had been proposed by the Republican leadership, as I opposed our leadership's decision to punt on these funding bills last week. But, the Democratic proposal takes the Republican punt and completely fumbles it.
   "The Joint Resolution proposal is probably unprecedented in recent congressional history, and will kill or delay many New Mexico projects. It seems to me to be a complete surrender of congressional responsibilities under the Constitution. I seriously doubt that almost anyone in Congress, or in the Administration, has any idea how this Joint Resolution would work in practice, other than giving to the Executive Branch almost carte blanch to do whatever it wants in spending for FY2007. In addition, this budget plan would be written predominantly by House Appropriations Chairman David Obey and Senate Chairman Robert C. Byrd, leaving the other 533 members of Congress with a very limited authority to protect their constituents.
   "I have been approached by New Mexico officials and senior management of some facilities in our state. I have told them bluntly that the Democratic plan is unacceptable to me, but that they should prepare for the likely negative impact of the plan.
   "I prefer an approach that would allowed Congress to work its will, as the Constitution requires, on each of the remaining individual FY2007 bills. This would mean that many New Mexico initiatives would have a chance to become law, including additional funding for our national laboratories, schools, and individual New Mexico community projects. The Democratic leadership should rethink its plan, and do what's best for the country--abandon this terrible plan."
 
 