SENATE COMMITTEE PASSES MENTAL HEALTH PARITY BILL
  Less than two days after its introduction, a new mental health parity bill offered by Sens. Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) has been given committee approval and sent to the full Senate for consideration.  
   The Mental Health Parity Act of 2007 (S.558) was today approved (18-3) by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. The bill requires health insurance plans that offer mental health coverage to provide that coverage on par with financial and treatment coverage offered for other physical illnesses like heart disease, diabetes or asthma. 
   Domenici was invited to attend today's markup and praised the committee's swift action. 
   "I am very pleased with the committee's swift approval, and I believe the full Senate could act expeditiously, too. The fact is that this is a good compromise measure that will bring hope and help to millions of Americans. It is built on months of hard work involving a broad range of interest groups. It's a workable plan offering fairness to those with mental illnesses," said Domenici, who authored the first mental health parity law in 1996. 
   The 1996 Mental Health Parity law only provided parity for annual and lifetime limits between mental health coverage and medical surgical coverage. The new bill expands parity by including deductibles, co-payments, out-of-pocket expenses, coinsurance, covered hospital days, and covered out-patient visits. 
   S.558 includes a small business exemption for companies with fewer than 50 employees, and also includes a cost exemption for all businesses. 
   The measure was crafted following more than a year's negotiations involving lawmakers, mental health, insurance and business organizations to develop compromise legislation. The bill has been endorsed by 72 business, insurance and health organizations. 
   Original cosponsors to the Domenici-Kennedy-Enzi bill include Senators Akaka, Biden, Boxer, Brown, Cantwell, Cardin, Coleman, Feingold, Graham, Hatch, Lautenberg, Murkowski, Nelson (Nebraska), Roberts, Smith, Snowe, Stabenow, and Warner.
 
 