SEN. DOMENICI QUESTIONS USFS COMMITMENT TO VALLES CALDERA PRESERVE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today left a Senate hearing questioning the U.S. Forest Service's commitment to the future success of the Valles Caldera National Preserve in northern New Mexico, and pledged to work to secure new funding to make the trust-managed preserve more accessible to the public.  
   Domenici today challenged the Forest Service's FY2009 budget recommendation for the Valles Caldera during a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing on the USFS budget. Responding to Domenici's questioning, Undersecretary for Agriculture Mark Rey defended eliminating funding for FY2009 and termed previous congressional earmarks for the Valles Caldera-including $3.69 million for FY2008-as "excessive." 
   "The 2009 budget, and the attitude expressed at today's hearing, makes me question the Forest Service's commitment to the Valles Caldera. Frankly, I'm upset with the agency's approach to what is supposed to be a unique management partnership to preserve and make one of the most remarkable areas of New Mexico accessible to more people," Domenici said. 
   "The Valles Caldera was never intended to be handled like any other piece of Forest Service property, which is exactly what the Forest Service seems to think," he said. 
   Domenici rejected Rey's attempt to compare management costs at the Valles Caldera to average costs within the Santa Fe National Forest-$41 per acre versus $14 an acre for non-wilderness forest. Using that logic, Domenici said would call into question the Forest Service's support for the Valles Caldera based on its past budget annual requests of $850,000 to $900,000, which amounts to wanting $9 or less per acre to manage the 100,000-acre Caldera. 
   "The Valles Caldera Preserve is basically in its infancy, and requires time and added resources to reach the self-sufficiency levels we envisioned when we created it in 2000. Yes, the Caldera Trust faces challenges, but the response from the Forest Service should not be to spurn it and treat it like any other acre of forest," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also said there is nothing in the Forest Service budget request indicating that funding for the Valles Caldera will be accommodated within the allotment for USFS Region 3, as suggested by Rey during the hearing. 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Forest Service, said he would work to restore funding for the Valles Caldera as the budget and appropriations process moves forward.
 
 