SEN. DOMENICI: DOE REPORT OUTLINES GROWING STRESS BETWEEN ENERGY PRODUCTION, WATER SUPPLIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said an Energy Department report on the nexus between energy production and water supplies adds a new and problematic facet to the ongoing debate of how to make the United States more energy independent.  
   The DOE "Energy Demands on Water Resources--Report to Congress on the Interdepenency of Energy and Water" report identifies the need for water availability to be carefully considered during planning for energy facilities. It notes that operation of some facilities has already been curtailed due to concern over the availability of water, and that there is the potential for even more demand as the U.S. seeks new energy sources. 
   "This report should serve as a wake up call to those working to diversify our nation's energy supply. Those of us from the West already know how real the threat of limited water availability is. But the rest of the country should also be concerned because water is increasingly relied on in every aspect of energy production," said Domenici, who is now the ranking Member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   As then-chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici included provisions in the FY2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill directing DOE to provide Congress with a report on the interdependency of energy and water, with a special focus on threats to national energy production resulting from limited water supplies. The report was prepared by a team of 11 national laboratories, including Sandia and Los Alamos laboratories in New Mexico. (http://www.sandia.gov/energy-water/congress_report.htm) 
   "This report deserves careful attention. It confirms my belief that we need to pursue methods to reduce water demands in all our energy production, continue vigorous research and development of water technologies like desalination to expand availability, and reduce our energy demands for producing water supplies," Domenici said. 
   The report points out that thermoelectric power generation accounts for 39 percent of all freshwater withdrawals in the United States. It states that if new power plants continue to be built with evaporative cooling, consumption of water for electrical energy production could more than double by 2030 from 3.3 billion gallons a day in 1995 to 7.3 billion gallons per day--equal to the entire country's domestic water consumption a decade ago. 
   Domenici introduced legislation in both the 108th and 109th Congresses to create an energy-water program within DOE. He has also provided funds to the DOE, the Office of Naval Research and the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation to pursue advanced technology to address water resources and energy-water issues.
 
 