SEN. DOMENICI RECORDS ?ACCESS' RADIO NEWS CONFERENCE
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, February 14, 2005. 
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Alex Cuellar, KKOB Albuquerque 
   * Rene Blake, KUNM Albuquerque 
   * John McBreen, KYVA Gallup 
   * Michael Olsen, KRWG Las Cruces  
   TOPICS: 
   Iraqi Contract Abuses; Budget Deficit Pressures and New Mexico Impact; Budget Crunch and the Homeless; Outlook on Reforming Social Security; Social Security Personal Accounts Not New Idea; Too Late for Another Social Security Commission; Colonias Funding Cut a Challenge; Education Funding in FY2006; Social Security Naysayers Must Provide Alternatives; Pell Grant Funding; U Federal Deficit Drag; Butting Heads with White House on Spending; PILT Funding; Long-term Federal Deficits. 
   REVIEW: 
   00:00 - Domenici says the alleged mismanagement of contractor payments in Iraq is being reviewed, and predicts that it will not be easy to assess payment irregularities. He says many contracts had to be paid in cash since there was not a banking system in Iraq. 
   02:54 - Domenici says there is no doubt that federal programs in New Mexico will be under pressure as Congress attempts to implement the spending reductions sought by the President to reduce the federal budget deficit. He says Congress will carefully look at the proposed cuts and program consolidations. He notes that New Mexico may also benefit from funding increases sought for programs like nonproliferation. 
   06:33 - Domenici says he would resist significant cuts to programs for "those who cannot help themselves," such as the homeless or mentally ill. 
   07:31 - Domenici says he believes more people, especially those under 55, are beginning to recognize that Social Security reform will eventually be needed. He is unsure any specific reform plan will be passed at the committee or on the floor, but says Congress must begin looking at a variety of ideas on how to improve and save the program. 
   10:02 - Domenici says personal investment plans as part of a senior pension program is not a new idea, and has been tried in countries like Chile. He says the challenge in the United States is to determine how personal investment accounts can be integrated into the existing Social Security system. 
   11:10 - Domenici says he thinks it is too late for another presidential commission to be formed to study Social Security reform. He expects there to be a commission established on tax reform, which could impact the Social Security debate. 
   11:44 - Domenici says the budget cuts recommended by President Bush for the colonias program are very difficult. He says some colonias projects have worked better than others, and that his first impression is that the $11.8 million budget request may not be enough to keep the border infrastructure program viable. 
   13:36 - Domenici says he wants to see the No Child Left Behind law adequately funded, while he believes the principle post-secondary education programs should also be well funded. He says New Mexico should see sufficient funding for major programs, but that there could be reductions or actual program eliminations for smaller education accounts. 
   16:21 - Domenici says the American public is being exposed very negative coverage on the Social Security reform debate, despite evidence that something will have to be done to save the system. He says naysayers will be forced to offer counter proposals as President Bush moves forward. He says the success of the reform effort may hinge on the public understanding of the issues and ramifications. 
   19:53 - Domenici says he supports the President's request for increased Pell Grants funds, though he would like to see the program fully funded. However, he understands that all programs must be wedged into a very tight budget. He says lawmakers and the public must look at the size of the federal budget and determine what level of indebtedness is acceptable. 
   21:38 - Domenici says he is studying the federal deficit, its causes and its impact. He says he hopes to provide a public analysis of the deficit. He says he wants to know whether it is driven by defense spending, tax cuts and loopholes, or health care cost escalations. 
   22:36 - Domenici says he understands the budget well enough to occasionally butt heads with Presidents. He recalls budget battles with President Reagan over defense spending increases. He says Congress has to be realistic about the current fiscal situation. He adds that he hopes that his analysis can be matched with ideas about how to remedy the deficit situation. 
   24:19 - Domenici says he will work toward sustaining funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program, which the President proposes reducing by $26.8 million from the 2005 funding level. He says Congress is likely to support level funding, but that it will have to be justified to members of Congress whose states do not benefit from PILT. 
   27:46 - Domenici says he very concerned about the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the deficit will greatly expand after President Bush leaves office. While it is not uncommon for Presidents to push plans that have steep economic impacts after they leave the White House, the current deficit outlook is very serious and must be addressed. He says the nation must be prepared to accept significant changes in the future, particularly in terms of the costs and delivery of health care benefits.
 
 