SEN. DOMENICI ENDORSES NEW MEXICO LEGISLATION ON TREATING SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESSES BEFORE CRIMES HAPPEN
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a long-time advocate for the mentally ill, today endorsed proposed state legislation that would help those with serious mental illnesses receive the care they need before their illness drives them to commit a crime. 
   Domenici today joined state Representative Joni Gutierrez (D-Do?a Ana) to support her legislation to establish a judicial process allowing New Mexico District Courts, under strict guidelines, to require intensive and supervised outpatient treatment or assisted outpatient treatment (AOT) for some people suffering from severe mental illnesses. New Mexico is currently one of eight states that do not have such a policy.  
   Gutierrez plans to introduce the bill during the upcoming legislative session, which begins Tuesday. Domenici presented Gutierrez with a letter of endorsement (text included below). 
   "New Mexico must join the 42 other states with assisted outpatient treatment laws. It is imperative for New Mexico to make proactive decisions to provide clear and compassionate assistance to those who suffer from severe mental illness," Domenici said. 
   "We must have realistic solutions to stop such horrific crimes and to better serve the mental health population. I believe Representative Gutierrez's proposed legislation would not only prevent possible crimes, but offer fair and safe treatment for individuals who suffer from severe mental illnesses," he said. 
   "An AOT program will identify individuals who need the most help and support them through an intensive and supervised outpatient treatment program. With this legislation, I know New Mexico can positively affect many individuals who live in the turbulent world of mental illness," he continued. 
   In recent months, New Mexicans have learned the tragic consequences of severely mentally ill persons are accused of killings related to their illnesses going untreated. Inciting the John Hyde case in Albuquerque and the Carlos Preciado Jr. case in Las Cruces, Domenici also pointed to the April 2000 New York Times series, "The Well-Marked Roads to Homicidal Rage," that analyzed the cases of 100 rampage killers across the country, 48 of which involved killers who had some kind of formal diagnosis for a mental illness. 
   "Some argue that it is wrong to force individuals to undergo treatment against their will. We argue that the tragic consequences are simply too monumental not to require help under certain circumstances," Domenici said. "The success rate of the AOT program in other states has been well documented in both research and in practice." 
   Domenici cosponsored the 1999 federal law that authorized the federal mental health court program, through which Bernalillo County has established a Mental Health Court that operates with a separate docket and are specially geared toward the mentally disabled, with personnel trained in understanding mental illnesses. The court includes a training component so that law enforcement is better able to recognize signs of mental illness. 
   Domenici is the author of the landmark federal 1996 Mental Health Parity law to begin ensuring fuller insurance coverage of mental health benefits by prohibiting a group health plan from treating mental health benefits differently from the coverage of medical and surgical benefits. He is continuing to work on new legislation to build on the progress made with the 1996 legislation. 
   The following is the text of Domenici's letter endorsing the Gutierrez bill: 
   January 14, 2006 
   The Honorable Joni Marie Gutierrez New Mexico House of Representatives 208 North Miranda Las Cruces, New Mexico 88005 
   Dear Representative Gutierrez: 
   I want to express my strong support for your introduction and sponsorship of new mental health treatment legislation to create an assisted outpatient treatment (AOT) program for individuals who suffer from severe mental illness. As you know, I continually advocate for federal legislation regarding mental health issues in the U.S. Senate. I believe it is imperative for New Mexico to make proactive decisions to provide clear and compassionate assistance to those who suffer from severe mental illness. The proposed AOT program will identify individuals who need the most help and support them through an intensive and supervised outpatient treatment program. With this legislation, I know New Mexico can positively affect many individual lives who live in the turbulent world of mental illness. 
   Many times we read the news and recoil in shock and disbelief at the actions taken by individuals who were not diagnosed or who do not follow their treatment plan. This strikes us most when we realize the results are tragedies we could have prevented. Sadly, on August 18, 2005 the citizens of the City of Albuquerque and the State of New Mexico learned of the tragedies that can ensue when individuals with severe mental illness are not supported and served by the current system. On this day, 48 year-old John Hyde allegedly shot and killed five people. Two of whom were police officers. It has been reported by his family that Mr. Hyde had been off his medication for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder for at least five months. The family felt helpless to assist him and his therapist told his family they had to wait for him to "escalate." In the case of Mr. Hyde, at what point do you identify an individual as escalated? 
   The John Hyde case is not the only incident where New Mexico law failed to help an individual with severe mental illness. Also in 2005, 24-year-old Carlos Preciado Jr. struck and killed 68-year-old Alvin Moore of Las Cruces. Mr. Preciado had recently been discharged from the hospital because he was not considered a danger to himself of others. The record shows that Mr. Preciado was refusing medication for his diagnosed schizophrenia. Also, the record demonstrates the police had dealt with Mr. Preciado at least 32 times in the past. This death and others can be prevented and it is my belief they will with the incorporation of this legislation. 
   Incidents such as this are not solitary and cannot be identified as "they just snapped." On April 10, 2000, The New York Times published a four part series of articles titled The Well-Marked Roads to Homicidal Rage. This report analyzed the cases of 100 rampage killers across the country. Most notably these articles reported that of the 100 cases, 48 killers had some kind of formal diagnosis for a mental illness. Twenty-five of the killers had received a diagnosis of mental illness before committing their crimes. Fourteen of 24 individuals with prescribed psychiatric drugs had stopped taking their medication prior to committing their crimes. Also, The Times discovered that in 63 cases the killers had previously made threats of violence, in 55 cases killers had regularly expressed explosive anger or frustration, and in 35 cases these individuals had a documented history of assaults and violent behavior. 
   As you can see, it is imperative to find realistic solutions to stop such horrific crimes and to better serve the mental health population. I believe your proposed legislation would not only prevent possible crimes, but offer fair and safe treatment for individuals who suffer from severe mental illnesses. Currently, New Mexico is one of only eight states that do not provide an AOT service. The success rate of the AOT program in other states has been well documented in both research and in practice. It is time for New Mexico to take the steps to support individuals with severe mental illnesses and prevent the possible harm to themselves and possibly others. Let us not pledge not to have another day like August 18, 2005 in our state. 
   It is my hope this legislation will be accepted by both the New Mexico House of Representatives and the Senate and signed promptly into state law. Thank you very much for your attention to this matter, and if you need any other further assistance in this matter please let me know. 
   Sincerely, 
   Pete V. Domenici
  United States Senator
 
 