SEN. DOMENICI BACKS PASSPORT CHANGES AS COMMITTEE APPROVES HOMELAND SECURITY BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted to approve to approve funding for homeland security work in New Mexico, and cosponsored an amendment to provide more time to implement restrictive passport rules for American travelers.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee that today approved the FY2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. The bill is now set for consideration by the full Senate. 
   In light of recent problems experienced by New Mexicans applying for passports, Domenici cosponsored an amendment to delay full implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI)--the troubled passport program being administered by Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. State Department. 
   The committee accepted the amendment which restricts implantation of the passport program until June 1, 2009, or when technology and manpower are in place to properly carry out the passport program. 
   "WHTI is a worthwhile security measure that should be implemented, but not until the Departments of State and Homeland Security have a workable plan to do so. My constituents have made it clear that the program is not working now," Domenici said. 
   "We are providing more time to put the manpower and technology in place to do the job right and to ease the burden on U.S. citizens seeking to travel for legitimate reasons," he said. 
   Since WHTI took effect in January, Domenici's office has received volumes of calls from frustrated citizens experiencing significant passport application delays. 
   WHTI requires U.S. citizens traveling anywhere outside of the country, including Mexico and Canada, to have passport. The State Department and DHS established WHTI at the recommendation of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, also known as the 9-11 Commission. 
   The overall measure contained funding requested by Domenici for the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC) at Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) at Artesia, and New Mexico Tech's participation in the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium. 
   "The federal funds set aside for New Mexico in the homeland security bill will equip NISAC, the Border Patrol Academy at FLETC-Artesia, and the First Responder training program at New Mexico Tech, with the resources needed to continue to play an integral role in our nation's security," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee.
 
 