N.M. SENATORS: TIME TO CORRECT STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM INEQUITY THAT PENALIZES NEW MEXICO, OTHER STATES
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman with Maria Cantwell (D-Wa.) today led a bipartisan effort urging the Senate Finance Committee to correct an inequity in the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) law that prevents New Mexico from covering thousands of low-income children. 
   In a letter to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus and ranking member Charles Grassley, the Senators are urging support for a proposal that will fix a funding inequality and allow states like New Mexico to cover thousands more children through SCHIP. Separately, Governors representing the 11effected states, including Governor Bill Richardson, have also asked the Senate Finance Committee to implement a permanent fix to the problem.  
   "The law locks out states that demonstrated leadership on expanding poor children's insurance coverage early on, and as a consequence New Mexico is being denied access to much of the allotted funding. This inequity must be corrected in the reauthorization so that we receive the same badly-needed SCHIP payments as any other state and we may adequately provide coverage to needy kids," said Domenici. 
   "New Mexico has one of the highest uninsured rates in the country and is struggling to find adequate health care resources. The current SCHIP law is not working for New Mexico and it must be fixed," Bingaman said. "I'm working very hard to make sure the Finance Committee addresses this issue as we write the new SCHIP law." 
   Bingaman serves on the Senate Finance Committee that is expected to consider a new SCHIP bill in the coming weeks, and over the past few months has been helping shape that bill. 
   Through the creation of SCHIP in 1997, states were granted federal funds to expand coverage to low-income children who did not qualify for Medicaid but whose families could not afford health insurance. But that law unfairly penalizes states like New Mexico that had already expanded health care coverage to many low-income children before 1997, by prohibiting them from covering these children through SCHIP. As a result, New Mexico has been forced to return more than $165 million to the federal government since 1998. If changes to the law are not made soon, New Mexico could forfeit another $11.9 million this year. 
   The Senators' letter to Baucus and Grassley states, in part: "We urge you to ensure that any SCHIP reauthorization package allows qualifying states full access to our SCHIP allotment to support coverage for kids in our expansion populations. Further, any new baseline for determining SCHIP state allotments should count our expansion populations to help prevent our states from being further penalized for being leaders in kids' coverage." 
   The letter from the 11 governors indicated that the requested SCHIP change enjoys broad support, including that of the National Governors Association, which supports "authorizing a permanent fix at 100 percent." 
   "I've joined my fellow governors, Republican and Democrat, to support the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program and ask Congress to stop penalizing states that expanded coverage to children," stated Richardson. "In our state, this important program helped us to provide health insurance to more than 15,000 children and low-income adults. This program will also help us expand health care coverage to an additional 18,000 low income adults this year."
 
 