SEN. DOMENICI COMMENTS ON 'OVERSKEI REPORT'
  Sen. Pete Domenici today issued the following statement on the so-called "Overskei Report" on reorganizing the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) and the national laboratory system.  
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds Department of Energy, NNSA and the national laboratories. The Secretary's Advisory Board (SEAB) report is scheduled to be released today. (http://www.seab.energy.gov/news.htm) 
   The review was developed by Dr. David Overskei, who briefed Domenici on the report Wednesday. It is the ninth such DOE study commissioned since 1988. 
   "It is apparent that a lot of work and effort went into this report, and I want to take the time to review its findings and recommendations. While there is always room for improvement, I believe our labs are doing good work and I do not think we should rush into any quick fixes," Domenici said. 
   "I trust that some of the recommendations in this report will provide guidance and assistance to the NNSA and our national laboratories as they continue to provide the world-class science we require to maintain the security, safety and reliability of our nuclear deterrent," he said. 
   Related to the SEAB report that was initiated by former Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, Domenici included language in the Senate-passed version of the FY2006 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill to prohibit the use of any funding in the bill to implement any recommendations in the ongoing NNSA-sanctioned review. 
   That Senate report language to HR.2419 states: 
   "NNSA Complex Review - Initiated under former Secretary Abraham, a task force was commissioned to study potential reforms to the nuclear weapons complex. This is the ninth such study commissioned since 1988. Previous studies have proposed a multitude of wide-ranging proposals, of which many were justifiably ignored. The challenge for the latest study panel will be to develop a modest package of reforms that identify cost savings and improvement to the complex without undermining the safety and security of our nuclear deterrent. It is the hope of this Committee that the study group will support the ongoing reforms to modernize the stockpile, through the Reliable Replacement Warhead program. This initiative, which was first proposed in the fiscal year 2005 Consolidated Appropriations Conference Report (H. Rept. 108-447) by the Energy and Water subcommittee, is a means to assure continued certification of the existing stockpile and to make it more affordable to manufacture, maintain and secure weapons. Such a plan will challenge weapons designers, manufacturing experts, computer scientists and experimentalists at our national labs to modernize the stockpile and will require sufficient funding in Science and Engineering Campaigns. The RRW program is not a new weapon, and this fact should be clear to the study panel members. 
   "The Committee recognizes the temptation for panel members to recommend comprehensive changes to shake up the complex and set it on a new direction. However, the Committee disagrees with the purported proposal to consolidate all of the nuclear material and the entire weapons manufacturing capability, including the construction of a Modern Pit Facility, at a single location. There are very strong opinions in Congress regarding the siting of a new pit facility or changing the military capability of the existing weapons. As such, the Committee believes it is unlikely that Congress would support such comprehensive reforms as currently proposed by the NNSA Complex study panel. 
   "It would be premature for this study to recommend significant changes to the complex until it is clear to both the Department of Defense and the Department of the Energy agree on what the stockpile will look like in the future and has the concurrence of the Congress before policy makers are likely to support the deployment of a brand new weapon into the stockpile, even if the military requirements remain the same. Those who support broad complex-wide reforms to the complex must be realistic in their expectations in reinventing the complex. Such a task will take time to ensure that the necessary improvement adequately supports science based stockpile stewardship. 
   "To protect the interests of the Committee and to ensure that this report and it proposed recommendations are carefully considered, no funds shall be used to implement any of the panel's recommendations in fiscal year 2006. This delay will provide Congress the opportunity to fully review the impact of the proposed recommendations. Since this report was not contemplated in President's fiscal year 2006 request, Congress will consider the implementation of any reforms as part the President's fiscal year 2007 budget request."
 
 