SEN. DOMENICI: SENATE-HOUSE TALKS BEGIN ON ENERGY POLICY BILL
  The following is the text of Sen. Pete Domenici's opening statement for the launch of the Senate and House negotiations to finalize a National Energy Policy Bill.  
   Domenici, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, will lead the Senate delegation in the deliberations on the comprehensive energy policy plan (HR.6). 
   "Mr. Chairman. I can understand that some might want to begin today by saying that this is déja vu. But it is not. In the Senate, we have done something fundamentally different - we have worked together instead of against each other. 
   "In some ways, it was harder. This time, we could not simply resolve matters by staking out our positions and voting them out. Instead, we had to go through sometimes tedious negotiations and make compromises. But, in exchange for that, we got a bill that, in the end, I am very happy with. More importantly, my colleagues on both sides of the aisle helped us get that bill - they were a part of the process and, whether they won or lost on issues, they have bought into the final product. 
   "I must tell you that, on some issues, I lost. But I would rather do that and get a bill that has many provisions I think the country needs, than to win on all my issues and get nothing. I was surprised by how much credit we got for the process we used in the Senate. I did not predict the 21-1 vote by which the Energy Committee reported the Bill, and I was grinning ear to ear when the Senate passed its Bill 85-12. 
   "I want to thank each of my colleagues who are Senate conferees today. Thirteen of the 14 voted for the energy bill which is a pretty good approximation of the Senate. They asked for a fair process and, when we gave them one, they answered by supporting the result of that process. 
   "My highest priority in this conference is to ensure that the process remains fair. My goal is that no conferee should be able to complain about process. Doing that and getting done by August 1 is going to be tough, but it can be done. I keep in the back of my mind the fact that by being inclusive, the Senate actually finished its energy bill faster in this Congress than it did in the last. I think it is possible to be both inclusive and get done by August 1. 
   "There are a few new issues before us. But, for the most part, we know what the difficult issues are, and we know where the solutions are. I am going to have more to say as we consider each title - but in a first effort to make sure we can hear from all conferees, I am going to keep my remarks short and just start listening. 
   "I want to conclude by simply making an observation about Joe Barton. I do not know him very well - I have known John Dingell a lot longer. But I have been impressed. He knows the substance, he's a work horse not a show horse, and I think he truly wants to get this bill done. I am looking forward to our meetings - sometimes they are going to be tough, but I like the Chairman, and that is going to make this a lot easier."
 
 