SEN. DOMENICI BILL TAPS NEW MEXICO LABS FOR ROLES IN NATIONAL WATER TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
  With water quantity and quality reaching a crisis point in New Mexico and other areas of the nation, Sen. Pete Domenici today announced the introduction of major bipartisan legislation that will tap the expertise of Sandia, Los Alamos and other national laboratories to reinvigorate the nation's investment in water technologies.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has introduced the Department of Energy National Laboratory Water Technology Research and Development Act of 2004, an ambitious bill authorizing $200 million annually for basic and applied research and development in water supply technologies. 
   "After decades of neglect, it is time for water research to become a federal priority. We can no longer afford to invest in water in drips and drabs when it is vividly apparent that water-related issues will create some of the most significant domestic and international dilemmas facing us this century," Domenici said. 
   "My bill is ambitious, but it is necessary to be bold. Our effort must be as big as the problem. Its emphasis is on developing and deploying new and affordable technologies to improve water quantities. This program will push state of the art technology forward to ensure that Americans and people everywhere have adequate access to water. The advent of new scientific and technology breakthroughs, properly organized, can really work to solve our water problems," he said. 
   Domenici's primary cosponsors are Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), House Resources Committee Chairman Richard Pombo (R-Calif.) and Ken Calvert (R-Calif.), chairman of the Water and Power Subcommittee. Senators Jeff Bingaman, Larry Craig (R-Idaho) and Richard Durbin (D-Ill.) are also cosponsoring the Domenici bill. 
   "Drought and population changes are just two of the most significant factors making the management and use of water an urgent issue facing our country. Meeting this challenge requires an increased national commitment to water resources research. This legislation makes that commitment, and in doing so strongly supports the good efforts already underway at Sandia and Los Alamos labs," Bingaman said. 
   The Domenici bill creates a new mission within the Department of Energy, tapping Sandia National Laboratories as the lead DOE institution to coordinate the national water research technology program. Eight DOE national laboratories, in partnership with universities, will head eight regional centers. Los Alamos National Laboratory would lead the Southwest regional center. 
   The bill also creates a National Water Supply Law and Policy Institute to be administered by the University of New Mexico Law School Utton Center to help the technology developers understand the legal and regulatory contexts in which they operate. 
   For New Mexico, the bill would also authorize added support for the collaborative Bureau of Reclamation, Office of Navy Research and Sandia effort to create a desalination facility in the Tularosa Basin of Otero County. 
   The Domenici bill authorizes $200 million annually for basic and applied research and development in water supply technologies that emphasize improving water quantities. The funding would be dedicated to each research center, technology transfer and to competitive grants. 
   Domenici noted that federal investment in water augmentation research has declined from $160 million in 1970 to $14 million in 2000. At least 17 federal agencies do water research, but only three currently engage in water supply augmentation research. 
   "I believe Congress has a growing understanding of the magnitude of the water problems facing this nation. It's not just the arid Southwest. There are water problems in Washington, D.C., Seattle, Atlanta and every corner of the nation. And when we consider what we now pay for drought disasters and fiddling around the edges, the cost of this bill is not unreasonable," Domenici said. 
   In addition to water augmentation (e.g. desalination and conservation), research would entail finding water saving technologies associated with energy production. The average American home uses four times as much water in electricity production as it does in direct water consumption.
 
 