SEN. DOMENICI: LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS IN SIX EASTERN NEW MEXICO COUTIES ELIGIBLE FOR ADDED USDA DROUGHT AID
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed news that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has expanded eligibility in six eastern New Mexico counties for livestock producers to qualify for drought aid under a U.S. Department of Agriculture initiative to open Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acreage. 
   The USDA announcement will give livestock producers in Union, Harding, Quay, Curry, Roosevelt and Lea counties more opportunities to access grazing and hay for their herds. The decision also expands eligible CRP acreage to 150 miles out from any county approved for emergency haying and grazing. (www.fsa.usda.gov, click on Conservation)
   "I am glad the USDA is offering relief to livestock producers by opening access to CRP lands. New Mexico has faced many hardships with the prolonged drought, a situation exacerbated by the fact we have had virtually no measurable precipitation the first half of this year," said Domenici. "The drought, compounded by wildfires, has cut into the forage available to keep some ranch operations viable."
   To be eligible, a county must have suffered at least a 40-percent deviation from normal precipitation, or be at a D3 or D4 level for drought as rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor. Today's action will allow approved CRP participants to cut hay or graze livestock on CRP acreage, or provide supplemental forage to producers whose pastures have been hurt by drought.
   County eligibility for emergency grazing will be determined after consultations between the Farm Service Agency (FSA) state committees and the NRCS state technical committees.
   CRP producers place their land in retirement in order to improve environmental conditions. The program aids in erosion prevention, wildlife protection, and water quality improvement. New Mexico currently has 487,000 acres under CRP.
   Late last month, Domenici announced that the USDA was providing $1.09 million in Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) assistance to farmers in De Baca, Guadalupe, Lea, Mora, San Miguel and Union counties to overcome damage caused by wildfires and drought. This included $852,000 for wildfire recovery in De Baca, Guadalupe, Lea, Mora, San Miguel and Union counties, and $240,000 is for drought recovery work in Mora and San Miguel counties.
 
 