SEN. DOMENICI OPPOSES REGIONAL EPA DIRECTION ON LIVESTOCK WASTE REGULATIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed his opposition to a proposal by regional officials of the Environmental Protection Agency to impose new regulations on the control of livestock wastes that exceed national standards.  
   Domenici registered his opposition to action being taken by EPA Region 6 officials in Dallas to implement new Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFO) regulations that go beyond the standards set by EPA at the national level. Region 6 includes New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, and 66 American Indian Tribes. 
   At issue is a bid by EPA Region 6 to impose new NEPA requirements on any CAFO, such as a diary, and whether it was established before April 2003 as a "new source" and subject to NEPA reviews. The new rules involve the 2003 standards on "National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Regulation" and "Effluent Limitation Guidelines and Standards." 
   "The problem is that the EPA regional office is trying to go beyond the intent of Congress and even its own leadership in Washington. The new rules could mean onerous and costly new requirements for dairies and other livestock operations that have been operated and regulated for decades," Domenici said. "We're asking the EPA Region 6 to step back and follow the national rules set by the EPA." 
   "I do not oppose environmental reviews of dairies and livestock yards, but the EPA must be fair. This is not the first incident of Region 6 trying to impose additional requirements in excess of the national rule. Should this regional rule be upheld and this technical dispute prevail, it could be disruptive to the growing dairy industry in New Mexico," he said. 
   A bipartisan group of Senators have signed a letter to Region 6 Administrator Richard Greene in opposition to the tact the regional office is taking to implement the 2003 CAFO regulations. 
   "The process outlined by Region VI for a full NEPA review for any CAFO designated a new source in 1974 or 2003 is contradictory of congressional intent and EPA's own regulations and policies. We believe this is an unnecessary and counterproductive attempt to review numerous existing animal feeding operations that are not 'new sources' under the Clean Water Act," the lawmakers wrote to Greene. 
   "Many operations built within the past several decades, for example, were designed and built in accordance with EPA's 24-hour/25-year standards and therefore were not 'CAFOs' under the prior regulatory definition of that term. These sources may be newly regulated, but they are not subject to 'new source performance standards' and therefore are not 'new sources' subject to NEPA review. We fully expect you to make the necessary changes to this process, limiting the NEPA review to true new sources and to do so before proceeding with scoping meetings scheduled for later this month," the letter said. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Veterans' Affairs, Housing & Urban Development and Independent Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the EPA.
 
 