NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY PROGRAM RECEIVES $2.4 MILLION TO BOLSTER FACULITY RESEARCH
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that New Mexico State University in Las Cruces has received a $2.4 million grant to support faculty research projects in biomedical fields under the Support of Continuous Research Excellence (SCORE) Program.  
   Domenici has actively worked to support the development of biomedical research programs in New Mexico including the National Center of Genome Resources in Santa Fe. 
   The Senator also serves on the Senate VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee which funds the National Science Foundation, a government agency which promotes the progress of science. 
   "I'm pleased that over the years NMSU has kept its commitment to further New Mexico's standing in the biomedical research community and to improve opportunities for teachers and students," said Domenici. "I am pleased this award will allow more teachers to benefit from equipment and supplies that will help them in their research." 
   The purpose of the SCORE program is to develop competitive research programs and encourage underrepresented minorities to engage in professional biomedical research. The program supports faculty-initiated research projects in all areas of biomedical and behavioral research by providing equipment, supplies, technical personnel and other important resources. 
   As a derivative of the Minorities Biomedical Research Support (MBRS) Program, SCORE is administered through the NMSU Graduate Program in Molecular Biology. Six departments across two colleges at NMSU participate in the program. Since June 2000, when the program formally began, SCORE has sponsored 20 projects. 
   Between 1993 and 1997-the most recent data from the National Science Foundation-NMSU ranks second in the nation among public institutions in numbers of Hispanic students who earned their Ph.D. in a life science discipline and who listed NMSU as the institution from which they earned their bachelor's degree. 
   SCORE is funded by the National Institutes of Health, a medical research agency under the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 
   The MBRS program, established in 1974, strives to increase the number of ethnic minority students who complete undergraduate and doctoral degrees in the biomedical sciences.
 
 