ENERGY PANEL APPROVES SEN. DOMENICI BILL AUTHORIZING DESALINATION PROJECT IN SOUTHERN NEW MEXICO
  A bill authored by Sen. Pete Domenici that will support a major desalination project in the Tularosa Basin has been cleared for action by the full Senate today.  
   The Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which Domenici chairs, gave approval to S.1211, which would authorize the construction of a desalination facility in Otero County. Senator Jeff Bingaman is a cosponsor of the measure. 
   Construction on the facility began on June 29th. Thus far, funding from other sources, including the U.S. Navy, has supported the project. 
   The bill will team the Bureau of Reclamation with Sandia National Laboratories to manage and operate the facility that would be charged with discovering new, affordable technologies to produce potable water from brackish or saline water. 
   "I'm pleased my committee has passed this legislation, clearing it for action by the full Senate. Expanding the use of advanced desalination technologies remains one of my top priorities. This particular project will put technology to work to help our military and augment water resources in Otero County. Desalination technology is so important because it will provide more water while using same amount of resources," said Domenici. 
   "Water reclamation is helping the West meet its current water needs, and will become increasingly important in the future. Desalination research is helping us find ways to recycle and reuse water, and I believe it's important for the federal government to do what it can to advance the important desalination research that is already underway," Bingaman said. "The Tularosa Basin is a great home for this research facility." 
   S.1211 would authorize the Interior and Energy Departments to enter into an agreement to develop the Tularosa Basin facility, outlining a one-year planning process ($1.5 million) and a three-year construction plan ($30 million). It also authorizes $6 million to support desalination research at Sandia National Laboratories and another $10 million to support research at other universities through Sandia. 
   Under guidelines in the legislation, the new facility should be capable of processing at least 100,000 gallons of water a day, which would then be made available at no cost to one or more communities in Otero County to support existing resources. 
   The Tularosa Basin provides one of the most ideal locations in the world for desalination research due to the abundant availability, easy accessibility and variability of its saline water research. 
   The bill is the first step in what Domenici sees as a comprehensive approach national push to implement new water technologies. On Wednesday, Domenici will unveil his national water technology program bill, which includes comprehensive legislation to promote and invest in new water technology like desalination.
 
 