FEMA GRANTS FUNDS TO VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENTS IN SIERRA, CHAVES COUNTIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today commended two local fire departments for successfully completing another round of FEMA grant funding that will finance the purchase of several new sets of bunker gear and a mobile training trailer to teach fire prevention to communities.  
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee which sets funding levels for FEMA, announced that Dunken and Sierra Volunteer Fire Departments were selected to receive funding over 20,000 other grant applicants. 
   "Right now New Mexico is trying to weather out an unusually fierce dry spell that is plaguing our forests and grasslands with threatening wildfires," Domenici said. "Even small efforts such as making sure our firefighters have new protective gear, and taking the training trailer around to schools to teach about prevention, can help curb the damage these and other fires have on our communities." 
   The Dunken Volunteer Fire Department in Chaves County will use the $52,776 awarded by the U.S. Fire Administration to obtain 10 sets of bunker gear that includes fire-resistant pants, coats, gloves, boots and hats designed especially for structure fires. In addition, 20 Nomex coveralls designed for wildfires will be purchased. 
   The Sierra Volunteer Fire Department was awarded $45,000 for a mobile training trailer that can be taken to schools and retirement communities to simulate various fire hazards and the appropriate response. 
   "I applaud the initiative taken by both of these departments to secure funding for local projects. The training unit is designed to show students how to test for hot doors and walls, how to avoid smoke, and especially how to safely exit the vicinity," Domenici said. "These are basic tools needed to keep individuals safe and calm during a fire." 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) awarded these one-year grants after Congress appropriated and President Bush signed into law $750 million in federal funds for firefighters throughout the nation.
 
 