SENATE PASSES BILL WITH DOMENICI-BINGAMAN BACKED PROVISION TO CRIMINALIZE BORDER TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION
  The Senate today approved a bill cosponsored by U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman to establish federal penalties for those caught financing or constructing tunnels below the U.S. border with Mexico or Canada. 
   The Senate included the amendment, authored by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), as part of the FY2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. The border tunnel measure would set punishments for those who construct tunnels or subterranean passages or who knowingly permit others to build tunnels on their property.
   The DHS Appropriations Bill unanimously passed the Senate Thursday, and is now ready for a Senate-House conference committee to resolve differences with the House. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici will serve on the conference committee that will finalize the bill.
   "Criminals are burrowing under our border to smuggle people, drugs and weapons in to the United States. This must stop. I'm pleased the Senate has included this amendment in our homeland security funding bill so that we can enact tough federal penalties for those who build these tunnels and for those who sanction or support them," Domenici said.
   "We're finally taking important steps to beef up security along the border. We're increasing the number of Border Patrol agents, constructing vehicle barricades, and making greater use of high-tech tools such as cameras and unmanned aerial vehicles. The proposal to make it a federal crime to construct or finance tunnels to cross illegally into the country is another important way to strengthen border security," Bingaman said.
   Since 9/11, virtually all of the 40 tunnels discovered in the United States have been on the U.S.-Mexico border. These subterranean passages have ranged in sophistication from simple "gopher holes" a few feet long to massive drug-cartel tunnels. Earlier this year, a massive 2,400 yard tunnel was discovered between the Mexican border and a business in San Diego.
   The amendment would punish those convicted of building a tunnel with up to 20 years in prison, while calling for up to 10 years of prison time for those who let others do so on their land. Also, the bill doubles the sentence for anyone who is caught using a tunnel or passage to smuggle illegal immigrants, terrorists, weapons, drugs or illegal goods. If assets such as guns are involved, the federal government would gain the right to seize them.
 
 