SEN. DOMENICI: RUIDOSO, CAPITAN, CLOUDCROFT SIGN BUREAU OF REC. CONTRACTS FOR EMERGENCY WATER AID
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that contracts have been signed that will provide more New Mexico communities--the villages of Ruidoso, Capitan and Cloudcroft--with Bureau of Reclamation help to ease water shortage problems. 
   The Bureau has reached contract agreements to begin exploratory work in each of the three southern New Mexico communities, including pre-drilling permit, design and monitoring work associated with identifying optimal locations for potential new water wells. This work is expected to begin Monday.
   "Residents in each of these mountain communities are already living under water restriction rules, and their elected leaders have rightly enlisted the help of the Bureau to find the best means to ensure homes and businesses continue to have access to water," Domenici said.
   The three new contracts mean that five communities, including Ruidoso Downs and Las Vegas, have received federal help under the Bureau of Reclamation's Drought Emergency Assistance Program. Domenici gained $9.0 million and a five-year renewal for this program in June. Aid includes well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, and water banking, and conservation.
   The contract work for Ruidoso, Capitan and Cloudcroft will be carried out by John Shomaker and Associates in Albuquerque. No specific value of the contract has been determined. The exploratory work for Ruidoso will be done in the city's Eagle Creek well field, near, but not on, U.S. Forest Service land.
   Earlier this month, the Bureau signed contracts to begin water well drilling for Ruidoso Downs and Las Vegas. This Bureau program is designed to allow the Bureau to help states, tribes and some nonprofit organizations find ways to minimize the losses and damages associated with severe drought situations.
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee which has funding jurisdiction over the Bureau of Reclamation. As an appropriator, Domenici has also supported FY2007 funding to help farmers and ranchers survive the ongoing severe drought. This includes $17 million for the USDA Emergency Conservation Program.
 
 