SEN. DOMENICI'S ESPA?OLA-CHIMAYO WATER PROJECTS BILL PASSED BY SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that his legislation to help residents in Chimayo and Espa?ola areas access cleaner water has cleared a major hurdle.  
   Domenici's Chimayo Water Supply System and Espanola Water Filtration Facility Act of 2004 (S.2511) was today passed by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which the Senator chairs. It was introduced June 8 and is cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman. 
   Domenici's bill directs the Interior Secretary to conduct a feasibility study of a Chimayo water supply system, in addition to providing for the planning, design, and construction of a water supply, reclamation, and filtration facility for Espa?ola. 
   "The people in the Espa?ola and Chimayo areas are currently forced to live in less than ideal conditions due to water shortages and contamination. Frankly, they are in need of a break. This legislation will give them one by providing congressional assistance that will alleviate what is beginning to become a serious health and environmental problem. By relying less on antiquated septic tanks and switching to a more efficient, sanitary central water system, the community will benefit," Domenici said. 
   "I believe it is important for the federal government to offer financial help to New Mexico communities as they struggle to meet their water needs. This legislation will assist Espa?ola and Chimayo as they undertake the significant water infrastructure investments that will help sustain their communities," Bingaman said. 
   Domenici's two-pronged bill would authorize the Department of Interior to conduct an extensive study on the feasibility of establishing a water supply system in the unincorporated town of Chimayo, which has been forced to rely on potable water deliveries from the National Guard since 2001. It would also authorize up to $3 million for the Interior Department to provide emergency water supply development assistance. 
   The Chimayo water supply system study would determine the feasibility of linking with the planned Espa?ola Water Filtration Facility. Studies have determined that up to 75 percent of the water in individual wells and irrigation ditches in Chimayo are contaminated. 
   The Domenici legislation would also aid Espa?ola by authorizing $3 million for the Interior Department to aid the city in the planning, designing and construction of a regional water filtration facility that will allow the community to access its allotment of the San Juan-Chama water settlement. It also contains provisions aiding the San Juan and Santa Clara pueblos as part of the regional water system. 
   The Committee also passed other Domenici-authored bills, including S.2460, the New Mexico Water Planning Assistance Act, and S.2508, which will name the Ridges Basin Reservoir Lake Nighthorse in honoring of retiring Colorado Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell.
 
 