DEFENSE POLICY BILL INCLUDES SEN. DOMENICI'S PROVISION TO ENSURE LOS ALAMOS SCHOOL FUNDING
  The Senate on Monday will take up a defense policy bill that includes a provision written by Sen. Pete Domenici authorizing continued Energy Department funding to the Los Alamos Public School District.  
   The language is included in the FY 2005 Defense Authorization Bill, which the Senate is scheduled to begin debating on Monday. The directive was included in the legislation by the Senate Armed Services Committee at Domenici's request. 
   The Domenici language directs the Department of Energy to modify the management and operating contract for Los Alamos National Laboratory to provide $8.0 million annually to the Los Alamos Public School District. 
   "The capacity for the Los Alamos Schools to provide a good education has been an important factor in LANL's ability to attract and retain top-notch scientists to the lab. This provision makes it clear that we don't want there to be any question that the Energy Department should provide this aid," Domenici said. 
   The authorization, which is not expected to be challenged during next week's Senate debate, is one step in Domenici's commitment to ensure continued federal funding to support public education associated with LANL. The funding was not included in the DOE budget requests submitted to Congress in February. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds DOE and the national laboratories. His subcommittee will soon gear up for development of the FY2005 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill which would include the actual DOE and Los Alamos related funding outlined in FY2005 defense policy bill. 
   Domenici pointed out that the bill maintains President Bush's authorization request for $30 million in "new plant projects" for LANL. These include $20 million for security perimeter improvements and $10 million for power grid infrastructure upgrades. 
   The Senate is expected to complete debate and pass the FY 2005 Defense Authorization Bill by the end of next week.
 
 