SENS. KOHL, DOMENICI AMENDMENT TO PROTECT SENIORS FROM ABUSE INCLUDED IN SENATE BUDGET
  Today U.S. Senator Herb Kohl (D-Wisc.), chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, and Senator Pete Domenici (R-N.M.) hailed the passage of an amendment to the FY2009 Budget Resolution that will set aside $160 million over three years to protect America's vulnerable seniors from predators through the creation of a comprehensive nationwide system of background checks for long-term care workers.
   As it stands now, thousands of individuals with a history of substantiated abuse or a criminal record are hired every year to work closely with exposed and defenseless seniors within our nation's nursing homes and other long-term care facilities. Today such predators can easily evade detection throughout the hiring process, securing jobs that allow them to abuse one of our most vulnerable populations both physically and financially. 
   "The current system of state-based background checks is haphazard, inconsistent, and full of gaping holes," said Kohl. "Last night's approval of the amendment marks a milestone in moving this issue forward and in reducing elder abuse."
   "Ours is an effort to stop tragedies before they can happen by setting a national system to keep those who prey on the elderly, chronically ill and disabled from having access to these vulnerable people," Domenici said.
   The Kohl-Domenici budget amendment was cosponsored by Senators Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), Hillary Clinton (D-N.Y.), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Carl Levin (D-Mich.), Bob Casey (D-Pa.) and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.).
   "Seniors living in nursing homes have the right to expect quality care, and that means knowing those who are caring for them pass high standards," Bingaman said. "This amendment takes us one step closer to giving seniors in nursing homes-and their families-that peace of mind."
   The amendment has set aside funding that will be made available upon passage of the Patient Safety and Abuse Prevention Act of 2007 (S. 1577). This bill would establish a nationwide system of background checks to prevent those with criminal histories and records of substantiated abuse from being hired to work within long-term care settings. The legislation is modeled on a successful seven-state pilot program sponsored by Chairman Kohl as part of the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. Each state was provided with funding to make much-needed investments in their databases, create workforce background check units, update applicable laws and regulations, and offer additional training to long-term care providers.
   The seven-state pilot program in Wisconsin, New Mexico, Alaska, Idaho, Illinois, Michigan and Nevada has already prevented more than 7,200 people with records of substantiated abuse or a violent criminal record from working with and preying upon frail elders and individuals with disabilities.
   The budget amendment and S.1577 are both strongly endorsed by State Attorneys General across the country, the Elder Justice Coalition, which speaks for over 500 member organizations; AARP; the American Health Care Association; NCCNHR; the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging; and advocates in hundreds of communities who work every day to protect the well-being of elders and individuals with disabilities.
   S.1577 was introduced last June by Kohl and Domenici. Rep. Tim Mahoney (D-Fla.) introduced a companion bill (HR.3078) last July in the U.S. House of Representatives, with Reps. Rahm Emanuel (D-Ill.) and Nancy Boyda (D-Fla.) as original cosponsors.
 
 