SEN. DOMENICI ENDORSES HIGH PLAINS EDUCATION COOP BID FOR NSF GRANT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that he has endorsed a grant application that would improve science and technology education in eight northeast New Mexico school districts. 
   Domenici, a leading congressional advocate for improving math and science education, has written the National Science Foundation (NSF) to endorse the High Plains Regional Education Cooperative application for grant funding. The grant would help launch a Science Through Technology Initiative in eight school districts in Cimarron, Clayton, Des Moines, Maxwell, Mosquero, Raton, Roy and Springer.
   "These school districts are largely underserved and rural, but that does not mean they should be bypassed in the bid to increase student proficiency in math, science and technology," Domenici said. "I have asked the head of the NSF to take a good look at this application and consider it for funding."
   The High Plains cooperative has applied for $1.2 million over three years through the NSF Information Technology Experiences for Students and Teachers (ITEST) grant program, which is a comprehensive project involving Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) based at New Mexico State University.
   The Science Through Technology Initiative would involve a three-year program consisting a series of Field Ecology Environmental Team projects and workshops geared toward improving student achievement. The High Plains Regional Education Cooperative, headquartered in Raton, serves eight school districts and 10 communities in a 10,000 square mile area within northeastern New Mexico.
   Domenici, along with Senator Jeff Bingaman, is a primary coauthor of the America COMPETES Act (S.761), which has been approved by the Senate. The bill would boost American competitiveness by investing in research, development and education. It would push the NSF and Department of Energy to boost public education in these areas.
   America COMPETES authorizes programs to train teachers in math and science education through DOE and the Department of Education. Finally, the bill instructs the DOE national laboratories to establish training and education programs at lab-sponsored summer institutes, and to create partnerships with high schools to build centers of excellence in math and science education.
 
 