SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS, ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, May 14, 2007. 
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Anthony Gonzales, KSWV Santa Fe
   * Mike Jaxson, KSVP Artesia
   * Evan Woodward - KRWG Las Cruces
   TOPICS:
   Outlook on Immigration Reform Legislation
   Constituent Interest in Immigration and War in Iraq
   Violence at Columbus-Palomas Border Crossing
   President Bush's Approval Ratings
   Handling 12 Million Illegal Aliens
   Border Fence Needs
   Drugged and Deported
   Border Security Requirements
   National Police Week
   REVIEW:
   00:27 Domenici discusses the likelihood that the Senate effort to take up border security and immigration reform legislation could hit a roadblock.
   02:13 Domenici reports that immigration reform and the war in Iraq are the top issues constituents want to discuss with him during visits to New Mexico.
   05:15 Domenici says he hopes quick federal responses to drug-related violence in Palomas has "nipped" what could have become a major public safety problem in the Columbus area. He discusses his conversations with U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Antonio O. Garza, Homeland Security, and State department officials about the violence and the need to ensure U.S. border security in the area.
   08:43 Domenici acknowledges that President Bush's low approval ratings are a drag on Republican members of Congress.
   10:25 Domenici explains his ideas on how immigration reform legislation could handle the estimated 10-12 million illegal immigrants now in the United States.
   13:12 Domenici stresses that immigration reform legislation would be led with new provisions to secure the U.S. border, including manpower, technology and other resources to deter illegal entry.
   15:22 Domenici says any incident of illegal immigrants being wrongfully drugged before being deported should be investigated.
   16:41 Domenici says he does not support building a way along the entire stretch of the U.S.-Mexico border. He says the border can be secured with a combination of technology, barriers, fences, personnel and other resources.
   18:47 Domenici pays tribute to two fallen New Mexico law enforcement officers who will be honored this week as part of National Police Week in Washington. The fallen officers who died in the line of duty are Bernalillo County Sheriff's Deputy James F. McGrane Jr. of Albuquerque and New Mexico State Police Officer James A. Archuleta of Espa?ola.
 
 