SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES FALLEN N.M. POLICE OFFICERS IN NATIONAL POLICE WEEK TRIBUTE
  As part of National Peace Officers Week, Sen. Pete Domenici today paid tribute to two fallen law enforcement officers from New Mexico who will be honored in a national ceremony Tuesday on Capitol Hill.
   In a Congressional Record statement released Monday, Domenici honored Bernalillo County Sheriff's Deputy James F. McGrane Jr. of Albuquerque and New Mexico State Police Officer James A. Archuleta of Espa?ola, both of whom died in the line of duty last year. 
   "This week we remember the dedication of Deputy McGrane and Patrolman Archuleta and all of our fallen police and women who protect and serve our communities, and the tragic price they paid for that devotion. We must also remember the families of all fallen officers and the sacrifices they have incurred because of a deep-seated commitment to duty and public service," Domenici said.
   "All of us from New Mexico owe a debt of gratitude to each and every officer who has lost their life in the line of duty. To those who continue to serve, we are grateful. You have my utmost admiration," he said.
   Archuleta's and McGrane's names have been engraved on the National Peace Officers Memorial Wall in Washington, along with 143 other officers who died last year. The fallen officers will be honored at the 26th Annual Peace Officers Memorial Service Tuesday.
   McGrane was murdered May 22, 2006 while making a traffic stop. The case, cited on America's Most Wanted, led to the arrest of Michael Paul Astorga, who had fled to Juarez, Mexico. Archuleta died June 4, 2006, in an automobile accident as he was responding to a shooting.
   National Peace Officers Day and National Police Week have been commemorated since 1962, which Congress passed a law designating them. National Peace Officers Memorial Wall includes the names of 126 fallen New Mexicans dating back more than 100 years.
   For more information, visit: http://www.1nleomf.com/
   STATEMENT OF SENATOR PETE V. DOMENICI REGARDING NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
   Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I rise today to commemorate the hard work and sacrifices made daily by law enforcement officers all across our great land. Many officers have lost their lives in the line of duty so that our families and communities may remain safe. We must never forget those who have given their lives to protect us all.
   In 1962 President John F. Kennedy first declared the annual celebration of Peace Officers Memorial Day and National Police Week in "recognition of the service given by the men and women who, night and day, stand guard in our midst to protect us through enforcement of our laws."
   Sadly, since the turn of the last century, more than 126 law enforcement officers have been killed in the line of duty in New Mexico. This year, two New Mexico police officers will be honored and remembered by having their names added to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C.
   The first, Bernalillo County Sheriff's Deputy James F. McGrane of Albuquerque was tragically shot and killed on March 22, 2006 while making a traffic stop. Unknown at the time to Deputy McGrane, the driver of the vehicle Michael Paul Astorga was wanted for a 2005 murder. As he approached the vehicle, Deputy McGrane was cold bloodedly shot twice and died at the scene. A massive man hunt in New Mexico ensued. After the case was profiled on the television show Americas Most Wanted Astorga was apprehended in Juarez, Mexico and expedited to the United States. Deputy McGrane had served with the Bernalillo County Sheriff's Department for three years and had previously served with the New Mexico State Police and the United States Postal Inspection Service.
   Also being honored this week is New Mexico State Police Patrolman James A. Archuleta of Espanola who was killed June 4, 2006 in an automobile accident. Patrolman Archuleta was responding to a shooting when the accident occurred. Patrolman Archuleta had served with the New Mexico State Police for two years and was also a member of the US Marine Corps Reserves.
   This week we remember the dedication of Deputy McGrane and Patrolman Archuleta and all of our fallen Policemen and women who protect and serve our communities, and the tragic price they paid for that devotion. We must also remember the families of all fallen officers and the sacrifices they have incurred because of a deep-seated commitment to duty and public service. All of us from New Mexico owe a debt of gratitude to each and every officer who has lost their life in the line of duty. To those who continue to serve, we are grateful. You have my utmost admiration.
 
 