SEN. DOMENICI GIVES N.M. TECH ROLE IN U.S. BOMBING PREVENTION INITIATIVE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today supported committee passage of a bill that will give New Mexico Tech a role in a new federal Office for Bombing Prevention within the Department of Homeland Security.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee that today approved the National Bombing Prevention Act of 2007 (S.2292). Within this bill, Domenici included language providing New Mexico Tech with a consultation and coordinating role as a leading partner in the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium (NDPC). 
   "The devastating use of IEDs around the world has shown us that we cannot be oblivious to the threat these bombs could pose in the United States. This office is intended to focus American attention on how to prevent or prepare for the use of such dastardly devices," Domenici said. "New Mexico Tech has a wealth of expertise in explosives and I am pleased it will be able to bring those skills to bear in this homeland security initiative." 
   S.2292 would establish the Office of Bombing Prevention to improve the coordination of efforts to deter, detect, prevent, protect against and respond to explosive attacks. The bill directs the administration to develop a national strategy to prevent and prepare for terrorist attacks in the United States using explosives or improvised explosive devices. This strategy includes the coordination of efforts with state, local and tribal governments, as well as emergency response providers and the private sector. 
   The NDPC, funded through the Department of Homeland Security, is used to identify, develop, test, and deliver training to state and local emergency responders. New Mexico Tech, through its Energetic Materials Research and Testing Center (EMRTC), offers live explosive training, including the use of field exercises and classroom instruction. Tech is the lead NDPC partner for explosives and firearms, live explosives, and incendiary devices training, 
   As such, Domenici worked to include language in the bill to ensure DHS coordination with the NDPC on "national and intergovernmental bombing prevention activities to ensure those activities work toward achieving common national goals." 
   The bill authorizes $10 million to establish the office in FY2008, $25 million a year to carry out its mission in FY2009 and FY2010, and such sums as necessary thereafter. 
   The measure, now ready for full Senate consideration, is supported by the National Bomb Squad Commanders Advisory Board, National Tactical Officers Association and the International Association of Bomb Technicians and Investigators. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds NDCP. The Senate-passed FY2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill provides $145 million for NDPC, including $22 million for New Mexico Tech's role. 
   NDCP: http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/odp/training_ndpc.htm 
   New Mexico Tech EMRTC: http://www.emrtc.nmt.edu/
 
 