SEN. DOMENICI GUARANTEES CAPITOL HOLIDAY TREE FROM NEW MEXICO, PRAISES PROGRESS ON SANTA FE WATERSHED PROJECT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said that if an environmental lawsuit interferes with plans to cut down the tree selected as the U.S. Capitol Holiday Tree, he is making arrangements for another tree to be cut down to ensure that New Mexico still provides this year's holiday tree.  
   Domenici is now at work to secure an alternative holiday tree from the Valles Caldera Preserve, which is not subject to the same environmental restrictions as national forests. The tree will be similar to the one selected from the national forest, and will be ready to be cut down and shipped to Washington if it is needed. 
   "I refuse to let environmental extremists and a federal judge play Scrooge with our holiday tree. I am securing an alternative tree from a different location that will be exempt from the court's ruling and therefore able to cut down in time to make it to Washington. While I still hope that the original tree from Santa Fe National Forest will be the one making the journey, I want New Mexicans to know that no matter what, their state will be providing the national Capitol Holiday tree this year," said Domenici, who is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   The Senator is attending the Tree New Mexico reception in Santa Fe tonight, where 12 artists will display their renditions of the tree, with the winner chosen at the official portrait of the Capitol Holiday Tree. Children from throughout New Mexico are also making ornaments to decorate the tree when it arrives in Washington. 
   However, in response to a lawsuit, the Forest Service has put on hold plans associated with cutting down the Holiday Tree from the Santa Fe National Forest, pending a 30-day public comment period. Since the tree must be harvested in November in order to be ready for national ceremony on Dec. 8, the status of the tree is now in doubt. 
   "The U.S. Capitol Holiday Tree is a beautiful symbol of the holiday season that shares our state with the rest of the country. I'm deeply troubled by both the ruling and interpretation of a California court case which can interfere with the ability of the Forest Service to cut down trees. Over a year of planning and excitement has gone into this New Mexico holiday tree, and come December 8 I want it in Washington so that it can be lighted," Domenici said. 
   The Holiday Tree is scheduled to travel throughout New Mexico in November before being transported to Washington, where it will be lit in a Dec. 8 ceremony at the U.S. Capitol. Sixty five smaller holiday trees from New Mexico are also being delivered for use in other Washington offices. 
   Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman sent a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns asking for their prompt attention to the possibility of a delay, which could impede a statewide tour of the holiday conifer and its delivery to Washington D.C. on schedule. 
   The Forest Service response to the ruling on Earth Island Institute v. Pengilly on categorical exclusions could affect about 90 outstanding permit and project requests in New Mexico--ranging from recreation area improvements to health forest projects to special use permits. 
   Also today, Domenici attend the Santa Fe Watershed Forum, in which he congratulated those involved in the watershed for their work they have accomplished over the past few years. 
   Domenici obtained $4.5 million for forest thinning in the watershed, which is within the Santa Fe National Forest, including $1.6 million for FY2006. So far, nearly 5,000 acres have been completed, and up to 1,800 acres are still waiting to be improved. 
   "We have already accomplished a tremendous amount at the Santa Fe watershed. Forest thinning is the key to healthier, safer forests that are good for the environment and the community. However, lawsuits like the one holding up the Capitol Holiday Tree remain a major threat to progress around the country, which is a shame because so much work still needs to be done," said Domenici, who is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "There is an undeniable link between overgrown forests, drought, and fire. Too often, we've had to deal with the aftermath of disastrous fires in our state and across the West. In areas we've treated, however, fires have been controllable and have not spread. I plan on continuing to work with activists who are interested in the long term health of our beautiful forests to find common sense solutions to the threats that we face," he continued. 
   The Santa Fe watershed is 17,250 acres of mostly federal land that remains entirely uninhabited and closed to all public use. In the watershed, the Santa Fe River flows through the Pecos Wilderness to fill two reservoirs, Nichols and McClure, which supply Santa Fe with approximately 40 percent of the city's water.
 
 