SEN. DOMENICI DEDICATES NEW ADELANTE DEVELOPMENT CENTER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today helped dedicate a new headquarters for the Adelante Development Center and other groups that work on behalf of people with disabilities.  
   The new building will serve as Adelante's headquarters, and has been dedicated in Domenici's honor. Three other nonprofit agencies will share office space. Adelante is a non-profit organization which trains and places individuals with developmental disabilities and mental illnesses in good jobs. The group has locations in Bernalillo, Sandoval, and Valencia counties. 
   Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has obtained $3.6 million for Adelante over the past three years. For FY2006, he has obtained $1.6 million for the group in the Senate version of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill, which has not yet been finalized. 
   "Adelante means forward in Spanish. It is an appropriate name for a group that has done so much to improve the lives of disabled New Mexicans. Right now, more than 600 people in our state benefit from good jobs obtained by Adelante--jobs which they otherwise may never have been given a chance to pursue," Domenici said. 
   "The great thing about this group is that it not only meets the needs of the disabled, but also local small businesses, which are the backbone of our economy. When you find a program that does so much good for our people and our economy, you must support it, and I intend to continue to champion efforts for the Adelante Development Center in the Senate," he continued. 
   This past summer, Adelante's Facilities Services branch was awarded a contract worth more than $7 million to have disabled New Mexicans provide dorm management for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Artesia, joining a client list that includes Kirtland Air Force Base, the State of New Mexico, and the National Hispanic Cultural Center. 
   Adelante also runs a training institute, which conducts training for staff, employees of similar agencies statewide, self-advocates, parents, and individuals who work directly in support of people with severe disabilities.
 
 