SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES NEW MEXICO MINORITY BUSINESS GROWTH, ACCEPTS BUSINESS ADVOCATE AWARD FOR LONG-TIME SUPPORT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today saluted the can-do spirit of New Mexico's minority small business community, saying it has established a stronger pro-business environment that is creating more prosperous and progressive communities throughout the state.  
   Domenici Friday spoke to participants of the New Mexico Minority Enterprise Development (MED) Week gala awards luncheon, where he received the "Minority Business Advocate Award" for his continued efforts on behalf of small businesses. 
   "There is nothing more rewarding than seeing a small business, particularly one owned by a minority or woman, succeed and grow. Minority-owned small businesses are very important to our economic health and comprise an expanding segment of New Mexico's continued economic growth," Domenici said. 
   "The example set by today's minority small business owners not only works to add to the economic vitality of a community, it also gives more and more youth a notion that there are so many opportunities in their future. A pro-business mindset is so important to our future, especially within our growing Hispanic and Native American communities," he said. 
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici has consistently secured funding for programs such as the Small Business Administration Women's Business Centers program, 8(a) Business Development Program, and WESST Corp. Community Development Loan Fund. He has worked to ensure that large government operations in New Mexico, like the two DOE national laboratories, provide contract opportunities to minority and small businesses. 
   Domenici indicated that New Mexico is one of the fastest growing states in the country, with over a 20 percent population increase in the past 15 years. Small businesses in New Mexico account for more than 96 percent of the jobs. 
   "The number of minority-owned businesses has increased by more than 50 percent in the last 10 years, creating a surge of business and employment opportunities for many New Mexicans," Domenici said. "Small business owners have immersed themselves in every facet of civic life and I am committed to working on their behalf to strengthen what is the heart of New Mexico's economic life." 
   The MED Week "The Art of the Deal: Making It Happen" awards luncheon brought together 300 small business owners, including five awards to minority business firms and two to minority business buyers.
 
 