SEN. DOMENICI REPORTS $20 MILLION AWARD TO NEW MEXICO INSTITUTE OF MINING AND TECHNOLOGY FOR FIRST RESPONDER TRAINING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today heralded the release of nearly $20 million to the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology (New Mexico Tech), which will be used to continue the First Responders training program.  
   The funding award was made to the Socorro institution through the U.S. Justice Department's (DOJ) Homeland Security National Training Program. Domenici secured the funding in the FY2005 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. 
   "First Responders training remains a top priority when we attempt to fortify the nation against external weaknesses. Emergency personnel travel from across the country to receive the first-rate training at New Mexico Tech, which demonstrates the pivotal role the university plays in national security," Domenici said. "I secured this funding last year and will work on the conference committee in the coming months to continue support for NDPC." 
   New Mexico Tech is a member of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium (NDPC), a partnership among the DOJ and five nationally recognized public universities that support the department's Office for Domestic Preparedness. 
   Domenici gained $22 million for New Mexico Tech's First Responder training activities in the Senate-passed FY2006 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. As a member of this appropriations subcommittee, Domenici will serve on the conference committee that will negotiate differences between House and Senate versions of the bill. 
   The program provides tailored and specialized training to prevent, protect, respond to or recover from emergency situations. Training may include preparation for incidents involving chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive attacks. 
   The lawmaker indicated that training may be created or reoriented to ensure that first responders develop the knowledge, skills and abilities to safely and effectively handle terrorist attacks, natural disasters and other major emergencies. 
   The $20 million funding award is related to the 1996 Nunn-Lugar-Domenici law that created the First Responders program to provide training courses to local police and fire chiefs, health authorities, and local leaders who would likely be the first to arrive at the scene of an attack. The Nunn-Lugar-Domenici program has provided the United States with the ability to detect, monitor, and deter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
 
 