SEN. DOMENICI CONGRATULATES MAIN STREET PROJECTS IN NINE N.M. COMMUNITIES
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici has congratulated nine New Mexico communities for their efforts to revitalize aging downtown and commercial areas in conjunction with the nationwide Main Street Program.  
   The following communities received national accreditation for completing the Main Street Four-Point Approach: Artesia, Clayton, Clovis, Hobbs, Las Cruces, Las Vegas, Los Alamos, Raton, and Silver City. 
   The following remarks are part of Domenici's floor statement and will be included in their entirety the Congressional Record: 
   "The work that has been done in these communities to preserve the history of downtown, as well as bring it into the twenty-first century, is to be honored. Main streets are a big part of every community's history. They provide a look into the past, and with these revitalizations, a positive look into the future. 
   "Downtown used to be the hub of a city. With the invention of the automobile, cities have spread out and often no longer have just one central area of activity. 
   "With these new improvements to local main streets, towns are beginning to experience businesses returning to these areas. These towns have been able to marry the past with the present. They are honoring old businesses that have been in downtown areas for years, while encouraging new businesses to open their doors in this district. The success of their efforts is evident by this award. 
   "I congratulate these cities on the good work they are doing to bring the main street appeal back into their cities." 
   The Main Street Program is a project of the National Trust for Historic Preservation and works to restore and revitalize traditional commercial and downtown areas in communities across the country through the Four-Point Approach: organization, design, promotion, and economic restructuring. 
   There are over 1,200 active Main Street Programs nationally. Although not all have received national accreditation yet, participating New Mexico communities include: Artesia, Bernalillo, Carlsbad, Clayton, Clovis, Corrales, Farmington, Gallup, Grants, Hobbs, Las Cruces, Las Vegas, Los Alamos, Portales, Raton, Roswell, Santa Rosa, Silver City, and Tucumcari. 
   For more information, visit www.mainstreet.org.
 
 