ALBUQUERQUE AIRCRAFT SAFETY PROGRAM FUNDING APPROVED BY SENATE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has given approval to $2.5 million he requested to continue work carried out at the Aging Aircraft Nondestructive Inspection Validation Center (AANC) in Albuquerque.  
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that today gave approval to the FY2005 Transportation, Treasury and General Government Appropriations Bill, which contains funds for the AANC. The bill is now ready for action by the full U.S. Senate. 
   "Down the road, people who depend on safe, reliable air travel could benefit from the work being done at the AANC. Many carriers rely on aircraft that are getting old. As time goes on, the stress and wear and tear of constant usage take a toll on aircraft. The work being done in Albuquerque to ensure the safety of older aircraft is very valuable, and I'm pleased the Appropriations Committee has agreed to fund it," Domenici said. 
   The AANC, located at Kirtland Air Force Base, works with industry in a comprehensive effort to improve the safety of aging aircraft. The Albuquerque center also helps manage related aging aircraft programs, and participates in the development, evaluation, and demonstration of nondestructive inspection techniques on aging aircraft. 
   Within the bill, Domenici also worked to ensure that the Transportation Department would not reprogram transit funding previously appropriated for Albuquerque. At Domenici's request, the Senate bill includes a directive to the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) not to reallocate transit funding provided in previous years for the Greater Albuquerque Mass Transit Project. An estimated $4.8 million remains available for Albuquerque. 
   The bill provides $3.9 billion nationally for FTA formula grants, and preliminary estimates are that the state of New Mexico would receive $12.8 million. 
   Elsewhere around New Mexico, the bill has $2 million in FAA funding secured by Domenici to continue support for the Flight Safety Training Center in Roswell. The Roswell center is designed to train commercial pilots to handle loss-of-control aircraft situations. The classroom and simulation training are akin to the same techniques now used to train test pilots, and the center will also refine "upset recovery" technology used to train military pilots. Using technology developed for the military, the Roswell Flight Safety Training Center is preparing to train 2,000 pilots over a five-year period. 
   Also included in the bill is $250,000 to support New Mexico State University's Bridge Research Center. The Center conducts bridge evaluations using sensors and instrumentation, improving bridge design methodologies, and testing more durable materials to construct bridges. 
   Of significance to New Mexico federal workforce, the bill includes a 3.5 percent pay raise for federal civilian employees, including at the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security, effective Jan. 1, 2005. This is the same as the basic pay raise for military personnel to provide pay parity for federal personnel. 
   Domenici noted that the congressional outlook for approving this bill and other FY2005 appropriations bills is unclear at this point and will extend beyond the Oct. 1 start of the federal fiscal year.
 
 