SEN. DOMENICI COMMEMORATES FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING CENTER'S 35TH ANNIVERSARY
  After years of providing intense and critical training to federal officers from the U.S. and abroad, Sen. Pete Domenici today celebrated the 35th anniversary of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center program, including the importance that the facility in Artesia has played in national security.  
   Domenici recognized FLETC's reputation as the "premier" law enforcement training center worldwide in a statement he issued for the Congressional Record, and expressed his satisfaction in helping bring FLETC to southeast New Mexico. 
   "Since its inception in 1970, FLETC has provided primary and advanced law enforcement training for at least 81 federal agencies, and serves as the project manager for the International Law Enforcement Academies. Over the past three and one half decades, FLETC has grown from a fledgling organization into the world's premier law enforcement training center," Domenici said. 
   In 1989, Domenici, then ranking member on the Senate's appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over federal law enforcement, gained approval to establish a FLETC center in Artesia to supplement the main training center in Glynco, Ga. 
   "Thirty five years ago, the costs of providing high quality training were far too high for any single agency to bear. But training operations were standardized and consolidated into high-quality and cost-effective programs and taxpayer's dollars were saved. FLETC's success is a tribute to its leaders, instructors and graduates and pledge my continued support for its mission," Domenici said. 
   Since its inception, Domenici has helped secure millions for construction at the FLETC-Artesia campus, including new dormitories, firing ranges, an office complex, and aquatics training facility. The 2,540 acre site developed at the former Artesia Christian College includes grounded aircraft, classrooms, drug and fingerprint labs, physical techniques facilities, and vehicle proficiency courses. 
   As a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici will serve on a conference committee to reconcile differences between House and Senate versions of a bill that includes $41 million for FLETC-Artesia. In addition to the Domenici-secured funding, the Senate bill contains language ensuring that all training currently conducted at Artesia will remain there. 
   "I commend the 35 years of hard work done at FLETC, and for the countless lives that have been saved by the proud graduates of FLETC, I extend my heartfelt congratulations. The fact that FLETC trainees continue to excel is a tribute to their hard work," Domenici said. "I am pleased to have played a role in establishing FLETC in New Mexico and hope to make the training center in Artesia an even bigger success." 
   Following the Sept. 11 attacks, the FLETC environment was reoriented toward in-flight security and the number of students being trained at FLETC-Artesia swelled from an average of 150 per day to 700 per day. Domenici noted that the facility is expected to train about 900 Border Patrol agents this year, and improvements gained with Domenici-secured appropriations will allow the campus to train an estimated 1,700 agents annually.
 
 