SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS RESOLUTION CALLING FOR LONG-TERM COORDINATOR FOR KATRINA RECONSTRUCTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions in introducing a Senate resolution calling on President Bush to name an independent manager to oversee all federal hurricane relief and rebuilding efforts in areas decimated by Hurricane Katrina.  
   Domenici is also forwarding a letter to the President outlining the rationale for naming an independent coordinator to manage the long-term rehabilitation of the damaged Gulf Coast region, including the monumental task of rebuilding New Orleans. So far, the Domenici letter has been signed by Sessions and Senators Bennett, Coleman, Craig, Grassley, Gregg, Inhofe, Murkowski, Santorum, Sununu, and Voinovich. 
   "Having a single individual within the federal government to coordinate all federal efforts to rehabilitate the Gulf region makes the best sense. Before we spend millions upon millions of dollars, we must formulate a rebuilding plan. By having a single representative of the federal government, it will be easier to work with local officials and keep track of all the money that will be spent," Domenici said. 
   "My concern is that without a primary coordinator, we face the likely prospect of dozens of well-meaning federal agencies chaotically tripping over each other as the recovery process moves forward," Domenici continued. 
   "As a former federal prosecutor, I've been there in the aftermath of a hurricane," said Sessions, who was U.S. attorney in Mobile between 1981 and 1993. "I've seen it. Money always gets wasted. When this much money gets put out this fast, there's a real danger of waste, fraud and abuse." 
   The Sessions-Domenici Sense of the Senate Resolution, with 28 sponsors, expresses the Senate's belief that such a coordinator is necessary "to efficiently coordinate and monitor spending, avoid duplication, and eliminate waste, fraud and abuse." 
   The Domenici letter encourages President Bush to soon issue an Executive Order and appoint a director to take direct responsibility for overseeing all of the plans for rehabilitating and reconstructing the Gulf Coast. At a hearing of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, Domenici Wednesday stressed that such a federal manager could facilitate federal rehabilitation work in coordination with state and local officials in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. 
   "We believe there must be someone within the federal government who will work with local leadership to create a plan addressing the best ways to rehabilitate and rebuild the Gulf Coast with our taxpayers' dollars; someone who will coordinate the federal, state, and local roles in implementing that plan; someone who will answer for how that plan is carried out. If such an office is not created, we fear that we will have disorder following disaster," the Domenici letter to President Bush states. 
   Domenici pointed out that such a federal rehabilitation coordinator was named after 1972's Category 1 Hurricane Agnes which caused extensive damage and flooding along the Eastern Seaboard. 
   The formal request to President Bush follows Domenici's personal effort over the past week that included discussing the idea at Majority Leader Bill Frist's Sept. 7 Committee Chairmen's Meeting, a Senate floor speech, and a call to White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card. 
   President Bush is expected to deliver a national prime-time address on Hurricane Katrina from Louisiana Thursday evening. To date, Congress has provided $62.3 billion in emergency funding for Hurricane Katrina emergency response and recovery activities.
 
 