SEN. DOMENICI: DOE REPORT SHOWS NNSA & STATE MUST PRIORITIZE LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY CLEANUP PROJECTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said an Energy Department report on the state of environmental cleanup work at Los Alamos National Laboratory should underscore the need for the department to work with the state of New Mexico on priority projects. 
   The DOE Office of the Inspector General on Tuesday released its report "The Department's Progress in Meeting Los Alamos National Laboratory Consent Order Milestones" (DOE-IG-0793), which echoes Domenici's complaints that insufficient funding is being allocated to allow DOE to meet its LANL cleanup obligations as set in a Consent Agreement with state of New Mexico.
   "The IG report affirms my concerns. A lack of funding leads to delays, cost increases and fines. The $100 million shortfall in the FY2009 budget is unsuitable and unacceptable, but probably the situation the NNSA will be in for years to come," Domenici said.
   "I believe it is vital that the NNSA begin immediate work with the state of New Mexico to prioritize the projects that pose the most immediate risks. In the mean time, I'll continue the difficult task of trying to direct more environmental cleanup funding to the cleanup process at Los Alamos," he said.
   Domenici is the ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds DOE, the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) and the nuclear weapons complex.
   Domenici has criticized the $5.53 billion DOE environmental cleanup budget request for FY2009, which is $167 million below FY2008 funding.
   Within this amount, $162.4 million, a $10 million increase is recommended for defense cleanup work at LANL. Another $1.9 million was outlined for non-defense cleanup activities. However, James Rispoli, DOE Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management, told Domenici last week that DOE expects to miss at least three of the cleanup milestones established in a Consent Agreement this year, and it would take $100 million more to meet those milestones.
   Link to DOE-IG report: http://ig.energy.gov/documents/IG-0793.pdf
 
 