SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES NEW MEXICAN YOUTH FOR NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE DAY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the scores of New Mexico students across the state who are carrying out community service activities as part of National Youth Service Day, which was designated through a Senate resolution he cosponsored.  
   Domenici was an original cosponsor of S.Res.105 that designated April 15 as National Youth Service Day. All around the country youth will spend April 15-17 doing community works. In New Mexico, groups in Albuquerque, Rio Rancho, Loving, Silver City and Bayard have been highlighted by the Youth Service America organization. 
   "I am so proud of today's youth who have learned that every individual can make a difference in their community and in the lives of others," Domenici said. "Their work sets a good example, and it fits wonderfully with the Character Counts pillar of 'citizenship' that is being taught throughout our state." 
   "Throughout New Mexico, schools and groups like 4-H, the scouts, YMCA and others give thousands of children opportunities to be active citizens in making their communities better places to live. National Youth Service Day recognizes all that work," he said. 
   The goals of National Youth Service Day - as well as the international Global Youth Service Day - are to mobilize youth as leaders to identify and address the needs of their communities through service and service-learning, to support youth on a lifelong path of service and civic engagement, and to educate the public, the media, and policymakers about the year-round contributions of young people as community leaders. 
   A strong supporter of youth recognition programs, Domenici said this event compliments the Character Counts initiative program in New Mexico. Character Counts, celebrated since 1994, calls upon the nation to embrace six fundamental principles of good character: trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring and citizenship. 
   "Programs and celebrations such as Character Counts and National Youth Service Day establish and reaffirm the core values and principles we as a community need to pass on to the next generation," Domenici said.
 
 