SEN. DOMENICI TOURS MCKINLEY COUNTY DIALYSIS CENTER
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today reiterated his support for a long-planned expansion of McKinley County's dialysis facility during a visit to Gallup's Rehoboth McKinley Christian Hospital.  
   Domenici visited the Gallup Dialysis Unit, where he met with hospital officials and discussed funding needs for the new dialysis center. The current unit is operating at full capacity 24 hours a day, and increasing need for services has forced the facility to send many patients to nearby units in Zuni and Crownpoint. Earlier this year, Domenici requested and secured Senate committee approval of $1.0 million in FY2008 Labor-HHS funds to help expand the Gallup facility. 
   "The high prevalence of diabetes in northwest New Mexico has strained the region's health care system. Dialysis is currently the only measure of survival for many who have been affected by diabetes," said Domenici. "I requested funds on behalf of McKinley County to expand its dialysis center with the hope that it will help provide proper treatment to as many who need it." 
   The Indian population of McKinley County, which is predominantly Navajo and Zuni, reports that 1 out of every 3 people over the age of 50 will require dialysis treatment. The funding would allow the center to add 50 new dialysis seats, making it the largest facility in New Mexico. Although Domenici's funding request was approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee, it awaits consideration by the full Senate. "Statistics highlight the need for facilities that are better equipped to cope with the diabetes epidemic. I will continue to work on behalf of McKinley County to ensure that these funds are included in the Senate FY2008 Appropriations Bill," Domenici continued. 
   Domenici requested similar funds in FY2007, but they were lost when the appropriations process stalled and specific funding requests were removed from the FY2007 Continuing Resolution. 
   Earlier this month, Domenici offered an amendment to the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) reauthorization bill that would have reauthorized the Special Diabetes Program for Indians and the Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes Research, as well as increased funding to $200 million annually for each program in the next five years. Both programs are set to expire in 2008. The amendment was withdrawn after the Chairman and Ranking Member of Senate Finance Committee promised to make the reauthorization of these vital programs a priority during this Congress. 
   Related to Indian health care, in July Domenici discussed the state of Indian Health Service (IHS) projects during an Indian Affairs Committee hearing to consider the nomination of Dr. Charles Grim for IHS Director. Specifically, Domenici addressed the backlog of approximately $3 billion in IHS projects, including a new hospital in Gallup, and pressed Dr. Grim to request additional federal funds for this purpose. 
   Also of importance to northwest New Mexico, Domenici cosponsored the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. Domenici is a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee that in June approved the legislation which authorizes a study to determine the feasibility of extending services modeled after federal Medicare programs to the Navajo Nation. 
   In addition to membership on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, Domenici is also a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which plays a pivotal role in determining appropriations funding for federal projects.
 
 