SEN. DOMENICI MEETS WITH NORTHWEST N.M. LEADERS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today visited a gathering of government leaders in Gallup to address issues crucial to northwest New Mexico's growth and economic development, including his work on behalf of critical water issues.  
   During a visit to the Northwest New Mexico Council of Governments Board of Directors annual luncheon, Domenici spoke to a group of leaders from McKinley, Cibola, and San Juan counties regarding recent Senate action on the Navajo-Gallup water pipeline. In addressing the region's long-term growth, Domenici expressed his support for a legislative agreement that is consistent with the region's needs. 
   "I'm impressed at the initiatives and projects that the Northwest New Mexico Council of Governments is working toward. The Navajo-Gallup pipeline figures prominently in the overall development of the area and is now at a critical point that could determine its success or failure," said Domenici. 
   Domenici is the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that in June considered testimony from officials, including Navajo Nation President Joe Shirley and New Mexico State Engineer John D'Antonio regarding legislation introduced by New Mexico's senators to resolve the area's water rights issues. The Northwestern New Mexico Rural Water Projects Act (S. 1171) would codify an April 2005 agreement to provide sustainable water to much of the Navajo Nation, as well as ensure that Gallup's future water needs are met. 
   Domenici also recently unveiled a 10-year funding plan to finance the estimated $1.37 billion federal portion of New Mexico's pending Indian water rights settlements. S. 1643 would use New Mexico oil and gas revenues to fund New Mexico's Indian water rights settlements. The legislation was referred to the Indian Affairs Committee, of which Domenici is a member. 
   "Although it has taken decades to negotiate water right claims, our success still rests on the long process ahead of us. Through hearings and legislation, I will continue to push for a favorable resolution to the area's water rights issues," Domenici continued. "I look forward to an improved economy for the entire northwest New Mexico region." 
   Earlier in the day Domenici visited with local officials in Grants, where he also discussed issues pertinent to the area's economic viability, including new opportunities for the mining of uranium, the importance of functional railways, and emerging prospects to improve Cibola County's infrastructure.
 
 