SEN. DOMENICI MEETS EPA HEAD ON NEW ARSENIC WATER REGS, ADVISES NEW MEXICO SYSTEMS TO SEEK FEDERAL, STATE AID
  Sen. Pete Domenici today advised the head of the Environmental Protection Agency to be hands on in helping prepare scores of community waters systems for strict new arsenic drinking water standards that kick in Jan. 23.  
   Domenici today hosted a meeting with EPA Administrator Stephen Jones and a bipartisan group of five other Senators who represent states that will be most severely affected by the EPA edict that drinking water not have more than 10 parts per billion (ppb) of arsenic contaminants, far lower than the current 50 ppb rate. 
   Domenici asked Johnson to work directly with small communities, rural water associations, and other groups to ensure they have access to information on exemptions, EPA-tested technologies, and other potential solutions under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act. He also advised communities to avail themselves of compliance aid offered through the EPA and state of New Mexico. 
   "Almost 100 water systems in New Mexico must comply with the new standard, and many of the smaller cooperatives have legitimate concerns. Meeting with Administrator Johnson was useful. We aired our concerns and he gave us assurances that EPA is not intent on shutting down water systems or imposing draconian fines as we work our way through this process," Domenici said. 
   According to EPA figures, 95 public water systems in New Mexico currently provide water that does not meet the 10 ppb standard. Arsenic is a naturally-occurring substance in New Mexico's water and soil. 
   "I hope many communities take advantage of opportunities to work with the EPA to get appropriate exemptions and assistance and explore new options for meeting the new standard," Domenici said. "Tapping into this aid will require coordination at the local, state and federal levels." 
   Last week, Domenici asked Governor Bill Richardson to direct the New Mexico Environment Department (NMED) to work closely with the EPA and local communities as part of a coordinated effort to ensure no water system in the state is irrevocably harmed in the implementation of the new EPA standard. 
   Domenici organized the meeting with Johnson and Senators Ken Salazar (D-Colo.), Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), Ben Nelson (D-Neb.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), and Larry Craig (R-Idaho). Together with Domenici, these lawmakers represent constituents who are served by more than 25 percent of all systems nationwide that are struggling to meet the new standard. 
   Domenici, who as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, has worked to direct federal funding into research to find more affordable and efficient means of extracting arsenic from drinking water. It has been estimated that it could cost New Mexico systems about $500 million to comply with the new 10 ppb standard. 
   Following the meeting Domenici noted several key points made during the meeting with the EPA administrator, including: 
   1. All New Mexico water systems can apply for a three-year exemption to the new standard from NMED. If granted, the water system would have until 2009 to comply with the regulation. Smaller systems serving fewer than 3,300 people may apply for extended exemptions that would give them a total of nine more years to comply with the 10 ppb standard. (31 small New Mexico systems have applied for these exemptions and the NMED has approved three of those applications.) 
   2. Communities and water systems may, where possible, consider "non-treatment methods" that entail blending high arsenic level waters with low arsenic level waters or digging new wells. 
   3. Communities, or even concerned individuals, may consider utilizing point-of-entry and point-of-use treatment technologies in individual households to treat drinking water. These devices can cost about $200 per unit. 
   4. NMED can direct EPA Drinking Water State Revolving Fund monies to help local systems comply with the new arsenic standard. These federal funds are distributed to states based on a formula, and the state administers the distribution of these funds to communities. (Congress approved $850 million for this EPA revolving loan fund in FY2006. In FY2005, New Mexico received $57.6 million about $12 million of which was directed to Albuquerque's arsenic dilemma.) 
   5. EPA is willing to consult with the NMED in developing bilateral compliance agreements with local water systems that are tested and found to be out of compliance with the new standard. The bilateral agreement would allow a noncompliant system time to develop a compliance plan. 
   6. EPA has developed an arsenic treatment tool kit to help small drinking-water utilities meet the new arsenic standard. The tool kits will be available through the NMED. More information is available at http://www.arsenictradeshow.org. 
   7. EPA will deliver to Domenici details of its expenditures and efforts to find new, affordable technologies for communities to implement the new 10 ppb standard. Domenici noted the importance of these efforts and urged the EPA to coordinate such work with Sandia National Laboratories, through which Domenici funds a program to study different methods of arsenic removal technologies. For FY2006, Domenici appropriated $7 million to Sandia for arsenic and desalination research.
 
 