SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS FOR 110TH CONGRESS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that he would be retaining all of his current committee assignments, meaning that he will remain in prime position to have a positive impact on national policy and New Mexico's interests. 
   Domenici will serve as ranking Republican of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and as a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, will also serve as ranking member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. Domenici also will remain a member of the Senate Budget Committee, a committee he most recently chaired from 2000-2004. Rounding out the six-term Senator's committee assignments are seats on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and the Select Committee on Indian Affairs.
   "I am pleased to be retaining my committee assignments for the next Congress. These committees will allow me to impact policy both on a national level and for New Mexico. In particular, I look forward to working with Senator Bingaman, as I did during my chairmanship, to tackle our energy problems. The bipartisan approach we took over the past two years led out committee being one of the most productive in the 109th Congress," said Domenici.
   "Of course, I enjoy being in the majority, but I know from past experience that good things can be accomplished even as a member of the minority. I will continue to use my position as ranking member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee to advocate for strong DOE national labs and innovative solutions to the water crisis plaguing the West," he continued.
   The Senate Appropriations Committee has jurisdiction over all funds spent by the U.S. government, while the Budget Committee sets funding priorities. Domenici's position on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee gives him oversight of the Department of Homeland Security, including research and training work done in New Mexico.
   The Select Committee on Indian Affairs has oversight of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and considers issues of importance to Native Americans.
 
 