SEN. DOMENICI: EASTSIDE ALBUQUERQUE NEIGHBORHOODS TARGETED FOR DRUG-FREE FUNDING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded $225,000 from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to boost initial efforts to combat the drug environment entrenched in communities such as La Mesa and Trumbull Village on Albuquerque's Eastside.  
   The Office of Justice Programs, a division of the DOJ, has awarded the grant through the Executive Office for Weed and Seed. The funds will not only support the Weed and Seed project that serves La Mesa and Trumbull Village, but will allow expansion into South San Pedro and South Los Altos neighborhoods. 
   "The best way to eradicate drug and criminal behavior is to uproot it completely and replace it with strong, nurturing programs that make the community stronger," Domenici said. "Weed and Seed is a great program that fosters cooperation and a tough stance against drugs. It's made a real difference in Las Cruces and Albuquerque's Westside, and I'm pleased we can extend this to two more neighborhoods on the Eastside." 
   Weed and Seed is a multi-agency strategy that "weeds" out violent crime, gang activity, drug use, and drug trafficking in high-crime neighborhoods and then "seeds" the target area by restoring these neighborhoods through social and economic revitalization. 
   The Drug Free Communities Act of 1997 was created through a bipartisan act of Congress and authorizes the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy to carry out a national initiative that awards federal grants directly to community anti-drug coalitions in the United States. The Albuquerque Eastside Weed and Seed project received Official Recognition in May 2003. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Commerce, Justice, State and the Judiciary (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee which sets funding levels for DOJ and its programs. The President's budget for 2006 includes $1.6 billion for Justice Assistance for DOJ, almost $600 million more than the FY 2005 enacted appropriation. This year, Weed and Seed programs are consolidated into the Justice Assistance account.
 
 