SENATE ADDS SEN. DOMENICI-BACKED MEDICAID LEGISLATION TO INDIAN HEALTH CARE BILL
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today reported that the Senate has adopted legislation he cosponsored to stop impending cuts to Medicaid case management care that would negatively affect the disabled, mentally ill and foster care children. 
   The Senate Thursday evening added language from S.2578--legislation to delay implementation of new Medicaid regulations that would cut funding for case management and targeted case management (TCM) services--as an amendment to the Indian Health Care Improvement Act of 2007 (S.1200). The Senate is expected to pass the overall Indian health bill when it returns from the President's Day recess later this month. 
   Like S.2578, the Medicaid amendment adopted Thursday would prohibit the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) from implementing a final rule on TCM changes until April 2009 and direct the CMS to redraft the regulations to meet Medicaid savings mandated by the Deficit Reduction Act. Without congressional action, the new TCM standards would go into effect this March, shifting more costs to states and affecting the timeframes for assessing individuals in need of special services. 
   "The new Medicaid regulations are too severe and need to be revised before they end up hurting people who need these services," Domenici said. "I hope we can move soon to pass the Indian Health Improvement bill with this amendment and send the CMS back to the drawing board." 
   Domenici signed on as an original cosponsor to the bipartisan S.2578 when it was introduced last month by Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman. 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, is also an original cosponsor to S.1200, a 10-year authorization bill for federal health care delivery programs for American Indian people. Within this Indian health care bill, Domenici is supporting provisions that will authorize a health care delivery demonstration project at the Mescalero Apache Reservation and a study to address Medicaid benefit delivery on the Navajo Nation.
 
 