APPROVED SEN. DOMENICI AMENDMENT WOULD ALLOW LOCAL-STATE INTELLIGENCE TRAINING AT FLETC FACILITIES
  A key Senate committee today approved an amendment authored by Sen. Pete Domenici that would allow local law enforcement officers who need intelligence expertise to be trained at existing facilities including the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee that Thursday approved the Improving America's Security Act of 2007 (S.4). The measure would implement additional recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission in its 2004 report. 
   The committee Thursday morning accepted Domenici-authored amendments affecting the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC) in Albuquerque, as well as FLETC and its campuses in Artesia, Glynco, Ga., Charleston, S.C., and Cheltenham, Md. 
   The Domenici FLETC-related amendment addresses a section of the bill related to the training of state, local and tribal government officials related to the handling, review, and development of intelligence material. The committee accepted a Domenici amendment stating that FLETC and other existing federal entities with appropriate capacity and expertise should be used to train state and local officials regarding intelligence matters. 
   "I believe we should be using all FLETC facilities to full capacity before we look to other entities for this intelligence training. If FLETC has the resources and capacity to get the job done, then it should be used," Domenici said. 
   The bill's intelligence and information sharing section (Section 114) is intended to improve intelligence and information sharing within the federal government and state, local and tribal governments. The bill establishes intelligence training for local officers and authorizes the assignment of Department of Homeland Security (DHS) intelligence analysts to "regional fusion centers" for such training. 
   Related to NISAC--a facility operated by Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories--Domenici's amendment would ensure that the Albuquerque facility is used to carry out S.4 requirements for DHS to create a list of critical infrastructure that must be protected and assess the risk to that infrastructure. 
   "My amendment will require the Homeland Security Department to use existing capacities in NISAC to carry out the requirements on risk assessment," Domenici said. "We created NISAC to be a center of national competence to address vulnerable infrastructure risks and how to thwart any terrorist risks. It is already doing good work and it should be fully used to meet our national security needs." 
   On Tuesday, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff at a HSGAC hearing made the commitment that DHS would continue to utilize the expertise provided by NISAC, which is under the department's jurisdiction. 
   NISAC is designed to utilize the computing expertise of both Sandia and LANL to find better ways to protect interdependent critical infrastructures in the United States, such as electrical grid, telecommunications, energy and transportation networks.
 
 