SEN. DOMENICI READIES FOR HEARINGS WITH RUMSFELD, RICE ON $82 BILLION IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING REQUEST
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he looks forward to hearings this week that will focus on the Bush administration's request for almost $82 billion in supplemental appropriations to support the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   Domenici is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that will conduct two hearings, Wednesday and Thursday, to review the request for additional FY2005 funding for military operations, as well as relief for victims of the south Asia tsunami. 
   Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld is scheduled to testify at a 2 p.m. Wednesday hearing (Room 106, Dirksen Senate Office Building) on the Defense Department portion of the FY2005 supplemental request. Of the $81.9 billion requested, $75 billion would be allotted to the Pentagon for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as personnel benefits. 
   Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will testify at a 10:30 a.m. Thursday hearing (Room 106, Dirksen Senate Office Building) to review the $5.6 billion requested in the supplemental for State Department activities, including $950 million in tsunami relief and other urgent international needs. 
   "The committee will be looking at this significant administration request and how it proposes to use these funds to advance our operations in Iraq. We've made a serious commitment in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we must see it through. I expect Secretary Rumsfeld and Secretary Rice to make the case that Congress and the public should approve this funding to support our military and our humanitarian obligations abroad," Domenici said. 
   The supplemental defense funding would be used for continued military and intelligence operations, training and equipping Iraqi and Afghani security forces, additional equipment for American forces, and added protective measures against the "improvised explosive devices" that have maimed or killed hundreds of Americans. 
   The supplemental request also includes $110 million in defense nuclear nonproliferation funding through the Energy Department's National Nuclear Security Administration. The administration requests these funds for the deployment of radiation detection equipment and the training of personnel at four ports to deter the trafficking of nuclear or other radiological materials.
 
 