SEN. DOMENICI ENCOURAGES INPUT AT BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT MEETING IN NEW MEXICO ON 'SPLIT ESTATE' OIL, GAS PRODUCTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today encouraged all interested parties in New Mexico and surrounding areas to take part in a March 20 "listening session" to develop recommendations on improving polices related to oil and gas production on private properties.  
   The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) today announced it will conduct a public listening session in Albuquerque on March 20 on "split estate" issues related to the development of federally-owned oil and natural gas under privately-owned surface lands. The listening session in Albuquerque is one of five BLM has scheduled as part of a mandate included in the National Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   "The split estate issue has become increasing contentious at a time when we need more cooperation to succeed in producing more domestic energy. In the Energy Policy Act we directed BLM to carry out a review of the situation in order to update federal policies. We need to reach a point wherein subsurface energy sources can be tapped without needlessly disturbing and disrupting the interests of the surface owners," Domenici said. "I would encourage interested New Mexicans to take part in this session." 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   The BLM will announce details of the Albuquerque meeting 15 days prior to March 20, using local media outlets and at www.blm.gov/bmp. This site also includes background information on split estate issues and preliminary drafts of a report to Congress. Public input on the issue may also be submitted to BLM by April 1 by email at splitestate@blm.gov. 
   The BLM manages 1.2 million surface acres in New Mexico. This agency within the Department of the Interior manages 700 million acres of subsurface mineral estate nationwide, including approximately 58 million acres where the surface is privately owned. 
   Other listening sessions will be in Grand Junction, Colo. (March 22), Casper, Wyo. (March 24), Miles City, Mont. (March 27) and Washington, D.C. (March 30-31).
 
 