SEN. DOMENICI URGES U.S. FOREST SERVICE BUDGET FLEXIBILITY TO HANDLE MAJOR SOUTHWEST DROUGHT
  With much of New Mexico having gone 100 days without measurable precipitation and severe drought conditions forecast, Sen. Pete Domenici today said the U.S. Forest Service must be ready to direct resources to what could very well be one of the worst wildfire seasons ever.  
   Domenici and Senator Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) have written USDA Undersecretary Mark Rey, who oversees the Forest Service, asking the federal agency to make resources available to combat wildfire dangers in New Mexico and Arizona this year--despite recommendations in the FY2006 and FY2007 budgets to fund the implementation of the Pacific Northwest Forest Plan. 
   The Senators believe the funding and resource focus should be on areas where severe droughts are predicted, like the Southwest. 
   "We are already seeing flare-ups in the Rio Grande bosque and many of our forests will be tinderboxes because of very little snowpack. There is little doubt we will have a terrible wildfire season this year, and the Forest Service should be prepared to direct resources to the Southwest," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Forest Service and Interior Department. 
   Kyl and Domenici told Rey that it is crucial that New Mexico and Arizona have resources now to perform forest thinning projects that will help prevent fires, as well as assets to more quickly battle wildfires early. 
   "The Southwest's intensifying drought and higher than normal temperatures, together with unnatural accumulations of hazardous fuels, conspire to create the conditions for a devastating wildfire season that could be the longest and most costly in our states' history," Domenici and Kyl wrote. 
   "We understand that budgets and resource allocations are crafted at least a year in advance. However, only the current conditions on the ground can dictate priorities. We urge you to take every feasible measure to accelerate NEPA-ready forest thinning projects in our states and to make available now the necessary firefighting assets that we need to combat the wildfires we know are coming," the Senators wrote. 
   The President's FY2007 budget request seeks $912 million for the Healthy Forest Initiative carried out by the Forest Service and Interior Department. This is a $5.0 million increase over the FY2006 enacted level, and $220 million increase over FY2004 funding. The budget, however, also recommends a nearly $100 million increase to implement the Clinton administration's Pacific Northwest Forest Plan. 
   The "Drought Watch on the Rio Grande," issued by the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station on Tuesday predicted continued below-normal precipitation through April for the Southwest, including the Rio Grande Basin and Southern Arizona. (For additional information, visit: http://elpaso.tamu.edu/research or http://elpaso.uc.usbr.gov.)
 
 