SEN. DOMENICI CALLS FOR ACTION ON GROWING INDIAN METH PROBLEM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today pressed Bush Administration officials about the growing problem of meth use among American Indian young people, and expressed his concern that funding for construction of Indian schools could be jeopardy in the FY2008 budget proposal.  
   Domenici today questioned two Interior Department officials about the administration's plans to combat meth use. The Senator personally expressed his concerns to Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne at a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing, and also submitted questions to two senior administration officials who appeared before the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs. 
   "Unfortunately, meth and other drugs are being abused by Indians at a disturbing rate. We have to work together to keep drugs away from our youth, and I'm pleased to hear that Secretary Kempthorne agrees and understands the magnitude of the problem. To an extent, the budget request reflects that, but I believe a lot more will need to be done to eliminate this problem," said Domenici, who is ranking member of the Energy Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Bureau of Indian Affairs, which is part of the Interior Department. 
   The administration's budget request proposes a $16 million increase for BIA to beef up law enforcement activities in response to methamphetamine trafficking in Indian Country. Of that, $11 million would be slated for law enforcement staffing, training and equipment, while $5 million would be for detention center staffing. 
   Domenici also asked Dr. Charles Grim, Director of Indian Health Services, to outline the steps the agency is taking from a health and rehabilitation standpoint in Indian Country. 
   With regard to Indian school construction, Domenici has submitted questions to Jim Cason, Associate Deputy Secretary of Interior, asking for clarification about how much money in total is requested to build and renovate Indian schools. 
   "It appears to me that overall funding for Indian Education and Construction programs is actually decreased over last year, despite the highly touted Improving Indian Education Initiative proposed by the Administration. While I support increased funding for Indian education, I am concerned that this increase comes at the expense of new and replacement school construction," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also is seeking to learn whether there are New Mexico schools that are slated to see BIA construction over the next five years. 
   Other topics Domenici addressed include care for urban Indian populations and the possible loss of some service as the Acoma-Canoncita-Laguna Hospital in New Mexico.
 
 