SEN. DOMENICI CASTS VOTE TO CONFIRM JUDGE CERTOFF AS NEW HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded the Senate's confirmation of Judge Michael Chertoff to be head of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, expressing confidence that he will do an exemplarily job of working with New Mexico's labs and law enforcement agencies to secure borders and implement more effective security methods that assess domestic safety.  
   Domenici, voted in favor of Chertoff's confirmation today, helping seal a 98-0 Senate decision for Chertoff to succeed Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge. 
   "A number of institutions, public and private, in New Mexico have worked with DHS to develop new technologies that deal with emergencies and protect our nation. Judge Chertoff has indicated his support for continuing and expanding this type of collaboration between DHS and the private sector, universities, and our national laboratories," said Domenici, who serves on the newly restructured Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 
   "As the department continues to merge and integrate its organizational capabilities, New Mexico can play a continued role in the security of our borders and the training of domestic and international law enforcement agents," he said. 
   "Judge Chertoff has left a lifetime appointment as a Circuit Court Judge to take on the important and challenging task of protecting our nation from terrorist attacks. Nobody can discount his dedication and commitment to public service and I'm pleased the Senate's vote reflects this," Domenici said. "I am ready for Judge Chertoff to take the helm of the Homeland Security Department and continue the important measures we have taken since Sept. 11. I believe he is more than able and qualified to lead with certainty and effectiveness." 
   Chertoff takes over the department at the heels of his hearing in front of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee where Domenici stressed the importance of Chertoff evaluating priority risks and needs around the nation, as well as the effectiveness of security mechanisms put in place following the 9/11 attacks.
 
 