SEN. DOMENICI QUESTION'S INTERIOR DEPT. UNWILLINGNESS TO MEET PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES FUNDING COMMITMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asked Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne to explain the FY2008 budget request for only $190 million for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, saying that funding level is insufficient to meet local county needs.  
   Domenici's inquiry was issued with a variety of questions put to Kempthorne who Thursday testified before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on the proposed FY2008 Interior Department budget. That budget recommends $190 million in Bureau of Land Management (BLM) funding for PILT next year. 
   "Given that the Interior Department controls one of every five acres in the United States and those federal lands have such an importance to counties where they are located, I need to better understand why the budget again proposes to reduce PILT funding," Domenici said. "I believe the Secretary needs to explain why the administration seems so unwilling to meet our commitments to the rural counties where these lands are located." 
   For FY2006, Congress appropriated $236 million for PILT. Under the just-passed Continuing Resolution that will fund Interior Department for the remainder of the year, PILT is expected to be funded at $232.5 million in 2007. The administration requested $198 million for PILT in 2007. 
   At the hearing, Kempthorne acknowledged congressional frustration with suggested PILT budgets and said he wants to work with Congress to address the issue. 
   PILT funding is an important source of general revenue for most New Mexico counties. With more than 22.5 million acres of federal entitlement lands, 32 New Mexico counties usually earn some of the largest PILT awards among all 50 states and U.S. territories. In FY2006, New Mexico counties received $22.8 million in PILT funds. Curry County is the only county that does not receive PILT funding. 
   The PILT payments are made directly to local governments, usually counties, in areas with substantial acreage of federal lands within their borders--national forests, national parks, national wildlife refuges, lands used for federal water projects, some military installations, and lands managed by the BLM.
 
 