SEN. DOMENICI URGES BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO FUND INDIAN WATER SETTLEMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today pushed Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne to work with him to fund outstanding Indian water settlements in New Mexico.  
   Domenici, the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, questioned Kempthorne at a hearing to discuss the Bush Administration's FY2008 Interior Department budget request, which includes funding for the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and the United States Bureau of Reclamation (USBR). 
   Domenici urged Kempthorne to live up to his agency's commitment to help find a solution to New Mexico Indian water rights settlements. He noted that the Aamodt, Abeyta, and Navajo settlements require a federal contribution of an estimated $1.1 billion, but the administration's FY2008 budget request contains just $34 million for the Indian Land and Water Claims Settlement Fund. 
   "Un-adjudicated Indian water rights claims pose a serious impediment to effective water management in the West. We have to secure funding for Indian water settlements in New Mexico. We can't sit by and let this situation go on forever. At some point, Senator Bingaman and I will have to introduce legislation, and we will need cooperation from the Executive Branch to get these claims resolved," Domenici said. 
   During the confirmation process for Kempthorne last year, Domenici and Bingaman gained a commitment from the Secretary to work with the Senators to find funding for water rights claims in New Mexico. 
   Domenici submitted questions to Kempthorne regarding the reasons why the Office of Management and Budget has been cooperative in its dealings with Arizona water rights settlements, but has not given similar attention to New Mexico's. The Administration did not oppose the $2.4 billion Arizona Water Rights Settlement Act, and also gave OMB approval to the $650 million San Joaquin Settlement. 
   Domenici also asked Kempthorne how he planned to secure a commitment from OMB so that a reasonable federal contribution will be available for New Mexico water settlements.
 
 