SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN BEGIN PUSH TO ENACT PROTECTING AMERICA'S COMPETITIVE EDGE ACT, GARNER SUPPORT FOR SCIENCE EDUCATION BILL
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today began their push to gain passage of their Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act with a Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing. 
   The PACE Act, introduced by Domenici and Bingaman, along with Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), follow the guidelines of a report released last fall by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) that outlined a plan to ensure the U.S. remains economically competitive with the rest of the world.  
   Today's hearing focused specifically on the PACE Act-Energy (S.2197), which would utilize the Department of Energy and the national labs for science education and development. Domenici is the chairman of the Energy Committee, while Bingaman is the ranking member. 
   "Today's hearing is a step forward for our effortt to pass the PACE Act, specifically the parts related to the Department of Energy. We need to take U.S. competitiveness seriously. We need to take action to support our standard of living, and ensure we continue to grow and prosper. If we do not, we can expect other nations to rival our global competitiveness - and perhaps one day to surpass us. I look forward to holding a committee vote in the near future," Domenici said. 
   "The Department of Energy will be essential in many ways to ensuring our nation stays competitive in the global economy. Through the PACE Act, DOE's laboratories - in New Mexico and around the country - would perform increasing more leading-edge R&D. Equally important is the role the labs would play in preparing teachers to instruct in math and science, and in giving young people an opportunity to be exposed to exciting math and science careers," Bingaman said. 
   Among those testifying at the hearing were Raymond Orbach, director of the DOE's Office of Science, who indicated that DOE had the desire and capacity to make science education a priority. President Bush unveiled his own competitiveness initiative during last month's State of the Union Address, and joined Domenici and Bingaman in Rio Rancho for a roundtable discussion on the issue. 
   Dr. Charles Vest, president emeritus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who served on the Augustine Commission that developed the NAS report, and Dr. Luis Proenza, president of the University of Akron and chair of the Committee on Science and Math Education of the Secretary of Energy's Advisory Board also testified at the hearing. Both spoke of the increasing need to focus on math and science education as the key key to maintaining our competitive edge in the global economy. 
   The PACE-Energy Act would create a Director of Mathematics, Science and Engineering Education Programs at the DOE. It will create programs boost specialty schools for math and science, establish science-based internships, and set up a Center of Excellence for Math and Science Education at each national laboratory. 
   The bill will also establish a research grant program for scientists and engineers who have completed their education, as well as a new office within the DOE to direct advanced research projects. Finally, the bill doubles the authorized funding level for basic physical science research. 
   Today's hearing sets up a future vote by the Committee. The PACE-Energy Act has broad bipartisan support with 62 cosponsors.
 
 