SEN. DOMENICI URGES HOUSE-SENATE NEGOTIATORS TO BACK ARTS TAX DEDUCTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today urged Senate and House conferees working on the tax relief bill to retain Senate language that would ensure fairness for artists who donate their work to charity.  
   Section 208 of the tax reconciliation bill (H.R. 4297), which passed the Senate yesterday, contains a provision originally authored by Domenici in his Arts and Collectibles Capital Gains Tax Treatment Parity Act (S.1186) that would allow a tax deduction equal to the fair market value of artwork by the artist. Currently, only collectors receive such deductions. 
   Domenici today authored a letter signed by a bipartisan group of Senators to the leaders of the Senate-House conference committee which will finalize the tax relief bill. 
   "The current tax code treats artists unfairly. If an artist wants to donate his or her work to a museum, under the current code the only tax deduction available would be for the cost of the art supplies. If a collector wants to donate that same piece to the same museum, the collector would receive a deduction equal to the fair market value of the art. The provision in this tax bill eliminates this disincentive for artists to donate their works, and I believe it should be retained in the final version of the tax reconciliation bill," Domenici said. 
   Also Wednesday, Domenici submitted questions to IRS Commissioner Mark Evans pressing the Administration to support his efforts to reduce the capital gains tax rate for sales of art and collectibles to 15 percent, in line with the rate of taxation of other commodities such as stocks and bonds. Legislative language addressing this is contained in S.1186. 
   "In addition to being more fair for individuals who invest in art and collectibles, and supporting the work of artists, I believe my legislation would have the added benefit raising revenue because lowering the capital gains tax rate would encourage people to buy and sell art and collectibles," said Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Budget Committee. 
   Domenici's letter to conferees regarding tax fairness was also signed by Senators Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Robert Bennett (R-Utah), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Joseph Lieberman (D-Conn.), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) and Diane Feinstein (D-Calif.).
 
 