SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO ALLOW 'BUNKER BUSTER' RESEARCH TO CONTINUE; SENATE DEFEATS BID TO KILL DEFENSE PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted with a majority in the Senate to defeat an amendment that would have stopped American scientists from conducting research on new nuclear weapons concepts.  
   Shortly before the vote (42-55) to defeat the Kennedy-Feinstein amendment, Domenici took to the Senate floor to argue for continuing to allow American scientists to continue their research on so-called "bunker buster" nuclear weapons. 
   The amendment, offered to the FY2005 Defense Authorization Bill, would have targeted $27.6 million sought for National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) research carried out under the Advanced Concepts Initiative and a program to evaluate modifications to existing stockpile designs to accomplish the Robust Nuclear Earth Penetrator (RNEP). 
   "It makes absolutely no sense to ignore technology and innovation when it comes to nuclear security and deterrence. I guarantee other nations are not limiting themselves to what they know today, but are focusing on new possibilities for tomorrow," Domenici said. "This research is critical to ensuring this country has an effective and safe stockpile that will serve as a credible deterrent to all existing and potential threats." 
   "It is disingenuous to argue that these policies put us on an irreversible course of new weapons development. Nothing could be further from the truth. Congress has the ultimate responsibility in determining whether or not to proceed with full-scale development," he said. 
   Domenici pledged to retain language first included in last year's Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill that clearly states that the NNSA and Defense Department are prohibited from moving forward with engineering and development of Phase III or subsequent phases of the RNEP unless Congress specifically directs and funds the work. 
   "Providing funding to the NNSA to evaluate modifications to existing weapons does not imply a commitment to build these weapons," Domenici said. "By denying our scientists the opportunity to investigate new technology options for our stockpile, we will also neglect critical research into improving the safety, reliability and security of the existing aging stockpile." 
   The RNEP is a study to determine how or if the existing B-61 and the existing B-83 might be modified to provide an added capability of underground penetration.
 
 