SEN. DOMENICI: ANOTHER $25 MILLION FOR FLETC-ARTESIA HEADED TO BUSH
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined the Senate to finalize and send to President Bush a bill that adds another $25 million into the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia in preparation of the thousands of additional Border Patrol agents who will train there over the coming years. 
   As a member of the conference committee that put together the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill, Domenici push for $25 million for personnel and infrastructure upgrades at FLETC-Artesia to support Border Patrol agent training.
   The Senate vote was 98-1. Since the House has already passed the $94.5 measure, it is now ready for President Bush to sign into law.
   "All Border Patrol trainees will receive their training in Artesia, and we must make sure that we have the infrastructure and equipment necessary to prepare them for what they will face in the field," Domenici said. "It won't be long before we've doubled the size of the Border Patrol, and FLETC-Artesia will be a necessary part of that challenge. President Bush saw that when he visited the campus."
   For FY2006, Domenici has worked to secure almost $70 million to FLETC-Artesia. The $25 million in supplemental funding will be used to support training and instruction at the campus as well as construct a new driving range. The funding is in addition to the $44.3 million in FY2006 funding Congress appropriated last fall for FLETC-Artesia for new facilities, including $33 million for two new dormitories, $5 million for temporary Border Patrol facilities, $3 million for an aquatics training facility, and additional funding for instructors and staff.
   "The President and Congress are serious about adding manpower to the border. Between the president's call for 6,000 new agents by FY2008 and the deployment of National Guard troops, this message is loud and clear: illegal entry into the United States will no longer be tolerated," Domenici said.
   Last week, Domenici accompanied President Bush Tuesday to Artesia, where the President witnessed various Border Patrol training techniques and delivered a speech on border security needs. The goal is for FLETC-Artesia to be able to train about 1,900 agents this year, and 3,000 agents in FY2007 and FY2008.
   The $25 million FLETC appropriation, Domenici noted, follows the President's request to Congress, which sought $410,000,000 to be "provided to hire 1,000 Border Patrol Agents and the related support costs, including contract personnel; replace Border Patrols vehicles; support Secure Border Initiative integration efforts; and increase capacity at the Border Patrol Academy in Artesia, New Mexico."
   Earlier this week, Domenici sent a letter to FLETC Director Connie Patrick seeking written confirmation that all future border training will be conducted in Artesia, as opposed to building new centers elsewhere.
   The Senator is seeking additional funds--including about $9 million for a language arts center--as part of the FY2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, which is scheduled to be marked up on June 27. Domenici serves on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that will develop this measure.
 
 