SEN. DOMENICI TAKES ACTION TO GET EMERGENCY DROUGHT AID TO NEW MEXICO COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that he is taking action to ensure that emergency drought assistance funding, included in a bill now headed to President Bush, gets used as quickly as possible to help New Mexico communities that may run dry this summer.
   The Senate today gave a final vote (98-1) and sent to President Bush a $94.5 billion FY2006 Emergency Appropriations Bill that includes $9.0 million secured by Domenici for the Bureau of Reclamation to begin helping drought-afflicted communities gain access to additional water. At Domenici's request, the report language in the bill specifically cites hardships now faced by the village of Ruidoso, and the cities of Ruidoso Downs and Las Vegas. 
   With the final vote, Domenici Thursday morning sent Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne a letter advising him that Congress accepted a Domenici bid to extend authorization of the Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act, which had expired in September 2005.
   The bill that President Bush is expected to soon sign into law will extend this Bureau drought relief program for five years. This reauthorization is necessary for allowing the Bureau to use the $9.0 to provide emergency water and water-related resources assistance to communities.
   "I have asked Secretary Kempthorne to use every tool provided through the reauthorization to provide relief to struggling communities as soon as possible," Domenici said. "The drought is not getting any better and we have several communities already in peril of not being able to meet basic water needs."
   In addition to approaching Kempthorne, Domenici indicated that he has also asked the New Mexico Office of the State Engineer to be ready to expedite any permits needed by the Bureau of Reclamation to implement emergency drought relief measures.
   Through the Bureau's Drought Emergency Assistance Program, the agency will be able to assist states, tribes and some nonprofit organizations in finding ways to minimize the losses and damages associated with severe drought situations. This work includes on-the-ground relief for states such as well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, and water banking, and conservation.
   "The five-year extension of this program gives us one more opportunity for the federal government to help communities hit hard by drought. Obviously, I expect more than the initial $9.0 million will be needed before all is said and done. But this emergency funding is a good start and we will have to continue to see what can be done to help us survive this ongoing drought," Domenici said.
   The assistance to be provided with the emergency supplemental funding would support efforts that were discussed during that April field hearing conducted in Albuquerque by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which Domenici chairs.
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that will this month begin drafting the FY2007 spending bill to fund the Bureau of Reclamation next year.
   The overall FY2006 emergency spending measure will also direct other border security funding to New Mexico as part of a $1.9 billion package.
   Domenici, who also serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, pointed out that the $1.9 billion for enhanced border security efforts, includes $708 million to support National Guard deployments and $316 million for vehicle barriers, patrol roads and some fencing.
   This package also includes $25 million for additional instruction and infrastructure upgrades at FLETC-Artesia to support Border Patrol agent training.
   "The President and Congress are serious about adding manpower to the border. Between the President's call for 6,000 new agents by FY2008 and the deployment of National Guard troops, this message is loud and clear: illegal entry into the United States will no longer be tolerated. This package will help us shut down the border to illegal immigrants," Domenici said.
   The conference agreement would make Department of Homeland Security funding available to support National Guard work on the Southwest Border. The Bush administration is currently working with states like New Mexico to organize Guard rotations on the border to support Border Patrol activities.
   In addition, the bill provides $316 million for the DHS Customs and Border Protection (CBP) directorate to construct 256 miles of vehicle barriers, 359 miles of patrol roads, and additional lighting and fencing along the border.
 
 