SEN. DOMENICI, AGRICULTURE SECRETARY DISCUSS NEW MEXICO BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS SITUATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns on Friday discussed ongoing tests in New Mexico to assess the threat of bovine tuberculosis (TB) herd infection and the aftermath if such cases are confirmed in the state.  
   Domenici called Johanns today to get an update on the situation and to get assurances that adequate federal personnel, including a USDA area veterinarian-in-charge, and funding is available to address the situation. Johanns told Domenici that testing is ongoing in New Mexico on dairy herds suspected of contracting TB. 
   "Secretary Johanns is concerned about the situation in New Mexico, but continues to assure me that USDA will make resources and people available to deal with this problem. I wanted to stress to him that this is not only an immediate problem, but that it also has the potential to have long-range ramifications on the cattle and dairy operations across the state," Domenici said. "We need to face this problem head-on, but not make rash decisions." 
   Currently, three New Mexico dairies are undergoing preliminary testing for TB. If these preliminary tests show an indication of TB, cattle showing a positive sign of TB will be purchased at a negotiated price by USDA and slaughtered to undergo further scientific testing. 
   If slaughtered cattle test positive for TB, then New Mexico could lose its TB-free status. Losing this status would require dairy and livestock producers to test each individual animal moved across state lines. For a state to be accredited as TB-free there must be no confirmed cases of the disease for at least five years and the state must enforce strict laws and regulations on livestock dealers. 
   Domenici asked Johanns to report to him whether the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has sufficient funding to carry out its responsibilities, including the purchase of contaminated herds. 
   "Secretary Johanns told me the USDA will find the money to support the TB program and commitments to affected livestock producers. Our dairies need to know that resources are there to compensate them for the cattle that are or have been slaughtered," Domenici said. "I assured the Secretary that I will work with him to ensure this funding remains available for New Mexico." 
   Domenici has been in contact Johanns and the USDA since March when he initially sought immediate USDA action to contain reported bovine TB cases discovered in eastern New Mexico. 
   Bovine tuberculosis is a contagious and infectious disease that affects cattle, bison, deer, elk, goats, and other warm-blooded species. Tuberculosis in infected animals manifests itself in lesions of the lung, lymph nodes, bone, and other body parts, and causes weight loss and general debilitation, and can be fatal.
 
 