SEN. DOMENICI OFFERS AMENDMENT TO AUTHORIZE RANGE-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AT WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that he has introduced an amendment that would authorize funding for a new and extensive environmental impact statement (EIS) at White Sands Missile Range. 
   The Domenici amendment was offered to the FY2007 Defense Authorization Bill that the Senate is now debating. It would authorize $5.0 million to carryout a range-wide EIS at WSMR in order to ensure the vast facility is ready to accept future testing activities in a timely manner. The last range-wide assessment was conducted more than 10 years ago.
   The amendment was prompted by the outcome of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closing (BRAC) process that enhanced WSMR's role as the nation's largest tri-service research, development, test and evaluation facility.
   As a result of BRAC, in January the Army announced that its Evaluation Brigade Combat Team would be located at WSMR/Fort Bliss and that a center would be established there to design and develop the Defense Department's Future Combat System (FCS). The current EIS may not encompass the activities expected with the FCS.
   "The time has come for a broad-based EIS at White Sands. My amendment would save taxpayers by putting WSMR ahead of the curve as it gets ready to accept new missions. Without this, we face the prospect of losing a lot of valuable time and money as piecemeal environmental reviews are done for individual projects," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that would fund the study.
   Senator Jeff Bingaman, who is cosponsoring the amendment, said, "WSMR is our nation's premier testing and evaluation range. This EIS would help the Pentagon determine what steps need to be taken for the range's long-term future, ensuring that the Defense Department makes the most of what WSMR has to offer."
   A comprehensive WSMR EIS would be expected to consider the impact for the FCS work, the F-22 training, Navy Integrated Fire Control, missile defense, unmanned aerial services and other missions. Typically, the EIS process under the National Environmental Protection Act takes at least 18 months to complete.
   In addition to the WSMR amendment, Domenici has also offered an amendment to authorize $4.0 million in Navy research funding to support a project proposed by New Mexico State University and General Electric to research and develop water treatment technologies.
   The NMSU-GE project would complement the ongoing Navy Expeditionary Unit Water Purification-II (EUWP) project in Otero County. The bill already authorizes $3.0 million to advance the EUWP that could, in part, show communities in arid regions how to more economically make brackish water usable. The next phase of the EUWP project, for which Domenici has secured $31.8 million since FY2003, will transition successful experiments to a larger scale that can be transported on aircraft carriers.
   The Senate debate on the $517.7 billion defense policy bill (S.2766) is expected to extend into next week. The Senate measure is currently $4.7 billion over the administration's budget request and includes a 2.2 percent across-the-board pay raise for service members.
 
 