SEN. DOMENICI SAYS DOD MENTAL HEALTH TASK FORCE FINDINGS MUST BE SWIFTLY ADDRESSED
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded the Department of Defense and its efforts to find and correct the shortfalls of mental health care delivery for veterans, who are increasingly suffering from combat-related mental health problems.
   In a report released to Congress on Thursday, the DOD Task Force on Mental Health found significant gaps in mental health care for Armed Forces members and their families. 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the DOD, noted that the Veterans' Mental Health Access and Delivery Act (S.38), which he introduced with Senator Barack Obama (D-Ill.) in May, offers direct solutions to many of the DOD Task Force findings.
   "Veterans' mental health issues have been growing in frequency and severity recently, particularly with so many of our brave young men and women serving in theaters in Iraq and Afghanistan. I commend the Department of Defense for recognizing this alarming situation, and taking steps to address it," said Domenici, a longtime advocate of both mental health and veterans' issues.
   "The findings in the DOD report are spot on, and the bill I introduced along with Senator Obama contains provisions to deal with issues such as the stigma associated with mental illness health care. We address barriers to veterans seeking help and the lack of mental health care providers or facilities available to many of those who do seek care," he said. "I will work to advance this bill and implement the necessary solutions to close the gap in veterans' mental health care as soon as possible."
   Chief among the DOD report's findings is the idea that stigma surrounding mental illness and mental care remains a strong deterrent and barrier to care.
   Domenici's bill would authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to mount a national program to train returning service members for positions as peer outreach workers and peer-support counselors. It has been shown that having peers with similar personal military experiences provide outreach and support heightens the likelihood of engaging veterans in readjustment and treatment.
   The DOD Task Force also reported mental health professionals are not sufficiently available to service members and their families, and there is a significant gap in the continuum of mental health care services.
   Under Domenici's legislation, the VA Secretary would be authorized to conduct an analysis of underserved regions or areas not in close proximity to VA facilities, and contract with community mental health entities to provide treatment and support services. It also will require any contract-provider to hire a qualified peer specialist, as well as have its clinicians participate in a training program to ensure services are tailored to meet the specialized needs of combat-affected veterans.
   The military system does not have the resources, funding, or personnel to adequately support the mental health needs of veteran' families, reported the DOD Task Force.
   Domenici's bill would extend counseling services to address the readjustment issues that face not only veterans returning from overseas duty, but also their families.
   The Veterans' Mental Health Outreach and Access Act has received the endorsement of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and in the Senate it has been referred to the Committee on Veterans Affairs where it awaits action.
   To read the Department of Defense Mental Health Task Force Report, visit: http://www.ha.osd.mil/dhb/mhtf/MHTF-Report-Final.pdf.
 
 