SEN. DOMENICI BACKS COMPREHENSIVE BILL TO SUPRESS, PREVENT GANG ACTIVITY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced his support of comprehensive bipartisan legislation that would provide $1 billion in federal funding for gang prevention, intervention and suppression programs.  
   The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act, authored by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and cosponsored by Domenici, is a comprehensive bill authorizing $1 billion to fund prevention and intervention efforts nationwide, to provide resources for law enforcement agencies and personnel to coordinate efforts against violent gangs, and to create tough federal penalties to punish and deter gang-related criminal activity and violence. 
   "The proliferation of gangs and violent activity is a persistent problem across the nation. Unfortunately, New Mexico is no exception. In our state we have an escalating problem, and New Mexico gangs are increasingly involved in violent and high-level crime," said Domenici. 
   "Gangs remain a crime threat in New Mexico, and nationwide, and to tackle this threat we need a comprehensive solution. I believe the Gang Abatement and Prevention Act is a strong piece of legislation that addresses every facet of the problem," he said. 
   The bill, which was overwhelmingly approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee in a vote of 17-0, is now ready for consideration by the full Senate. 
   Among his FY2008 appropriations requests, Domenici recommended that the Justice Department receive $363.7 million in FY2008 to continue juvenile justice programs. New Mexico juvenile justice programs receive federal funding to help manage their heavy caseloads of underage gang members and gang-related crime. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Department of Justice, also continued his federal assistance for anti-crime initiatives by private organizations, including $90 million in FY2008 for the Boys and Girls Clubs, which targets at-risk youngsters and prevents them from falling into gang activity. 
   According to the New Mexico Department of Safety (DPS), gang activity in the state has been on the rise over the past several years. Relatively traditional neighborhood gangs, typically found in the state's urban areas, are escalating to statewide criminal gangs. These organizations are now more mobile, more violent, and more involved in high-level criminal activities, DPS reported. View the DPS Gang Task Force website here: http://www.dps.nm.org/lawEnforcement/gangTaskForce/index.php 
   The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act has the support of a nationwide group of prevention organizations, victims groups, law enforcement, prosecutors, and state and local authorities.
 
 