DOE RELEASES $6.5 MILLION SECURED BY SEN. DOMENICI FOR MIND INSTITUTE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised s $6.5 million he secured last year to continue progress on an Albuquerque-headquartered effort to better understand how to treat or cure injuries and illness of the brain.  
   The grant award represents fifth-year funding secured by Domenici for the Mental Illness and Neuroscience Discovery Institute (MIND Institute). Consisting of a consortium of universities and medical research facilities, the MIND Institute is headquartered at the University of New Mexico Science and Technology Park in Albuquerque. 
   "I am pleased the MIND Institute has again been recognized for funding by the DOE. The research done here is invaluable to our understanding of mental illness like Alzheimer's and schizophrenia," Domenici said. "Unlocking the mysteries of the human brain can lead to the treatment of many diseases that ail our society. This institute continues to help us on the road to discovery." 
   Initiated by Domenici, the institute funds three national centers of excellence in functional brain imaging, each with proven capabilities in magnet-encephalography (MEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The centers are in Albuquerque, Minneapolis, and Boston. 
   Last year, Domenici included the MIND Institute funding in the FY2004 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act. Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   The national centers include the following organizations: New Mexico - UNM, the Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Sandia and Los Alamos National Laboratories; Massachusetts - Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School; and, Minnesota - Brain Sciences Center at the Minneapolis Veterans Administration Medical Center, and the University of Minnesota's Center for Magnetic Resonance Research. In August 2002, the Domenici Research Center for Mental Illness at the Brain Sciences Centre in Minneapolis was formally dedicated. 
   Three national centers will lead the nation's research on brain function imaging, including basic research and clinical studies in brain function, mental illness and neurological disorders. Their work is expected to lead to improved clinical approaches to many types of mental illness and brain disorders. The research is also geared toward making improvements in treatments for stroke and head trauma patients.
 
 