N.M. SENATORS OPPOSED ANY EFFORT TO CUT MEDICARE FUNDS TO TREAT UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today joined a bipartisan effort to warn against reducing federal funding reimbursements to local hospitals, physicians and ambulance services for the care they give undocumented immigrants.  
   The New Mexico Senators have signed letters to the Senate Finance Committee and the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to express their support for Section 1011 of the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. This authorizes federal funding to offset costs incurred by local health care providers when they treat illegal immigrants. Bingaman is a member of the Finance Committee and has separately urged his colleagues on that panel, and Senate Democratic leaders, not to cut Section 1011. 
   By federal law, Medicare-participating hospitals are required to screen, treat, and stabilize individuals seeking emergency medical care regardless of income or immigration status. There has been discussion on Capitol Hill to tap into Section 1011 funding to offset health care costs elsewhere in the federal budget. 
   "The need for these federal reimbursement funds goes far beyond the immediate need in border counties in New Mexico. Using this funding to make up shortfalls elsewhere would only serve to make it harder for physicians, hospitals and other providers to offer care at all," said Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Budget Committee. 
   "As a border state, New Mexico has a very keen understanding of how important it is for hospitals and doctors to be reimbursed for the care they give to undocumented immigrants. It would be a terrible mistake to cut this essential funding, and we will work hard to prevent that from happening" Bingaman said. 
   Congress previously provided $1.0 billion in Section 1011 funding from FY2005 to FY2008 to reimburse hospitals, physicians and ambulances for providing mandated emergency service to illegal immigrants. Claims to this reimbursement program have steadily grown since its inception. In New Mexico, providers have received more than $3.1 million of Section 1011 funding. 
   The bipartisan group wrote to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus and ranking Republican Senator Charles Grassley that "Section 1011 is vital to our states' health care safety net. We strongly oppose any effort to rescind section 1011 funds." 
   "Clearly, the program's rapid and continued growth underscores the volume of uncompensated care provided to illegal immigrants in the United States, and the financial and resource burden shouldered by health care providers. Rescinding federal funds would exacerbate our states' current health care challenges and jeopardizes every citizen's ability to gain access to care," the Senators wrote. 
   In a separate letter to acting-CMS Administrator Leslie V. Norwalk, the Senators requested information related to the administration of the program, including specific data on state-by-state claims to Section 1011 funding.
 
 