SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN WORK WITH AMBASSADORS TO ADDRESS BORDER VIOLENCE
  In response to serious concerns they raised, Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today said they were pleased that the Mexican government will take action to calm the surge in violence along New Mexico's border with Mexico. 
   Domenici and Bingaman on Monday spoke separately with U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Arturo Sarukhan and were informed that the Mexican government will move Army personnel and equipment to Palomas, where at least six people were killed in recent weeks. Palomas is the sister city to Columbus, N.M.
   Domenici also spoke with U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Antonio Garza, who assured the Senator that he was working with both governments to address the situation.
   "U.S. agencies are responding swiftly and taking steps to protect the lives of New Mexicans living along the border in Columbus. Both Ambassadors Sarukhan and Garza told me yesterday they will work on the situation" said Domenici, a member on the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee. "It is important that we work together to nip this problem in the bud, so that this violence does not take root and spread."
   "I appreciate that the Mexican government is responding to our concerns. Sending Army personnel to the region is clearly a good sign, but we'll follow the situation closely to make sure that enough steps are being taken to address the recent increase in violence," Bingaman said.
   Conversations with Sarukhan and Garza are the latest in a series of actions taken by New Mexico Senators to bring calm to the border. Last week, they wrote to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, urging them to take appropriate actions to prevent violence from spilling across the border from Palomas.
   Responding to the New Mexico lawmakers' concerns, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) are taking part in a 24-hour a day outbound operation to swiftly interdict weapons and disrupt the criminal activity in the Columbus region and in Palomas.
   In support of the operation, ICE is deploying eight additional Special Agents to help carry out heightened safety measures along the border and is prepared to continue the deployment up to 45 days.
   The State Department has also indicated to the Senators that it is monitoring the situation.
 
 