NEW MEXICO LEADERS: SBA AGREEMENT WOULD BENEFIT NEW MEXICO FIRMS AS FT. BLISS GROWS
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici, Rep. Steve Pearce and Gov. Bill Richardson today indicated that they have taken action to ensure that small and medium-sized businesses in New Mexico are not excluded from competing for what could amount to $2 billion-$3 billion worth of construction projects in New Mexico. 
   The New Mexico lawmakers and governor have issued letters to the directors of the Small Business Administration offices in El Paso and Albuquerque calling for the development of a formal Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that would allow New Mexico businesses to compete for planned expansion projects at Fort Bliss-especially when the work will be carried out in New Mexico.
   Fort Bliss, which is based in El Paso but has extensive training ranges in southern New Mexico, is currently undergoing a massive infrastructure expansion. The uniformed population is expected to increase by nearly 25,000 in the next few years, as several units are relocated to the Army base as part of decisions made last year by the Base Closure and Realignment Commission.
   Their joint letter states:
   "The vast majority of Fort Bliss' training ranges are located in Do?a Ana and Otero counties in New Mexico, and all of the improvements due on Fort Bliss' training ranges will be done on New Mexico soil.
   "The anticipated result of an MOU would be New Mexico companies being qualified, and aggressively encouraged, to bid on Fort Bliss-related projects in New Mexico that are currently restrictive competition bids limited to the El Paso district office's region.
   "We fully support this partnership between the SBA offices, not only for this current Fort Bliss expansion, but for any future expansion in New Mexico that should occur at this bi-state military installation. Additionally, we hope that preference will be given to the qualified, set-aside contractors that are local to the El Paso/southern New Mexico region."
   Because Fort Bliss' administrative offices sit on the Texas side of the installation, responsibility for identifying and vetting qualified contractors for this work has fallen within the jurisdiction of the SBA office in El Paso. As a result, many New Mexico firms have not been made aware that bids are being solicited for construction, even when those projects are to be done in New Mexico.
   In a letter to the SBA offices, the lawmakers and the governor expressed a measure of satisfaction that the two offices have begun to discuss this problem.
 
 