NEW MEXICO DELEGATION RESPONDS TO NAMING OF BRAC COMMISSION, URGES COMMUNITY SUPPORT FOR BASES
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman and Reps. Heather Wilson and Tom Udall continued to encourage New Mexicans to support the state's military installations as the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission formally kicked off today.  
   President Bush on Tuesday formally named eight members to serve on the Commission. While none have ties to New Mexico, the Senators noted that the Commission follows a specific set of guidelines and that New Mexico's military bases are well positioned. 
   "I am satisfied with the position of New Mexico's military installations as we enter into the BRAC process. Over the years, I have worked hard to add missions and make sure that our bases have the latest technology and infrastructures. Each has solid military value. While there are still things we can do, such as expanding the New Mexico Training Range Initiative at Cannon, I believe that so far those upgrades have paid off. I encourage New Mexicans to continue to support our bases because community support is a criteria used by the BRAC Commission," Domenici said. 
   "New Mexico's military installations are in top shape, and each of them plays a unique and important role in our national defense. I strongly believe that when this BRAC process is complete, our Air Force Bases and White Sands Missile Range will have been deemed so essential that they could acquire new responsibilities," Bingaman said. 
   "From the beginning, I have opposed BRAC," Wilson said. "We remain committed to the preservation of these facilities. They are critical to our national security and important to New Mexico. Over time, we have invested in facilities at New Mexico's bases and kept them in good shape," Wilson said. 
   "I expect the Senate to carefully examine the records of all the individuals nominated to the Commission. The work these commissioners perform will impact communities across the nation. I intend to make certain that the Commission follows the process established by the law authorizing this BRAC round," Udall said. 
   The next step in the BRAC process will come when the Secretary of Defense sends a preliminary realignment/closure list to the BRAC Commission in May.
 
 