SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON BUSH'S NATIONAL ADDRESS ON BORDER SECURITY AND IMMIGRATION REFORM
  In response to President Bush's nationally televised address on border security and immigration reform, Sen. Pete Domenici (R-N.M.) on Monday evening released the following statement: 
   "The President has suggested that we are going to secure the border by using the National Guard to support the Border Patrol and that this will start immediately. I am 100 percent in support of the President's proposals. This means the United States National Guard and not just the New Mexico National Guard.
   "The President's plan will mean much more National Guard activity on the border until it is secured, which is our right under the law. There has been a growing clamor for something to be done about controlling our borders. Now, the President has taken action, and called for more help for local law enforcement and more facilities to handle illegal immigrants. Congress must get serious about securing the border and reforming our immigration laws.
   "National Guard troops are already conducting successful counter-drug operations at the border in New Mexico. They have been helpful in improving border infrastructure, such as vehicle barriers that were constructed by the guard in Columbus.
   "We are training Border Patrol agents in Artesia as fast as possible, and New Mexico has already received 131 new agents since October, with another hundred on the way this year. But the Guard has the know-how and equipment to support Border Patrol Operations along the border effectively right now, with no waiting necessary. It makes sense to use this resource. Allowing the National Guard to augment the work that Border Patrol agents do will free up manpower to apprehend and deport illegal immigrants and crack down on drug smuggling and other crime along the border.
   "While some have expressed concern that the National Guard is stretched too thin, it is important to remember that this is a national force, so troops will be coming from every state, not just border states. A deployment of 5,000 Guardsmen, for instance, would represent less than two percent of the overall force. Plenty of manpower will still be available for other needs, like fighting wildfires in New Mexico."
   Last November, Domenici introduced the Border Security and Modernization Act (S.2049), which called for using the National Guard to augment border patrol activities.
   Domenici discussed these issues on Monday radio show. To access the program, visit: http://domenici.senate.gov (News Center, Audio/Visual) or call 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309.
 
 