SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES COMMUNITY INVESTMENT FUNDS FOR NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that New Mexico housing initiatives will receive $409,457 to support community development and housing goals.  
   The funds have been awarded under NeighborWorks' community investment and development program and will assist low-income home buyers; produce and manage affordable, high quality rental properties; reduce the incidence of foreclosures; and stimulate local communities. 
   "As senator, I am always looking for ways to help New Mexico communities be the best they can be," said Domenici. "NeighborWorks funds can help accomplish this by channeling resources to organizations and groups that work directly within their localities to advance quality of life projects like affordable housing. I am pleased to know that New Mexico will now reap the benefits of these investment funds." 
   Homewise, Inc. of Santa Fe has been awarded $345,921 in flexible grant money. Homewise is a nonprofit organization dedicated to assisting income-challenged New Mexicans as they navigate the challenges in home-ownership. Founded in 1986, the organization has helped 1,200 people into homes through purchase, improvement and education programs. 
   Tierra del Sol Housing Corporation is located in San Miguel in Do?a Ana County and has been awarded $63,536 in grant funding. Tierra del Sol serves Chaves, Do?a Ana, Grant, Hidalgo, Luna, Otero, Sierra, Socorro, and Taos counties through education, credit counseling, and home ownership services. To date, it has developed 3,000 housing units and also offers services outside of New Mexico in Arizona and Texas. 
   NeighborWorks is a non-profit organization created by the federal government and based on the 1978 Neighborhood Reinvestment model of community/public/private partnership to help generate investment in local communities. This year, the program is expected to provide over $75 million nationwide. Through its investment model, the program also expects to leverage $8.2 million in New Mexico community reinvestment in order to stimulate the local economy and create affordable housing. 
   Domenici is a long-time member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and serves on the subcommittee that funds the Department of Housing and Urban Development and housing programs.
 
 