SEN. DOMENICI RECEIVES NATIONAL AWARD OF NUCLEAR SCIENCE
  The following are U.S. Senator Pete Domenici's prepared remarks for the acceptance of the 2008 National Award of Nuclear Science on Saturday.
   The National Atomic Museum Foundation presented the award to the Senator at its "Einstein Gala" at the Tanoan Country Club in Albuquerque. 
   The award is given to individuals who have shown a commitment to advancing scientific endeavor in areas of military leadership, medical technology, public policy and government, energy sciences, education and space exploration. Honorees become members of the International Advisory Council to the museum.
   Past honorees have included Dr. Glenn Seaborg, former head of the Atomic Energy Commission; Dr. David Kuhl, inventor of Positron Emission Tomography (PET), a medical scanning technology; and former New Mexico Senator and astronaut Sen. Harrison (Jack) Schmitt.
   U.S. Senator Pete Domenici of New Mexico
   NATIONAL AWARD OF NUCLEAR SCIENCE
   March 15, 2008, Albuquerque
   Thank you to the members of the Einstein Society for being here tonight and for your continued support of this wonderful institution, the National Atomic Museum.
   It is a great pleasure to be here to accept the National Award of Nuclear Service. I am honored to join the ranks of individuals who have made great contributions to our country including Dr. Glenn Seaborg, Dr. David Kuhl, and former Senator Jack Schmitt.
   As all of you know, nuclear energy is vitally important to our country. I have enjoyed working on the unique challenges that have faced nuclear energy over the last three decades. That is why I am glad to see that the title of this evening's event is "The Best is Yet to Come". I do believe that the best is yet to come for the role of nuclear energy in our country.
   Over the coming years, our nation faces the daunting challenge of needing more energy AND cleaner energy. Nuclear energy is without a doubt the cleanest, safest, and most affordable source of energy that our country has to meet this challenge. For this reason alone, nuclear energy should receive broad bipartisan support. But the promise of nuclear energy reaches far beyond the cost of electricity production alone.
   Anyone who is serious about addressing the threat of global climate change realizes that nuclear energy is the only option for providing emission-free, base-load electrical power.
   Worldwide, billions of tons of carbon dioxide are emitted into the atmosphere each year. Expanding nuclear energy's share of the electrical generation market could reduce these emissions substantially.
   Nuclear energy also increases our options for dealing with our crushing dependence on foreign oil-a dependence which I am convinced is making our country poorer and poorer every day. Although much of the petroleum used in this country goes into the transportation sector, new battery technology may give us a way to displace these imports with nuclear energy in the future-if we are willing to increase the role of nuclear energy.
   I have been in the Senate for 36 years and it has been almost that long since a new nuclear power plant has been ordered in this country. That is changing. Since last September the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has accepted licenses for 11 new power reactor units and is expecting applications for a total of 33 new reactor units in the next two years.
   I think we have embarked on a renaissance for nuclear energy in the United States, and I am proud of the work I have been able to do in the Senate in recent years to help this rebirth to begin.
   * In the late 1990s, I encouraged the internal changes in the NRC that led to predicable licensing and the performance-based regulation that we have today.
   * In the Energy Policy Act of 2005, we created powerful incentives for the industry including: tax credits, regulatory delay support, and loan guarantees. These incentives gave industry the confidence to undertake new construction.
   Much hard work lies before us. It will be 10 years before these new reactor units are brought into production. The new combined construction and operation licensing structure has yet to be tested and challenges will undoubtedly arise. We need to address these challenges. The labor and industrial infrastructure needed to build these new reactor units is almost completely gone in this country. We need to rebuild this infrastructure.
   In the end, we must not be satisfied simply with restoring life to the nuclear industry.
   For the first time since the Carter administration, spent fuel reprocessing is now being considered as a viable fuel cycle option in the United States.
   At long last this reality has brought the U.S. into step with other modern nuclear states across the world. I believe we can improve on the processes used in the rest of the world. We must continue to pursue spent fuel reprocessing and take it from the laboratory to commercial reality, avoiding a short-sighted once-through fuel cycle.
   We have already come far - farther than anyone thought even five years ago. We must not rest. We must go farther than we think we can today in order to reach the brighter tomorrow we can now only glimpse. The best is yet to come.
   Thank you.
 
 