SEN. DOMENICI QUIERIES TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY ON BORDER, RESERVATION NEEDS, AMTRAK FUNDING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asked Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta for additional details on how the administration may want to move forward with several New Mexico highway programs related to border development and Indian Reservations.  
   Domenici today took part in the first hearing held by the newly-reconfigured Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. Mineta appeared before the subcommittee to testify on the FY2006 federal transportation budget. 
   In addition to seeking information on the future of the Indian Reservation Roads (IRR) program as well as the Corridors and Borders Programs, Domenici stressed to Mineta the importance of providing guidance on reforms expected from Amtrak. 
   "A lot of different pieces of the transportation puzzle are now moving around in Congress, and I want to be sure that several programs important to different constituencies in New Mexico are addressed. The development of suitable transportation infrastructure at the border, on reservations and in key spots within our state is necessary to capitalize on our economic potential," Domenici said. 
   In addition to preparatory work on the FY2006 appropriations bill for the U.S. Department of Transportation, Congress is actively working to finally reauthorize the federal highway bill which would set funding guidelines for the next six years. The Senate this week is also expected to complete the FY2006 Budget Resolution, a budget blueprint that assumes $284 billion over six years in federal highway funding. 
   Domenici is set to introduce a new IRR authorization bill to continue an effort he launched in 1982 to give tribes designated access to federal highway construction funding. The pending Domenici bill would immediately provide a $55 million increase for the IRR highway construction program, from $275 million annually to $330 million. 
   Domenici has also been a strong advocate for the National Corridor Planning and Development and Coordinated Border Infrastructure Program, which has been used to improve infrastructure in the state. For FY2005, this program was used to provide $5.0 million to widen U.S. Highway 62/180, $1.0 million for the I-25/Mesa del Sol interchange in Albuquerque, and $250,000 for bridge construction on the Navajo Nation. 
   In terms of Amtrak, Domenici signaled his support for providing funding for Amtrak passenger rail service, but told Mineta that the administration should be more forthcoming on the reforms it wants from the financially-troubled railway. 
   "I'm not for zeroing out Amtrak's funding, but it would be very useful for the administration to tell us what reforms it wants in order to support funding," Domenici said.
 
 