SEN. DOMENICI SUPPORTS EXPANSION OF FEDERAL COMMUNITY HEALTH CLINIC PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that he will support legislation to reauthorize the Community Health Centers program.  
   Domenici is an original cosponsor of the Health Centers Renewal Act of 2007, which will reauthorize the federal Community Health Centers (CHC) program, within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The bill, introduced today, will provide additional appropriations funding for the program through FY2012. 
   "New Mexicans have benefited greatly over the years from the presence of these health centers that provide health care services to anyone who walks through the door, regardless of his or her ability to pay," said Domenici. "Increasing the resources for these programs is a priority for me and I am happy to support legislation to help these clinics provide high-quality, cost-effective medical care." 
   The bill reauthorizes the CHC program and authorizes additional funds by amending section 330 of the Public Health Service Act. Beginning in FY2008, the legislation would authorize almost $2.2 billion for the program and would increase funding to over $3.5 billion by FY2012. 
   Community health centers are local, non-profit, community-owned health care providers usually located in low-income and medically underserved areas, as identified by the federal government. Patients are disproportionately low-income, uninsured or publicly insured, and minority. Clinics are open to all residents, regardless of insurance status and provide free or reduced cost care based on ability to pay. 
   In New Mexico, such centers serve approximately 290,000 patients. Through 14 federal grant recipients, more than 90 community health centers are operated across the state of New Mexico. 
   "Evidence clearly shows how necessary this program is in countless communities. We must act now to support the expansion of this critical program to ensure that these centers have access to resources to expand their programs and continue to deliver quality care for those who need it," said Domenici. 
   Domenici is a long-time member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which plays a large role in determining funding levels for federal programs. Over the years, Domenici has secured millions to expand and improve CHCs around New Mexico.
 
 