SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES LAST MISSION OF 523RD FIGHTER SQUADRON AT CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today saluted the 27th Fighter Wing at Cannon Air Force Base, which recently conducted its last mission before being deactivated to make room for a New Air Force Special Operations mission. 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, paid tribute to the F-16 fighter wing in a statement for the Congressional Record. The last mission was flown May 10.
   "The 523rd Fighter Squadron has long been a vital part of our nation's defense, as well as Cannon's 27th's Fighter Wing, and I am proud of all of the men and women who have served in the 523rd," Domenici said. "I am proud New Mexico has been home to so many outstanding individuals, and I look forward to working with more such soldiers as Cannon Air Force Base transitions to an Air Force Special Operations base in October."
   Domenici is currently working with his congressional colleagues and Air Force officials to ensure that sufficient military construction funding is available to ensure a smooth transition to the Air Force Special Operations Command mission at Cannon.
   The following is the full text of Domenici tribute soon:
   STATEMENT BY SENATOR PETE V. DOMENICI REGARDING CANNON AIR FORCE BASE, NEW MEXICO.
   MR. DOMENICI. Mr. President. I rise today to speak about the importance of Cannon Air Force Base, New Mexico.
   Cannon Air Force Base's primary mission is an F-16 fighter wing able to perform day or night operations. However, the base is currently undergoing an exciting transition to be an Air Force Special Operations Base. I am excited about this mission and the work that will be done in Eastern New Mexico, but with every new mission, we must also remember prior missions.
   Today I want to commemorate the last mission of the 27th Fighter Wing's 523rd Fighter Squadron, which was flown on May 10, 2007, as the 523rd is being deactivated in preparation for Cannon's new mission.
   The 523rd Fighter Squadron has a unique history that dates back to well before their time in New Mexico. It was established on February 1, 1940 as a Bombardment Squadron with B-18s. The squadron arrived at Cannon in 1959. One of its missions from Cannon came after September 11, 2001, when the 523rd flew 24 hour per day operations in defense of our nation.
   This Fighter Squadron will not be the last to leave Cannon Air Force Base, as other departures are expected in this summer and fall as well as next spring. However, the 523rd Fighter Squadron has long been a vital part of our nation's defense, as well as Cannon's 27th's Fighter Wing, and I am proud of all of the men and women who have served in the 523rd.
   Today I want to honor them, as well as all of the men and women who have served at Cannon Air Force Base. I am proud New Mexico has been home to so many outstanding individuals, and I look forward to working with more such soldiers as Cannon Air Force Base transitions to an Air Force Special Operations base in October.
 
 