BUDGET COMMITTEE ACCEPTS SEN. DOMENICI MENTAL HEALTH PARITY AMENDMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today gained approval for his amendment to ensure that the federal budget can accommodate implementation of new Mental Health Parity legislation, should Congress enact the bill this year.  
   Domenici is a senior member of the Senate Budget Committee that Thursday will complete work on the FY2008 Concurrent Budget Resolution that will serve as a budgetary blueprint for authorizations and appropriations in FY2008. 
   As part of the committee debate, Domenici offered a budget neutral amendment that stipulates that the Budget Committee can adjust the budget to ensure the Mental Health Parity Act of 2007 (S.558) will be paid for if Congress enacts the bill this year. The Domenici amendment was accepted on a unanimous voice vote. 
   "Mental health is a national problem and now we have a package that can move the nation forward to better address treatment for those who suffer from a mental illness. This amendment will serve as a budgetary placeholder for eventual enactment of our new Mental Health Parity bill," Domenici said. 
   "I am pleased that we finally have a legislative compromise deal in the Senate that could bring hope and a greater measure of fairness in mental health insurance care coverage to as many as 113 million Americans," he said. "I have serious problems with the overall budget resolution before the committee, but I am pleased with the support shown for this mental health initiative." 
   S.558 was introduced by Domenici, Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) in February and subsequently approved by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. Now awaiting Senate consideration, the bill would provide mental health parity for about 113 million Americans who work for employers with 50 or more employees. 
   It would ensure that health plans do not place more restrictive conditions on mental health coverage than on medical or surgical coverage. As such, it would require: parity for financial requirements like deductibles, co-payments, and annual and lifetime limits; and, parity for treatment limitations such as the number of covered hospital days and visits. 
   Approximately 370,000 individuals in New Mexico have some kind of a mental disorder, and of these, about 71,000 adults have a serious mental illness. These individuals include those with schizophrenia, manic depressive, major depression, panic disorder, or obsessive-compulsive disorder. Nearly 19,000 children/adolescents in New Mexico have severe emotional disturbances. 
   The new bill has 40 Senate cosponsors, including Senator Jeff Bingaman. The new measure will build on the landmark 1996 Mental Health Parity Act, a law authored by Domenici and the late Minnesota Senator Paul Wellstone that began the process of ending health insurance discrimination against people with mental illness.
 
 