SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS, ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, May 15, 2006.
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Steve Shadley, KUNM Albuquerque
   * Bill Dupuy, KSFR Santa Fe
   * Jack Nixon, KSNM Las Cruces 
   * Kevin Robins, Clovis-Portales Radio
   * Larry Moehlenbrink, KKOB Albuquerque
   REVIEW:
   00:00 - Domenici says Governor Richardson and other governors should embrace any initiative announced by President Bush to help secure the border, including the deployment of National Guard troops from around the nation to support the Customs and Border Patrol activities. He reports that Border Patrol agent hiring and training has been redoubled and that 131 new agents have been assigned to New Mexico since October and that 219 agents will be assigned to the state by September.
   02:53 - Domenici says President Bush should commit as many National Guard troops as necessary to gain control of the border. He says, for example, deploying 10,000 uniformed troops to the Southwest Border would basically double federal presence on the border, which is now manned by about 9,700 Border Patrol agents.
   04:30 - Domenici says he expects President Bush to endorse the emergency supplemental amendment he cosponsored with Senator Judd Gregg to provide $1.9 billion for immediate equipment, vehicle, aircraft and infrastructure needs on the border. The budget-neutral amendment would also give new funding to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia to support the Border Patrol training academy there.
   06:45 - Domenici says there have been no new developments in the search for a new mission for Cannon Air Force Base at Clovis, but that a decision on the future of the base is imminent.
   06:58 - Domenici says he has requested an $885,000 appropriation to help Eastern New Mexico University-Portales purchase computer equipment. He says the request builds on work he has done to secure federal funding to aid the university in its "practical" plan to improve the school. He notes that he gained $620,000 last year to support the new ENMU science center.
   08:20 - Domenici says he expects good things to result from the United States decision to normalize relations with Libya, saying that it represents an example of a once-rogue nation "changing its colors" to accept openness and more freedom.
   09:26 - Domenici says he is not overly worried about Mexican President Vicente Fox's concerns about putting National Guard troops on the U.S.-Mexico Border. He announced that he will offer an amendment to the immigration reform bill to require more cooperation from the Mexican government on border security and immigration reform. He notes that Senate leaders have already accepted a Domenici border infrastructure improvement amendment, which is now part of the bill the Senate will debate over the next two weeks.
   11:35 - Domenici says he asks "Why not?" support the National Security Agency review of telephone numbers dialed in the United States. He says as far as he can tell, the surveillance tool does not hurt anyone or infringes on anyone's rights. He surmises that a congressional review will ultimately show that the program was properly vetted and found to be useful tool in tracking terrorist elements.
   13:13 - Domenici says he is unaware of any congressional effort to impose sanctions against Japan for its ban of American beef.
   13:41 - Domenici says he does not believe there will be a need to extend the deadline for seniors to sign up for the Medicare prescription drug program. He says the program is going well and that a strong majority of eligible seniors have already signed up for the benefits, and notes that there is no deadline for low-income beneficiaries to enroll. He says he hopeful that those who miss the deadline can find a way to be included in the program.
   16:05 - Domenici says he supports funding for Amtrak, and notes that presidents generally cut Amtrak funding only to have it restored by Congress. He says Congress will eventually have to seriously address the financial losses incurred by Amtrak's Western routes.
 
 