SEN. DOMENICI'S BORDER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN ADDED TO NEW IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL
  The Senate today took up comprehensive border security and immigration reform legislation that includes a major plan authored by Sen. Pete Domenici to improve border crossings and deploy more surveillance technology on the border. 
   The Domenici plan is now part of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act (S.2611). The infrastructure improvement language was taken from a Domenici amendment offered during the March immigration debate. It authorizes $100 million annually for port of entry improvements at border crossings on the Southwest and Canadian borders.
   The border blueprint, based on recommendations from the General Services Administration (GSA), represents the first major border improvement package accepted by the Senate since 1986.
   "We have a huge backlog in giving our border enforcement agents suitable working environments for processing both the legal and illegal activities along the border. My plan authorizes sufficient funding to make methodical and significant headway to upgrade our border crossings," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee.
   "Including this border improvement plan in the legislation brought before the Senate is a very good indication that the bill the Senate eventually produces will be comprehensive in nature," he said.
   In 2001, the GSA completed a comprehensive assessment of the infrastructure needs on the Southwest and Canadian borders, and estimated then that at least $784 million was needed to make necessary improvements.
   "Many of these needs remain outstanding, despite the passage of five years. What's worse is that many of these needs have grown and many needs in our post 9/11 world have arisen," Domenici said.
   The last major border improvement effort was a $357 million Southwest border plan authored in 1986 by Domenici and former Senator Dennis DeConcini. This 20-year-old plan supported the construction of the Santa Teresa Border Crossing in Do?a Ana County.
   The Domenici amendment, coauthored by Senator Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), enjoyed bipartisan support, and was endorsed by the Border Trade Alliance.
   The Domenici plan now in the bill would:
   * Identifying port of entry infrastructure and technology improvement projects that would enhance homeland security;
   * Prioritizing and implementing these projects based on need;
   * Preparing a plan assessing the vulnerabilities at each port of entry located on the northern and southern borders;
   * Implementing a technology demonstration program to test and evaluate new port of entry technologies; and
   * Providing the training necessary for the personnel who must implement and use these technologies.
   The Senate debate is expected to last two weeks, and Domenici expects to offer other amendments related to more federal judges for border regions, additional U.S. Marshals, and enforcement cooperation with Mexico.
 
 