SEN. DOMENICI: MEXICO CAN HELP STOP ILLEGAL BORDER TUNNELS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today signed a bipartisan Senate letter to Mexican President Vicente Fox and leaders of the Mexican Congress encouraging that nation to enact a law that corresponds with American legislation to make it a federal crime to construct or finance tunnels underneath the U.S. border with Mexico or Canada. 
   The letter to the Mexican leaders was authored by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), who with Senator Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) earlier this month introduced the Border Tunnel Prevention Act (S.2355). It would establish punishments for those who construct tunnels or subterranean passages or who knowingly permit others to build tunnels on their property.
   "Just as it takes two to tango, I've long believed that any effective border security or immigration reforms necessitate cooperation with Mexico. The same goes for this effort to thwart those who dig tunnels between our two borders to smuggle people and drugs into our country," Domenici said.
   The letter to the Mexican leaders outlines S.2355 and states: "It is our hope that Mexico would consider enacting similar legislation, and that our countries can continue to work together to address this problem by discovering and shutting down those who build, finance or use border tunnels for illegal purposes."
   The legislation was prompted by the discovery in late January of a massive 2,400-foot smuggling tunnel between San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico. It was the most sophisticated of the 40 unauthorized tunnels discovered since September 2001.
   The Feinstein-Kyl bill would punish those convicted of building a tunnel with up to 20 years in prison, while calling for up to 10 years of prison time for those who let others do so on their land. Also, the bill doubles the sentence for anyone who is caught using a tunnel or passage to smuggle illegal immigrants, terrorists, weapons, drugs or illegal goods.
   The Senate Judiciary Committee is currently working to develop a comprehensive immigration reform and border security package.
   Domenici has authored two border security and immigration reform bills. The WISH Act (S.2326) recommends a strategy for dealing with millions of illegal workers in the United States and improving guest worker guidelines, while the Border Security and Modernization Act (S.2049) addresses border security infrastructure issues.
 
 