SENATE PASSES DEFENSE POLICY BILL WITH LANGUAGE TO STOP STEALTH FIGHTER RETIREMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted with the Senate to approve a defense policy bill that contains language he requested to prohibit the Defense Department from retiring F-117 stealth fighter aircraft, which are stationed at Holloman Air Force Base at Alamogordo. 
   The Senate approved the FY2006 Defense Authorization Bill (S.1042) on a unanimous 98-0 vote Tuesday. This policy bill will now be referred to a joint House-Senate conference committee to reconcile differences in House and Senate versions of this bill.
   The Domenici-requested language in the bill will prohibit the Air Force from retiring any F-117 fighter aircraft. The Pentagon's FY2006 budget recommended retiring 10 of the stealth fighters. The Senator gained approval for similar language last year.
   "Now is simply not the time to be retiring any stealth fighters. We are in the midst of a war and the budget and timeline for bringing on the next generation of American fighter aircraft is not certain. This language will keep these fighters in use and at Holloman until we are more certain that the nation will have the air defenses it needs," Domenici said.
   Domenici visited Alamogordo and Holloman Air Force Base on Veterans Day and discussed the future of the F-117 fleet and future missions of the base.
   "I am optimistic about Holloman's future because of the synergy and joint-training dynamic presented by having Holloman, White Sands Missile Range and Fort Bliss so closely aligned following the BRAC process. Keeping the F-117 at Holloman now makes sense," Domenici said.
   During debate of the bill, the Senate accepted a Domenici amendment, cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, authorizing $3.0 million for the Long Wavelength Array project, which is carried out by the University of New Mexico and the Naval Research Laboratory. The LWA will be a very large aperture radio astronomy telescope designed as a powerful new instrument to study the electromagnetic spectrum in the areas of astrophysics and space physics. This program builds on the existing Very Large Array (VLA) on the Plains of San Augustin in Socorro County. The project will be managed by the Naval Research Lab.
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, noted that he has already secured $5.0 million in the FY2006 Defense Appropriations Bill for the LWA project. Domenici is currently engaged in conference committee negotiations to reconcile differences in the Senate and House-passed versions of this spending bill.
   Related to the Defense Department's role in homeland security, the bill also allows Pentagon counter-drug funding to be used for combined counter-drug and counterterrorism-related activities along U.S. borders.
   Overall, S.1042 authorizes $441.6 billion for FY2006 defense programs, including a 3.1 percent across the board military pay raise and $109.2 billion for military personnel. The bill also authorizes an additional $1.4 billion for force protection gear for service members, and $586.4 million more for work associated with combating terrorism.
 
 