SEN. DOMENICI ENCOURAGES NEW MEXICO SENIORS TO ENROLL IN NEW MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM
  With the start of the enrollment process to get more affordable prescription drugs, Sen. Pete Domenici today again encouraged New Mexico seniors to enroll in Medicare's new Prescription Drug Benefit Plan.  
   Domenici and Dr. Mark McClellan, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, today also released a radio and television public service announcement to encourage the estimated 250,000 New Mexicans who now receive Medicare benefits to consider enrolling in the new program. 
   Starting today, seniors can sign up for the benefit plan, which becomes effective on Jan. 1 for those enrolling before Dec. 31. The full prescription drug benefit will allow Medicare enrollees to save money, and extra benefits are available for low-income individuals. About 80,000 of New Mexico Medicare recipients can qualify for additional low-income assistance. 
   "Prescription drug costs are high, especially for low-income seniors. Now seniors who never had any help with those bills have an opportunity to have Medicare pick up a part of the tab. It will improve access to the medicines seniors need to stay healthy," Domenici said. 
   "I understand that some seniors may feel overwhelmed this new program, but there is time and assistance available for understanding its benefits," he said. 
   The new benefits plan was created by the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act, which Domenici supported in the Senate. 
   Seniors with annual incomes of less than $19,245 per couple (or $14,355 per individual) will qualify for subsidies that would eliminate some or all of their out of pocket costs. Individuals who think they qualify for this extra benefit should seek an application from the Social Security Department as soon as possible. 
   Every person who receives Medicare will be eligible for drug coverage under a Medicare prescription drug plan. The drug plans will be available in all parts of the country, and they will cover brand name and generic drugs. Prescriptions can be obtained from neighborhood pharmacies and through mail order. 
   Call 1-800-432-2080 for times and specific locations. Those seeking more information about the benefit itself can call 1-800-MEDICARE or visit www.medicare.gov. 
   The New Mexico Department of Aging and Long Term Services (http://www.nmaging.state.nm.us/ )and AARP New Mexico have been conducting public information meetings for Medicare beneficiaries across the state.
   For a Video Clip go to: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
 
 