SENATE PASSES TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF BREAST CANCER RESEARCH POSTAGE STAMP
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today reported Senate passage of legislation he cosponsored to authorize the issuance of a special U.S. postage stamp for an additional two years to raise funds to support breast cancer research on treatments and a cure.  
   The Senate passed the Breast Cancer Research Stamp Reauthorization Act of 2007 (S.597) by unanimous consent late Wednesday. Domenici is an original cosponsor to S.597, which would allow the Breast Cancer Research stamp to be issued through Dec. 2009. Current authorization for the stamp expires on Dec. 31, 2007. 
   "Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers diagnosed among women. Virtually every family in America knows someone who has been afflicted by this disease. This postage stamp is one way everyone can individually help find better treatments and a cure for this disease," Domenici said. 
   The bill allows a continued stamp surcharge of up to 25 percent above the value of a first-class stamp. The surplus revenues go to breast cancer research. The primary sponsors of the bill are Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas). 
   Aside from skin cancer, breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer among women nationwide. The U.S. Postal Service has sold more than 747 million "semi-postal" breast cancer research stamps since 1998, which has generated more than $53.8 million for breast cancer research, as well as focused public awareness on the illness and provided hope to breast cancer survivors. 
   Domenici this year also supported the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program Reauthorization Act (HR.1132), which was signed into law in April. This new law would improve access to examinations and screening for breast and cervical cancer by allowing the Health and Human Services Secretary to waive requirements for awarding breast and cervical cancer grants to states. Domenici cosponsored similar Senate legislation last year. 
   Within the just-enacted FY2008 Defense Appropriations Bill, Domenici also supported a $138 million appropriation in Defense Health Program funding to continue biomedical research programs through the Department of Defense Breast Cancer Research Program.
 
 