SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW - QUESTIONS & ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, October 15, 2007. 
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Larry Moehlenbrink, KKOB Albuquerque 
   * John McBreen, KYVA Gallup  
   * Bill Dupuy, KSFR Santa Fe 
   * Kevin Robbins, KSMX Portales 
   * Elaine Baumgartel, KUNM Albuquerque 
   TOPICS: 
   High Oil Prices 
   Logjam on New Energy Bill 
   U.S. Energy Production 
   Senate Inaction 
   Domenici's Health 
   Overfunded National Laboratories 
   2007 Farm Bill Status 
   Nuclear Power and New Mexico 
   Handling Nuclear Waste 
   REVIEW: 
   00:00 Domenici says the record-setting crude oil prices are completely out of line and too high. He says the higher prices show that the United States must take advantage of energy conservation and the production of all energy sources that can cut into the nation's dependence on crude oil. 
   01:44 Domenici warns that Congress is at risk of not enacting new energy diversity legislation if the Speaker of the House continues to insist on developing an energy package that is not bipartisan. He says talks on the bill face a serious logjam between the Senate and House. He advocates the bipartisan package passed by the Senate. 
   02:45 Domenici say U.S. oil and gas production has increased over the past year, partly because Congress has made it easier for producers to gain drilling permits. He also notes that the nation will benefit from the bill he authored to open up areas of the Gulf of Mexico for energy production. He says this up-tick in production is not sufficient to meet U.S. energy needs. He says the nation needs a more diverse American energy portfolio, saying the nation needs more of "any decent source of energy" it can produce. 
   04:58 Domenici acknowledges that the Senate now has a very difficult time legislating compared to when he first came to the Senate. He says attitudes today are too negative and partisan. He says he hopes Senate leaders will agree to take up his biennial budget legislation, which could help give lawmakers more time to actually legislate. 
   07:53 Domenici says the 60-vote cloture procedure is overused in the Senate, which slows down progress on most bills and nominations. However, he said cloture petitions serve a good purpose in "keeping something bad from passing." 
   09:18 Domenici says his health is as good as it has been for some time and that he and his physicians believe he should have no problem completing his term in office. He notes that there are many things he wants to accomplish by January 2009, including the immediate issue of FY2008 funding levels for the DOE national laboratories. 
   11:52 Domenici counters assertions that the DOE nuclear weapons laboratories have been overfunded and that the time has come to reduce defense spending at the labs. He says without underground weapons tests, that Congress had to invest heavily in science-based stockpile stewardship to assure the safety of the nation's stockpile. He says funding for the stockpile stewardship program has peaked, but that the program must still be funded to maintain the stockpile. 
   15:20 Domenici says the viability of the stockpile stewardship program is continually evaluated, including by Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman who has questioned the modeling behind stockpile stewardship. 
   16:00 Domenici says that until the Senate Agriculture Committee schedules a markup that there is little to report on the Senate producing a 2007 Farm Bill. He notes that progress has been made by the Finance Committee to create offsets for the Farm Bill should the Agriculture Committee decide to act. He says he is continuing to push for policies that would benefit farmers and ranchers in New Mexico. 
   18:08 Domenici reiterates that the United States must diversify its energy sources, including nuclear energy. He says nuclear energy nationwide can be advanced by work in New Mexico, including the uranium enrichment plant being built in Lea County and planned uranium mining and milling in Cibola County. He says these activities are being advanced using only the most modern technology that would work to better protect the workers and the environment. 
   23:19 Domenici says that while the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant has been a successful project, he has not even heard a "whisper" that New Mexico could become home to a high-level nuclear waste site. He says it is more likely that civilian nuclear waste will continue to be stored at nuclear power plant sites since the Yucca Mountain project is not moving forward. He notes that the United States should embrace waste recycling to reduce waste levels and the half-life of that waste.
 
 