SEN. DOMENICI CELEBRATES NATIONAL CHARACTER COUNTS WEEK IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici is gearing up for National Character Counts Week 2004, Oct. 17-23, which includes several events dedicated to the work accomplished the past year through Character Counts in New Mexico. 
   Several events in Albuquerque will kick off the annual celebration that emphasizes the importance of strong character in today's youth and the achievements of Character Counts in promoting the six pillars of good character: trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring and citizenship.
   "The Character Counts program began as a small seed in an Albuquerque school and has flourished into a fruitful program. All over New Mexico, parents and teachers help youth understand that good character is just as valuable in development as fractions and spelling," Domenici said. "This week is set apart for special activities and events that highlight the successes of Character Counts."
   The Albuquerque YMCA Character Caf? will showcase local teenagers serving dinner along with skits that illustrate how these young people live by the six pillars of the program. The theme for this year's skits and videos are hit TV reality-based shows like "The Apprentice," "Fear Factor," and "Real World." The Character Caf? is from 6:30 to 8:30pm Oct. 22 at Albuquerque's Comanche Elementary School, 3505 Pennsylvania NE.
   "We devote Character Counts Week to showing off what our kids have learned the past year in schools and in their youth groups," Domenici said. "The events in Roswell and Albuquerque, as well as the planned assemblies and parties across New Mexico, should illustrate our kids are doing the right thing and learning that this kind of behavior seals their future success."
   Character Counts is also teaming with the Albuquerque Police Department during the week to support the APD Party Patrol program. Through the Party Patrols, police officers are working to enforce minors in possession ordinances, and they are working with Character Counts and Albuquerque Public Schools to educate students and parents about these laws. Character Counts Week marks the start of a year long cooperative pilot program.
   "This year we have special cause to celebrate this great character education initiative," Domenici said. "Not only do we mark the tenth anniversary of Character Counts in New Mexico, we are excited to launch a new 'No Child Left Behind' grant that will help us expand and improve character education."
   Domenici, and then Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) first introduced a congressional resolution calling for National Character Counts Week in 1994. Since then, New Mexico's program has grown from an idea at an Albuquerque elementary school to a statewide effort that incorporates character education into the public, private and parochial classrooms of at least 200,000 students every day.
   "For 10 years now we have had a winning formula that has helped create a strong moral fiber that resonates throughout a child's school years and continues into adulthood. I am proud of the way New Mexicans have embraced this program and infused the six traits of good character into everyday lessons. With continued support from the community, I hope to see another 10 years of success," Domenici said.
   Other Character Counts activities around the state include:
   Oct. 18
   ROSWELL - National Character Counts Night Super Celebration, 7pm in the Roswell High School commons area to award winners of competitions in Essay, Poetry and Art categories.
   Oct. 19
   ROSWELL - Southeastern New Mexico Character Counts Conference, 10am Eastern New Mexico University for independent schools in the district for an information sharing seminar.
   LAS CRUCES - Go for the Gold Awards, 6:30pm to award Mesilla Park Elementary, Alameda Elementary, Loma Heights Elementary, Vista Middle School, Sierra Middle School, Lynn Middle School, and Mayfield High School $200 checks from the Character Counts Mesilla Valley Task Force.
   Oct. 22
   ROSWELL - Chaves County Chain of Character, fund raising opportunity at the Wool Bowl game between Roswell and Goddard High Schools to purchase a paper chain of character to benefit local schools. Half time ceremony will include the connection of paper links into one outstanding Chaves County Chain of Character.
   For more information on Character Counts Week in New Mexico, please call Lisa Breeden in Senator Domenici's office at (505) 346-6771 or email her at lisa_breeden@domenici.senate.gov.
 
 