SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS FOR NORTHERN NEW MEXICO SCHOOLS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that over $1.3 million has been awarded to three Northern New Mexico communities to provide greater educational opportunities in rural areas. 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee, said the Rural Development funding has been approved by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).
   "The funds provided by the USDA allow smaller communities to have access to educational tools that are normally only available in condensed, urban areas," Domenici said. "Students in Las Vegas, Shiprock, and Gallina areas will benefit from resources that are normally too costly to obtain, which ensures our students in rural New Mexico have equal opportunities in their education."
   The USDA has awarded a total of $17.1 million through 40 distance education grants across the country. The program seeks to provide assistance for rural communities for educational improvements that will foster economic growth.
   The Northern New Mexico Distance Learning Cooperative was awarded $500,000 for over 2,500 students in Rio Arriba County. The funds will be used to increase instruction, expand course offerings, and provide instruction in on-line research. Also, courses from colleges and universities across New Mexico will be available through on-line and videoconference courses. The project will provide services for Mesa Vista Consolidated Schools, Jemez Mountain Schools, Dulce Independent Schools, and Chama Valley Independent Schools.
   Central Consolidated School District #22 will receive $490,910 in San Juan County to improve distance learning through a hub in Shiprock, New Mexico for 3,229 students. Improvements will include expanded course offerings, higher education opportunities in the schools and communities, and professional development for students and residents. The district includes Kirtland Central High School, Ojo Elementary, Newcomb High, Newcomb Middle School, Newcomb Elementary, and Naschitti Elementary.
   The Northeast Regional Education Cooperation will receive a $398,936 grant for educational improvements through a hub in New Mexico Highlands University in Las Vegas, New Mexico. Interactive video equipment will be used for distance learning for students as well as teachers. In Guadalupe, Mora, San Miguel and Sandoval counties two middle schools and five high schools in five rural communities will be involved in the program.
 
 