NEW MEXICO SENATORS' WORK GUARANTEES NEW MEXICO WATER, FUNDING AS PART OF ARIZONA WATER SETTLEMENT BILL
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today succeeded in protecting New Mexico's rights in an Arizona water settlement bill that ensures the state gets 14,000 acre feet of water and at least $66 million to address future water supply needs.  
   The benefits are included in the Arizona Water Settlement Act (S.437) that was approved Wednesday by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Domenici and Bingaman - chairman and ranking member, respectively, of the committee - have been negotiating with Arizona Senators Jon Kyl and John McCain for more that a year to reach a consensus on this bill. 
   The Senate may now take up S.437, which will ratify outstanding water settlements involving the Central Arizona Project (CAP) and a series of other water claims involving American Indian tribes in Arizona. Prior to allowing the legislation to move forward, the New Mexico Senators refused to move the bill until New Mexico's water rights were fully addressed. 
   The legislation approved by the committee today grants New Mexico an annual entitlement to 14,000 acre feet of water and provides much greater certainty in the supply. The revised bill also guarantees New Mexico at least $66 million to address future water supply needs and potentially as much as $128 million if new infrastructure is needed. 
   "New Mexico has worked for 36 years to resolve how we could access the Gila River water rights established by the 1968 Colorado River Basin Project Act. With this legislation, we now have assurance that the citizens of New Mexico will have control of their future," Domenici said. "New Mexico's interests have been well protected and assured with this bill." 
   "The way it is now written, this bill would protect New Mexico's ability to look to the Gila River to meet its future water needs. It also commits the federal government to providing funding so that the local communities can assess how best to meet water demands in southwest New Mexico," Bingaman said. "This is an important opportunity for Arizona to settle several water claims, but I was only prepared to support this bill if New Mexico's interests were protected. I'm pleased to say that we were able to ensure that they are." 
   The bill addresses New Mexico's original right to 18,000 acre feet of CAP water, as stipulated in the 1968 Colorado River Basin Project Act. However, southwest New Mexico has yet to be able to use any of this allotment. The legislation provides the state with opportunity to exchange CAP water for water on the Gila River in New Mexico. 
   The bill is also holds interest for northwest New Mexico, because the Navajo Nation is a Colorado River water user, and CAP water could be used in Arizona as part of the Navajo-Gallup pipeline project that is in the feasibility study phase. That project is the foundation of a proposed settlement of the Navajo Nation's water rights claims in the San Juan River basin in New Mexico. 
   S.437 sets aside 6,411 acre feet of water (equal to the Window Rock portion of the water needed for the future Navajo-Gallup pipeline) contingent on a Navajo water rights settlement in Arizona. 
   Additionally, the Secretary must provide a report in 2016 on progress toward Indian water rights settlements in Arizona which will put pressure on all parties to continue negotiations.
 
 