SENATE APPROVES BILL TO RESOLVE VALLES CALDERA MINERAL RIGHTS ISSUE
  The U.S. Senate today passed legislation authored by Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman that sets in motion action to acquire the remaining mineral rights at the Valles Caldera National Preserve and Trust.  
   The Senate approved the bill, the Valles Caldera Preservation Act of 2003 (S.1582), by unanimous consent. It next moves to the House of Representatives. 
   The bill directs the Agriculture Secretary to negotiate a price for buying the remaining geothermal interests at the Preserve. If negotiations are unsuccessful, the matter would be directed to federal court for resolution. The Department of Agriculture would use available funds to acquire the mineral interests, unless the court sets a higher price, in which case the difference would be paid from the judgment fund. 
   "Senate-passage of this bill brings us a step closer to finally resolving the ongoing mineral rights ownership issue in the area. I'm pleased the appropriate parties were able to get together and developed a plan that has garnered Senate approval. This bill strikes an appropriate balance with an emphasis on protecting the beauty of this land," Domenici said. 
   "Now that the Valles Caldera is in public ownership, it's important to resolve the outstanding mineral rights ownership issue. This bill sets out a timely and fair process for getting that done," Bingaman said. 
   Among other things, the bill also clarifies the Valles Caldera National Preservation & Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act of 1999 (S.1892) in terms of employment classifications, and resource management and funding authority. In 2000, Congress passed S.1892 authorizing the federal purchase of the 95,000-acre Baca Ranch and provided $101 million to buy the property. 
   On Tuesday, the Senate Appropriations Committee on which Domenici serves approved the FY2005 Interior Appropriations Bill with $3.65 million for the Valles Caldera, which is $540,000 more than the FY2004 funding level. This Forest Service funding is intended for ongoing administration, research and inventory activities on the Preserve.
 
 