ESPA?OLA & CHIMAYO WATER ASSISTANCE BILL CLEARS SENATE HURDLE
  The Senate today passed legislation authored by Sen. Pete Domenici to help residents in the Chimayo and Espa?ola areas access cleaner water.  
   Unanimous consent was given Wednesday to Domenici's Chimayo Water Supply System and Espa?ola Water Filtration Facility Act of 2004 (S.2511). This bill is cosponsored by U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman. The bill now moves to the House of Representatives. 
   The bill directs the Interior Secretary to conduct a feasibility study of a Chimayo water supply system, in addition to providing for the planning, design, and construction of a water supply, reclamation, and filtration facility for Espa?ola. 
   "The water problems in these regions of northern New Mexico grow more acute every day. It is an old, yet growing region that is stymied by water shortages and less than safe water supplies. I am pleased the Senate has agreed to allow the federal government to give these communities some aid to resolve these problems," Domenici said. 
   "Chimayo and Espa?ola have critical water needs that should be addressed as soon as possible. I'm pleased this bill has the endorsement of the Senate, and I hope we'll be able to gain support in the House of Representatives and get it to the president," Bingaman said. 
   The bill has two major titles. One authorizes the Department of Interior to conduct an extensive study on the feasibility of establishing a water supply system in the unincorporated town of Chimayo, which has been forced to rely on potable water deliveries from the National Guard since 2001. It also authorizes up to $3 million for the Interior Department to provide emergency water supply development assistance. 
   The Chimayo water supply system study would determine the feasibility of linking with the planned Espa?ola Water Filtration Facility. Studies have determined that up to 75 percent of the water in individual wells and irrigation ditches in Chimayo are contaminated. 
   Secondly, the Domenici legislation helps Espa?ola by authorizing $3 million for the Interior Department to aid the city in the planning, designing and construction of a regional water filtration facility that will allow the community to access its allotment of the San Juan-Chama project settlement. It also contains provisions aiding the San Juan and Santa Clara pueblos as part of the regional water system.
 
 