SEN. DOMENICI JOINS DEMAND FOR FAIRNESS FOR U.S. AGRICULTURE IN WTO TALKS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today raised concerns regarding reports that World Trade Organization (WTO) talks on agriculture could unfairly penalize American farmers and ranchers by not including more access to foreign markets.  
   Domenici is among a bipartisan group of 58 Senators who have written President Bush asking that U.S. negotiators to the WTO Doha Round talks insist that if substantial cuts in American farm programs are required then market access must also be ensured. The Senators expressed grave concerns with indications that U.S. negotiators could agree to greater cuts in U.S. farm programs without getting open market guarantees from trade partners. 
   "Free trade is not a one-way street, and the administration and our trade negotiators must ensure that our American farmers and ranchers are given a fair chance at competing," Domenici said. 
   The Senators, who must ratify trade agreements, wrote that their support for an agriculture trade agreement will depend on whether it offers "net gains for U.S. agriculture in relation to reductions in trade-distorting domestic support." The lawmakers noted continued trade partner refusals to offer significant tariff reductions, while insisting on exceptions for certain crops. 
   "We cannot support a deal that directly reduces net farm income through steep cuts in farm programs in return for minimal market access gains whose effect on farm gate receipts is speculative at best," the Senators wrote President Bush. 
   "The consensus among economists is that reducing agriculture market access barriers generates for greater economic gains than cutting domestic support. As a result, it is imperative that our trading partners dismantle barriers to imports if the Doha Round is to achieve a successful conclusion that will benefit not only U.S. agriculture but also the global economy and people around the world," they wrote. 
   In October 2005, U.S. negotiators put forth a proposal requiring substantial cuts in U.S. farm programs, but conditioned those reductions to trading partners making similarly ambitious concessions on market access.
 
 