SEN. DOMENICI SAYS MENTAL HEALTH FOCUS NEEDED FOR GUARD, RESERVISTS RETURNING FROM WAR
  Sen. Pete Domenici today stressed the need for greater attention to the mental health needs of National Guard and Reserve personnel returning from combat situations overseas. 
   Domenici today took part in a briefing hosted by the Senate Mental Health Caucus to consider mental health treatment options for National Guard and Reserve troops who have served in combat situations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Domenici, who helped form the caucus, met with military patients from Walter Reed Army Medical Center prior to the briefing. 
   "The nature of combat situations in Iraq is such that the military is experiencing greater numbers of wounded with brain traumas. Because more National Guard and Reserve units are seeing combat, more of these citizen soldiers have similar wounds. We must ensure that they have access to the mental health care they need as they rejoin civilian life," Domenici said. 
   Domenici, who also serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, has earlier raised concerns about treatments for soldiers returning from combat with mental and physical wounds, including Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), depression, brain injuries and other traumatic illnesses. 
   Mental health treatments could be a challenge for Guardsmen and Reservists, Domenici said, because their units are far-flung and likely to be in rural areas where such treatments are not readily available. 
   The Caucus briefing today included presentations from wounded Guard and Reserve personnel and military health care officials, including Col. Elspeth Ritchie MD, the psychiatric consultant to the U.S. Army Surgeon General, John M. Bradley III of the Disabled American Veterans and Sgt. Patrick McNally of the New York Army National Guard. 
   Last month, Domenici asked the Surgeons General of the military services to report on what is being done to screen, identify and treat traumatic brain injury (TBI) and PTSD, including care offered to service members after they transfer from military care to Veterans' Affairs or civilian care.
 
 