SEN. DOMENICI: ECONOMY DEMANDS AGGRESSIVE FOLLOW-THROUGH ON COMPETITIVENESS AGENDA
  With the economy in the doldrums, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today argued that Congress and the Bush administration must act more boldly to implement policies to ensure the competitiveness of the American people and their economy in the future. 
   Domenici on Wednesday added his voice to an effort to highlight legislation that could be approved this year with bipartisan support to increase American competitiveness in the global marketplace. These actions are linked to the America COMPTES Act, which was enacted last year to focus greater federal investment in scientific R&D, and math and science education.
   "We cannot let the America COMPETES Act just sit on the books, but to back it up with action and funding. Our U.S. economy is on the slide, but resetting it for long-term growth can be helped immensely if we aggressively pursue our competitiveness goals," Domenici said.
   Senator Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), who with Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman led the effort to pass America COMPETES, has indicated that Congress should address the competitiveness issue by making the federal research and development tax credit permanent and increasing education and basic science funding.
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate budget and appropriations committees, has been critical of the FY2009 budget requests that focus funding on the President's American Competitiveness Initiative without fully funding broader provisions enacted with the America COMPETES Act.
   In March, Domenici and Bingaman encouraged top Senate appropriators to increase FY2008 funding in science by $350 million in a supplemental spending bill expected to be taken up by the Senate and House Appropriations Committees this month. They requested adding $250 million to the budget for the Department of Energy's Office of Science and $100 million for the National Science Foundation.
   The New Mexico lawmakers also supported an amendment to the FY 2009 Budget Resolution that would set funding levels for the Department of Energy's Office of Science at $4.722 billion and for the National Science Foundation at $6.854 billion-consistent with the goals of the America COMPETES Act.
 
 