SEN. DOMENICI: SUSTAINED INNOVATION, COOPERATION NEEDED TO MEET MOUNTING WATER CHALLENGES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today warned than policies that promote adversarial "winner-takes-all" resolutions only compound the growing pressures on New Mexico's water resources, and advocated cooperation and innovation in settling water issues.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today delivered a keynote address to the 12th annual New Mexico Water Conference. Domenici is also the chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds federal water projects administered by the Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation. 
   "We are quickly reaching a point where dawdling and procrastination are not options. Ever increasing demands on our water supplies in New Mexico have reached critical levels and require immediate action," Domenici said. 
   "Too frequently, our adversarial system pits municipalities, states and private landowners against one another and results in prolonged and costly litigation. Management of our water resources is not an area in which we can take a winner-takes-all approach," he said. "We need policies at both the federal and state level that place a premium on solutions reached through cooperative and innovative approaches." 
   Domenici said, for example, cited the concerted effort to reach negotiated settlements for American Indian water rights claims, such as the pending Navajo, Aamodt, and Taos water rights settlement. 
   "The jurisprudential shift from litigation toward settling Indian water rights claims is clearly favorable to all involved. However, we still need to fund the settlements in a manner that allows the Bureau of Reclamation to carry out its already significant obligations with a limited budget," Domenici said. 
   In terms of innovation, Domenici pointed toward ongoing water reuse projects in New Mexico, as well as the joint desalination project he launched in Otero County. Domenici in July introduced the Department of Energy National Laboratory Water Technology Research and Development Act of 2004 (S.2658) that authorizes $200 million per year for basic and applied research in water technology through Sandia, Los Alamos and other DOE national laboratories. 
   "While I recognize the immediacy of the situation, I also know the have great resources that can be used to find more long-term solutions to water supply problems. My bill would dramatically increase federal government commitment to research and develop new water technology," Domenici said. 
   The bill also creates a National Water Supply Law and Policy Institute, administered by the University of New Mexico Law School Utton Center, to help the technology developers understand the legal and regulatory contexts in which they operate. 
   In July, the Energy and Natural Resources Committee approved Domenici's New Mexico Water Planning Assistance Act (S.2460) will authorize the New Mexico Office of the State Engineer (OSE) to receive technical assistance from the Bureau of Reclamation and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) to perform hydrologic models of New Mexico's most important water systems, basins and tributaries. The bill is now ready for full Senate consideration. 
   "I truly hope the Senate will soon act on this bill and that we can get it through Congress. It is important that the Office of State Engineer undertake the necessary assessments and investigations of our numerous stream systems and ground water basins in New Mexico," Domenici said. "The intent of the bill is to help alleviate some of the strain on the Office of the State Engineer to do the critical and comprehensive study of our water systems." 
   The federal agencies aiding the OSE will provide technical assistance, such as acquiring hydrologic data, assessing existing water resources, coordinating efforts with federal water management initiatives, and assisting with numerical analysis and modeling to provide an integrated understanding of water management options.
 
 