SEN. DOMENICI MAKES VISIT TO ALAMOGORDO WATER PROJECT
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today visited Alamogordo to view progress on water projects that have benefitted from federal support and funding, including the Brackish Groundwater National Desalination Research Facility.  
   Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, today cut the ribbon and delivered remarks at the desalination facility's opening ceremony. The facility is the only one in the nation of its type and is expected to benefit arid states by researching more efficient and affordable ways to expand existing water resources. Construction of the 15,000 square-foot facility has benefited from $20 million secured by Domenici through Bureau of Reclamation and Department of Energy over the past four years. 
   "This facility forges a partnership between New Mexico's bright minds and the type of arid environment needed to find practical solutions to water shortages plaguing parts of the nation," said Domenici. "I am excited at the discoveries that will hopefully help resolve some of our water issues." 
   The facility was completed in June and, currently in a commissioning phase , will be tested in preparation for full operation in the coming months. The facility will provide research space to develop solutions to concentrate management problems, renewable energy/desalination hybrids, desalination technologies for produced waters, and small-scale desalination systems. (http://www.usbr.gov/pmts/water/research/tularosa.html) 
   While in Alamogordo, Domenici also viewed progress on the city's flood control construction. Flooding in Marble Canyon two years ago devastated homes and businesses. Although not completely preventable, damage would have been mitigated had the flood control structures been in place. In June, the Senate Appropriations Committee approved Domenici's request for $4.2 million as part of the FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. The $4.2 million appropriation would continue the Army Corps flood control efforts, which Domenici has consistently supported over the years through the appropriations process as either chairman or ranking member on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "The Alamogordo Flood Control Project is a dramatic step in reducing the incidence of damaging floods," Domenici continued. "I am happy to see the progress being made in securing these areas from the dangers of flooding." 
   The Appropriations Committee approved the FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill in June. Following approval by the Senate Appropriations Committee, the legislation will be considered by the full Senate for passage. This bill funds the Bureau of Reclamation and the Army Corps of Engineers.
 
 