AT WHITE HOUSE, SEN. DOMENICI ASSURED OF AMERICAN-IRAQI PROGRESS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he came away from a meeting at the White House reassured that the Iraqi people, with the support of the United States and its allies, are making progress in bringing stability and a new government to Iraq.  
   Domenici was part of a bipartisan group of Senators invited to the White House Friday to be briefed by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Dr. Zalmay Khalilzad, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, and leading American military officers both in Iraq and within the Pentagon. 
   The meeting came just a day after Iraqi voters turned out en mass to elect a new parliament and was intended to give congressional leaders additional information about the ongoing American efforts in Iraq. 
   "This was a very good meeting that gave me a stronger assurance that we are making progress in Iraq. I am proud of the President for what he's done in the past month to explain to the American people and the world what the United States is doing in Iraq and how much the future of the Middle East depends on our success in Iraq," Domenici said. 
   "There are so many dynamics at play in Iraq. Things are looking up, but there are still so many uncertainties. I recognize that while the vote this week was remarkable, our military in Iraq will not face an easy road in the months to come. But there is a chance their work may be made less perilous with the strong signal sent by Iraqi voters that they want stability and a functional national government," he said. 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, noted that there is a hope that once a duly-elected parliament is in place, international support will manifest itself for the new Iraqi government, in terms of diplomatic and trade support. 
   The briefing included reviews of the political, economic and military work being done by the Iraqis and coalition forces to improve overall conditions in Iraq. 
   Among the bipartisan group of Senators attending the White House meeting were Domenici, Joe Biden (D-Del.), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.), and John McCain (R-Ariz.).
 
 