ENERGY COMMITTEE SCHEDULES NATURAL GAS CONFERENCE FOR JAN. 24, ISSUES GUIDELINES
  The Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee's Natural Gas Conference tentatively scheduled for Jan. 19 has been rescheduled for Monday, Jan. 24, at 1 p.m. in Hart 216. The conference will conclude at 5 p.m.  
   The committee, led by Chairman Pete V. Domenici, has issued guidelines for those wishing to submit proposals for addressing the nation's natural gas challenges. The deadline for the submission of written proposals is noon on Jan. 7. 
   The guidelines are listed blow. The guidelines are also posted in the press release section of the Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee homepage at: http://www.energy.senate.gov 
   Note note that even though the guidelines are posted as a Republican press release, this conference is a bipartisan effort. 
   The Submittal Guidelines: 
   Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee 
  Natural Gas Conference 
   DIRECTIONS 
   In order to facilitate the Natural Gas Supply and Demand conference, please use the following form and directions. 
   The 8 listed topics delineate the expected areas of discussion. A general question under each topic heading is provided only to help frame responses. Proposals may be for near or long-term solutions and may be directed at federal, state or private actions. Address any one or more of the listed natural gas topics. Do not renumber or rearrange the order of the topics. If you wish to address an issue that is not listed, please add that topic to the end of the designated list. 
   Please adhere to the following: 
   * Limit your response to no more than 5 single-spaced pages per issue. 
   * Use 12 point Time New Roman font. 
   * Insert page breaks between numbered topics. 
   * Insert your name at the top of each issue section. 
   Additional charts, graphics, or specific legislative language are also welcome and may be attached as a separate appendix (beyond the 5 page limit) to the responses. 
   Submittals must be emailed to Senate Energy Staffers Lisa Epifani and Deborah Estes no later than noon on Friday, Jan. 7, 2005. 
   Lisa_epifani@energy.senate.gov or deborah_estes@energy.senate.gov 
   All submittals will be reviewed; however, only a limited number of participants can be invited to participate in the conference to be held on Monday, Jan. 24, between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. in the Room 216 of the Senate Hart Building. 
   The limitation is necessary to manage the meeting and permit a useful exchange of ideas. All efforts will be made to ensure that a variety of stakeholders and recommendations are represented. 
   The submittals to be discussed at the meeting will be posted in advance on the Committee website at www.energy.senate.gov. 
   Domenici will lead and moderate the conference. Other members of the Senate Energy Committee may be in attendance. The meeting will be open to the public and media. 
   Submitter's Name/Association:  
   Contact:  
   Email: 
   Phone:  
   Provide an executive summary of your proposal(s). Do not exceed the remainder of the first page. 
   At the top if each subsequent page, please provide Submitter's Name/Association: 
   The eight topics, framed as questions, are as follows: 
   1. Increasing Domestic Natural Gas Supply 
   How can we increase domestic supplies from on-shore and off-shore resources? 
   2. Liquefied Natural Gas 
   What should our expectations be regarding imported LNG as a supply source, and what policies should be considered on LNG terminal siting and safety? 
   3. Natural Gas Infrastructure 
   What legislative or regulatory policies should be implemented to encourage needed additional safe and adequate infrastructure for natural gas transmission and distribution lines and storage? 
   4. Environmental 
   What are environmental challenges and regulatory barriers related to expanding our natural gas supply and how can they be remedied? 
   5. Diversification and Conservation 
   To what extent and how can demand be reduced through conservation and efficiency measures and through diversification of energy sources used for electric generation, industrial and other applications? 
   6. Tax Incentives 
   Could tax incentives help increase supply and/or reduce demand of natural gas? 
   7. Investment 
   What is needed to encourage more investment in natural gas supplies and infrastructure? 
   8. FERC and EIA Natural Gas Market Data 
   Is storage and market information adequate to ensure well-functioning natural gas markets?
 
 