SEN. DOMENICI PLEASED WITH $5.0 MILLION TO CONTINUE ALAMOGORDO FLOOD PROJECT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today highlighted the fact that an additional $5.0 million will be available this year to carry on the large-scale Army Corps of Engineers flood control project to protect the city of Alamogordo.  
   The Alamogordo Flood Control Project funding became law as part of the omnibus appropriations package approved by Congress and signed by President Bush last week. The $5.0 million, representing an increase of about $500,000 over the $4.5 million initially sought by the administration, was championed by Domenici in his role as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee. (This funding is subject to a 0.8 percent across-the-board cut imposed on the entire omnibus package.) 
   "The Corps wants to try to complete the Alamogordo flood project by 2009, and this additional funding will allow them to accelerate construction and stay on schedule," Domenici said. "After decades of planning and discussion about the scope of this project, I'm pleased to see more federal resources available to support progress on this program to protect the city from flood damage." 
   Completion of the project is expected to free properties in Alamogordo from expensive flood insurance requirements within the designated 100-year flood plain for the area. 
   Last year, Congress enacted Domenici legislation authorizing and directing the Corps to construct a flood detention basin on the north side of Alamogordo, rather than a flood diversion channel, as part of a long-awaited $55 million Alamogordo Flood Control Project. The legislative language was required to allow the Corps to proceed with altering plans for the project. Last year, $4.1 million was appropriated for the project. 
   Domenici has an extensive history with this project, first securing planning and design funding in 1988. Cost concerns led Alamogordo voters to reject bond issues to finance the project in 1988 - following previous false starts dating back to the mid-1960s. In 1989, Domenici implored city officials and residents to find a suitable solution. Alternative solutions were eventually outlined in 1992, and served as the foundation for the March 1999 agreement which led to groundbreaking that year on the multi-phased project. 
   There are no well-defined watercourses in the "closed" Tularosa Basin, and runoff from the Sacramento Mountains has caused damage to property in Alamogordo. Significant flood damage has occurred in Alamogordo approximately 13 times since the 1930s. Phase I construction on the South Channel was completed in June 2002.
 
 