SEN. DOMENICI: DOE LAB FUNDING SAVED FROM BRINK AS SENATE, HOUSE REACH FY2008 FUNDING AGREEMENT
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said potentially devastating cuts for the nation's nuclear weapons complex will be mostly averted with a funding agreement that restores most funding for weapon programs. 
   Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Subcommittee, was among the negotiators who worked to reach an agreement between the House and Senate on the FY2008 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill. The omnibus package was filed late Sunday. 
   "We've been to the brink and we've backed away to come up with a budget that will allow our national laboratories to fulfill their missions. This budget isn't by any means a bed of roses for the labs. It makes tough choices and struggles to preserve important programs, such as the weapons program, the Office of Science and nuclear energy," Domenici said. "We have what amounts to a good news-bad news budget that is vastly preferable to the potentially devastating cuts that could have occurred."  
   The $30.88 billion conference--which funds DOE, Bureau of Reclamation, Army Corps of Engineers and related agencies like the National Nuclear Security Administration--will be incorporated into a massive omnibus spending package that will include the 11 appropriations bills that have not been passed by Congress. The package could receive final House and Senate approval this week and then be sent to President Bush. 
   The overall Energy and Water package is $415 million over the budget request and $593 million over current year funding. 
   The measure provides $24.44 billion for the Department of Energy (a $218.4 million increase over the current year level and $316 million below the President's budget request), $5.58 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers ($716 million increase above the request), $1.15 billion for the Bureau of Reclamation ($150 million increase above the request), and $281 million for independent agencies ($29 million increase). 
   The final package is based on an agreement reached late last week, but reflects $493 million in additional cuts and adjustments needed to fit the bill within budgetary constraints. As such, Domenici and fellow Energy and Water negotiators reduced the size of their bill by reducing DOE programs by 0.9 percent and shaving 1.6 percent of all earmarks sought by members of Congress. Water accounts were also reduced by 1.6 percent. 
   Under the conference agreement, the bill has $8.81 billion for the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), of which $6.29 billion is outlined for weapons activities (down $213 million from the budget request, but $22 million over FY2007 and $418 million above the House passed level), $1.66 billion for nonproliferation activities ($12 million below the request), and $744 million for Naval Reactors; $404 million for the Office of the Administrator. 
   "Restoring the cuts proposed by the House to the weapons program means the labs should be able to carry out their national security missions and maintain their workforces. This bill will not reverse current plans to lay off 500-750 workers at Los Alamos, but it should help to avoid additional and future layoffs," Domenici said. 
   Beyond restoring the $418 million of the cuts approved by the House for the weapons program, Domenici said the following "good news" provisions are in the conference bill: 
   * Loan Guarantees - $38.5 Billion in loan guarantees have been provided to support transition to cleaner burning energy technologies as authorized in Title 17 of EPACT. * Pit Production - The conferees direct NNSA to plan up to 80 pits per year for production, while moving forward to replace the existing CMR facility that is unsafe. This bill acknowledges that pits are necessary and the country requires a production capacity, though at a smaller level, to handle evolving security and technical challenges in the future. 
   * Supercomputing - Through language proposed by Domenici, the bill establishes an Advanced Architecture and Algorithms with Centers of Excellence at Sandia and Oak Ridge national laboratories. The labs will execute a national program to sustain U.S. leadership in high performance computing. It will be jointly funded by DOE Office of Science and NNSA. 
   * Global Nuclear Energy Partnership - $181 million for GNEP, now known as the Advanced Fuel Cycle Initiative, to make significant investment in critical nuclear research and development. 
   "Just two years ago, DOE only budgeted $67 million for the Advanced Fuel Cycle Initiative. Today, the conferees have provided nearly 2.5 times that level," Domenici said. 
   Domenici reported that conferees addressed Loan Guarantees by directing the Energy Secretary to provide $38.5 billion in loan guarantees over the next two years to a variety of technologies, including: nuclear power, $20.5 billion (18.5 billion reactors; $2.0 uranium enrichment); renewable energy and energy efficiency, $10 billion; and clean coal, $8.0 billion. 
   The conferees agreed to a two-year loan guarantee, following the Senate position that the DOE Secretary can make such a loan guarantee to entities that produce the required credit risk subsidy consistent with Title 17 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   "The two-year authorization sends a clear message to DOE, the administration, utilities and investors that the Congress is serious about diversifying our energy mix by encouraging investment in cleaner electric generation and alternative energy," Domenici said. 
   The bill provides $1.7 billion, a $486 million increase, to support renewable energy research including biomass, solar, and wind energy as well as increases for vehicle and building efficiency. These programs, along with the loan guarantee effort, will encourage the deployment of a diversified energy portfolio. Within this amount the conferees provide (subject to 0.9 percent reduction) $200 million to support cellulosic biomass research, an increase of $20 million, $170 million ($21 million increase) for solar; and $110 million ($23 million increase) for energy efficient building technologies research. 
   Domenici said he is pleased with the direction the bill takes advanced simulation and computing, providing $579 million overall for this activity, including $7.43 million to establish Advanced Architecture and Algorithms with Centers of Excellence at Sandia and Oak Ridge national laboratories, a joint high performance computing research and development program. 
   "Sandia pioneered the development of the leading high performance computing architecture and can continue to support long term R&D in this area," Domenici said. 
   The bill fully funds the High Energy Density Plasma research, providing $24.4 million from the Office of Science and the NNSA to expand access to the National Ignition Facility in California, Z Machine at Sandia National Laboratories, and Omega Laser in New York. An additional $13 million is provided to support experimental operations on Z machine. 
   "This program creates a broader science mission for the Z machine at Sandia. The Conferees recommended this program in previous bills as it strongly supports this joint program funding for high-energy density research using facilities such as Z, Omega and eventually NIF," Domenici said. 
   Domenici said problematic aspects, or "bad news," of the conference agreement will delay progress on environmental cleanup projects, as well as major construction projects: 
   * Environmental Cleanup - Steep reductions from the Senate bill and deep reductions to cleanup accounts from Los Alamos National Laboratory--a $74 million cut from the Senate bill. 
   * Reliable Replacement Weapon (RRW) - The bill eliminates all RRW funding, though $15 million was enacted in the FY2008 Defense Appropriations Bill. The conferees direct DOE to develop a new science campaign category called Advanced Certification, with a goal to prove the reliability and effectiveness of the new design solutions that would increase the security of future nuclear weapons against authorized use. The laboratories are directed to validate their assumptions using science-based approach. 
   * DOE Science - Funding is down $380 million below the request 
   * Major Construction projects cut and delayed: 1. MOX - $200 million reduction in construction funding and carryover balances. This will force the program to re-baseline the project, forcing a delay and cost increase for this important nonproliferation activity. 
   2. CMR-R (LANL) - $21 million below the budget request, but up from zero in the House bill. This gives LANL clear direction to move forward on this facility. 
   3. Yucca Mountain - $103 million reduction, which will result in layoffs in Nevada, and possibly New Mexico. The funding cut will force DOE to miss a June 30, 2008 license submittal to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
   4. Future Gen - A $33 million cut below the budget request will further delay this advanced clean coal project. 
   Domenici also cited concerns with policy changes within the nonproliferation program, particularly the joint U.S.-Russian initiative to destroy at least 34 tons of weapons grade plutonium from each nation's stockpiles. The bill rescinds $115 million in previously appropriated funding for this project.
 
 