SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS FIREARMS SALES LIABILITY MEASURE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today cosponsored bipartisan legislation clarifying liability firearms and ammunition manufacturers, dealers and importers can face if their products are used in the commission of a crime.  
   Domenici is among a bipartisan core of original cosponsors to the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (S.397), a bill introduced today by Senator Larry Craig (R-Idaho). The bill would protect gun manufacturers and sellers from frivolous lawsuits seeking to hold them liable for the criminal acts of third parties beyond their control. 
   "Several cities and counties are suing gun manufacturers and sellers in an attempt to hold them liable for the misuse of their products by others. These suits represent an abuse to our legal system, and an assault on one of the most regulated industries in the country" Domenici said. 
   "The misuse and criminal use of firearms is a national problem. But our zeal to stop the unlawful use of firearms should not in turn penalize the manufacturers of a legal product. Going after gun manufacturers for firearm crimes is analogous to holding match makers liable for arson," he said. 
   The legislation would prohibit certain civil and administrative proceedings to be filed against manufacturers and sellers if the lawsuits stem from the unlawful use of a firearm or ammunition. Exceptions to the prohibition are created for certain lawsuits, including those alleging a breach of contract or warranty relating to the purchase of a firearm, a manufacturing defect, or that a seller negligently entrusted a person with a firearm. 
   The bill is expected to be referred to the Senate Commerce, Science and Technology Committee. 
   Domenici noted that on Feb. 10 a California state appellate court upheld the dismissal of a lawsuit brought by the cities of Los Angeles, San Francisco, Berkley and others that attempted to hold dozens of gun manufacturers responsible for firearms getting into hands of criminals.
 
 