SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN NAME NEW MEXICO STUDENTS SELECTED FOR 2006 U.S. SENATE YOUTH PROGRAM
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today named the two outstanding New Mexico students who will serve as the state's delegates to the 44th annual U.S. Senate Youth Program which will be held in Washington, D.C. this spring.  
   Jordyn Phelps of Albuquerque and Philip Zakahi of Las Cruces will attend events throughout Washington Week, March 4-11. 
   The students will hear major policy addresses by senators, cabinet members and officials and directors from a number of federal agencies. They will also participate in a meeting with a Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. The two high school seniors will also be awarded $5,000 college scholarships through the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, which funds the youth program. 
   "Students who are selected for the Senate Youth Program are chosen because they have shown tremendous academic and community involvement. After reading about Jordyn and Philip, I believe that they are good choices," Domenici said. "I commend these students on their achievements and look forward to hearing more about their accomplishments." 
   "Jordyn and Philip are two outstanding examples of the kind of talented young people we have in our state. I congratulate them for being selected to participate in this very prestigious program, and I look forward to meeting with them," Bingaman said. 
   Jordyn Phelps is an honor roll student at Eldorado High School. She serves as a student council representative and a member of the mock trial team. She is a Sunday school teacher assistant and has represented New Mexico as a delegate in the Youth and Government National Conference. Phelps also worked as an intern for Congresswoman Heather Wilson last year. 
   Philip Zakahi a Las Cruces High School student serves as the head organizer and student representative of the School Advisory Council. He also participates in the Math Engineering and Science Achievement (MESA) program. Zakahi has been a volunteer for numerous Democratic political campaigns. 
   A total of 104 students elected to school or civic offices, two from every state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Dependents Schools Overseas, were selected by superintendents to participate in the week-long program.
 
 