SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN PLEASED CANNON AIR FORCE BASE MISSION SEARCH PROGRESSING
  With the Pentagon's government-wide issuance of a prospectus on Cannon Air Force Base and its assets, Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today indicated satisfaction with U.S. Air Force progress on finding a new mission for the Curry County military facility this year.  
   Domenici and Bingaman were alerted this week that the Air Force has started distributing the Cannon prospectus throughout the Pentagon and other federal agencies. Informal workshops for agencies interested in Cannon are scheduled for March 9-10 in Arlington, Va., and subsequently at Cannon in April and May. 
   The Air Force announced Thursday that the Secretary of the Air Force is expected to make a recommendation to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld this summer on Cannon's future. 
   "The Air Force solicitation and its timetable set the parameters for completing this process. I understand the anxiety among some to want this done quickly, but I believe we should keep our powder dry and move forward. I remain optimistic that a new military mission will ultimately be identified for Cannon," said Domenici, a Defense Appropriations Subcommittee member. 
   "I continue to strongly believe that the base remains best suited for a military mission, yet the solicitation of all federal agencies has always been a part of the Pentagon's post-BRAC plan for Cannon," Bingaman said. "By scheduling these workshops, the Pentagon is fulfilling all the requirements that need to be met before it can finalize plans for Cannon's future." 
   The distribution is part of an overall solicitation process established by the Defense Department to carry out the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission directive to find a new mission for the base. The Commission established a Dec. 31, 2009 deadline for this process. The solicitation of interest includes a general assessment of the physical qualities, assets and characteristics of Cannon itself. 
   Domenici and Bingaman in December were in Clovis to participate in a forum with an eight-person Air Force evaluation team, which toured the base and spoke with community leaders. 
   Late last year, the New Mexico lawmakers received assurances from U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff General Michael Moseley that no units or aircraft will be transferred from Cannon until the Secretary of Defense has formally certified that every possible military mission has been explored. Mosley indicated that there will be no transfer of fixed wing aircraft during FY2006. 
   More information about the CAFB solicitation of interest is available at: http://webftp.bah.com, with both the login and password being "Cannon."
 
 