SEN. DOMENICI TO SECRETARY RUMSFELD: HOW MUCH MORE IRAQI TRAINING NEEDED BEFORE U.S. MILITARY COMES HOME?
  Sen. Pete Domenici today encouraged Defense Secretary Rumsfeld to more clearly define the level of Iraqi security training necessary before the American military can begin to be sent home.  
   Domenici questioned Rumsfeld at a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing to review President Bush's FY2005 $82 billion supplemental appropriations request to support the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan and south Asian tsunami relief. Of the $75 billion that would be directed to the Pentagon, some $42.5 billion would be used to support ongoing military and intelligence operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "It is becoming increasingly difficult for the American people to understand just how close we are to this war ending when it is unclear just what level of security training is still needed to allow Iraqis to take control of their own nation," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "I believe it would be very useful for everyone to understand what threshold must be met before the Iraqis can begin assuming more responsibility and we can begin moving our forces out," he said. 
   Having testified that 137,000 Iraqi security personnel have been trained, Rumsfeld said he views the training of Iraqi special operation forces, or "counter-intimidators," to rapidly respond and quell insurgent attacks as vital to clearing the way for the eventual American withdrawal of forces from Iraq. 
   Rumsfeld also agreed to Domenici's request for a report on the level of funding being provided by the new Iraqi government toward the training of its own security forces. 
   "We should understand how much the Iraqis are contributing to their own security. Some might say we don't need to stay there if they aren't chipping in," Domenici said. "This has been a very expensive war for the United States. The committee should know what percentage of the Iraqi budget is being devoted to security and training." 
   On Thursday morning, the committee will receive testimony from Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on the $6.5 billion requested for State Department activities, including $950 million in tsunami relief and other urgent international needs.
 
 