SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE COMMITMENTS OVER ALBUQUERQUE INDIAN HEALTH CENTER
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, today visited with Indian Health Service (IHS) Director Dr. Charles Grim about the pending closure of the Albuquerque Indian Health Center, and asked for IHS to be ready to assist other facilities that will end up caring for AIHC patients.  
   Domenici submitted questions regarding the urgent care center, and following the hearing, spoke privately to Grim regarding the dire AIHC situation, and the existing funding formula that IHS uses to distribute funds to health centers. Under that formula, the Albuquerque facility will not receive the funds it needs to stay open. 
   "The closure of the Albuquerque Indian Health Center will be an unintended consequence of the formula used by the Indian Health Service to distribute funds. The funds are distributed to tribes based on membership, which means that most of the available health care dollars go to reservations. However, two thirds of the American Indian population actually live in urban areas like Albuquerque," Domenici said. 
   "This discrepancy needs to be addressed, and today I received a commitment from Dr. Grim to work with me and the rest of the delegation to find ways to serve the urban Indian population. I will be looking for ways to aid the population that was served by the center in Albuquerque, and have asked IHS to do everything possible to aid patients who will now be served by facilities that will be picking up the slack, including UNM Hospital," he said. 
   Domenici has instructed his staff to work with IHS to develop a long term solution to meet needs of urban Indians and the void in service that will occur when the Albuquerque center closes. 
   IHS funds are distributed to tribes based on membership, concentrating most of the available health care dollars on reservations. However, according to the 2000 census, American Indians living in urban areas constitute 66 percent of the total American Indian population. 
   The AIHC, which serves about 25,000 urban Indians, is running a projected budget deficit of more than $5.0 million. Domenici had asked IHS for emergency funds, but was told that no funds were available. In his questioning, Domenici asked Grim to reconsider the decision.
 
 