SEN. DOMENICI LAUDS EXPANSION OF ECLIPSE AVIATION, HELPS BREAK GROUND FOR NEW MANUFACTURING FACILITY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded the further expansion of Eclipse Aviation, as the company broke ground on a new manufacturing plant and acquired more office space.  
   Domenici participated in a groundbreaking ceremony near the Albuquerque International Sunport, where the plant will be built. The company has announced plans to hire 550 additional employees this year, which will double the company's workforce in Albuquerque. 
   "Eclipse Aviation is bringing good jobs in an exciting field to Albuquerque and New Mexico. All the hard work to bring the company to our state is paying off. I believe the Eclipse effort to manufacture affordable, light jets to the market will pay enormous dividends for New Mexico's economy. I'm pleased to have helped lay the infrastructure groundwork at Double Eagle II, and I look forward to working with the company as it offers even more good jobs to New Mexicans," Domenici said. 
   The plant, along with Eclipse's other Sunport facilities, will house the company's operations as production ramps up. In the coming years, when the company reaches full production levels, Eclipse will move to a new campus at the Double Eagle II Airport. The construction of that campus was instrumental in keeping the company in Albuquerque. 
   Eclipse Aviation produces the Eclipse 500 twin engine, six-seat jet. The company has garnered over 2,300 orders to date, with production planned to begin in the spring. Each aircraft will retail for $1.3 million. 
   In preparation for the Eclipse move to the west side, Domenici obtained $12 million to support rebuilding and expanding the I-40/Paseo del Volcan interchange to improve access to Double Eagle II, and $8 million to construct an access road between Paseo del Volcan and the airport. Eclipse Aviation will use the airport as its base for all aspects of its production, including manufacturing and customer delivery. In addition, Domenici has provided $1.8 million for a new air traffic control tower at Double Eagle II. 
   Eclipse has obtained $20 million in backing from the state of New Mexico, and has a total of $402 million pledged from investors. The company is working toward FAA certification of its groundbreaking Eclipse 500, which is slated to occur during the second quarter of this year. 
   Overall, Eclipse's operating space in Albuquerque will be increased from 190,000 to 300,000 square feet. In addition to the plant, the company is also acquiring an office building and completing an aircraft painting facility. All of the facilities will be leased, enabling the company to move to Double Eagle II when it is ready.
 
 