SEN. DOMENICI: USDA WILL OFFER DRY MILK AS FEED FOR LIVESTOCK IN 13 DROUGHT-PLAGUED
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that livestock producers in 13 New Mexico counties that have been hard hit by an ongoing and extreme drought conditions may apply to receive surplus dry milk from the federal government to sustain their herds.  
   Domenici praised Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman's decision to again make surplus nonfat dry milk supplies available to livestock producers in areas hit hardest by the drought. 
   Based on criteria established by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the aid will be available to the following New Mexico counties: Colfax, Do?a Ana, Grant, Hidalgo, Los Alamos, Luna, Mora, Rio Arriba, Sandoval, San Miguel, Santa Fe, Sierra and Taos. 
   "Farming and ranching is not an easy life, and the drought has made it all the more difficult. I hope our livestock producers will take advantage of this USDA offer to sustain their livestock," Domenici said. 
   "This program will help those hardest hit by the multi-year drought. The USDA, under Secretary Veneman's leadership, understands that by helping producers sustain their herds, it is also helping sustain rural local economies that depend on the livestock industry," he said. 
   New Mexico is among nine states that will take part in the 2004 Nonfat Dry Milk Livestock Feed Assistance Initiative, which will affect about 95 counties nationwide. The U.S. Drought Monitor is being used to determine eligible counties. 
   The program will be administered by the New Mexico Department of Agriculture, which will receive an initial allotment of the surplus dry milk based on the number of foundation beef cattle, buffalo, sheep and goats in eligible counties or tribal lands. A 30-day supply of nonfat dry milk will be calculated at the rate of two pounds of milk per eligible bovine and bison per day, and one-half pound of NDM per sheep and goat per day. The Commodity Credit Corporation will sell the milk through feed dealers identified by the state. 
   For more information, visit: http://www.fsa.usda.gov/daco/2004ndm/POC.htm and http://www.drought.unl.edu/dm/monitor.html.
 
 