BUSH SIGNS BILL WITH $9.0 MILLION SECURED BY SEN. DOMENICI FOR DROUGHT AID
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that President Bush has signed into law legislation that includes $9.0 million in emergency funding for drought aid, with a specific mention of growing water shortage problems in communities across New Mexico. 
   Domenici served on the conference committee that reconciled differences between the Senate and House versions of the FY2006 Emergency Appropriations Bill. The $94.5 billion package was sent to Bush on Thursday.
   The $9.0 million, not included in the House bill, was secured by Domenici to allow the Bureau of Reclamation to provide emergency water and water-related resources assistance to areas that are now hard-hit by drought.
   Domenici is already working with Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne and the New Mexico Office of State Engineer to ensure the money is used in New Mexico as soon as possible.
   "I'm pleased that President Bush has quickly signed this bill into law. This emergency funding will now be on hand for the Bureau of Reclamation to step in to help communities that could literally run dry this year because of the awful drought conditions we are experiencing," Domenici said.
   "I've received firsthand accounts and reports of the problems in the Ruidoso and Las Vegas areas, and I expect that these new funds should help communities like those two as they confront the lack of water," he said.
   The final bill contains Domenici-requested language that states: "The Conferees note that the communities of Ruidoso, Ruidoso Downs and Las Vegas, New Mexico are already operating under stringent water restrictions. Therefore the Conferees have provided $9,000,000 for drought emergency assistance. The Conferees expect Reclamation to undertake drought contingency planning, to provide emergency potable water sources for eligible communities and to provide other drought emergency assistance within their authorities to help stricken communities."
   Through the negotiations, conferees also agreed to a Senate-approved Domenici amendment for a five-year reauthorization of the Bureau's Drought Emergency Assistance Program, which lapsed in September 2005. Renewing these provisions will allow the Bureau to provide drought assistance. This program is designed to allow the Bureau to help states, tribes and some nonprofit organizations find ways to minimize the losses and damages associated with severe drought situations. This work includes on-the-ground relief for states including well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, and water banking, and conservation.
 
 