SENATE APPROVES SENS. BINGAMAN-DOMENICI PLAN TO IMPROVE COMPENSATION PROGRAM FOR LAB WORKERS
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today won Senate support for a measure they helped write that makes substantial improvements to a federal program that compensates former nuclear complex employees for work-related illnesses.  
   In 2000, Bingaman teamed up with then-Senator Fred Thompson (R-Tenn.) to design the compensation program, called the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA). EEOICPA provides a one-time lump sum payment of $150,000 and continuing medical benefits to former DOE workers suffering from beryllium disease and radiation-induced cancers. It also requires DOE to determine whether former DOE employees exposed to other toxic substances were made ill, and to assist those workers in making cases to state workers' compensation boards. 
   Currently, the Department of Labor (DOL) administers the program for employees who qualify for the lump sum payment, and DOE administers the program for all others. While DOL has steadily reviewed applications and issued checks, DOE has been making very slow progress. The senators introduced an amendment with Senator Jim Bunning (R-KY) and others that would shift the responsibility for processing all claims to DOL. Under the amendment, in addition to providing lump-sum payments to eligible workers as before, the federal government would begin compensating workers exposed to other toxic substances. The compensation amounts would be determined according to state compensation laws. 
   "When Congress created this program nearly four years ago, we expected that sick workers would be compensated quickly and with a minimal amount of bureaucracy. Unfortunately DOE has done an extremely poor job administering its share of the program, and as a result too few compensation checks have been forthcoming," Bingaman said. "This amendment takes steps aimed at fixing that problem." 
   "The Senate's acceptance of this amendment represents a significant move toward ensuring benefits will flow more quickly to those who are due compensation. It became clear that the program has not been working as intended and this measure will help correct the situation for these deserving DOE workers," Domenici said. 
   The amendment also streamlines the claims process by creating an Office of Ombudsman with DOL to assist with all matters ranging from claims to appeals; ensures claimants have the opportunity to appeal negative decisions to a doctor; requires DOE to continue gathering employment, exposure, facility and medical records; and requires DOE to provide all data needed by DOL for claims processing. 
   The amendment has been made part of the fiscal year 2005 Defense Authorization Bill, which is still pending before the Senate.
 
 