SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO NEWS SESSION, JULY 16
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, July 16, 2007.  
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Larry Moehlenbrink - KKOB Albuquerque 
   * Jack Nixon - KSNM Las Cruces 
   * Nick Layman - KUNM Albuquerque 
   * Mike Jaxson - KSVP Artesia 
   * John McBreen - KYVA Gallup 
   * Whitney Jones - KRWG Las Cruces 
   TOPICS: 
   Republican Senate Primary 
   Southern New Mexico Postal Service 
   Iraq War Withdrawal Amendments 
   Carlsbad Transportation Appropriation 
   Navajo Water Settlement 
   Colonias Needs 
   White House Reaction to War Withdrawal Amendments 
   Opposition to Global Nuclear Energy Partnership in Chaves County 
   Iraq War Discussion with President Bush 
   REVIEW: 
   00:13 - Domenici says he is unaware of any possible Republican primary challenge he might face next year, and says he does not expect to face a primary opponent. However, he notes he has always welcomed competition. 
   02:30 - Domenici says he and Senator Bingaman have worked with the U.S. Postal Service to resolve delivery and service problems in southern New Mexico. He says he believes the USPS is making progress, but that he will continue to monitor whether commitments are being fulfilled to improve service in the state. 
   05:04 - Domenici says his desire for a change in U.S. policy in Iraq does not mean he must vote favorably for various amendments calling for withdrawal from Iraq. He says he is weighing the benefits of various plans before deciding how to vote. 
   06:46 - Domenici says he works with local officials in making appropriations requests for cities like Roswell or Carlsbad, and discusses a $300,000 appropriation he secured in the Senate's FY2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill for roadway improvements in Carlsbad. 
   08:54 - Domenici reiterates that he is positive that the Navajo Water Settlement will only move through Congress with a clear understanding that the city of Gallup will also benefit from the settlement. He says the pact requires good cooperation between the Navajo Nation and Gallup. 
   11:29 - Domenici says he and Senator Bingaman will move forward with the Navajo Water Settlement legislation despite opposition within the Bush administration to the bill. 
   13:03 - Domenici discusses the great needs in the colonias, his FY2008 appropriations requests for these border communities and the infrastructure problems posed by these poorly-planned residential areas. 
   14:53 - Domenici says he understands the Bush administration's opposition to various Iraq war plans in the Senate, but he says the President may be forced to deal with Congress. He says he is studying the Warner-Lugar plan that is an alternative to the Salazar-Alexander plan he is cosponsoring. 
   16:37 - Domenici said he believes it is premature to take court action to try to stop the possibility of the Energy Department selecting Chaves County to host a Global Nuclear Energy Partnership (GNEP) facility. He says enough people want to consider the option of hosting a GNEP reprocessing plant. 
   18:12 - Domenici recounts his conversation with President Bush to discuss why U.S. policies in Iraq should change, including growing opposition to the status quo regarding the war in Iraq.
 
 