SEN. DOMENICI WELCOMES SENATE VICTORY ON ANWR
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded a vote by the U.S. Senate to defeat an effort to eliminated budget provisions allowing energy exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) in Alaska.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, argued strenuously for ARWR revenue instructions included in the Senate's FY2006 Budget Resolution. The budget assumes $2.5 billion in revenues to the federal treasury from a very small portion of ANWR that was set aside under the Carter administration in 1980 for future energy exploration. 
   An amendment to strike the ANWR instruction was defeated on a 49-51 vote. 
   "This vote is important on so many levels. There is much more to be done legislatively before we can develop ANWR. But this vote keeps open the option to finally determine whether we, as a nation, should harness the potential energy in ANWR for ourselves. Our energy situation is not going to get any better, and producing as much diversified energy sources on our own is necessary. ANWR is one aspect of that diversification," Domenici said. 
   "Not allowing exploration of ANWR, with its potential to produce one million barrels of oil a day, means staying on a path of economic arrogance in terms of hanging onto a na?ve belief that we can afford to ignore our own assets and rely on foreign imports," he said. 
   "We must facilitate more self-reliance in energy. If not, then we must accept that we are willing to put our great nation in jeopardy. I believe that America, as a powerhouse in the world for good and freedom, will be in jeopardy if we choose not to move in the direction of diverse energy sources produced on our own," he said. 
   Potential exploration and development of ANWR would utilize only 2,000 of the 1.5 million acres in the Coastal Plain section-leaving 99.9 percent untouched. However, ANWR is the single largest and most promising area of unexplored oil reserves in North America. 
   Countering charges that Senate rules are being abused by addressing ANWR in the budget debate, Domenici pointed out that this is not the first time the Senate has voted to include ANWR instructions in a budget resolution. 
   In 1995, Congress passed the FY1996 Budget Reconciliation Bill which authorized the development of ANWR. President Clinton vetoed the bill, citing ANWR as one of the reasons. Such legislation actions have been used since the current budget process was put in place almost 30 years ago. 
   "Every year we use the reconciliation process, and it is absolutely legitimate because it involves revenue assumptions being placed on the Energy Committee. This reconciliation instruction does not, however, mean that ANWR will be automatic. We have a ways to go, but this is a good start," Domenici said. 
   "As we stand today, oil is over $50 a barrel and gas prices are on the rise. Enough is enough. We need ANWR, and I believe production can be done in an environmentally responsible way that will bring us an estimated 10.4 billion barrels-the same as more than 30 years worth of Saudi Arabian imports," he said. 
   A final vote on the Senate version of the FY2006 Budget Resolution that contains ANWR provisions is expected late Thursday or Friday.
 
 