SEN. DOMENICI RECEIVES UPDATES, ASSURANCES ON BOOSTING BORDER SECURITY WITH NATIONAL GUARD
  Sen. Pete Domenici said Tuesday that he is more confident than ever that President Bush's plan to temporarily use National Guard troops to help the Border Patrol secure the Southwest border is a genuine and workable objective.
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate committees that fund the Defense and Homeland Security departments, said the Bush administration is on track to work with border state governors to implement the plan to deploy 6,000 National Guard troops to the border. The plan involves approval from the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of staff in cooperation with the Department of the Homeland Security (DHS). 
   At the same time, Domenici reiterated his support to accelerate the hiring and training of hundreds of new Border Patrol agents at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia. The accelerated hiring and training schedules set by Congress over the past few years has resulted in 131 new agents in New Mexico since October, with almost another 90 agents to be assigned to the state by September.
   "The more updates and details I get, the more convinced I am that we should carry out the President's plan to use the National Guard on the border. The goal is to almost immediately supplement Border Patrol resources in a manner that does not tax the resources of the National Guard. It can be done, and I expect to help push through Congress any necessary authorization or funding needed to implement this plan," Domenici said.
   Domenici noted that National Guard troops that might be sent to New Mexico could be drawn from across the country and not only from the New Mexico National Guard, which has for years been involved in drug interdiction and in Innovative Readiness Training that involves infrastructure work on the border. For example, the Guard helped erect a border barrier at the Columbus port of entry.
   Domenici said troops assigned to the border would not have the same personnel and expertise mix as those who are typically deployed to aid states and localities during disaster and emergency situations--like wildfires. National Guard units will assist the Border Patrol by operating surveillance systems, analyzing intelligence, installing fences and vehicle barriers, building patrol roads, and providing training. Apprehensions and detention operations will be conducted by DHS.
   Having received additional information on the National Guard border security plan, Domenici offered the following useful facts:
   * National Guard Capabilities: The Secretary of Defense and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have indicated that the limited and temporary deployment of National Guard members will not adversely affect operational readiness or limit Guard ability to act during national emergencies. The 6,000 Guardsmen to be sent to the border account for less than 2 percent of the total 440,000 National Guard force.
   * Adding Border Patrol Agents: By the end of FY2006, the Border Patrol will have hired and trained another 1,000 new agents, with plans to add another 6,000 agents by the end of FY2008.
   * Border Patrol Agent Training: DHS will implement measures to increase Border Patrol training capacity at FLETC Artesia, which involves the infrastructure improvements sought by the President and funded by Congress. (The pending FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Bill includes $18 million for construction and communications upgrades at Artesia. Congress provided almost $44 million for construction in FY2006.)
   Last November, Domenici introduced the Border Security and Modernization Act (S.2049), which called for using the National Guard to augment border patrol activities.
 
 