SEN. DOMENICI HONORS FALLEN NEW MEXICO LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today issued a Congressional Record statement recognizing the hard work and sacrifices of New Mexico law enforcement officers as part of the annual Peace Officers Memorial Day and National Police Week in Washington, D.C.
   Domenici on Monday met with members of the Albuquerque Police Department delegation sent to take part in the ceremonies honoring falling officers from New Mexico. 
   "It is with great pride that we honor three New Mexico officers during the annual memorial. Officer Michael R. King and Officer Richard W. Smith, Jr., both of the Albuquerque Police Department, were gunned down while responding to a call to pickup a mental health patient. A third officer, Eddy County Deputy Sheriff Bud Johnson, was shot and killed while attempting to serve a warrant," Domenici said.
   "We should all remember the dedication of Officer King, Officer Smith and Deputy Johnson to protect and serve New Mexico. They have paid the ultimate price and for that they will always have my utmost admiration."
   The following is the text of a Congressional Record statement offered by Domenici to commemorate National Police Week:
   "I rise today to commemorate the hard work and sacrifices made daily by law enforcement officers all across our great land. Many have lost their lives in the line of duty so that our families and communities may remain safe. We must never forget those who have given their lives to protect us all.
   "The annual celebration of Peace Officers Memorial Day and National Police Week during the calendar week has its roots in Public Law 87-726, which was signed into law on October 1, 1962 by President John F. Kennedy. Public Law 87-726 designated this day and week as a time for 'recognition of the service given by the men and women who, night and day, stand guard in our midst to protect us through enforcement of our laws.' This law was later amended during the 103rd Congress as part of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act in 1994 to order the United States flag on all government buildings displayed at half-staff on May 15.
   "Since the turn of the last century, more than 60 law enforcement officers have been killed in the line of duty in New Mexico. This year, among other activities, law enforcement officers from around the country honored the lives of three New Mexico police officers whose names were recently added to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C. One occurred a very long time ago, and the two others just last year.
   "Officer Michael R. King and Officer Richard W. Smith, Jr., both of the Albuquerque Police Department, are two of the three officers being honored this year. Their deaths occurred on a day that has become ingrained in the hearts of most New Mexicans as one of the bloodiest and most tragic in recent times. Officers King and Smith, longtime veterans of the Albuquerque Police Department, were responding to a call on August 20, 2005 ordering the pickup of a mental health patient from Kaseman Hospital. When they arrived at the scene, Officers King and Smith had no way of knowing that the subject of their call, John Hyde would be implicated in the shooting deaths of three people earlier that day. During the pickup Officers King and Smith were gunned down in the street before their murderer fled on a motorcycle. It took a force of approximately 300 of their fellow officers to chase down and finally apprehend the man responsible for the deaths of these brave and respected police officers.
   "The other officer honored this year was gunned down in Hope, New Mexico approximately one hundred and eight years ago. At the time, Eddy County Deputy Sherriff Bud Johnson had traveled to Hope in order to serve a warrant on one L.E. Pratt in regard to an infraction over water control. According to the Eddy County Sheriff's Department, Pratt shot and killed Bud Johnson with a shotgun when he was notified of the warrant. Deputy Sheriff Johnson died immediately.
   "Deputy Johnson's death shows us that the dangers of police work have been present throughout the long history of our nation. All too recently, citizens of New Mexico mourned the loss of Deputy James McGrane, Jr., who was killed on March 22, 2006 during a traffic stop in Tijeras, New Mexico. While we remember those who have lost their lives, we also take solace in the fact that many others have been able to survive the dangers of duty. Officer John Garcia, Officer Josh Otzenberger, Sergeant Carol Oleksak, Deputy Shaun Sanchez, and Sheriff's pilot Chris Holland were all shot during the past two years while protecting our communities. We are thankful that most of them survived these close brushes with death and were able to return to duty.
   "We should remember their dedication to protect and serve, and the tragic price they paid for that devotion. We must also remember the families of all fallen officers and the sacrifices they have incurred because of a deep-seated commitment to duty and public service. All of us from New Mexico owe a debt of gratitude to each and every officer who has lost their lives in the line of duty. To all who have paid the ultimate price and to those who continue to serve, may we forever be grateful and never take for granted what you do. You have my utmost admiration."
 
 