FY2007 BUDGET PLAN PASSED, SEN. DOMENICI WINS ENERGY RESERVE FUND, MORE FOR PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted for final passage of the FY2007 Budget Resolution, which includes two key provisions he backed to accelerate implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and to increase PILT funding by $152 million. 
   The Senate late Thursday approved the 2007 budget blueprint on a 51-49 vote. The resolution (S.Con.Res.83) will now be reconciled with a similar budget plan from the House of Representatives. Domenici, as a senior member of the Senate Budget Committee, will serve on this conference panel. The resolution establishes an $873 billion cap on overall spending.
   "This was a very difficult budget to put together because the crunch on non-defense discretionary spending is getting tighter and tighter. Priorities have to be made as we continue to make progress with efforts to reduce the budget deficit," Domenici said.
   Prior to the final vote, Domenici succeeded with a 51-49 vote to approve his Energy Reserve Fund amendment which would tap $450 million in potential royalty revenues from the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to implement provisions of the Energy Policy Act. The amendment would designate $150 million a year between FY2009 and FY2011 for this effort.
   "American cannot solve its energy challenges without funding the energy bill," Domenici said. "The Energy Reserve Fund will allow Congress to go even further than the President's budget to find new ways to promote energy conservation and efficiency, make renewable energies more affordable and discover break-through technologies that can help wean America off Middle Eastern oil."
   The resolution continues to instruct the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to draft legislation for programs under the committee's jurisdiction that will offset $3 billion in federal outlays over the next 10 years. That legislation is expected to be the environmentally-sound development of U.S. oil reserves in the Arctic. It must be reported out of the committee and sent to the Budget Committee by mid-May.
   Domenici also cosponsored an amendment accepted by unanimous consent that increases funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program by $152 million in FY2007. The acceptance of this amendment would mean that $350 million could be made available in payments to counties next year, well over the $198 million recommended in the administration's budget request.
   "New Mexico counties with significant federal lands count on PILT funding and I believe the federal government has an obligation to these counties. I'm pleased the Senate agreed and outline a plan for increasing that funding in FY2007," Domenici said.
   New Mexico counties last year received more than $22 million in PILT awards as compensation for hosting tax-exempt federal lands and installations.
   Also of interest to New Mexico, the resolutions outlines $4.0 billion increase for border security over the President's $7.9 billion request for the Customs and Border Protection, including 1,500 new border patrol agents. The resolution also includes $4.7 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement for critical infrastructure like aircraft and facilities, vehicles and communications equipment.
 
 