SENATE WATER RESOURCEES BILL INCLUDES KEY PROVISIONS TO ENGAGE TRIBES IN WATER PROJECTS
  The Senate today approved a major water resources and development bill that includes two important provisions authored by Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman that will engage New Mexico pueblos and tribes in initiatives that will help improve the health of the Middle Rio Grande and other watersheds in the state. 
   The legislation, called the Water Development and Resources Act (WRDA), contains the following at the request of Domenici and Bingaman:
   * Provisions to allow Cooperative Agreements between the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers with pueblos. This provision authorizes the Corps to work with any Indian Tribe whose lands are located in New Mexico and are occupied by a flood control project, owned and operated by the Corps, to carry out operation and maintenance activities.
   * The reauthorization of the Tribal Partnerships program that allows the U.S. Corps of Engineers to perform watershed assessments and study flood damage reduction and environmental restoration project on tribal lands.
   "This legislation will significantly impact our environment, and our provisions provide authority for the Corps to carry out ecosystem restoration and protection projects in conjunction with American Indian communities, efficiently and effectively," said Domenici.
   "Under this bill, the Corps and New Mexico pueblos will be able to work together on a variety of initiatives that will help improve the Middle Rio Grande," Bingaman said.
   The Senators were disappointed, however, that the Senate failed to adopt an amendment they wrote to provide maintenance to the Albuquerque Middle Rio Grande Levees. In February, the Corps identified the Albuquerque levees as being at-risk and needing repair. Domenici and Bingaman had pressed the Environment and Public Works Committee to fund these repairs.
   "I am disappointed that the amendment to repair the Albuquerque levees was not adopted. This is an ongoing problem that isn't going to fix itself and the maintenance needs will have to be addressed some time, somehow," said Domenici.
   "It's disappointing that we couldn't get broad support for our amendment. But we will continue to work on this problem until it is fixed," Bingaman said.
   The Senate-passed WRDA bill will now be reconciled with a House version that was approved in April. WRDA authorizes appropriations for water resource projects, study authorizations and policy modifications for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that provides funding for WRDA-authorized projects.
 
 