HONORING NEW MEXICO'S VETERANS
  I recently had the privilege of meeting with Roswell resident and World War II veteran Leon Miller in my Washington D.C. office. Leon, who served in the Coast Guard in the Pacific, came to Washington to visit the World War II Memorial as part of the Honor Flight program. 
   When I met with Leon, I was reminded of the sacrifices so many men and women continue to make on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan. I am proud to represent so many honorable and courageous individuals who have served in all branches of our armed forces to protect freedom and keep our nation safe. I hope New Mexicans took advantage of recent Veterans Day events in their communities to thank past and present members of the U.S. military for their ongoing strength and dedication. 
   I continue to look for practical ways all of us can honor some of our nation's greatest heroes. In May, I introduced the Veterans' Mental Health Outreach and Access Act (S.38), which would authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to develop and implement a comprehensive national program to increase the availability of mental health support so that veterans affected by combat-related mental health problems receive the quality care they need and deserve. The Senate Veterans Affairs Committee recently held a hearing on this bill, and I intend to push for its final enactment.
   For information on veterans programs visit the New Mexico Department of Veterans Services or the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
   In honor of Veterans Day ceremonies, I submitted the following statement for publication in the Congressional Record:
   Mr. President. I would like to take a moment to commemorate Veterans Day and honor all those who have served, fought and sacrificed for our country and the freedom all Americans enjoy.
   We as a Nation should never forget the debt we owe to the generations of Americans who have served as soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines. From the First and Second World Wars, to Korea, Vietnam and the Persian Gulf War, millions of Americans have answered the call of duty to preserve the freedom we all hold so dear. This is also true for our servicemen and women who are right now doing an amazing job in Iraq and the War on Terror, and throughout the world.
   Sadly, many Americans have paid the ultimate price and have given their lives for our country. No praise can be too great for the courage, valor and patriotism of these men and women and their sacrifice will never be forgotten.
   I think it is also important to remember the service of veterans to our country has never ended with their departure from the armed forces. They have enriched every community in which they reside with their strength of character, hard work and devotion to family. For this we must also be grateful.
   On this Veterans Day I hope New Mexicans will honor all the veterans of our great nation, but I would like them to think particularly about our servicemen and women who are right this moment in harm's way. They like all veterans have left behind the comfort of home, family and friends to defend our country and its countless blessings. For this, many have paid an immense price, emotionally and physically. I know our thoughts and prayers are with these outstanding individuals.
   Again, I would like to thank all those who have served past and present to preserve and protect our great nation.
 
 