SEN. DOMENICI SAYS U.S.-INDIA NUCLEAR ENERGY BILL WOULD AID NONPROLIFERATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a leading nonproliferation advocate in the Senate, today addressed the Senate on the merits of the U.S.-India Peaceful Atomic Energy Cooperation Bill (S.3709).
   The following is the text of Domenici's remarks to the Senate: 
   After committing to a framework 16 months ago, President Bush and India's Prime Minister announced an agreement earlier this year on civil nuclear cooperation between our countries.
   I believe they recognized this historic moment in our history. One that requires vision and foresight to anticipate the world as it will be, rather than stuck in the past wishing things were somehow different.
   Some will argue that we must pursue a better deal approaching perfection. But the deal that has been negotiated is a good one that we must pursue now and begin taking steps to strengthen the nonproliferation regime with India by our side.
   Senators Lugar and Biden and the Foreign Relations Committee have done an admirable job of striking a balance that anticipates this future. This strong bi-partisan bill represents a critical step toward strengthening an eroding nonproliferation framework. 
  We only need look at North Korea and Iran for evidence that this erosion is taking place and as a wake-up call that fundamental change is needed. The global community must work together to assure the peaceful pursuit of civilian nuclear power.
   This historic agreement is a critical step that moves the United States and India toward a strategic relationship between our great democracies. Through this relationship built on strength we can jointly work toward a vision of a proliferation-free world. 
  India is a worthy partner.
   * It is the world's largest democracy;
   * It has a population currently over a billion and expected to surpass China's in the next 50 years; and
   * It has a rapidly expanding economy with a growth rate over 7 percent in 2005.
   This deal with India brings global transparency to India's entire civilian nuclear program. We forget that India's civilian and military programs still remain closed to global scrutiny. Under this agreement, the entire civilian program, 65 percent of all nuclear activity and eventually 90 percent of all nuclear activity, will open to monitoring by the IAEA.
   The Indian people are similar to the American people. They desire a better life for themselves and their children. Rapid economic growth that has led to improving their standard of living is projected to result in a doubling of energy needs in the next 25 years.
   India must make choices today that drive their energy mix in the future. Like many countries, they have chosen nuclear power, to improve their energy security while reducing reliance on imports.
   India currently has 9 reactors under construction and plans to grow the nuclear share to 25 percent by 2050. That is 100 times the 2002 capacity.
   Cooperation with India will lead to significant opportunities for U.S. industry to help assure India's energy mix, including nuclear power, is clean, diversified, and proliferation resistant.
   I strongly support an evolving strategic U.S. relationship with India that this agreement promotes. It is the world's largest democracy, and a worthy partner that we can work with in our pursuit of global security.
   I have worked with Senator Lugar in the past on nonproliferation measures that required vision and foresight. With India also we must look to our future. I urge my colleagues to vote with me to approve the measure.
 
 