COMMITTEE PASSES SEN. DOMENICI'S ENERGY-WATER TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH BILL
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today approved U.S. Senator Pete Domenici's legislation challenging the national laboratories to find ways to lower water demand for energy production and make more water available for human use.
   The committee Wednesday approved the Energy-Water Efficiency Technology Research, Development, and Transfer Program Act of 2005 (S.1860). The Domenici legislation, cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, is now available for consideration by the full Senate. 
   The bill is designed to step up federal investment in water efficiency and supply technologies as a means to increase energy production capacity, lower the amount of water used in oil and gas production, and meet the increasing demand for water. Estimates indicate that at least 10 barrels of water are used to produce a single barrel of oil, and nearly 40 percent of all water diverted is for energy production.
   The Department of Energy's national laboratories would be responsible for discovering ways to improve energy production and reduce energy demand through improved use of reclaimed waters.
   "The federal government has let its investment in water technologies lapse, and the pressure to find more usable water for a growing nation will make that fact more apparent. We want to find cost-effective ways to conserve and reclaim water," Domenici said, who chairs the Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   "We need better technologies to lower the amount of water needed to produce energy. Ensuring an adequate supply of water, coupled with efficient use of that water in our energy processes, is critical to the nation's energy portfolio. Success in this realm could help lower energy costs and make more water available for other uses. I think the scientists at our national laboratories are up for the challenge," Domenici said.
   "New technologies are key to helping Western communities meet their future water needs. This bill lays out a plan for developing those technologies and getting them out to the marketplace so they can be put to use addressing the many water issues facing the country," said Bingaman, the top Democrat on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   The bill creates a new program within DOE to promote the research, development and commercialization of technology relating to the relationship between energy and water, including reducing water demand for energy production and developing new technologies to more efficiently use water, and develop technology to produce additional water.
   The Secretary of Energy is directed to designate one or more lead laboratories to spearhead the research effort in partnership with a university and water agencies.
   The bill directs the Secretary of Energy to assess research being performed by other federal agencies, and creates an advisory panel to guide research priorities and identify potential legal and regulatory issues that hinder the adoption of new technologies in real-world applications. It also creates a competitive grant program under which other laboratories, agencies, and non-governmental organizations can compete for grants. Initially, the bill will provide $5 million for FY2006 to start the office, with plans to fund it as necessary in coming years.
   Among the bill's bipartisan cosponsors are Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), and Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), and Ken Salazar (D-Colo.).
   SUMMARY
   S.1860 - The Energy-Water Efficiency Technology Research,Development and Transfer Program Act of 2005
   The bill creates a new Energy-Water Efficiency Technology Research, Development and Transfer Program within the U.S. Department of Energy.
   It would:
   * Provide for the research, development, technology transfer and commercialization of energy-water supply technology to reduce energy demands for providing water supplies and reduce water demand for energy production, expand water reclamation or reuse, more efficiently use water, and water modeling. * Coordinate research conducted pursuant to this bill with similar efforts authorized with other Federal Agencies in order to encourage the disclosure of information and collaboration.
   * Direct the Secretary of Energy to designate one or more lead laboratories, and requires the lead laboratory to select at least one university partner and water agency partner to assist in carrying out the program.
   * Direct the Secretary of Energy, in collaboration with the heads of other agencies undertaking energy-water supply research, to assess research being performed by other agencies, assess funding levels, coordinate research and produce a technology roadmap to identify critical research areas.
   * Create an advisory panel to guide research priorities, make periodic assessments of research conducted under the program, and identify legal and policy barriers to implementing new technologies.
   * Create a competitive grants program under which other national laboratories, other federal agencies, non-federal and non-governmental organizations can compete for funding. This includes grants for research and demonstration programs. At least 60 percent of amounts made available by the program will be made available for competitive grant awards, and not more than 25 percent of the funding available for grants would be allocated to the DOE national laboratories and federal agencies. * Require a periodic peer review.
   * Authorize $5 million for FY2006 for the roadmap and such sums as necessary thereafter.
 
 