SEN. DOMENICI'S RURAL WATER SUPPLY ACT PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced that his legislation designed to help rural communities obtain reliable water service has passed the Senate.  
   The Senate unanimously passed Domenici's Rural Water Supply Act of 2005 (S.895), which is cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman. Domenici is chairman of the Energy Committee, while Bingaman serves as its Ranking Member. The legislation is now ready for House action. 
   The bill will authorize the U.S. Department of Interior, through the Bureau of Reclamation, to establish a program to plan, design, and construct rural water supply projects. 
   "There is a serious water crisis in America, particularly among rural areas that don't have the resources to establish and maintain drinking water supplies on their own. I'm pleased that the Senate has passed this bill because it will help rural communities improve their water infrastructure. I hope that the House will act soon so it can become law," Domenici said. 
   "Communities in New Mexico and throughout the West need assistance in meeting the water challenges they face. This legislation carves out a new role for the Bureau of Reclamation, allowing the agency to provide that help," Bingaman said. 
   The bill authorizes $20 million a year for planning new water delivery infrastructure and would establish a loan guarantee program within the Bureau of Reclamation to help communities finance new water projects an pay for maintenance on existing water systems. 
   The Rural Water Supply Act of 2005 establishes a federal loan guarantee program within the BOR that allows rural communities to obtain loans at interest rates far lower than loans not guaranteed by the federal government. The legislation also expedites the appraisal and feasibility study process to allow communities to find the best approach to meet their needs. 
   This past spring, Farmington Mayor Jim Dunlap and Clovis Mayor David Lansford came to Washington to testify in favor of the bill. The National Rural Water Association and Bush administration also support the legislation.
 
 