SENATE PASSES SEN. DOMENICI'S FORT STANTON-SNOWY RIVER PASSAGE BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded the swift Senate passage of legislation he penned that aims to protect the remarkable Fort Stanton Cave and its Snowy River Passage, thought to be the longest existing formation of crystalline calcite ever discovered.  
   As chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Domenici noted that with Senate approval the Fort Stanton-Snowy River National Cave Conservation Act (S. 1170) the bill will now move to the House of Representatives. The bill, which is cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, the committee's senior Democrat, would protect, secure and conserve the natural and unique features of Fort Stanton-Snowy River. 
   "Snowy River can be an interminable source of scientific research that will draw some of the brightest minds to Lincoln County. This bill will protect this resource and provide a way to uncover its mysteries," Domenici said. 
   Snowy River passage was discovered in the Fort Stanton Cave by volunteers of the BLM in 2001, but was only announced to the public this summer after completion of an environmental assessment of the passage and its formations. 
   The cave passage is a unique continuous white crystalline calcite formation, that to date has been mapped to be at least two miles in length, the longest known formation in New Mexico. Scientists believe it could lead to new discoveries in areas such as water chemistry, weather trends, and flood and drought cycles. 
   "The Snowy River cave is an amazing find, and legislation takes the important step of protecting the resources in it," Bingaman said. 
   Domenici's legislation directs the Bureau of Land Management to develop a comprehensive, long-term management plan for the cave area. It authorizes the conservation of the unique features and environs in the cave for scientific, educational, and other public uses, and bring in colleges, universities, and scientific institutions to participate in research. 
   The bill would also ensure that the cave is not used for mining purposes. In July, Domenici visited the cave and tested new radio and geomapping equipment used by cavers to map the formation.
 
 