SEN. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN AGREE TO ADVANCE VALLE VIDAL BILL
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced that they will work to gain Senate passage this year of the Valle Vidal Protection Act (HR.3817). 
   The New Mexico Senators, who are chairman and ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, are working to gain consent to move the House-passed bill to the Senate floor for consideration. This move would negate the need for a Senate committee hearing on the measure. The Senators' intent is to get the Senate to pass HR.3817 and forward the legislation to the White House.
   HR.3817, like legislation introduced by Bingaman (S.1734), would prohibit energy or mineral development on the 101,794 acres that comprise the Valle Vidal Unit of the Carson National Forest in northeast New Mexico. HR.3817 was introduced by Representative Tom Udall and cosponsored by Congresswoman Heather Wilson.
   "I have been to Valle Vidal. It is a magnificent and beautiful area and I understand why adding new protection has such widespread support," Domenici said. "I have been concerned about being perceived as pushing for or even forcing energy production in other states while saying 'not in my backyard' in New Mexico. However, at this point, I believe we can, and should, try to enact the Valle Vidal Protection Act. I appreciate all the work Senator Bingaman and Representatives Udall and Wilson put into this legislation. Time is short, but I will now do everything I can to get this legislation to the President this year."
   "There is broad support in New Mexico to preserve this very special place. I congratulate Rep. Udall for winning passage of his legislation in the House of Representatives. Sen. Domenici and I will do our best to seize any opportunity to get this bill passed this year in the Senate," Bingaman said.
   The Valle Vidal is managed by the U.S. Forest Service. The property was transferred to the federal government by the Penzoil Co. in 1982. While natural gas production occurs on the adjacent Vermejo Ranch, energy production has not ever occurred on the Valle Vidal.
 
 