NAVY SUB TO BE NAMED ?U.S.S. NEW MEXICO'
  Members of the New Mexico congressional delegation today confirmed that the U.S. Navy has agreed to designate the next Virginia-class submarine the U.S.S. New Mexico to honor the state and the thousands of New Mexicans who have served in the Armed Forces.  
   The request was first made in a January, 2003 letter to the Secretary of the Navy by Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall, and Steve Pearce. 
   The delegation pointed out that the naming of warship after New Mexico would only be the second time the state has had the honor. The U.S.S. New Mexico was the flagship of the Pacific Fleet in the World War II era, and the new submarine will honor the legacy of that ship and its crew. 
   "This is an appropriate honor for New Mexico. Our state has been a leader in advancing technology to make the world a better place. The U.S.S. New Mexico submarine will contain technologies developed at Los Alamos and Sandia, and will honor the sacrifices made by previous generations of New Mexicans in the cause of freedom," Domenici said. 
   "Naming the newest Navy submarine after our state is an important way to recognize the countless New Mexicans who have fought bravely and sacrificed much to protect our country and our freedom," Bingaman said. 
   "I welcome this decision enthusiastically and I feel strongly that our state and our veterans have earned this honor," Wilson said. "It's been more than a half-century since the first USS New Mexico fought her last battle. The name USS New Mexico carries a proud heritage, and it will be good to have it once again among those defending our country." 
   "New Mexico has a long and proud heritage in the service and defense of our nation. Besides commemorating the sacrifices of New Mexico's veterans, I know that the USS New Mexico will serve our country and the world well," Udall said. 
   "New Mexico has a long and distinct history of contributing to our nation's defense from the Rough Riders, to Bataan, to the current war against terror, and the naming of this submarine would be a proper tribute to the countless sacrifices New Mexicans have made to their country," Pearce said. 
   Navy Secretary Gordon England is expected to formally announce the designation in December. Twenty-two states already have namesake submarines. More information on the Navy's Virginia-class submarines is available at: http://vaclass.navy.mil/ 
   The U.S. Navy currently has two nuclear attack submarines named for cities in New Mexico - the U.S.S. Albuquerque and the U.S.S. Santa Fe.
 
 