REP. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES USDA FUNDS FOR DO?A ANA HOUSING TO BOOST HOMEOWNERSHIP
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that Tierra del Sol Housing Corporation will use a $100,000 federal grant to provide counseling and education to families hoping to purchase homes in Do?a Ana County.  
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee, said the Technical and Supervisory Assistance (TSA) Grant funding has been approved by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). 
   "This funding helps 220 families in Do?a Ana County buy their own homes with the proper guidance and assistance that is sometimes unavailable to first-time owners. I am pleased New Mexicans are working with the President's incentive to increase minority homeownership," Domenici said. 
   The TSA funds provide pre-purchase counseling and education to 220 households in Do?a Ana County, and will include "Home Buyer Clubs" for families with serious obstacles to homeownership. 
   The program is expected to see 150 families become homeowners, many of whom rent homes through the USDA's Rural Development financed rental program. Also over 150 homeowners who are in default will be counseled and assisted to resolve loan defaults. 
   Tierra del Sol was organized in 1974 by a group of rural residents, farm workers, a minister and a county commissioner to improve the living conditions of low-income people by providing them with affordable housing and community development. Particular emphasis is placed on helping farmers, displaced workers, single parent families, elderly, disabled persons and residents of several colonias along the border. 
   Tierra del Sol helps families throughout New Mexico, Texas and Arizona and has a strong presence along the U.S.-Mexico border. 
   Tierra del Sol has completed over 3,000 units of affordable housing and offers rural and urban self-help housing; rental housing development and property management; repair and rehabilitation of owner-occupied housing; homebuyers' education, credit counseling, homeownership training and default prevention; neighborhood planning; and water, sewer and community infrastructure development.
 
 