FOR NATIONAL DAY OF PRAYER, SEN. DOMENICI PAYS TRIBUTE TO NEW MEXICO CONTRIBUTIONS TO HURRICANE KATRINA RESCUE, RECOVERY
  As part of the National Day of Prayer and Remembrance for the Victims of Hurricane Katrina, Sen. Pete Domenici today released a statement that pays tribute to New Mexicans who have aided in rescue and recovery efforts following the disastrous storm.  
   Domenici's statement has been entered into the Congressional Record. In it he salutes the contributions of New Mexicans from across the state who stepped up to donate time and resources to the rescue and recovery efforts in the Gulf region. 
   "I would like to take this opportunity to say thank you to all of the people from New Mexico and from across the country who are helping with Katrina relief and recovery efforts," Domenici said. 
   President Bush declared Sept. 16 as a National Day of Prayer and Remembrance. The following is the text of Domenici's remarks: 
   "Mr. President, I rise to address Hurricane Katrina-what we have been doing and what we should do next. Much has been said on this floor about good, and bad, responses to Hurricane Katrina. 
   "This morning I would like to reflect on the good responses. I would like to mention a few stories of self-sacrifice and generosity made by some people from my home State of New Mexico. A team from Sandia National Laboratory's and Los Alamos National Laboratory's National Infrastructure Simulation Analysis Center is helping to determine the impact of Hurricane Katrina on electric power infrastructure and oil and gas infrastructure. The Office of Naval Research deployed an Expeditionary Unit for Water Purification from Alamogordo to create potable water from brackish water in Mississippi. Evacuees have been welcomed to our State. In one of the many shows of financial generosity by New Mexicans, the Sandia Pueblo has donated $1 million to the American Red Cross. As another example, earlier this month two Do?a Ana County Commissioners plan to donate their salaries for the rest of this year, totaling almost $12,000, to Katrina victims. 
   "Many law enforcement officers, firefighters, and other first responders from across the country are aiding in recovery efforts. One such group is from Bernalillo County, New Mexico. The Bernalillo County Sheriff's Office and Fire Department sent forty-three individuals to New Orleans, including three civilians and my good friend Darren White, who is the Sheriff in Bernalillo County. The Bernalillo County team spent several days on airboats, searching for survivors. At one point, the Sheriff was thrown from the boat into the toxic floodwaters covering New Orleans. He was sent to a decontamination center, but the experience did not deter him from his mission. Instead, he stayed in New Orleans to continue helping with the team's rescue efforts, which saved more than 200 people. Stories like this make me extremely proud of New Mexico's brave law officers. 
   "The list does not end there. The New Mexico Disaster Medical Assistance Team provided medical care in Louisiana. Task Force New Mexico, made up of 412 National Guardsmen, is helping a Louisiana parish get back on its feet. New Mexico Task Force One, an elite search and rescue team, assisted in recovery efforts. This team may sound familiar because New Mexico Task Force One was sent to the Pentagon following the September 11 attacks to help with rescue and recovery efforts there. 
   "Finally, I would like to quote a September 12, 2005 USA Today news clipping I found particularly striking. A 'disaster response director for the San Juan County Red Cross watched as two young boys from Farmington emptied their piggy banks. . . the boys were determined to send their money, $32 total, to victims of Hurricane Katrina.' Mr. President, the parents of these two Farmington, New Mexico boys should be very, very proud of their sons. I certainly am. 
   "This, of course, is not an exhaustive list of New Mexico's contributions to Hurricane Katrina relief efforts, and I know that these stories are not unique to my home State. Many people across the country have responded with similar acts of courage and kindness. I would like to take this opportunity to say thank you to all of the people from New Mexico and from across the country who are helping with Katrina relief and recovery efforts. 
   "I would also like to mention a few of the many Federal actions taken in response to Hurricane Katrina. 50,000 people have been rescued. 53 million liters of water and 22 million meals have been distributed. US military personnel, Federal law enforcement officers, and other Federal employees have gone to the Gulf Coast to help people like Sheriff White with rescue, recovery, and security efforts. Federal agencies have provided millions of dollars in grants for emergency energy assistance, agricultural aid, Head Start programs, and job creation. The Federal government has done much more, including appropriating more than $62 billion in emergency funding for the Gulf Coast region. 
   "It should be noted that these billions of dollars are being provided for immediate needs; the monies do not include funds for any long term rehabilitation or reconstruction projects along the Gulf Coast. However, such sums will be needed soon, as we face the most difficult long-term situation that America has ever confronted on her own soil. Rehabilitating and reconstructing the Gulf Coast will take several years and several billions of dollars. I believe the proper way to organize and coordinate these efforts is by creating an office that will work with leadership in the affected area to coordinate Federal, state, and local actions and report on reconstruction efforts. 
   "Mr. President, I am not asserting that control should be taken away from the states and cities that were directly impacted by Katrina. Nor am I advocating that this person should play any role in reviewing the local, state and Federal responses to Katrina or in recommending any policy changes that may need to be made because of those responses. 
   "However, I do believe we need someone who can oversee the numerous Federal projects and Federal funds that will be associated with the rebuilding efforts. 
   "Creating such an office is not without precedence. I was here in 1972 when the Mid-Atlantic States were flooded by rainfall from Tropical Storm Agnes. These floods caused the costliest natural disaster in U.S. history at the time. President Nixon had the foresight to appoint Frank Carlucci, his Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget, to serve as his 'personal representative' to the disaster area created by Agnes. Mr. Carlucci coordinated the multi-state, multi-agency rebuilding efforts associated with Tropical Storm Agnes. 
   "I believe that a similar office is needed now to oversee the long-term, multi-state rebuilding efforts associated with Katrina, and I have urged President Bush to create such an office by Executive Order. Mr. President, we are facing an important time in this country, and we must carefully choose how to proceed. I am convinced that the creation of a central office to coordinate the Gulf Coast rehabilitation is the proper way to move forward."
 
 