NEW MEXICO DELEGATION PRESSES ARMY TO APPOINT OFFICER TO COMMAND WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE
  Members of the New Mexico congressional delegation today pressed the Secretary of the Army to agree to appoint a general officer to command White Sands Missile Range after Brigadier Gen. Robert Reese retires later this year.  
   U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, with New Mexico Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall and Steve Pearce, and Representative Silvestre Reyes of El Paso, Texas, made their request in a letter to Secretary of the Army Francis J. Harvey. 
   The lawmakers want to maintain active duty flag officer leadership at WSMR after Reese's retirement. They argue that naming a civilian Army employee to command the sprawling military test facility could diminish the importance of WSMR, particularly as the Pentagon transforms military operations to encompass the range, Holloman Air Force Base and Fort Bliss. 
   "A general officer must be 'at the table' representing WSMR in order to leverage and enhance the exceptionally complex joint training and testing opportunities that flow from the interdependence of these facilities," the lawmakers wrote Harvey. 
   "The timely assignment of a new Commanding General is essential in order to ensure the continued efficient management of WSMR resources in anticipation of aggressive changes outlined in DOD and Army Transformation initiatives," they wrote. 
   The letter notes that Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission recommendations will have a profound impact on the region surrounding WSMR. Two million acres of Defense Department property that encompasses WSMR, Fort Bliss, and Holloman Air Force Base amounts to the Pentagon's largest contiguous property holding. 
   "WSMR will play a critical role in the transformation of our armed forces. Over a dozen new Future Combat System (FCS) systems could soon be developed and integrated across the Fort Bliss and WSMR training space. In addition, the area will see a substantial increase in troops and training requirements (20,000 personnel estimated from the return of the 1st Armored Division from Germany) which strengthens the imperative for seasoned military leadership across the training and testing spectrum," the lawmakers wrote. 
   Acknowledging current difficulties in meeting flag officer allocations, the delegation noted that assigning a Colonel (promotable), as an alternative to a general officer, would be acceptable. 
   The delegation's request is supported by the Las Cruces Chamber of Commerce and its Military Affairs Committee, which recently played an important role in turning back the 2005 BRAC recommendation to realign the Army Research Laboratory at WSMR.
 
 