SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL TO DEVELOP BETTER PROGRAM TO FIGHT SUICIDE AMONG VETERANS
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a founder of the Senate Mental Health Reform Caucus, today cosponsored legislation that could lead to the development of a federal program to reduce the incidences of suicide among veterans. 
   Domenici has signed on to the bipartisan Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act (S.479). The bill would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop and implement a more comprehensive program to increase mental health awareness among veterans and VA employees. The legislation is named for Joshua Omvig, an Army veteran who was diagnosed with PTSD following his 11-month tour in Iraq and later committed suicide. 
   "There is growing evidence that more veterans are experiencing post-traumatic stress symptoms, depression and other mental health problems associated with their combat in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our challenge, and the intent of this measure, is to ensure that the treatments are readily available to these men and women so they can live full lives and not resort to suicide," said Domenici, who Monday hosted a caucus briefing on mental health care for members of the National Guard and Reserve. 
   S.479, recognizing that post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a serious problem, directs the VA to develop a program that includes: a national mental health awareness campaign geared toward veterans; mandatory training on suicide and suicide prevention for VA employees and contractors; family education and peer support counseling; veterans' health assessments, counseling, and treatment programs; suicide prevention counselors; suicide prevention research; substance abuse treatment programs; 24-hour mental care availability; and a toll-free hotline. 
   A study published in March indicated that almost a third of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan are being diagnosed with at least one mental health disorder. The study was led by Karen H. Seal, M.D., M.P.H., San Francisco VA Medical Center, University of California. (http://archinte.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/short/167/5/476). 
   Other information on VA mental health care services is available at: http://www1.va.gov/OPA/fact/returning_vets.asp. 
   In May, the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee is expected consider the bill, which was introduced by Senator Tom Harkin (D-Iowa). The House has passed a similar bill.
 
 