SEN. DOMENICI: GREATER USE OF DOMESTIC RESOURCES NEEDED TO SECURE ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today addressed the need for continued development of domestic oil and gas production, and stressed the importance of expanding the use of alternative energy resources in order to secure our long term energy future.  
   At an annual meeting of the Independent Petroleum Association of New Mexico, Domenici stated that the growth of our nation has contributed to an increasing demand for oil and natural gas supplies. 
   In order to reduce the reliance on foreign sources in meeting these needs, he said it is important to adopt policies that serve to increase the amount of energy produced domestically, while at the same time assisting our nation in switching to cleaner, more efficient energy technologies. 
   "Increasing the domestic areas of production and implementing more efficient renewable resources is not simply an economic issue; it is also a national security issue. By producing more oil and natural gas in the United States and increasing our use of more efficient technologies such as wind and solar power, we will become less reliant on foreign countries," Domenici stated. 
   Domenici also noted that the recently passed energy bill by the House of Representatives will stifle domestic energy production by rewriting many of the bipartisan oil and gas provisions included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. This would serve to reverse the progress made on increasing domestic energy production. 
   "The House bill raises oil and gas taxes and fees, and restricts production areas. In the long run, these provisions will hurt American businesses by giving a competitive advantage to foreign producers. A comprehensive strategy must include clean, renewable technology, conservation and efficiency, and domestic production as the only way in providing a secure energy future," Domenici said. 
   The Senator helped author the recently passed Senate energy bill, which will promote the use of biofuels in replacing traditional gasoline, and improve the efficiency standards of household appliances. One estimate puts the cost saving to consumers at over $12 billion.
   Contact: RUIDOSO, N.M.
 
 