SEN. DOMENICI SEES EXPANDED AIR SERVICE AS EVIDENCE OF GROWING ECONOMIC VITALITY IN SOUTHEAST N.M.
  Addressing leaders from southern New Mexico, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today touted the impending Roswell-Dallas regional air service as an opportunity for development and economic growth, and called on a "cooperative spirit" to address needs across the region. 
   On Friday, Domenici attended the Mayors' Summit, which involved county managers, local legislators, and mayors from Chaves, Eddy, Lea, Lincoln, and Otero Counties. Hosted by Ruidoso Mayor L. Ray Nunley, the summit was called to discuss regional needs, including transportation, tourism, economic development, and other local issues.  
   "The start of Roswell to Dallas air service is a strong indicator that good things are happening for economic growth and development here," said Domenici. "Not only will this air service patch area residents into the national transportation system, it can support and help build up the region's major economic and business draws--energy, tourism and major projects like WIPP, FLETC and the billion-dollar uranium enrichment facility going up in Lea County." 
   Regional air service between the Roswell airport and the Dallas/Fort Worth International (DFW) Airport has long been in the works. Passenger service is scheduled to begin Sept. 5 with twice daily American Eagle flights. Domenici has worked with agency officials at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), the Departments of Transportation (DOT) and Homeland Security (DHS) to move the process along and help ensure the air service begins without delay. 
   "Coordinating efforts between multiple parties to accomplish something as significant as the coming Roswell air service has been no small feat," said Domenici. "All along, community leaders in southeastern New Mexico have worked with a cooperative spirit. I urge leaders throughout southern counties to continue to work as diligently and productively to address other pressing needs and pursue other opportunities to benefit the region. By engaging each other and working with their federal representatives, we can move forward on problems and solutions." 
   Domenici cited regional challenges that require thoughtful solutions and integrated leadership and cooperation at the federal, state and local levels, and highlighted the water woes that have long burdened southern New Mexico. 
   Domenici recently forwarded to the Interior Department a list of rural New Mexico water systems that could benefit from $10 million in FY2007 funding he secured for the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) Drought Emergency Assistance Program. These included five cases in southern New Mexico, including Hagerman (Chaves); Nogal Mutual Domestic Water Consumers Association (Lincoln); Twin Forks Mutual Domestic Water Consumers Association (Otero); Laborcita Water Users Association (Otero); and Rolling Hills Water Users Association (Otero). 
   "The availability of water is not only necessary to meet existing needs, but also to ensure long-term growth. I have been pleased to see this Bureau program used to help communities ensure they have water," said. Domenici, who is the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the BOR. 
   Also on Friday, Domenici participated in the dedication of a new water well for the village of Ruidoso--funded with $1.6 million in Drought Emergency Assistance Program money he secured. 
   "At a minimum, our communities should have access to the water resources that will meet their needs now and in the future, both in times of drought and sufficient precipitation. With Ruidoso's new water well, the village will no longer struggle to supply its residents and visitors with water," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also cited another problem that could affect the public safety and local economies of the region. The Lincoln National Forest, which stretches across Chaves, Eddy, Lincoln, and Otero counties, faces a serious threat of looper infestation. An outbreak of these insects in the Lincoln National Forest has already damaged trees in a 13,000 to 20,000 acre area and has caused Otero County to declare a state of emergency. 
   "The infestation is very problematic and currently has no easy solution. I urge these communities, with the help of the Forest Service and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, to swiftly and collectively address this issue and to actively maintain the health and vitality of the Lincoln National Forest," said Domenici. 
   At a recent Senate hearing, Domenici also called attention to the threat posed by the delays in dealing with infestation problems that exacerbate the potential for catastrophic forest fires, and expressed his frustration with the situation in the Lincoln National Forest. He asked USDA Undersecretary Mark Rey to give him a report on what is being done to address the situation in the Lincoln National Forest and other blighted forest areas.
 
 