SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN PLEASED USPS TO BUILD NEW POST OFFICED IN ESPANOLA
  U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced that the U.S. Postal Service will build a new post office in central Espanola, a decision that follows commitments made to the lawmakers earlier this summer by postal officials to address service needs around New Mexico.  
   The new post office will replace an outdated facility now housed in a city-owned building. The USPS expects to begin construction of the nearly 6,500 square-foot facility in six months with a goal of completing the building within 18 months. 
   The announcement comes in the aftermath of a Capitol Hill meeting between Domenici, Bingaman and USPS officials in late June, during which the Senators stressed the need for the Postal Service to provide better service to their constituents across the state. 
   "Providing the people of Espanola with a modern and more accessible postal facility is long overdue. I expect the new facility to make it easier for both residents and businesses to conduct business, and allow Postal Service employees to better serve their customers," Domenici said. "I'm pleased the Postal Service is heeding our pleas to improve their operations not only in Espanola, but around the state. More can be done, and we expect it to be as soon as possible." 
   "I recently visited the Post Office in Espanola and left thinking the facility was definitely in need of improvement. I'm very glad the USPS has decided to construct this new building, and I hope when it's complete it better serves the needs of the community," Bingaman said. "The USPS is making a great effort in Northern New Mexico, and we will continue to watch for service improvements across the state." 
   The new postal facility will be situated on a 3.7-acre tract on Johnny A. Roybal Industrial Park Road, near the intersection Paseo de Onate/U.S. Highway 84/285. The building will be owned by the USPS. 
   At the June meeting with the Senators, USPS officials indicated the Postal Service was evaluating new facility needs in New Mexico, including the prospect of replacing the old post office in Espanola. At that meeting, the USPS committed to hiring an additional 13 full-time career employees at the El Paso Facility, which serves Las Cruces and southern New Mexico. 
   USPS Southwest Area Vice President Ellis Burgoyne requested the meeting in response to the lawmakers' concerns over service delays in New Mexico and their call for permanent staffing solutions to address the delays.
 
 