SEN. DOMENICI: FEDS TO DRILL EMERGENCY WATER WELL FOR CLOUDCROFT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the Bureau of Reclamation will expand its water aid to the village of Cloudcroft by issuing a contract for the drilling of a water well to serve the mountain village.  
   The well work goes beyond the water hauling service approved in late July by the Bureau for Cloudcroft. Stewart Brothers Drilling Co. of Milan won the competitive contract, which will be funded through $9 million in emergency funding secured by Domenici earlier this year for the Bureau's Drought Emergency Assistance Program. 
   "We are experiencing a significant monsoon season this year, but these welcome rains will not be enough to offset the water losses we've sustained over the past few years because of the drought. This new water well should help assure Cloudcroft residents of a more stable supply of water well after this monsoon season is history," Domenici said. 
   The Cloudcroft well is the fourth well drilling contract let by the Bureau in New Mexico under the Bureau's Drought Emergency Assistance Program. Under this program, wells are being drilled in Ruidoso, Ruidoso Downs, and Las Vegas. In July, the Bureau issue a purchase order, not exceeding $55,000, to Cloudcroft to haul an estimated 2 million gallons of water to the village over the next six months. 
   Work on the Cloudcroft well is expected to begin the week of September 11, and will entail 6 5/8-inch diameter casing for a well that will be up to 1,200-feet deep. Work is expected to take 45 to 60 days to complete and bring the well on-line. Advance permit and monitoring work has been conducted by Shomaker and Associates of Albuquerque. 
   The Drought Emergency Assistance Program, for which Domenici gained new five-year reauthorization, can be used by the Bureau for well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, water banking, and conservation. The program is intended to help states, tribes and some nonprofit organizations find ways to minimize the losses and damages associated with severe drought situations. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee which has funding jurisdiction over the Bureau of Reclamation.
 
 