SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES SEPT. 12 HEARING ON BP PIPELINE FAILURE IN ALASKA
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today announced a Senate hearing to examine the effect that the failure of the BP petroleum pipeline is on U.S. oil supplies and what steps may be taken to prevent a recurrence of another failure.  
   Domenici indicated that the Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing is tentatively scheduled for 10 a.m., Tuesday, Sept. 12. Witnesses will be announced later. 
   "I am very concerned about the impact of BP's problems on our domestic oil supply. I am pleased that BP plans to maintain production on the western side of the Prudhoe Bay oil field, but U.S. production may still be down 200,000 barrels a day for a year or more because of this situation. I am particularly worried about what the loss of this oil will mean if the nation faces another difficult hurricane season or a harsh winter," Domenici said. 
   "I want the committee to look at the situation and explore some options for easing the impact this problem could have on American consumers and businesses. I am also interested in seeing what the committee can do, within its areas of jurisdiction, to ensure that a problem like this doesn't occur again," he said. 
   BP has been forced to shut down oil production in east Prudhoe Bay indefinitely because of corrosion in BP's pipeline delivery system, a feeder system to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline. BP has begun work to replace approximately 16 miles of pipeline, an undertaking that could reduce production at Prudhoe Bay for as a long as 18 months. 
   Last week, Domenici and ranking member Senator Jeff Bingaman wrote Thomas J. Barrett, administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration at the U.S. Department of Transportation, asking for information related to shutdown of the Prudhoe Bay oil field because of extensive corrosion in major segments of the pipeline held by British Petroleum (BP) Exploration Alaska Inc. 
   Domenici and Bingaman recommended a full investigation into the initial reports that BP failed to use internal inspection devices, so-called smart pigs, in the Eastern Area in a timely manner.
 
 