SEN. DOMENICI TOURS RIO RANCHO WATER REUSE PROJECT, APPLAUDS PARTNERSHIP TO ADDRESS CITY WATER NEEDS
  Praising Rio Rancho's innovative leadership for aggressively seeking to stretch the city's water supplies, Sen. Pete Domenici today said a new water reuse project in this fast-growing Sandoval County community is a good example of the work he would expand through a major new federal program.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, on Tuesday toured the Rio Rancho Water Reuse Pilot Demonstration Project that will test advanced technologies in an effort to purify and recycle water for commercial, industrial, agricultural and other non-potable uses. The city has teamed with the Intel Corp., Sandia National Laboratories and the University of New Mexico to carry out the project. 
   The Rio Rancho initiative, Domenici said, is an example of the impetus behind his bipartisan "Department of Energy National Laboratory Water Technology Research and Development Act of 2004 (S.2658), an ambitious bill authorizing $200 million annually for basic and applied research and development in water supply technologies. 
   "Now is the time to begin addressing water issues. Now is the time to truly focus on developing technologies to allow the continued growth and prosperity of our communities. I commend Rio Rancho and its leadership for getting ahead of the curve on this problem. I am especially pleased that the city has partnered with Intel and Sandia National Labs to make this a successful venture," Domenici said. 
   "Rio Rancho, like so many communities in the West, relies solely on groundwater resources, which are quickly coming up against population growth, drought, environmental and a host of other pressures," he said. "The city is wise to look at how to stretch its water resources so that it can continue to be one of the fastest growing cities." 
   "This water project is a perfect example of what I had in mind when I introduced my water technology research and development bill. Once enacted, it will create a huge federal investment in advanced and affordable water supply technologies, including those focused water reuse," he said. 
   The Rio Rancho pilot demonstration project tests a water treatment process consisting of membrane bioreactors (MBR) to provide reclaimed water. It also involves a reverse osmosis (RO) process to produce purified water to augment groundwater supplies. The project also involves researching how to make the MBR-RO process more efficient and affordable. 
   Domenici's S.2658 creates a new mission within the Department of Energy, tapping Sandia to coordinate the national water research technology program. DOE national laboratories, in partnership with universities, will head eight regional centers nationwide. 
   The bill authorizes $200 million annually for basic and applied research and development in water supply technologies. The funding would be dedicated to each research center, technology transfer and to competitive grants. 
   Domenici noted that federal investment in water augmentation research has declined from $160 million in 1970 to $14 million in 2000. At least 17 federal agencies do water research, but only three currently engage in water supply augmentation research.
 
 