SEN. DOMENICI: LABOR DEPARTMENT GRANT IS INVESTMENT IN FUTURE OF AT-RISK AMERICAN INDIAN YOUTH
  Helping high-risk American Indian youth avoid a life of crime and delinquency is the goal behind a major federal grant unveiled today by Sen. Pete Domenici and Labor Secretary Elaine Chao.  
   Chao and Domenici met at the All Indian Pueblo Council to announce the award of a $3.2 million grant to Laguna Pueblo to establish and run a "One Stop for Native Youth: Creating Connections and Security Employment" (OSNY) program. Gil Sanchez, director of the Laguna Department of Education, accepted the grant for this program targeting tribal youth, ages 14-24, who are involved in the court system or are considered "high risk" for committing an offense. The culturally-sensitive program is intent on reducing the rate of recidivism among such youth. 
   "This federal funding is about hope and opportunity in that it will try to reach young people, who may have crossed the line legally, but still have a chance to get an education and live a good, productive life. It will work to give these youth an opportunity to escape a life of crime," Domenici said. 
   "I am very pleased that Secretary Chao came to New Mexico to underscore the Bush administration's commitment to giving every child a chance to succeed," he said. "President Bush and Secretary Chao have clearly shown a commitment to promote economic development programs for the Indian people." 
   "I am well aware of how such programs can work for children who have taken a wrong turn and seemingly have limited or no options. But there are options and choices they can make to excel," said Domenici, noting the similarities between the youth targeted and the goals set by this program and the Maya Angelou Public Charter School his son David heads in Washington. 
   With the two-year grant, Laguna Pueblo-administered program is expected to reach 260 tribal youth, ages 14 to 24, who run the risk of incarceration, and instead use OSNY to provide education, counseling, vocational training and employment opportunities. The OSNY will develop a Youth Pathway Council that will be responsible for, among other things, negotiating alternative options to incarceration for offenders. 
   The OSNY will provide adult basic education and GED preparatory training, as well as employment assistance and occupational skills training in construction trades and culinary arts.
 
 