BUSH SIGNS 9/11 COMMISSION BILL, NEW LAW INCLUDES SEN. DOMENICI'S INITIATIVES
  Sen. Pete Domenici reported that President Bush has signed into law an important measure containing intelligence reforms recommended by the 9/11 Commission, as well as two key provisions he wrote dealing with Southwest Border security and tapping into the expertise of the national laboratories to better protect the nation.  
   The Senate and House overwhelmingly approved the National Intelligence Reform Bill (S.2845) after President Bush worked to tear down final hurdles obstructing its passage in the House of Representatives. 
   "President Bush deserves credit for working hard to bring lawmakers together to pass this bill. Accurate, objective intelligence is absolutely essential for the protection of the homeland and success in the war on terror abroad. No bill of this magnitude will please everybody, and this one is no exception, but the intelligence reform package is truly historic in its scope and purpose and I'm pleased the President has signed it into law," said Domenici. 
   The final bill contains a Senate-adopted Domenici provision that directs the Department of Homeland Security to report on development of an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle border surveillance capability. 
   "This bill is of particular interest to New Mexico because it recognizes the need to develop technologies for securing the homeland along the border. As a border state, we are well aware of the special threat that is posed by terrorism, drug smuggling and criminal activity at the border. The language I inserted into this bill seeks new solutions to this problem, including a report on UAV deployment. New Mexico is already emerging as a focal point for UAV developing and testing, which should contain to become even more important in the coming years," Domenici said. 
   Related to Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, the final bill also includes Domenici language recognizing the value of the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC) in Albuquerque. The bill authorizes the National Director of Intelligence to access the capabilities of NISAC to better understand critical infrastructure vulnerabilities. 
   "NISAC is a valuable tool in the war on terror that can give our intelligence community the very best understanding of the vulnerabilities to critical infrastructures," Domenici said. "The language in this bill could lead to more opportunities for NISAC to contribute to the overall homeland security effort." 
   NISAC was developed by Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories to simulate and analyze various events and the possible cascading effects on critical infrastructures - electric power grids, for example - should they come under attack or face other catastrophic failures. 
   Domenici strongly supported the National Intelligence Reform Act, which creates a National Intelligence Director that has authority to write and execute intelligence budgets and adopts many of the 9/11 Commission's recommendations. It also establishes a National Counterterrorism Center to achieve an integrated approach to counterterrorism intelligence and strategic operational planning.
 
 