SEN. DOMENICI VOTES FOR GENETIC NONDISCRIMINATION ACT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted for legislation to prohibit health insurance and employment discrimination on the basis of personal genetic information, basing his vote on a belief that such protections are necessary as progress is made in human genome research.  
   The Senate voted 98-0 to approved the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2005 (S.306). The bill now goes to the House of Representatives. The Senate passed similar legislation in October 2003, but the House failed to act on it. 
   "By addressing the issue of nondiscrimination, we are affirming the right of an individual to have a measure of control over his or her personal genetic information," said Domenici, who has been a champion in Congress for advancing human genome research. 
   "Though the issue is complex, our objective is clear. People should be encouraged to seek genetic services and they should not fear that it will be used against them in terms of access to health insurance or employment. No matter what a person's genetic inheritance might be, they should still be able to have full access to employment and health services," he said. 
   S.306 would prohibit insurance companies that offer coverage in the group or individual market from discriminating on the basis of genetic information or services. This protection would also extend to Medicare supplemental policies. 
   In addition, the measure would make it illegal for employers, labor unions, employment agencies and others to use genetic information to discriminate against an individual through hiring, firing or other employment decisions. 
   The genetic information protected by the bill extends to the employee, his or her spouse, all blood relatives and adopted children. 
   The bill also applies current Health and Human Services medical privacy rules to the use and discourse of genetic information, but ensures that genetic information cannot be used for purposes of underwriting. 
   Introduced by Senator Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), S.306 is akin to legislation Domenici sponsored in previous Congresses, including the Genetic Confidentially and Nondiscrimination Act of 1998 to begin establishing policy guidelines on the use of individual genetic information. 
   "As genetic testing becomes more extensive, we must begin to address the ethical and legal issues regarding discrimination on the basis of genetic information. Questions regarding privacy and confidentiality, ownership and control, and consent for disclosure and use of genetic information need to be carefully considered," Domenici said.
 
 