FEMA GRANTS AWARDED TO FIRE DEPARTMENTS IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that four fire departments in New Mexico will receive federal funds from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to augment their local fire stations.  
   The funding is made available through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to improve operations and firefighter safety in Albuquerque, Belen, House and McIntosh. 
   "This DHS funding will help increase the safety of several areas by ensuring that the fire departments in these neighborhoods are given the proper tools and training needed to respond to emergencies," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. "I am pleased that we are providing the resources necessary to support first-line responders in their efforts to safeguard America." 
   Los Ch?vez Fire Department in Belen will receive $148,500 through the Firefighting Vehicles Acquisition Program which may be used to purchase brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, foam units, or other vehicles needed by the station. 
   The following three stations will receive funding through the Operations and Firefighter Safety Program, which helps procure equipment, training, wellness and fitness equipment, and modifications to stations and facilities: 
   * Albuquerque Fire Department - will receive $474,544; 
   * House Fire Department - will receive $90,828; and 
   * McIntosh Volunteer Fire Department - will receive $94,500. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program was created by the U.S. Congress to enhance basic fire service delivery across the country. 
   Volunteer and combination departments must receive a proportion of the total grant funding that is at least equal to the proportion of the population those firefighting departments protect. According to the statistics provided by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), volunteer and combination departments protect 55 percent of the population.
 
 