SEN. DOMENICI HAS SECRETARY RICE'S COMMITMENT TO ADVANCE U.S.-RUSSIA PLUTONIUM DISPOSITION PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today received Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's commitment to move forward on a long-languishing U.S.-Russia nonproliferation program to rid both nations of tons of weapons-grade plutonium.  
   Domenici questioned Rice during a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing Thursday to review proposed State Department expenditures in President Bush's $82 billion supplemental appropriations request to Congress. The $6.5 billion requested for State Department activities includes $950 million in tsunami relief and other urgent international needs. 
   During the hearing, Domenici asked Rice for a progress report on the U.S.-Russia Plutonium Disposition Program, for which he gained an initial $200 million in 1998. The program, which would rid the United States and Russian Federation of 34 tons each of weapons-grade plutonium, has been stymied by a long-standing dispute on liability indemnification. 
   "We have a rare opportunity of making sure that fuel for thousands of weapons of mass destruction never gets into the wrong hands. We need to get this done, and I welcome Secretary Rice's commitment to move the program past the liability indemnification issue," Domenici said. 
   "We are putting so much in jeopardy by not resolving this issue," he said. "While I am pleased with recent progress, I remain frustrated that opposition from within our own government over the liability issue has delayed the startup of operations beyond 2009. This delay is likely to result in substantial penalties to the federal government due to our failure to dispose of the uranium in a timely manner." 
   Rice told Domenici that the State Department, working with the U.S. Department of Energy, has offered a proposal on the liability issue to the Russian Federation and that her department is working with the Russians on the problem. 
   "We recently made a proposal. We're hope that we can get the Russians moving on this," Rice told Domenici. "It has been extremely important to our nation's security, and we are going to try to push it forward." 
   In 1998, Domenici secured an initial $200 million to support the Plutonium Disposition Program between the United States and the Russian Federation. That year an agreement was signed under which each nation agreed to take specific action to transform up to 50 tons of surplus weapons-grade plutonium into a form that can no longer be used in nuclear weapons. 
   Domenici, a leading proponent for nonproliferation issues in Congress, is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the DOE and its nonproliferation activities. Within his FY2006 budget request, the President has proposed $653 million (+6.5 percent) for the Plutonium Disposition Program. 
   As part of today's hearing, Domenici also encouraged Rice to help develop strong economic underpinnings in Iraq and Afghanistan, noting that "freedom without bread is an invitation to revolution." 
   "I would hope the State Department is part of putting more emphasis on helping develop strong economic underpinnings in these areas," Domenici said. "Quite frankly, there's no way we can convince them not to grow poppies if they are hungry."
 
 