SEN. DOMENICI SAYS WORK NEEDED TO ENSURE U.S. URANIUM CAPABILITIES
  Visiting the construction site of the uranium enrichment plant going up in Lea County, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said work must be done in Washington to ensure the development of a robust domestic capacity for uranium enrichment to support U.S. nuclear energy and to continue to promote critical international nonproliferation goals. 
   Domenici, a leading proponent of nuclear power issues in Congress, today met with the Urenco board and Louisiana Energy Services (LES) management committee in Hobbs to review the progress on the nearly $2 billion National Enrichment Facility (NEF) being built near Eunice, N.M. Following the meeting in Hobbs, the Senator visited the construction site.  
   Domenici touched on his efforts to raise awareness within Congress and the administration to work toward agreements that will ensure that a U.S. uranium enrichment capacity can be expanded and sustained in the future-a complex challenge that is closely linked to trade and existing nonproliferation agreements between the United States and Russia. 
   Currently, 80 percent of U.S. enrichment services are imported, with Russia providing 42 percent of the supply to U.S. reactors. Russian enriched uranium is imported pursuant to a groundbreaking U.S.-Russia nonproliferation agreement to convert excess reserves of highly enriched uranium (HEU) into commercial nuclear fuel. 
   "I am excited about the progress being made on the NEF, but I am also cognizant of a few challenges we face to ensure that this nation can sustain and maintain its own uranium enrichment capacity. I will be working within Congress and with the administration this year to advance a nonproliferation program with the Russians that will maintain incentives for investments by the U.S. uranium industry in critical infrastructure for the nuclear fuel cycle." 
   "The United States should, for a variety of reasons, have its own uranium enrichment capabilities, among them our own national security and an ability to support the use of nuclear energy in this country," he said. "The Lea County plant is a vital component of this goal." 
   Domenici is concerned that a U.S. Court of International Trade ruling in November may allow unfettered access to U.S. enrichment markets for Russian enrichment services. By allowing Russians to resume dumping of uranium into the U.S. market, the court decision could undermine the HEU agreement, which Domenici considers one of the most important nonproliferation achievements of the post-Cold War era. 
   "I believe we should encourage the Russians to continue to meet the nonproliferation goals embodied in the HEU agreement by providing access to the U.S. market so long as a portion of that material is derived from Russian HEU legacy stockpiles. I believe this would create a stable market that would not undermine investments to expand the domestic U.S. enrichment market and make us less dependent on foreign sources," Domenici said. 
   As part of a nonproliferation amendment added last fall to the FY2008 Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill, Domenici included "Sense of Congress" language stating that the United States "shall not sign any agreement with the Russian Federation on low enriched uranium that does not include a requirement that a portion of the low enriched uranium be derived from highly enriched uranium." That provision was enacted with the FY2008 omnibus appropriations package in December. 
   "I believe the administration will support legislative efforts to continue to encourage the production of low enriched uranium from Russia's HEU stockpiles and to maintain a stable environment for the uranium enrichment investments being made and considered in the United States, including here in New Mexico," Domenici said. "I believe we can work with the Russians to set reasonable parameters for trade in low enriched uranium and ensure that a portion of the Russian imports are derived from down-blended weapons-grade material." 
   Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, noted that the committee is considering holding a hearing in March on the impact of the U.S. Court of International Trade ruling on the U.S. enrichment market. 
   Domenici was the leading proponent of a 1998 U.S.-Russia HEU Agreement to dispose of 500 tons of Russian HEU-enough for an estimated 20,000 weapons-by blending it with natural uranium for use in civilian reactors. The agreement also involves the down-blending of 175 metric tons of U.S. HEU. When the program looked in peril of collapsing in late 1998, Domenici successfully spearheaded an effort to provide $325 million to initiate it. 
   Domenici was briefed on the NEF construction status. LES currently has 182 employees on the project with a payroll of $14 million. LES has also expended $68 million with New Mexico companies in support of the project in 2007. 
   NEF will use the world's most advanced, energy-efficient and cost effective uranium enrichment technology. The facility will allow the U.S. to have a domestic source of enriched uranium for the country's commercial nuclear power plants. Construction is expected to be completed in 2013.
 
 