SEN. DOMENICI REINTRODUCES BILL FOR STATEWIDE UNDERGROUND AQUIFER STUDY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today renewed legislation to authorize federal participation in a comprehensive study to characterize ground water resources in New Mexico.  
   The New Mexico Aquifer Assessment Act, which is cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, instructs the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), in collaboration with the state of New Mexico, to undertake a groundwater resources study that will shed light on what the nature and extent of water resources are in New Mexico. A similar bill was introduced late in the last Congress. 
   The last USGS Study, completed in 2001 in the Middle Rio Grande Basin, indicated that the state had fewer resources than previously thought, which resulted in a water planning adjustments. 
   "This bill represents another aspect of how the federal government can help New Mexico better understand its water situation. A comprehensive study of the situation across the state will help us identify potential new sources of water, and also to know the limitations of those we have," said Domenici, ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "In order for water managers in our state to make informed decisions, they need access to good information. This bill would help provide them with accurate data on our state's aquifers," said Bingaman, the chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   The bill designates the study area to include the Estancia Basin, the Salt Basin, Tularosa Basin, Hueco Basin, and Middle Rio Grande Basin. The study will provide an analysis of the aquifers statewide, the availability of groundwater, salinity of resources, interaction between groundwater and surface water, and will include a characterization of surface and bedrock geology. 
   The aquifer legislation is the second water-related measure introduced by Domenici in the new 110th Congress. Last week, he offered the New Mexico Water Planning Assistance Act. Also cosponsored by Bingaman, this measure authorizes New Mexico to receive technical assistance from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation and USGS. It authorizes a total of $12.5 million ($2.5 million per year for 2006-2010) for the Office of the State Engineer to perform hydrologic models of New Mexico's most important water systems, basins and tributaries.
 
 