WITH NO LATE FEES, SEN. DOMENICI SAYS LOW-INCOME SENIORS SHOULD STILL APPLY FOR '07 PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFITS
  Sen. Pete Domenici said low-income Medicare beneficiaries in New Mexico who are not getting federal prescription drug benefits can still apply for help without being charged a late fee.  
   The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has announced that it has eliminated 2007 Medicare Part D late enrollment penalties for low-income Medicare recipients. As a result, low-income Medicare beneficiaries can enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan anytime with no penalty through Dec. 31, 2007. 
   "The prospect of having to pay a late fee may have deterred some low-income seniors from applying for Medicare prescription drug benefits. Since HHS is waiving the fee, eligible seniors should avail themselves of the Medicare Part D drug benefits they can get," said Domenici. "I am pleased to know that late enrollment will no longer have to be a roadblock in ensuring that low-income New Mexicans receive the appropriate prescription drug coverage." 
   The fee wavier decision was made by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and is in keeping with last year's decision to repeal the fee during the launch of the Part D program. 
   "We specifically intended for the federal prescription drug plan to be available with no or very minimal cost to the poorest seniors. The elimination of the late fee means there is one less reason not to take advantage of this help," Domenici said. 
   Low-income beneficiaries--generally defined as $11,710 in combined savings and investments for singles and $23,410 for couples--can check with the Social Security Administration to determine eligibility for extra help paying for Medicare prescription drug coverage. Those eligible for the low-income subsidy can apply for drug coverage, with the late enrollment penalty waived. 
   For more information, call the Social Security Administration at 1-800-772-1213, or visit www.socialsecurity.gov on the web. TTY users should call 1-800-325-0778. Bilingual access to 2007 Medicare plans and information is available at http://mymedicare.gov/, www.medicare.gov or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227).
 
 