SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS, ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, July 17, 2006.
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Marco Grajeda, KRWG Las Cruces
   * John McBreen, KYVA Gallup
   * Jack Nixon, KSNM Las Cruces 
   * Steve Shadley, KUNM Albuquerque
   * Chris Johnson, KINF Roswell
   REVIEW:
   01:15 - Domenici says he will be on the Senate negotiating team that will work to reach a final agreement with the House on the FY2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. He says he will work to protect New Mexico items in the bill, including support for the state's ports of entry and the NISAC facility.
   04:47 - Domenici says the Senate will vote Tuesday on three stem cell research bills, and predicted that two will be signed into law and that President Bush will veto the third bill, the Specter-Harkin plan. He says the Senate will vote to override the veto, but that the House override vote will fail and the veto will stand.
   09:12 - Domenici says he is very worried about the Middle East battles between Israel and the Palestinian Hamas organization and Hezbollah. He says Israel was correct to respond to border infractions. Domenici says the United States' role in the crisis is still being determined, but says the U.S. must take the lead in resolving the situation. He says the violence must be brought under control "before a third world war is started."
   14:36 - Domenici says the network of energy corridors, including several in New Mexico, must balance the needs of the nation for efficient energy delivery and environmental concerns. He says local concerns, like those raised about a proposed corridor near Bottomless Lakes State Park in Chaves County, will be vetted and considered before the corridors become final. The corridors were mandated in the Energy Policy Act of 2005.
   07:20 - Domenici says President Bush and his administration is pressuring the Iraqi government to do more to help control the insurgent violence throughout the country. He says the Iraqi government must understand that these terrorists are their problem and they must take "tough medicine" and solve the problem.
   19:25 - Domenici says U.S. troop withdrawal from Iraq must be linked to the ability of the Iraqis to control their own nation, but that eventual withdrawal needs serious consideration.
   20:06 - Domenici says he is confident that the final FY2007 agriculture funding bill will have money to maintain the cotton gin laboratory run by New Mexico State University. He says that both the House and Senate provided $2.0 million for the lab despite the administration request to stop funding the program.
   22:37 - Domenici says he is not enamored of the Arizona plan to entice voters to the polls by offering to enter them into a $1.0 million lottery for voting. However, he says he's willing to consider the plan, which he thinks takes away from the civic responsibility to vote, if it could increase voter participation in elections.
   25:36 - Domenici says he is very pleased that the FY2007 bill to fund federal science programs includes $1.2 billion to promote math and science education initiatives, some of which will fit within programs carried out by New Mexico universities.
   30:21 - Domenici agrees that more private-sector space activities could assume much of the work now carried out by NASA. While he says NASA will always have a national mission to carry out, he says the government's space program should be reviewed. He calls space exploration a "forever challenge" for mankind.
   Audio clip available at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309.)
 
 