SENATE PANEL REVIEWS SEN. DOMENICI BILL TO AID ESPA?OLA, CHIMAYO WATER SYTEM DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed optimism that his legislation to help residents in Chimayo and Espa?ola areas access cleaner water will continue to move through the Senate legislative process.  
   Domenici's Chimayo Water Supply System and Espanola Water Filtration Facility Act of 2004 (S.2511) was today considered by the Water and Power Subcommittee, a subset of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. It was introduced June 8 and is cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman. 
   Domenici's bill directs the Interior Secretary to conduct a feasibility study of a Chimayo water supply system, in addition to providing for the planning, design, and construction of a water supply, reclamation, and filtration facility for Espanola. 
   "The lack of a centralized water system, combined with reliance on antiquated septic systems and steady growth, has led to a very serious health and environment problem in this region of northern New Mexico," said Domenici, the chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "The problem is sufficiently serious enough that I believe Congress should provide assistance. The people who live in this area of Rio Arriba County face consist water shortages and contamination of what the do have. I hope this hearing will clear the way for my committee to approve it and get it to the full Senate soon." 
   "Espa?ola and Chimayo are developing plans to meet their short-term and long-term water needs," Bingaman said. "But because meeting those goals will be costly, it's important for the federal government to lend a helping hand. That legislation takes an important first step toward making federal funding available for these two northern New Mexico communities." 
   Domenici's two-pronged bill would authorize the Department of Interior to conduct an extensive study on the feasibility of establishing a water supply system in the unincorporated town of Chimayo, which has been forced to rely on potable water deliveries from the National Guard since 2001. It would also authorize up to $3 million for the Interior Department to provide emergency water supply development assistance. 
   The Chimayo water supply system study would determine the feasibility of linking with the planned Espanola Water Filtration Facility. Studies have determined that up to 75 percent of the water in individual wells and irrigation ditches in Chimayo are contaminated. 
   The Domenici legislation would also aid Espanola by authorizing $3 million for the Interior Department to aid the city in the planning, designing and construction of a regional water filtration facility that will allow the community to access its allotment of the San Juan-Chama water settlement. It also contains provisions aiding the San Juan and Santa Clara pueblos as part of the regional water system.
 
 