SEN. DOMENICI: SUPPORT OF FRIENDS & FAMILY CRITICAL TO COMBATING MENTAL HEALTH STIGMA
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici this week joined his colleagues in the Senate Caucus on Mental Health Reform in sponsoring a Capitol Hill briefing to educate Senators and their staffs about mental illness and measures to eliminate the stigma associated with it.  
   The briefing featured representatives of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) and the Ad Council, who have together launched a nationwide awareness campaign designed to eradicate mental illness stigma and encourage 18-25 year olds to support their friends who are living with a mental health disorder. 
   "Individuals across New Mexico are living with mental illness and the support and understanding of friends and family is critical to their recovery and long-term well-being. This is particularly true of young people who are increasingly struggling with mental health disorders," said Domenici. 
   "I applaud the efforts of SAMHSA and the Ad Council to dispel misconceptions about mental illness and replace discrimination with understanding and support. I am committed to helping in any way I can to educate New Mexicans and put forth good legislation to support and protect the millions of Americans suffering from mental illness," he said. 
   Mental illnesses, including depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and post-traumatic stress disorder, are widespread in the United States. New Mexico has a high rate of mental illness among young adults. The 2005 National Survey on Drug Use and Health reports that nearly one in five 18 to 25 year olds in New Mexico lives with a serious mental health disorder. 
   The Ad Council unveiled a mental health anti-stigma campaign in June, which includes public service announcements (PSA) featuring Domenici. A long-time mental health advocate and co-founder and co-chair of the Senate Caucus on Mental Health Reform, Domenici participated in television and radio announcements. In the PSAs that are currently available to New Mexico media outlets, Domenici encourages young people to extend understanding to their friends with mental illnesses and to be aware of the active role they can play in recovery. 
   To view the public service announcements Domenici recorded in collaboration with the Ad Council, visit www.whatadifference.samhsa.gov. 
   Earlier this year, Domenici joined Senator Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) in introducing the Mental Health Parity Act of 2007 (S.558). The bill requires health insurance plans that offer mental health coverage to provide that coverage on par with financial and treatment coverage offered for other physical illnesses like heart disease, diabetes or asthma. The measure has been approved by the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and will next be considered by the full Senate.
 
 