SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON EASTERN N.M. WATER PIPELINE BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today issued the following statement regarding his stance on S.2513, the Eastern New Mexico Rural Water System Act of 2004:  
   "I fully support the importance of the eastern New Mexico pipeline as far as the future of that part of the state. I commend Clovis Mayor Lansford and the other community leaders in the region for the hard work they have put into the project. I am very much aware of the need and expectation for the Ute Reservoir pipeline and consider it a priority. 
   "I am not yet cosponsoring this legislation because I have concerns about the bill as introduced. I am concerned that funding to make the pipeline a reality is not available in this budgetary environment. I want to review how we are going to find that money. I am not willing to pass an authorizing bill that has little chance of being fulfilled. 
   "I also have concerns about the ability of some of the communities to raise their portion of the funding for the pipeline and its operation. I think we can apply a little ingenuity to put this legislation together to make it workable and fair for these communities. 
   "Finally, I understand the administration's current reluctance to embrace this project and its price tag, especially when it sees we have several other huge water projects waiting in the wings just for New Mexico. But there is no more important issue in New Mexico now than water, and we're going to have to work through this. I look forward to working with the committee to move this project forward." 
   Domenici has been a consistent supporter of moving the Ute Reservoir pipeline project. As chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici has approved $250,000 annually to continue planning and development of the proposed Ute Reservoir pipeline to help meet the water needs of residents living in Curry, Quay and Roosevelt counties. 
   The proposed pipeline would deliver 24,000 acre feet annually to Tucumcari, San Jon, Logan (Quay County); Clovis, Texico, Grady, Melrose and Cannon Air Force Base (Curry County); and, Portales, and Elida (Roosevelt County). 
   S.2513 was among the New Mexico water bills considered by the Senate Water and Power Subcommittee today. 
   Introduced by Senator Jeff Bingaman, S.2513 would authorize the Interior Secretary to assist in planning, designing and construction the pipeline to serve communities in east central New Mexico. The bill would authorize $250 million in federal funds to cover 80 percent of the estimated $307 million project.
 
 