SEN. DOMENICI'S TULAROSA BASIN DESALINATION BILL GETS SENATE HEARING
  Sen. Pete V. Domenici today promoted his bill that would formally authorize federal support for a major water desalination project in the Tularosa Basin that could eventually provide affordable potable water to parched communities.  
   Domenici's Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act (S.1211) was today considered by the Water and Power Subcommittee of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   Domenici's bill would authorize a federal demonstration program for water reclamation in the Tularosa Basin in southern New Mexico. For the past several years, Domenici has secured funding through the Defense Department, Bureau of Reclamation and Department of Energy to launch this collaborative desalination program in Otero County. Groundbreaking for the project is slated for June 29 in Alamogordo/Tularosa. 
   The Domenici bill will team the Bureau of Reclamation with Sandia and Los Alamos National Laboratories to manage and operate the facility that would be charged with discovering new, affordable technologies to produce potable water from brackish or saline water. 
   "Making desalination technologies more affordable and available can help alleviate the shortage of water in Otero County and other areas of the country with vast amounts of unusable brackish water. I view this legislation as the first step in a major effort to implement new water technology that will make better use of as yet untapped resources, and I'm pleased this bill is moving forward today," said Domenici, the Chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "As water becomes an increasingly precious resource in the West, it's important to find ways to recycle and reuse it. This legislation would help further those goals by advancing key desalination research, which is emerging as an important reclamation technology. There is no location more ideally suited than the Tularosa Basin for this research facility," Bingaman said. 
   S.1211 would authorize the Interior and Energy Departments to enter into an agreement to develop the Tularosa Basin facility, outlining a one-year planning process ($1.5 million) and a three-year construction plan ($30 million). It also authorizes $6 million to support desalination research at Sandia National Laboratories and another $10 million to support research at other universities through Sandia. The U.S. Navy is also a primary participant in the program. 
   The bill is the first step in what Domenici sees as a comprehensive national push to implement new water technologies. 
   Under guidelines in the legislation, the new facility should be capable of processing at least 100,000 gallons of water a day, which would then be made available at no cost to one or more communities in Otero County to support existing resources. 
   The Tularosa Basin provides one of the most ideal locations in the world for desalination research due to the abundant availability, easy accessibility and variability of its saline water research. 
   The subcommittee also received testimony on two other Domenici-authored bills, S.2460, the New Mexico Water Planning Assistance Act, and S.2508, which will name the Ridges Basin Reservoir Lake Nighthorse in honoring of retiring Colorado Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell.
 
 