SEN. DOMENICI GETS DOE REASSURANCES OF NO PLANS TO SHIP HIGH-LEVEL WASTE TO WIPP
  An Energy Department official today assured Sen. Pete Domenici that DOE intends to abide by its agreement to allow the state of New Mexico to deny requests to ship some reclassified high-level wastes to the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP) near Carlsbad.  
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that today conducted a hearing to review the DOE Environmental Management programs, focusing on accelerated cleanup activities at sites across the nation. 
   Questioned by Domenici about an agreement reached between DOE and the state of New Mexico earlier this month, DOE Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management Jessie Roberson gave assurances that DOE would adhere to the agreement that gives New Mexico the legal right to refuse applications to ship wastes from the Hanford, Wash., site to WIPP. 
   "I do not want high level wastes at WIPP, and I am very glad to hear that we have an a solid agreement that gives the state more power to ensure that such material does not make its way into WIPP," Domenici said. "Assistant Secretary Roberson has done very good work on some very difficult cleanup issues in New Mexico, and this agreement again demonstrates how responsive she has been to take our state's interests to heart when it comes to waste issues." 
   Roberson responded to Domenici: "Mr. Chairman, we worked with the state of New Mexico on an approach that includes revising the permit. As we have in past years, we will continue to comply with that permit in the future. So yes, it is our intent to meet that commitment." 
   In March, Domenici gained a commitment from Roberson to include the state of New Mexico in Energy Department in strategy discussions and negotiations regarding the cleanup of Waste Incidental to Reprocessing (WIR) in the states of Washington, Idaho, and South Carolina. DOE is attempting to be allowed to reclassify some limited wastes from Washington and Idaho as transuranic wastes, which could be sent to WIPP. 
   Despite some initial reluctance on the part of the New Mexico Environment Department, talks with the DOE Office of Environmental Management ensued which led to an agreement earlier this month that gives the state of New Mexico the power to deny DOE requests to move reclassified wastes to WIPP. 
   The DOE Environmental Management program is responsible for cleanup at 114 sites involved with past nuclear weapons activities. In New Mexico, there are 16 cleanup sites in New Mexico at which DOE has some responsibilities. Some New Mexico sites continue to conduct nuclear weapons-related research operations, including: Los Alamos National Laboratory, Sandia National Laboratory, the Inhalation Toxicology Research Institute (ITRI), and the Albuquerque Operations Office. WIPP is the nation's only repository for defense-related transuranic waste. 
   Domenici is also chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Environmental Management program. For FY2005, the Bush administration has requested $7.4 billion, including $121.1 million for work at Los Alamos National Laboratory and $20.2 million for Sandia National Laboratories.
 
 