SEN. DOMENICI: BIPARTISAN BORDER SECURITY-IMMIGRATION REFORM PLAN 'BEST CHANCE' TO FIX BROKEN SYSTEM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the bipartisan agreement reached on a comprehensive border security and immigration reform package represents the "best chance" to fix a broken U.S. system.
   Domenici, who took part in talks that included members of the Bush cabinet, indicated he is willing to work on the agreement on which Senate debate is scheduled to begin Monday. The measure recommends a step-by-step plan for first securing the border before moving to eliminating a massive Green Card backlog, reforming the temporary worker program and dealing with the 10-12 million undocumented workers now in the United States. 
   Domenici was a strong proponent requiring that border security provisions be put in place before immigration reform measures dealing with undocumented workers and new guest worker guidelines become effective.
   "This package is our best chance to fix a system that is overwhelmed and broken. The status quo is unacceptable and part of the reason this issue has divided the country. We cannot long tolerate the situation as it stands. With this plan, we have tried to strike the right balance to secure our borders and restore order, and do it in a way that is humane, legally sound and good for the country," Domenici said.
   "We should refrain from rash judgments on this package, and not let the perfect be the enemy of the good," he said.
   "I know the immigration issue is easy to demagogue, but the fact is this plan does not offer blanket amnesty or automatic citizenship to anyone who entered this country illegally. That would be unfair to those who have obeyed the law and are in line for a guest worker visa or citizenship," he said.
   The package has not been finalized in bill form but is expected to include Domenici-authored provisions to implement the first massive border infrastructure improvements in more than 20 years, to hire additional deputy U.S. Marshals to handle growing immigration caseloads along the border, and to foster greater cooperation with Mexico on border security, stopping drug trafficking and human smuggling.
   Domenici indicated that as the Senate debate ensues he will work to add provisions to the bill to authorize new federal judgeships for the U.S. District Courts on the Southwest Border as recommended by the 2007 Judicial Conference. The Conference has recommended 10 new positions in districts with more than a 49 percent immigration caseload, including two new judges in New Mexico. Domenici has filed stand-alone legislation in this regard.
   The bipartisan Senate border security and immigration reform proposal includes:
   * The requirement that border security measures must be in place before immigration reform provisions take effect. 18,000 border patrol agents have to be hired; 370 miles of border fence and 200 miles of vehicle barriers must be installed, 4 unmanned aerial vehicles must be patrolling the border, 70 radar and camera towers must be operational, and 27,500 beds must be available to detain illegal immigrants.
   * A new temporary worker "Y" visa is created for foreign workers who have a job offer for which no U.S. worker is available. The visa would be valid for two-year periods, and a worker's failure to depart at the end of a work period would subject him/her to criminal penalties and bar him from future participation in immigration programs.
   * A plan for dealing with the 10-12 million undocumented workers in the United States that does not amount to blanket amnesty or automatic citizenship. These workers would gain a probationary visa until border security measures are in effect, would have to pay a $1,000 fine for being in the United States illegally, and would have to undergo a criminal background check. After the border is secure, they can obtain a four-year "Z" visa to work, which is renewable. After eight years under a "Z" visa, the worker would have the opportunity to leave the country to get at the back of the line for legal permanent resident status if they pay a $4,000 fine and learn English and U.S. civics. Their ability to obtain legal permanent resident status would be based on their job skills, education level, English proficiency, and family ties to the United States, and if they obtain legal permanent resident status, after five additional years they would have the opportunity to take the U.S. citizenship test.
 
 