SEN. DOMENICI OFFERS BORDER JUDGES AMENDMENT, VOTES TO CLOSE CRIMINAL ALIEN LOOPHOLE, BUILD BORDER FENCES
  With the Senate voting to close a legal loophole that benefited criminal illegal aliens, Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that he has introduced an amendment to add new federal district judgeship positions for Southwest Border states that are already increasingly overwhelmed with immigration related caseloads.
   Domenici offered his amendment to the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act (S.2611) being debated by the Senate. The amendment authorizes the creation of new judgeships based on recommendations made by the 2005 Judicial Conference for U.S. District Courts. That latest report recommended two additional full-time judgeships and one temporary position to serve New Mexico. 
   Domenici said the need for new federal judges-readily apparent before the Congress started its debate to reform immigration laws and improve border security-will become even more critical as stricter enforcement is carried out under the reforms. For instance, Domenici voted Wednesday for an amendment to close a loophole that would allow criminal illegal aliens to obtain legal status in the United States.
   "Failure to add new federal judges to serve border states means we will create even more of an unworkable situation that already involves mass arraignments and sentencings," Domenici said. "We must add the new federal district judges necessary to hear the cases of repeat immigration law violators."
   The Domenici amendment is cosponsored by Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, and Texas Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn. Chief Judge Martha V?zquez of the U.S. District Court for New Mexico has written a letter endorsing the Domenici amendment. Senate debate on S.2611 is expected to continue through next week.
   The Senate immigration reform bill recognizes that if more border patrol agents and immigration personnel are sent to the border, more personnel will be required for other federal agencies that deal with immigration. The bill calls for more Homeland Security and Justice Department attorneys, public defenders, and immigration judges, but does not address the need for District Court judges who typically hear cases of repeat immigration law violators.
   Four District courts on the Southwest border have immigration caseloads that total more than 50 percent of their total criminal filings.
   The District Court for New Mexico had 1,502 immigration filings in FY2004, which was more than 60 percent of the 2,407 criminal case filings. The FY2004 immigration caseload for the Southern District of Texas totaled 3,668 filings, representing more than 65 percent of the court's 5,599 criminal filings. Similar rates were recorded in the Southern District of California (64 percent) and in Arizona (59 percent).
   The criminal alien amendment, sponsored by Senator Jon Kyl, closes a loophole in S.2611 that would allow criminal illegal immigrants to obtain legal status. As offered to the Senate, the bill would allow illegal immigrants who have ignored a deportation order-a felony under current law-to obtain a green card. The Kyl amendment, passed 99-0, clarifies that any illegal immigrant who is ineligible for a visa, or who has been convicted of a felony or three misdemeanors, or was the subject of a final order of removal, or constitutes a danger to the United States, is ineligible for a green card.
   "The Kyl amendment is an example of why the Senate will take time to comb over this bill. I supported this amendment that will close a loophole that might have allowed criminal illegal aliens to ignore the American judicial system and be rewarded with a green card," Domenici said.
   Domenici also voted for an amendment authorizing the construction of at least 370 miles of triple-layered fencing and 500 miles of vehicle barriers on the Southwest Border in areas most often used by illegal immigrants and smugglers. The decision on where to erect the fencing would be left to the discretion of the Secretary of Homeland Security. The amendment was passed 83-16.
   "I supported this amendment because it would place fences and vehicle barriers in targeted areas. I remain unconvinced that a fence across the entire length of the U.S.-Mexico border is wise or necessary. I expect that this authorization will eventually mean more vehicle barriers and some fencing in high-traffic areas along New Mexico's border," Domenici said.
   Domenici serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Committee which will have jurisdiction over funding for various border security and immigration reforms that might eventually be enacted by Congress.
 
 