SEN. DOMENICI WANTS FEDERAL MAGISTRATE JUDGE TO HELP SAN JUAN FIGHT METH SCOURGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today recommended that a part-time federal magistrate judge be named to serve San Juan County, a region that continues to be hard hit by methamphetamine-related social and criminal problems. 
   Domenici has issued a letter of request to Chief Judge Martha V?zquez of the U.S. District Court for New Mexico that outlines the serious meth problem in the Four Corners area, and the benefits that a federal magistrate judge could provide local law enforcement officials.
   "I believe the methamphetamine problem in Farmington and San Juan County has reached a point that greater federal attention is warranted. Having a federal magistrate judge available to local law enforcement would greatly increase their ability to go after those who produce and traffic this terrible drug. It will also further clear a path for agencies like the Drug Enforcement Agency to have a greater presence in the area," Domenici said.
   The lack of a federal judicial presence near Farmington means police officers must get to the U.S. District Court in Albuquerque to facilitate the apprehension and prosecution of those who involved in the production and trafficking of methamphetamine.
   The Region 2 Narcotics Task Force, covering San Juan County, Aztec, Bloomfield and Farmington, reports that 90 percent of property crimes and 75 percent of all violent crimes are related to the meth epidemic. In 2005, the county had 79 federal criminal and civil cases. In addition, areas on or near the Navajo Nation are being used as distribution hubs for meth in Four Corners region.
   (Task Force link: www.sjcso.com/Divisions/Investigations/NarcoticsTaskForce.htm)
   "The creation of a federal magistrate in Farmington would establish the foundation for a greater overall federal law enforcement presence in northwest New Mexico. Given the gravity of the situation, a serious federal presence can help decrease the growth of meth-related crimes," Domenici wrote Judge V?zquez.
   Domenici noted that the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado has used its legal authority to create of a federal magistrate judgeship in Durango. Creation a similar position in San Juan County would increase the federal anti-drug law enforcement presence now available through the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program. Domenici in 1999 wrote legislation to include San Juan County in the HIDTA program.
   Domenici was briefed about the meth problem by Mayor Bill Standley during an April visit to Farmington. During this visit, Domenici learned that anti-drug and anti-methamphetamine instruction is offered to youth at the Farmington Boys and Girls Clubs.
   The Senate this week passed a resolution cosponsored by Domenici to establish a National Methamphetamine Prevention Week to increase public awareness of the drug. Between 1992 and 1998, the number of people treated for methamphetamine abuse in New Mexico more than doubled. Throughout the United States, the number of admissions at methamphetamine treatment centers has increased exponentially from 20,766 in 1993 to over 116, 604 in 2003.
   Domenici serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Justice Department and federal judiciary. He cosponsored the Combat Meth Act of 2005 (S.103), which became law earlier this year. The new law regulates the sale of the primary ingredients used in meth production-namely drugs found in many over-the-counter cold and sinus medicines.
 
 