BILL TO HELP N.M. COVER CRIMINAL ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT INCARCERATION COSTS ADVANCES IN SENATE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today supported committee passage of a bill that reauthorizes federal support for states like New Mexico that are burdened with the high cost of incarcerating and detaining criminal illegal immigrants for the federal government.  
   Domenici is a cosponsor of the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) Reauthorization Act of 2005 (S.188), which was passed by the Senate Judiciary Committee Thursday. The bill reauthorizes federal appropriations for the program through FY2010. 
   The state of New Mexico and 14 New Mexico counties have received SCAAP funding, including Bernalillo, Cibola, Eddy, Lea, Otero, Rio Arriba, San Miguel, Sandoval, Santa Fe, Taos, Dona Ana, McKinley, San Juan and Socorro. 
   "This bill puts us in a good position to recoup some of the costs incurred when New Mexico cracks down on undocumented aliens. As a border state, New Mexico has an obligation to its citizens and to the nation to protect the border and scrutinize activity across country lines," Domenici said. 
   "New Mexico and our cities shouldn't be crippled with inflated costs because they enforce federal laws to secure the border. I am pleased to see this bill advance to the full Senate for debate," he said. 
   The bill reauthorizes SCAAP through 2010, authorizing appropriations of $850 million for FY2005, and $950 million from FY2006 through FY2010 to help states cover costs incurred during the process of illegal aliens. 
   "This bill is not the only step needed for border states to receive SCAAP funding, but it is an important first step in helping New Mexico support the federal government in addressing illegal immigration problems," Domenici said. 
   Created by Congress in 1995, SCAAP funds reimburse states and local governments for costs sustained in detaining and incarcerating illegal immigrants accused of, or convicted of, felony or misdemeanor crimes in the United States. Reimbursable expenses can include court, detention, county attorney, clerk, and indigent defense costs.
 
 