SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO BOOST BORDER PATROL HIRING IN '06 BUDGET
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted with the Senate to include in the FY2006 Budget Resolution funding to support the hiring of 2,000 more Border Patrol agents, which would mean additional agent training at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) at Artesia.  
   Domenici cosponsored the amendment that would support 2,000 new Border Agent hires in FY2006, well above the 210 agents proposed by the administration. The amendment, sponsored by Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) and John Ensign (R-Nev.) was approved by voice vote Thursday as part of the Senate's FY2006 Budget Resolution. 
   "It is becoming increasingly apparent that we must pick up the pace to adequately man our borders. Technology alone will not protect us from the illegal movement of contraband and unauthorized individuals. This amendment gives us the necessary room to ramp up our recruitment and training of the agents we need at our borders," Domenici said. 
   The administration requested $37 million to add 210 Border Patrol agents in FY2006. The Hutchison-Ensign-Domenici amendment would transfer $360 million in international affairs funding to the Customs and Border Patrol account to hire an additional 1,790 agents next year. 
   In all, the budget would support adding 2,000 agents-as was authorized by Congress last year with the enactment of the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004. 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Department of Homeland Security, said recruiting and training 2,000 agents in the next year would be a challenge. However, he said the budget should provide room to meet that challenge. 
   With Domenici's support, DHS last year established a Border Patrol Academy at FLETC-Artesia to train all Border Patrol agents. 
   "The Artesia campus will be very busy this year as it fully implements the consolidation of Border Patrol training at FLETC. Should this budget amendment be fully implemented, these activities would certainly increase next year," Domenici said. 
   Domenici reported that the Border Patrol is developing a plan to train 900 basic trainees at FLETC-Artesia this year, 200 more than initial projections. The plan would also involve the agency prioritizing construction funding to focus on needs at the Artesia site to accommodate 19-week training program for new Border Patrol agents. 
   Within the FY2005 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, Domenici included important policy provisions to ensure more complete use of all FLETC facilities, which played a role in the decision to locate Border Patrol training in Artesia. 
   Overall, the budget resolution provides a total of $29.1 billion--$1.1 billion or 3.9 percent increase-for Homeland Security funding to secure borders, train and equip first responders, protect critical infrastructure, guard against bioterrorism, and improve intelligence analysis and coordination. 
   A final vote on the Senate's FY2006 Budget Resolution could occur late Thursday.
 
 