SEN. DOMENICI URGES BORDER GOVERNORS TO WORK WITH ADMINISTRATOIN ON NATIONAL GUARD DEPLOYMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today again urged governors from Southwest Border states to work with the federal government to implement the Bush administration plan to deploy National Guard troops to support Border Patrol activities.
   Domenici issued the plea in a statement offered as part of a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on the roles and missions of the National Guard in support of the Homeland Security's Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Directorate. President Bush has recommended that 6,000 National Guard members be deployed to border regions in New Mexico, Arizona, Texas and California. 
   "I urge each of the Southwest border state governors to work with the President to implement this new border security initiative as expeditiously as possible," Domenici said. "The National Guard adds value to the CBP's border security efforts, and I am convinced that the President's proposal to expand the Guard's role is a good idea."
   "This program is being worked out so that there is no undue burden placed on the National Guard or individual states. Deployments must be approved by the individual states that are sending troops to the border. If governors believe their Guard is needed for an in-state natural disaster, they would not be required to send their Guardsmen to the border," he said.
   Armed Services Chairman John Warner invited border state Senators to take part in the hearing. Among those testifying were Chief of the National Guard Bureau Lt. Gen. H. Steven Blum and David Aguilar, chief of the CBP Office of Border Patrol.
   The following is the full text of Domenici's prepared remarks for today's hearing:
   Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing on the National Guard's role in support of Customs and Border Protection (CBP). I appreciate your interest in this important issue.
   Thank you also for inviting me to make a statement at this hearing. As a border state Senator, I know first-hand the border security problems we face. Daily, my constituents deal with illegal aliens who travel across their land, damaging their property and sometimes posing a security risk. We are facing a real crisis on our southwest border, and the Federal government must do more to secure that border.
   To that end, I applaud Chairman Gregg's work to provide more funding for border security initiatives in the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations bills. I applaud Majority Leader Frist's and Chairman Specter's efforts to address border security legislation on the Senate floor. I applaud the President's call for stronger border security, including through the use of the United States National Guard.
   As you know, existing law (32 U.S.C. 112) allows the National Guard to work on counter drug initiatives. In my home state of New Mexico, these initiatives have included searching for and confiscating illegal contraband, building vehicle barriers, and patrolling the borders with border patrol agents. I know the value of these initiatives and proposed expanding the Guard's existing support role on our borders to allow them to participate in additional border efforts, including building roads, participating in search and rescue operations, and monitoring the international border in the Border Security and Modernization Act of 2005 that I introduced last November.
   Thus, I know that the National Guard adds value to CBP's border security efforts, and I am convinced that the President's proposal to expand the Guard's role is a good idea.
   As I understand it, the President wants to work with border state Governors to implement his plan to deploy 6,000 National Guard troops to the border in cooperation with the Secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security. This would not be a militarization of our border but a plan to augment existing efforts by CBP to construct vehicle barriers, fences, and roads; conduct surveillance activities; participate in search and rescue missions; conduct medical operations; and take part in similar activities. Allowing our Guard to train at the border in this fashion will both improve our border security and allow our Guard members to improve on their military skill sets.
   Officials within the Administration have made clear that this mission will not over-tax the resources of the National Guard, as less than two percent of our total Guard force will be on the border at any given time. Additionally, no one state's Guard unit will be overburdened, as every state's Guard Bureau will have the opportunity to contribute to this important national security initiative.
   Further, I have received assurances that allowing our National Guard to participate in border security activities will not affect the ability of Guardsmen to participate in the Global War on Terror or respond to natural disasters. First, only a small percentage of our nation-wide Guard force will be on the border at any given time. Second, the engineers and similar Guardsmen who are assigned to the border will not have the same skill sets as many of those who would be deployed to deal with natural disasters like wildfires. Lastly, deployments must be approved by the individual States that are sending troops to the border - if governors believe their Guard is needed for an in-state natural disaster, they would not required to send their Guardsmen to the border.
   Mr. Chairman, I applaud your initiative to hold this hearing, and I am glad to offer my strong support for President Bush's plan to increase the National Guard's role supporting CBP. I urge each of the southwest border state Governors to work with the President to implement this new border security initiative as expeditiously as possible.
   Thank you again for inviting me to make a statement regarding this issue.
 
 