SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES AUTHORIZATION TO BUILD FEDERAL COURTHOUSE IN LAS CRUCES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that construction for a federal courthouse in Las Cruces has been authorized by a key Senate committee, clearing the way for Congress to fund the project.  
   Domenici reported that the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee on Wednesday authorized the Las Cruces project. The committee authorization is important in terms of paving the way for Congress to fund the construction project. No further authorizing approval is needed in the Senate. 
   "Authorization is key to ensuring that progress can be made on the Las Cruces courthouse without any last-minute legislative hitches. I'm very pleased the Environment and Public Works Committee acted during this lame-duck session to get this done," Domenici said. 
   "I'll continue my work to see that the actual construction funding I gained in September is included in the final appropriations bill that will roll out of Congress this year. The need for this facility is readily apparent, and I look forward to giving the federal court in southern New Mexico a facility that suits its growing responsibilities and importance," he said. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said the authorization strengthens the case for Congress to retain the $60.6 million he requested and secured for the courthouse construction as it completes the FY2005 appropriations process. 
   The courthouse funding is included in the FY2005 Transportation, Treasury and General Appropriations Bill which will now be incorporated into an omnibus spending package. Completion of the omnibus package is one of the last major actions expected during the current lame-duck session of the 108th Congress. 
   The U.S. courthouse in Las Cruces, as proposed by the Government Services Administration, will include six courtrooms with ancillary space for three U.S. district court judges and four magistrate judges. The building could also host the district court, bankruptcy court, U.S. Marshals Service, Probation and Pretrial Services, as well as pretrial preparation space for the U.S. Attorney and federal public defender. 
   The Administrative Office of the Courts representing federal judges has designated the Las Cruces region a "judicial space emergency" in significant need of a new courthouse. 
   The Las Cruces federal court handles 65 percent of all federal criminal cases in New Mexico. Federal courts along the Southwest border handle about 25 percent of all federal criminal cases in the nation. The judges in the five border districts have four times the national average caseload per judge.
   Contact:  
 
 