SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS PUBLIC HEALTH DOCTORS' BILL
  In support of a bid to stop continuing decline in the number of public health physicians dedicated to preventative medicine and public health, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici is cosponsoring legislation to support medical residency programs in these fields.  
   Domenici is cosponsoring the Preventative Medicine and Public Health Training Act (S.1120). This bipartisan measure would create a grant program to support training programs for graduate medical residents in preventative medicine specialties, and provide tuition and stipends for residents who plan to specialize in preventative medicine or public health. 
   "Because New Mexico is so rural, many of our residents rely on healthcare provided through community health centers and other public institutions. The decline in public health and preventative health specialists has a negative impact on this care," Domenici said. 
   "We definitely need more preventative health specialists who can help their patients adopt and maintain healthy lifestyles. This is a key aspect of the Indian diabetes prevention programs I have promoted," he said. "I am supporting this bill because it is one avenue we can take to address the problem and entice more residents to enter these fields." 
   The bill would authorize $43.0 million in FY2008 to implement the grant program through the Centers for Disease Control, with contracts or grant awards lasting up to five years. The bill has been referred to the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. 
   The shortage of doctors in the public health field is evidenced in the fact that only 23 percent of local health agencies are directed by physicians. The Health Resource and Services Administration, an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, has reported that the demand for public health professionals will grow at twice the rate of all occupations between 2000 and 2010. 
   The University of New Mexico School of Medicine is the only medical school in New Mexico. http://hsc.unm.edu/som/ 
   S.1120 was introduced by Senator Tom Harkin, and has been cosponsored by eight Senators including Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman.
 
 