SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL TO FILL WAGE GAP FOR FEDERAL JUDGES
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced support for a bipartisan measure to adjust the salaries of federal judges and justices to keep up with average worker wages which have steadily climbed, while the rate of federal judicial compensation has declined.  
   Domenici is cosponsoring the Federal Judicial Salary Restoration Act of 2007 (S.1638), introduced by Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), to authorize salary increases for federal judges and justices to levels that are consistent with average wage increases. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee, which sets funding for federal agencies, such as the Department of Justice. 
   "Federal judges and justices bear the tremendous responsibility of upholding our nation's laws and executing our society's system of justice. This is no small order, and our justice officials should be fairly compensated," said Domenici. 
   "It would be a grave disservice to our justice system if compensation were to negatively impact the government's ability to put the brightest and most experienced judicial candidates on the benches of our federal courts. This legislation would ensure federal judges' salaries keep pace with their peers and allow their compensation to align with average national wage increases," he said. 
   Once enacted, the Federal Judicial Salary Restoration Act would immediately raise the pay level of district court and court of appeals judges, judges of the Court of International Trade, as well as the Chief and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court. 
   Although real pay for the average American worker has increased by nearly 20 percent since 1969, real pay for federal judges and justices has actually declined by approximately 25 percent. The legislation would adjust judges' salaries to be more on par with the 20 percent increase in wages that other American workers, including federal employees, have received. 
   The legislation enjoys bipartisan support, including cosponsors Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, and has been endorsed by United States Chief Justice Roberts, along with a broad array of business groups, corporations, and counsel serving major companies.
 
 