SEN. DOMENICI: KOREA BEEF PROTOCOL BENEFICIAL FOR BEEF PRODUCERS IN U.S., NEW MEXICO
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said an agreement to reopen South Korean markets to all U.S. beef and beef products will benefit New Mexico's cattle producers as it broadens the market for their beef. 
   The U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab today announced a protocol agreement between the United State and South Korea to reopen the Korean market to American beef imports. These markets were blocked to American cattle in 2003 after a Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE, the so-called "mad cow disease") case was reported in Washington state.
   "This decision, in my view, is long overdue. The reopening of the Korean market should benefit New Mexico cattle production as the market of American beef is expanded," said Domenici, who since 2003 has argued for resumption of U.S. beef exports to Korea.
   The export of American beef products will be done under the guidelines of international standards and the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE ) guidelines. The benefits of this protocol would increase with the ratification of a pending United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (FTA) by eliminating a 40 percent tariff on U.S. beef.
   Domenici last week met with representatives from the New Mexico Cattle Growers Association to discuss a variety of issues of interest to their industry, including the escalating costs of doing business in the global marketplace.
   In 2006, Domenici was part of a bipartisan Senate effort that argued that the Korean embargo was unnecessary in light of overwhelming scientific evidence supporting the safety of American beef, 16 years of quality controls and an agreement to restore trade between the United States and South Korea.
   With this protocol, Korea joins the Philippines, Indonesia, Canada, Peru, Colombia, Panama, Guatemala, Honduras, Jordan, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and other nations that have implemented OIE-consistent import requirements for U.S. beef and beef products with regard to BSE.
   Fact sheet on Korea Beef Protocol please visit: http://www.ustr.gov/assets/Document_Library/Fact_Sheets/2008/asset_upload_file459_14857.pdf
 
 