SEN. DOMENICI, GEN. WOOLEY GIVE THUMBS UP TO AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND TRANSFER TO CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today met privately with Lt. Gen. Michael Wooley, commander of the Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC), to further discuss what the AFSOC needs to assume control of Cannon Air Force Base later this year.  
   Wooley asked for the meeting with Domenici to discuss the transfer. The meeting focused on the work needed to ensure that unfunded requirements, primarily military construction, are met in upcoming development of the FY2008 Defense Authorization and FY2008 Military Construction Appropriations bills. 
   The AFSOC has indicated that there are $72 million in unfunded requirements needed at Cannon AFB, which will become a western base of operations for the Command in October. In response, Domenici has requested $68.5 million in military construction project funding for the transition. (The remaining $4.0 million is for planning and design work, which Domenici believes the Air Force should provide within its budget.) 
   "I wanted to get with General Wooley to see how we can work together to secure this needed funding. Getting the full $68.5 million is a tall order, but I believe we can make a case for these projects," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "I appreciate General Wooley meeting with me and I look forward to working with the Armed Services and Appropriations Committees to meet our needs at Cannon," he said. 
   Domenici has asked the Senate Armed Services Committee to authorize projects for Cannon, and has formally requested actual funding for the projects from the Senate Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   Domenici also asked Wooley to report how the congressional delegation, the state and local governments and organizations can help move the Cannon transition forward. AFSOC is currently conducting public hearings in eastern New Mexico on the draft Environmental Impact Statement related to the transfer. (http://www2.afsoc.af.mil/fonsi/) 
   Domenici has requested the following New Mexico military construction projects for Cannon AFB in FY2008: 
   Cannon Air Force Base, Clovis ($68.5 million total) 
   * $31.5 million for Special Operations Forces (SOF) C-130 Fuel Cell and Corrosion Control Hangars; 
   * $17.5 million for a SOF Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Squadron Operations/Ground Control Station; 
   * $12.0 million for a SOF MC-130 Squadron Operations facility to support combat crew training; and, 
   * $7.5 million for a SOF CV-22 Simulator Facility to support mission rehearsals and crew training before the arrival of CV-22 aircraft. 
   The Domenici requests are in addition to the two military construction projects requested for Cannon in the budget presented by President Bush to Congress in early February. That budget plan recommended $7.5 million to construct an MC-130 Flight Simulator Facility at Cannon, and $1.7 million to alter an existing hangar to accommodate C-130s.
 
 