SEN. DOMENICI, EDDY OFFICIALS DISCUSS PLANS FOR REGIONAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT CENTER
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today met with officials to discuss Eddy County plans to provide substance abuse treatment services to the region.  
   Domenici, who secured funding to help support operations of the planned residential substance abuse treatment center, was briefed on construction by Eddy County officials. At Domenici's request, an appropriation to help fund facility operations has been included in the FY2008 Labor-HHS Appropriations Bill. 
   "Eddy County is a community that faces an unusually high rate of substance abuse and it is a priority to provide them the resources needed to combat it," said Domenici. "I look forward to monitoring the progress of the substance abuse treatment center in Carlsbad and will do whatever I can through the Senate appropriations process to help make the facility functional." 
   Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, secured $1.0 million through the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide substance abuse treatment services administered by Eddy County. The funding has been included in the FY2008 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill, which the committee approved in June and will next be considered by the full Senate. 
   Eddy County has been designated within the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). The county reports that more than 75 percent of the inmates in the Eddy County Detention Center have been charged with offenses related to methamphetamine or other substance abuse. 
   "For regions of our state that face increased crime and drug-related problems, due largely to their close proximity to the Southwest border, we must provide every resource necessary to ensure a safe and healthy environment for all New Mexicans," said Domenici. 
   In New Mexico, 16 counties are now part of the HIDTA program. Last year, Domenici successfully convinced the ONDCP to add Sandoval, Valencia and Torrance counties--all surrounding the Albuquerque metropolitan area--to the HIDTA program. Other counties include: Bernalillo, Chaves, Do?a Ana, Eddy, Grant, Hidalgo, Lea, Lincoln, Luna, Otero, Rio Arriba, San Juan and Santa Fe. 
   The FY 2008 Financial Services and General Governmental (FSGG) Appropriations Bill also includes report language intended to maintain stable funding for existing HIDTAs. The Southwest Border HITDA consists of New Mexico, Texas, Arizona and California. New Mexico generally receives between $5.0 and $7.0 million in HIDTA funding annually. 
   The FY2008 FSGG Appropriations Bill also includes $100 million in ONDCP funding for the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign, of which at least $10 million must be used for ads targeted against methamphetamine use. Domenici is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which determines annual funding levels for federal programs.
 
 