BUSH SIGNS SEN. DOMENICI-BACKED CLASS ACTION REFORM BILL
  President Bush today signed into law legislation backed by Sen. Pete Domenici that will reform class action lawsuits in a way that benefits consumers by cutting down on the abuses that are inherent in the current system.  
   The legislation, S.5, passed the Senate on a 72-26 vote. Domenici is a long-standing supporter of class action reform, as has President Bush, who urged Congress to act on the bill during recent speeches. 
   "I'm pleased that President Bush has signed this bill into law. It strikes the right balance between protecting the rights of citizens to sue while discouraging frivolous lawsuits and exorbitant attorney's fees. There is a tangible economic drain on the economy as a result of ill-advised settlements that harm companies but don't help consumers," Domenici said. 
   Last year, Senate Democrats filibustered similar legislation. In October 2003, the bill received 59 votes-one short of what was needed to end debate and proceed with a final vote. 
   "In the current system, the group that benefits the most are not average citizens but rather the wealthy trial lawyers. The President is right when he says that this bill will help to end the 'lawsuit culture' that has developed. Making this bill law is particularly gratifying because we've some so close in the past. I'm pleased that this year we've come together to improve our legal system," Domenici continued. 
   S.5 is bipartisan legislation addresses problems exposed by the explosion of class action litigation nationwide over the past 20 years, including abuses that allow the system to benefit attorneys more than their clients. These abuses have had an adverse affect on consumers, the economy and courts. Domenici was a cosponsor of similar legislation introduced in the last Congress. 
   The new law will create a "consumer bill of rights" that requires consumers involved in a class action suit to be informed of their rights. It would also impose stricter oversight of proposed settlements to ensure clients, not class action lawyers, are the primary beneficiaries. 
   The will also close a loophole in the federal diversity jurisdiction rules to ensure that federal courts, rather than state courts, hear class action lawsuits that are truly national or interstate in scope.
 
 