SEN. DOMENICI ASSAILS HOUSE-PASSED 'MASQUERADE' ENERGY BILL, ADDRESSES GULF ROYALTY PAYMENT PROBLEMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici, ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today assailed so-called "energy" legislation passed by the House of Representatives as lacking any strategy for increasing energy supply or fostering energy conservation. 
   House passage of the bill (264-123) came on the same day that the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee conducted a hearing on finding solutions to a royalty payment problem for deepwater oil and gas produced in the Gulf of Mexico.  
   The House-passed legislation increases taxes on oil and gas companies and seeks to ban dozens of companies--most of them American--from producing oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico. The bill also creates an energy slush fund estimated at approximately $14 billion but doesn't spell out how the money will be spent. 
   "I am stunned and disappointed by the complete lack of strategy or vision in this bill. This is nothing but a tax and spend bill masquerading as an energy policy," Domenici said. 
   "The American people won't get so much as a kilowatt hour of electricity or a drop of fuel from this bill. After all the ballyhoo from House leadership, I expected this bill to do something to help us produce or conserve more energy. But it does nothing except raise taxes on the oil industry, shut our oil and gas companies out of the Gulf and create a multi-billion dollar slush fund with no plans for how it should be spent," he said. 
   "The only sure impact I see from this legislation is climbing oil and gas prices. The House bill does zero for wind energy; zero for solar energy and zero for ethanol. It does nothing for conservation, nothing for efficiency and nothing for the research or development of new energies. It doesn't do a single thing to encourage advanced energies like nuclear power or coal gasification," he said. "This bill is particularly disappointing when you contrast it to the bipartisan energy accomplishments of the 109th Congress." 
   Earlier Thursday, Domenici sought "thoughtful, practical" solutions to correcting a nearly decade-old energy leasing mistake that is costing the American people billions in Gulf of Mexico royalty payments. 
   The Interior Department's Minerals Management Service (MMS) has been embroiled in a controversy related to the Clinton administration Interior Department failure to include so-called price thresholds in deepwater oil and gas leases issued in 1998 and 1999. An initial General Accounting Office estimate indicated that this failure could cost the taxpayers approximately $10 billion over 25 years. 
   "We must examine the important and difficult legal issues--contractual, property and Constitutional--that this quandary presents for all of us. I hope that this Congress will resist the temptation of headlines and act in a thoughtful, practical way," Domenici said. "This issue is of enormous significance to the American people and to our nation's fiscal well-being." 
   Last year, Domenici authored an amendment giving the Interior Secretary the authority to renegotiate the 1998-99 leases. In December, six energy companies renegotiated the terms of their agreements to include price thresholds. MMS believes these agreements will recoup about 20 percent of the outstanding lost royalty revenue related to 1998-99 lease errors. 
   "I continue to encourage all companies who hold these leases to follow the lead of these six companies and to come forward and renegotiate with the Department of the Interior. It is important for our nation's fiscal stability. As significant, it is important to get this issue resolved so that the Department of Interior and these company lease holders can get back to doing what they do best-produce American oil and natural gas supplies to help reduce our energy dependence on foreign, unstable regions of the world," Domenici said. 
   Despite the royalty dispute, Domenici defended the Deepwater Royalty Relief Act of 1995, and credited the law for a dramatic 400 percent increase in deepwater oil production between 1995 and 2005. Natural gas production increased more than 340 percent. The Interior Department estimates that the U.S. Treasury received over $2 billion in additional revenue from deep water leases issued between 1996 and 2000 on over 1,300 leases that would not have been leased without the incentive.
 
 