HEARING ON ELDER ABUSE SHOWS NEED FOR SEN. DOMENICI-COSPONSORED BILL REQUIRING BACKGROUND CHECKS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today echoed the testimonies of witnesses at a Senate Special Committee on Aging hearing, highlighting the need for a national program to require background checks on people hired to provide long-term care for senior citizens and the disabled in order to reduce the incidence of abuse.  
   Domenici is an original cosponsor of the Patient Safety and Abuse Prevention Act of 2007, a bipartisan measure introduced in June by Senator Herb Kohl (D-Wis.). 
   The Senate Special Committee on Aging, of which Kohl is the chairman, today heard testimony in support of the bill which would authorize a three-year grant program to help states implement a system to link state and federal registries with a federal criminal background check in order to screen applicants for employment in long-term health care facilities. 
   "For most of us, the idea of the elderly and disabled being abused at the hands of those who are charged to care for them is unthinkable. However, family members, agency officials, and elders advocates alike testified today that these abominations are occurring at an alarming rate," said Domenici. "It is our responsibility to protect these vulnerable citizens and one important way to do that is to know who is being hired to care for them." 
   "In every state, the pilot programs that have been established are working well. We must move to finish the job and translate these pilot programs into a comprehensive background check system that covers the entire country," said Chairman Kohl. "We need to keep predators out of our system, not just prosecute them after have ruined people's lives." 
   New Mexico has been part of a demonstration for such screening, as authorized under the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. That law established a seven-state pilot program that also included Alaska, Idaho, Illinois, Michigan, Nevada and Wisconsin. 
   Under the bill, original pilot states like New Mexico would be eligible to receive additional funding to expand their programs. (The New Mexico Department of Health received $1.1 million to enhance its Caregivers Criminal History Screening Program. http://dhi.health.state.nm.us/cchsp/grant_pactproject.php) 
   Starting in 2011, long-term care providers would be prohibited from hiring workers with a record of abuse or a disqualifying criminal history. Providers would also be able to bill Medicare and Medicaid for the cost of the national (FBI) checks. 
   The bill would prevent those with criminal histories from working within long-term care settings by establishing a nationwide system of background checks. This new system of background checks would coordinate abuse and neglect registries with state law enforcement registries, and also add a federal component to the background check by cross-referencing potential employees with the FBI's national database of criminal history records. 
   The Senate bill is supported by the Elder Justice Coalition, the National Citizen's Coalition for Nursing Home Reform, the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging, the AARP and other organizations.
 
 