NEW MEXICO SENATORS PUSH FOR LIABILITY INSURANCE FOR FOREST FIRE MANAGERS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman and Sen. Pete Domenici have joined in introducing legislation to help wildfire managers defray the cost of liability insurance.  
   The bill the Senators are backing would give the Forest Service and Department of Interior the authorization to reimburse temporary wildland fire managers for a portion of their personal liability insurance costs. Fire managers plan how to attack wildfires and make decisions that involve firefighters' safety. This would allow any firefighter with supervisory or decision-making responsibilities to have half of their insurance paid for by agencies. Currently, only some line officers have this benefit. 
   "Those of us from the West have a real appreciation for the men and women who fight wildfires. Our bill will help ensure fire managers that they are better positioned to protect themselves and their families while they serve the United States and the general public," Bingaman said. 
   "Firefighting is an inherently risky job that requires bold and often quick decision-making. I believe that this bill will help our brave firefighters to carry one less worry as they face the challenging decisions in the course of their work. I am pleased to cosponsor this legislation that will help supervisory firefighters pay for liability insurance, so they can do their jobs without the added stress of personal liability," Domenici said. 
   Inherent risks and growing complexity of managing wildland fire has led many fire managers in the Forest Service and Department of the Interior to purchase personal liability insurance. Fire managers are increasingly interested in personal liability insurance given that the Department of Justice recently began pursuing criminal charges against a federal wildland firefighter relating to a number of fatalities during a 2001 wildfire. 
   Bingaman and Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) also wrote to Appropriation Subcommittee on Interior chairwoman Dianne Feinstein and ranking member Larry Craig to urge them to include their bill in the Fiscal Year 2008 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee that is scheduled Tuesday to mark up the FY2008 funding bill for the Interior Department and U.S. Forest Service.
 
 