N.M. LAWMAKERS CRITICAL OF DEFENSE DEPARTMENT'S TESTIMONY ON CANNON AIR FORCE BASE TO BRAC COMMISSION
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Rep. Tom Udall, today reiterated their dismay with the Defense Department's continued dismissal of assets at Cannon Air Force Base and any alternative that might ensure the survival of the base.  
   Defense Department officials today testified at a hearing of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission. During the hearing, commissioners asked Pentagon witnesses about their specific opposition to a realignment scenario that would entail shifting assets from the Naval Air Station (NAS) at Oceana, Va., to Moody Air Force Base in Georgia, and then shifting A-10 aircraft intended for Moody to Cannon AFB. 
   In their testimony, the Pentagon witnesses showed little concern about loss of air and test range spaces associated with Cannon, telling the Commission that the "basic, rudimentary" Melrose Bombing Range offered little joint-use opportunities, and could not accommodate live ordnance. 
   "I believe the BRAC Commission will see the weaknesses in the Defense Department arguments. Our job is cut out for us as the Pentagon fights to drop Cannon and keep its BRAC list as it was originally proposed," Domenici said. "There is an obvious disconnect between the assets we know are available at Cannon and the Air Force's hardnosed refusal to acknowledge them. There is also a disconnect between the Pentagon's unwillingness to embrace realignment costs that could save Cannon, while at the same time wanting to establish a brand new naval station on the Eastern Seaboard for what will undoubtedly be an astronomical cost." 
   "It would have been astonishing if the Pentagon changed course and suddenly admitted that it relied on flawed data when it put Cannon Air Force Base on the closure list. Today's hearing offered no surprises. But our goal has always been to take our case directly to the BRAC Commission, to persuade commissioners that Cannon is the valuable installation we in New Mexico know it to be. We have done that through face-to-face meetings, phone calls, letters and at the regional hearing. And we will continue to do so in the coming weeks," Bingaman said. 
   "Nothing in the Pentagon's testimony to the Commission today alters our position that Cannon must remain open," Udall said. "It's clear that the Commissioners have reasonable doubts about whether or not the Pentagon's plans are right for the country. We've delivered the message time and time again that closure just doesn't make sense and that Cannon has strategic value." 
   The delegation was surprised when Air Force leadership specifically cited the lack of "live ordnance" capabilities at the Melrose range, since the Air Force's own Mission Compatibility Index (MCI) study did not place any priority on this capability, weighting "live ordnance capability" at just 3 percent of an overall 12 percent effective weighting for range complex operating areas. 
   The New Mexico lawmakers last Friday pointed out that the Pentagon continues to ignore joint training possibilities at Cannon. They indicated that an A-10 ground support mission at Cannon could readily provide joint training for Army Infantry/Armor Bases at Fort Bliss and Fort Hood, each of which is only 220 and 340 nautical miles, respectively, from Cannon. 
   Furthermore, numerous experts and retired military leaders have cited the enormous potential synergies between Cannon and Fort Bliss at El Paso, which has been identified as a receiver base for thousands of U.S. Army maneuver warfare troops. In addition, Cannon earlier this year hosted the Roving Sands joint training exercise that included a full Navy wing training with their Air Force counterparts. 
   The delegation continues to maintain that the scoring of Cannon's MCI is flawed due to faulty data collected during the analysis process. 
   The Pentagon officials also today testified that noise and population encroachment at Oceana poses no significant impact on naval air training, and that shifting responsibilities to Georgia is not operationally feasible. At the same time, they testified that the Navy would like to build a brand new naval base in the future-but balked at an estimated $500 million in military construction cost associated with moving Oceana assets to Moody. 
   On Friday, Domenici and Bingaman issued a letter to the BRAC Commission outlining their concerns about commissioner recusals, and suggested possible rule changes that would ensure bases like Cannon are given fair consideration. One approach suggested by the Senators would change the rule requiring a vote of five of nine commission members to remove a base from the list, and replace it with a requirement of a simple majority of voting members.
 
 