SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW - QUESTIONS & ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, June 18, 2007.  
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Kevin Robbins - KSMX Clovis/Portales 
   * Gillian Sutton - KRSN Los Alamos 
   * John McBreen - KYVA Gallup 
   * Steve Isaacs - KNMX Las Vegas 
   TOPICS: 
   Cannon AFB Military Construction 
   FY2008 Funding Outlook for Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) 
   Bovine Tuberculosis in New Mexico 
   Navajo Water Settlement 
   Cannon AFB's New Mission 
   Diversity at LANL 
   Gallup and the Navajo Water Settlement 
   REVIEW: 
   00:31 - Domenici says he has received every assurance from the Air Force Special Operations Command that the $10 million in military construction approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee is welcome and that the AFSOC transition to Cannon is on track. He says he is very upbeat about Cannon and its future. 
   03:34 - Domenici says he is working with Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Byron Dorgan on the Senate's bill to fund Los Alamos National Laboratory in FY2008. He says the program cuts by the House are too severe and that these nuclear stockpile programs are still needed. He says changing the mission of the labs will take the concurrence of Congress, the administration and Energy Department. 
   09:06 - Domenici reviews his Friday conversation with Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns regarding ongoing tests in New Mexico for bovine tuberculosis (TB). He says Johanns told him the testing will continue and that this process will take more time. 
   12:39 - Domenici says he looks forward to the Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearings on legislation to authorize the Navajo water settlement. He also announces that he will introduce legislation to raise an estimated $1.37 billion over 10 years to pay for the federal portion of the Navajo, Aamodt and Abeyta water settlements. 
   16:44 - Domenici discusses the type of activities that are expected occur at Cannon Air Force Base once AFSOC assumes control over the base. 
   19:17 - Domenici addresses calls for LANL to diversify its scope of operations, saying he is for diversity at the lab, but that non-nuclear stockpile related missions "won't pay the bills" for now. He says he hopes the congressional delegation members can get "behind trying to save what we've got." 
   24:17 - Domenici says his Indian water settlements bill would satisfy the federal portion of these agreements. 
   25:12 - Domenici reports that he believes the Navajo Nation understands that its water rights settlement must include the ability for the city of Gallup to access water. He says it is irrelevant to speculate that Gallup may not get any water under this settlement.
 
 