SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO PROMOTE ALTERNATIVE STEM CELL THERAPIES, BAN FETAL FARMING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted for legislation to encourage development of stem cell research that will not harm or destroy human embryos and ban the practice of fetal farming, while opposing a bill that would result in federal funding of research that resulted in the destruction of human life. 
   The Senator joined the Senate to unanimously pass the Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act (S.2754), which will authorize the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to support the further development of techniques for producing pluripotent stem cells without harming or destroying human life. Pluripotent stem cells are cells that can be differentiated into nearly all the cell types in the human body.
   Domenici voted against HR.810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, which would expand research into stem cell lines that relies on the destruction of human embryos for the derivation of stem cells. Despite Domenici's opposition, the bill passed the Senate on a 63-37 vote. President Bush is expected to veto the bill.
   In a third vote, Domenici also joined the Senate to unanimously support legislation that will ban the use of human tissues from fetuses that were gestated and aborted solely for research purposes, a practice known as fetal farming.
   "The bills I voted for today will provide funds to support finding ways to derive stem cells without destroying life to do it. I also supported prohibiting fetal farming, which is when a fetus is created solely for the purpose of being destroyed for research. I believe these policies will set us on the right path for ethical research that uses taxpayer's dollars in an appropriate manner," Domenici said.
   "It seems to me that we ought to focus our efforts on funding research that is promising, but does not pose ethical questions. Adult stem cell research has shown great promise over the past few years, and unlike embryonic stem cell research, human life does not have to be destroyed. I believe we should focus our efforts there," he continued.
   Domenici noted that embryonic stem cell research is permissible by law, and that today's vote was solely regarding using federal funds to pay for it. The Senator also reiterated his support for President Bush's stem cell initiative, which allows for research on stem cell lines developed before August of 2001. To date, the National Institute of Health has sent more than 700 shipments of stem cells to researchers, with thousands more still available. No additional embryos need to be destroyed for that research to proceed.
 
 