SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES BILL TO PROTECT DAIRIES, LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS FROM FRIVILOUS SUPERFUND LAWSUITS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced bipartisan legislation intended to clarify a major environmental law to ensure that industrial standards are not wrongly applied to dairy and livestock operations.
   Domenici, with 22 cosponsors, today introduced Senate legislation that is identical to a companion bill in the House (HR.4341) to clarify the intent of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA, more commonly known as the Superfund law) and its potential application to farms, dairies and other livestock operations. 
   The bill is intended to clarify that CERCLA industrial pollutant standards are not applied to livestock operations. It would spell out that livestock emissions--already regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency through the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and other laws-may not be classified as industrial pollutants under CERCLA and the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA).
   "The clarification outlined in this bill is badly needed to protect America's agriculture industry from onerous and frivolous lawsuits. Without it, livestock operations could be fined up to $27,500 per day per violation, which could bankrupt many of them. This industry is already one of the most regulated with regard to environmental quality. Additional penalties and liability assessments under CERCLA, which is designed to clean up toxic industrial pollutants, are unwarranted and unfair," Domenici said.
   "The Superfund law was written to address the worst toxic industrial pollutants. Manure should not be classified as such. Opening the door to this change could devastate entire industries," he said.
   The Senate bill, like its House counterpart, would not affect state and local permitting and regulatory standards for farm and livestock operations. Instead, it would clarify that animal manure is not a toxic waste that would necessitate emergency response and the creation of a Superfund site under CERCLA and EPCRA.
   The bipartisan cadre of cosponsors to the Senate bill include: Larry Craig (R-Idaho); Wayne Allard (R-Colo.); Sam Brownback (R-Kan.); Conrad Burns (R-Mont.); Richard Burr (R-N.C.); Christopher Bond (R-Mo.); Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.); Mike Crapo (R-Idaho); Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.); Charles Grassley (R-Iowa); Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.); Mary Landrieu (D-La.); Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.); Trent Lott (R-Miss.); Ben Nelson (D-Neb.); Mark Pryor (D-Ark.); Pat Roberts (R-Kan.); Ted Stevens (R-Alaska); James Talent (R-Mo.); Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.); and John Thune (R-S.D.).
   Domenici noted that this clarification is important to the growing dairy industry in New Mexico, and that applying CERCLA to these operations could have significant economic ramifications to dairy producers, alfalfa growers and implement suppliers.
   New Mexico currently ranks seventh in the nation for milk production and eighth in cheese production. The states' approximately 180 dairies have the largest average herd size-1,600 to 1,700 cattle-in the nation. Dairies in 12 New Mexico counties (Chaves, Roosevelt, Curry, Do?a Ana, Lea, Eddy, Valencia, Socorro, Sierra, Bernalillo, Torrance and Luna) have an estimated $1.15 billion annual impact on the state's economy, and generate about 17,000 dairy-related jobs in the state. (http://spectre.nmsu.edu/dept/docs/DAIR/NM_Dairy.pdf)
   "This clarification is especially important for New Mexico's dairy industry. This relatively new sector of our economy has grown by leaps and bounds over the years to a point where it contributes substantially to the overall economic output of my state," Domenici said. "This growth and the future of the dairy industry in New Mexico are in great jeopardy without this clarification to CERCLA."
 
 