SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES BILL TO PAY FEDERAL PORTION OF NEW MEXICO INDIAN WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today unveiled a 10-year funding plan that would raise an estimated $1.37 billion to pay the federal portion of pending Indian water rights settlements in New Mexico--pacts that have taken decades to negotiate.  
   Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, on Monday introduced legislation authorizing the settlement fund. The Reclamation Water Settlements Fund Act of 2007 would provide a funding source to fulfill New Mexico Indian water rights settlements, including the pending Navajo, Aamodt and Abeyta pacts. 
   "The major piece missing for the final resolution of the Aamodt, Abeyta, and Navajo Indian water rights settlements is finding the large sums of money they require for implementation, including extensive water infrastructure. The fund my bill creates would make money available to build the infrastructure required by these settlements," Domenici said. "With my bill, the money will be there when Congress ultimately passes each of these settlements." 
   The Domenici plan would deposit 30 percent of the Reclamation Fund revenues generated in New Mexico over the next 10 years into a "Reclamation Water Settlements Fund." Based on past revenues generated in New Mexico, the 30 percent allocation would generate approximately $1.37 billion over 10 years. 
   The amounts deposited in this New Mexico fund could be used to pay for the Aamodt? Abeyta, and Navajo Indian water rights settlements after the parties resolve outstanding issues and the settlements are signed into law. This fund would be used for planning, designing, or construction activities of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation associated with the New Mexico Indian water rights settlements. 
   Domenici pointed out that the 30 percent diversion from the national Reclamation Fund will not diminished the viability of that account, which receives funding from a variety of sources. Federal oil and gas royalty payments make up about 40 percent of the fund annually. It is used to fund water infrastructure-related projects. 
   "Interior Secretary Kempthorne and his staff deserve credit for trying to advance the New Mexico Indian water rights settlements. However, current federal budgets cannot accommodate the upcoming New Mexico settlements. This is troublesome for several reasons, primarily because it impairs Congress' ability to resolve Indian water rights claims in a way that keeps all water users whole. In addition, many of the settlements require the construction of water infrastructure benefiting Indian and non-Indian interests, including the Navajo-Gallup water pipeline plan. Lack of a steady stream of federal money results in water projects that take far longer to construct, costing taxpayers significantly more money in the long run," Domenici said. 
   "There are details that need to be worked out in the three pending New Mexico settlements, including the need to continue to address local concerns with the terms of the settlements. The parties to these settlements deserve an enormous amount of credit for working through very difficult issues. I will continue to devote a significant amount of time toward settling New Mexico's Indian water rights claims," he said. 
   In April, Domenici cosponsored legislation introduced by Senator Jeff Bingaman to authorize the settlement reached to resolve the Navajo Nation's water rights claims in the San Juan River Basin. Efforts are also underway to finalize the Abeyta and Aamodt settlements, which would also require congressional authorization.
 
 