SEN. DOMENICI: ECONOMIC GROWTH BOOSTS NEW MEXICO, LABOR DEPT. REPORTS 2,800 NEW JOBS ADDED IN MAY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the 2,800 new jobs added to New Mexico's workforce is further evidence that the American economy is finally outgrowing the recession and economic shocks of the 2001 terrorist attacks.  
   Domenici today welcomed new jobs figures issued by the U.S. Department of Labor on Friday, showing that more people are working in New Mexico and that the state's unemployment rate dropped to 5.5 percent from 5.6 percent from April to May. The Labor Department earlier reported that 1,100 new jobs were added in April in New Mexico. 
   In all, 7,000 more jobs have been created in New Mexico since January and 16,700 in the last year. 
   "Every indicator shows that our economy is growing, and that means more people are working. New Mexico is not being left behind. Nearly 7,000 jobs for New Mexicans in the past five months is great news, but we want more. We are now seeing the benefits from the sound pro-growth policies President Bush and Congress put in place. We must build on the incentives and policies that allow companies and small businesses to thrive and hire workers," Domenici said. 
   "There are those who like to preach the gospel of economic gloom, but they are being proven wrong with the continuous good news about our expanding economy and people being employed," he said. "The fact is that economic growth over the last year has been the fastest in nearly 20 years. We should move forward with the economic policies that are causing unemployment to fall and incomes to rise." 
   New Mexico is among six states that experienced the largest over-the-month percentage increase in non-farm payroll employment (+0.4 percent). 
   Domenici noted that the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) report shows that New Mexico experienced growth in all nonagricultural sectors of its economy including construction, manufacturing, financial, trade and transportation, health services, tourism and government. As of May, the Labor Department says New Mexico has a civilian labor workforce of 903,100 workers. 
   The BLS reports that across the nation, 248,000 new jobs were created in May, and it revised its April and March increases by 58,000 and 16,000 respectively. On average, more than 237,000 jobs per month have been created since the beginning of this year.
 
 