SEN. DOMENICI HOPES USDA DROUGHT DISASTER DESIGNATION FOR NEW MEXICO SPURS GREATER FEDERAL AID
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he is pleased with the Department of Agriculture (USDA) decision to designate a drought disaster declaration for most New Mexico counties-a move that should improve access to federal aid to farmers and livestock producers in the state. 
   Domenici was informed Thursday that Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns has accepted the state of New Mexico's request for a drought disaster designation. The designation, part of announcement covering New Mexico, and parts of West Texas, Colorado and Arizona, covers the entire state. Thirty-one counties are included in the official disaster designation, with Chaves and Los Alamos counties eligible as contiguous counties.
   "Having this federal recognition of the ongoing and serious drought problems we are experiencing in New Mexico is useful. It will make existing federal aid available, and I expect to use it to help argue that Congress should provide emergency appropriations for drought-related work in our state," Domenici said.
   Under the designation issued by the USDA, farmers in New Mexico will be eligible to apply for Farm Service Agency low-interest emergency loans based on the extent of losses, security available and repayment ability. Johanns indicated that the designation is based on "drought and high winds that occurred from January 1, 2006 and continuing."
   Domenici today signed a letter urging leading Senate negotiators to stand firm as they work to retain a $4.0 billion drought package that the Senate added to the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill. The President and House leaders have expressed opposition to the drought package, which includes millions secured by Domenici for water-related drought relief.
   "I understand the desire for fiscal constraint in the supplemental bill, but there is growing and blatant evidence that a great swath of the country, including New Mexico, is in terrible shape because of the drought. We cannot ignore this fact and the agriculture negotiators and Bush administration need to understand this," Domenici said.
   Domenici, as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, will be part of the overall Senate negotiating team that will work to craft a final emergency spending package. The President has threatened to veto any bill that exceeds $94.5 billion in scope. The Senate bill would cost $109 billion.
   Domenici supported the drought package during Senate debate and outlined $17.0 million in USDA Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) funding-$5 million for New Mexico and $12 million for Texas-for emergency water enhancing activities such as water hauling, in addition to working in cooperation with land owners and users who have experienced watershed damage from fire.
   Domenici's multi-agency drought package also includes:
   * $5.0 million through the Army Corps of Engineers for drought emergency assistance under the Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies authorities; and,
   * $7.5 million through the Bureau of Reclamation for drought assistance under Reclamation States Drought Relief Act authorities. These funds will allow the Bureau to undertake drought contingency planning and to provide emergency potable water sources for eligible communities.
 
 