NEW MEXICO SENATORS CONTINUE BIPARTISAN ENERGY BILL MARKUP, APPROVE TITLES ON HYDROGEN, R&D
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today continued their bipartisan efforts to write a comprehensive national energy policy bill with the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee making progress on provisions related to hydrogen, research and development funding, and clean coal technology.  
   Domenici and Bingaman yesterday began the committee approval process on a measure to reshape American energy policies and successfully were able to approve the Indian energy title. The New Mexico lawmakers hope to gain committee approval of a bill by the end of next week, allowing the full Senate to consider it as early as June. 
   The committee will take up additional titles to the bill on Thursday. Domenici is committee chairman and Bingaman is the top Democratic member of the panel. 
   "I continue to be encouraged by the progress we are making on this comprehensive energy plan. While it is impossible for both sides to agree on every amendment, today we adopted important titles that will support a broad research program to develop hydrogen and fuel cells that could have a significant impact on the cars and trucks we drive. We also set aside funds for major research and development initiatives on energy efficiency, renewable energy, nuclear energy and other issues. Our national labs will have a greater role in a lot of this work," Domenici said. "I look forward to continued work on this bill." 
   "This bill makes a significant investment in important scientific research and development, much of which is performed at Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories," Bingaman said. "In particular, I am pleased that it gives a major boost in R&D for the next generation of lighting technology for homes and industry." 
   At today's mark up, the committee formally approved titles on coal, hydrogen and research and development. The coal title authorizes $1.6 bill over 8 years to improve clean coal technology and will provide for a competitive grant program for universities that work on the issue. 
   Among the provisions of the hydrogen title is a broad-based research program supporting private sector efforts in hydrogen and fuel cell development. The title sets a goal of making fuel cell production hydrogen available for commercial use by 2015. 
   The research and development title supports the development of new technologies that will help reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy and increase energy security. It requires cutting-edge research on renewable energy, including bioenergy, solar power, ocean energy, and hydrogen. It establishes the National Building Performance Initiative to integrate federal, state and voluntary private sector efforts to reduce the costs of building renovations conducted to improve energy efficiency, and explores research related to fossil fuels and nuclear energy. 
   To view specific titles of the Energy Bill, visit www.energy.senate.gov and look under "Featured Item."
 
 