SEN. DOMENICI VOTES AGAINST AMENDMENT DESIGNATING NATIONAL LANGUAGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted against an amendment that would declare English to be the national language of the United States. 
   The amendment, offered by Oklahoma Senator James Inhofe, was approved on a 63-34 vote and added to the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act (S.2611) being debated by the Senate. Domenici subsequently voted for an amendment, passed 58-39, offered by Colorado Senator Ken Salazar that states that English is the unifying language of the United States.
   "I've never believed we should have a national language. I believe we should move beyond the notion that English, and English only, will ensure the future of the United States. I believe we should, instead, embrace a national policy that affirms the importance of English as the standard language for all Americans, but also acknowledges the vast benefits for our nation when more of us are bilingual or even multilingual," Domenici said.
   Domenici in the past has recounted how his Italian immigrant parents insisted that he master English, although they also used Spanish and Italian to ensure the success of their Albuquerque business.
   The Inhofe amendment declares English the national language, and provides that the English language is the default language for government communication.
   The Salazar amendment also states that the government shall preserve the role of English as the unifying language of America and shall not diminish existing rights to services or materials (including US Code, judicial decisions, regulations) provided by the government in the English language.
   As a representative of New Mexico, Domenici also noted that it was important for him to oppose the Inhofe amendment because the New Mexico Constitution states that the rights of New Mexicans "to vote, hold office, or sit upon juries, shall never be restricted, abridged or impaired on account of ?inability to speak, read or write the English or Spanish languages?"
   Domenici in 1999 authored an "English Plus" resolution that would have encouraged a U.S. policy to promote the mastery of the English language plus other languages of the world. The resolution recognized the predominance and importance of English as the unifying language of the nation. It also recognized the benefits of being able to speak one or more languages in addition to English, which is increasingly seen as a skill needed to promote U.S. competitiveness in a global market.
 
 