NEW MEXICO SENATORS: LANGUAGE IN BILL KEEPS CANNON AIR FORCE BASE MILITARY PROJECTS VIABLE, FUNDING ALSO OKAYED FOR KIRTLAND, HOLLOMAN
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today confirmed that Congress has accepted their language to ensure that new and ongoing military construction projects at Cannon Air Force Base remain viable as a new mission is sought for the base.  
   The House and Senate Friday finalized work on the FY2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill, which includes $13.2 million for two jet fuel storage tanks and a loading facility a Cannon. 
   The bill now goes to President Bush to be signed into law. 
   The Cannon project will involve building a modern fuel storage and distribution system and renovating facilities constructed in the 1960s to safely unload commercial fuel delivery trucks. 
   Overall, the final bill will provide $34.8 million for military construction work at Cannon, Holloman and Kirtland Air Force Bases in New Mexico. 
   During conference negotiations, Domenici, with the Bingaman's support, requested that language be added to the bill to assure that funding for military construction projects at Cannon Air Force Base remains available. The accepted language builds in an exception to handling military construction projects for enclave facilities, namely Cannon Air Force Base.* 
   The conferees agreed to language that addresses Cannon's unique status as an "enclave" following the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure commission decision not to close the eastern New Mexico base. Elsewhere in the bill, funding would not have been obligated for bases and programs that were closed or realigned in the 2005 BRAC process. 
   "I am very pleased the conferees accepted my language pertaining to work at Cannon. Military construction projects there should be allowed to continue as we search for new missions for the base. Providing an exception for projects funding at an enclave base like Cannon is the right thing to do. These new missions may very well need and rely on projects like the fuel storage, airmen's center and AGE complex," Domenici said. 
   "Cannon's enclave status gives us an opportunity to find a great new mission for the base. In order to attract the right mission for the military--and for the community--we must ensure that Cannon is in top shape. This construction project will ensure that the base is prepared for its new assignment," Bingaman said. 
   In FY2005, Congress approved $9.5 million to construct a consolidated airmen's center at Cannon consisting of a dining hall, postal center, a laundry exchange, and troop subsistence issue. In FY2004, Congress approved $7.7 million to construct an Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Complex and replace a WWII-era facility, as well as $1.3 million to install a permanent simplified short-approach lighting system on Runway 13. 
   In August, the BRAC Commission took the unprecedented step of placing Cannon into an "enclave status" and giving the Secretary of Defense until 2009 to try to find a suitable new mission for the base. If a new mission is not found by then, the base would close. In the meantime, the BRAC Commission approved the Pentagon's request to reassign all F-16 aircraft now at Cannon to other bases. 
   * The following is the bill language addressing military construction projects affected by the 2005 BRAC process. The bracketed clause is the language sought by the New Mexico Senators: 
   "SEC. 128. None of the funds made available in this title, or in any Act making appropriations for military construction which remain available for obligation, may be obligated or expended to carry out a military construction, land acquisition, or family housing project at or for a military installation approved for closure, or at a military installation for the purposes of supporting a function that has been approved for realignment to another installation, in 2005 under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. section 2687 note), [unless such a project at a military installation approved for realignment will support a new mission or function that is planned for that installation], unless the Secretary of Defense certifies that the cost to the United States of carrying out such project would be less than the cost to the United States of canceling such project, or in the case of projects having multi-agency use,, that another Government agency has indicated it will assume ownership of the completed project, and the Secretary of Defense may not transfer funds made available for such a military construction project, land acquisition, or family housing project to another account or use such funds for another purpose or project without the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress." 
   In all the FY2006 Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill includes these projects for New Mexico: 
   * Holloman Air Force Base, Alamogordo - $15 million for renovating two existing fire stations, both built during the 1960s, and to construct an additional fire station to house vehicles, equipment, and personnel. Domenici visited one outmoded fire station at Holloman on Veterans Day, was briefed on plans for improved fire safety at the base. 
   * Cannon Air Force Base, Clovis - $13.2 million for two jet fuel storage tanks and a loading facility. The project will involve building a modern fuel storage and distribution system and renovating facilities constructed in the 1960s to safely unload commercial fuel delivery trucks. 
   * Kirtland Air Force Base, Albuquerque - $6.6 million for a new flight training simulator. Students currently train using a simulator with different equipment configurations than an actual aircraft. These funds would provide an adequate place for a new simulator to train 41 students per year. 
   "The outcome of this bill is good for New Mexico and its military installations. It ensures steady progress in our continuing effort to see that the servicemen and women based in our state have the best possible environment for training and living," Domenici said. 
   Of the $70.7 billion for the Veterans Administration, the Senate approved almost $1.225 billion to address a projected shortfall in VA health care funding for FY2006. The committee-passed bill provides a total of $22.5 billion for VA Medical Services, which is $3.20 billion over FY2005 and $575 million over the initial budget request. The bill outlines $36.9 billion for mandatory VA programs, which includes benefits and other compensation. Another $31.8 billion was approved for discretionary VA needs. In addition to the FY2006 VA funding, Congress also provides $1.5 billion in emergency funding in the FY2005 supplemental to address an immediate shortfall. This bill will now head to a Senate-House Conference Committee to reconcile differences between the two chambers. 
   Conference negotiations continue on the FY2006 Defense Appropriations Bill, which includes Domenici-Bingaman language prohibiting the movement of any assets from Cannon while the Secretary of Defense searches for a new mission at Cannon. Domenici, as a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, is a member of the House-Senate conference committee reconciling the defense spending bill.
 
 