SENATE PASSES TAX RELIEF ACT WITH SEN. DOMENICI-SPONSORED AMENDMENT OFFERING TAX FAIRNESS TO ARTISTS WHO DONATE WORK
  In developing the tax portion of a deficit reduction package, the Senate today approved an amendment cosponsored by Sen. Pete Domenici to make it easier for artists to get a fair market deduction for works they donate to charitable causes.  
   Amendment #2624 to the Tax Relief Act of 2005 (S.2020) addresses charitable deductions for artists donating their work to a museum or other charitable cause. It will allow a fair market deduction for the artists who donate their works. The overall $59.6 billion tax relief measure was passed by the Senate (64-33) early Friday morning. 
   Under the current tax code, an artist or creator can only receive a tax deduction equal to the cost of the art supplies. However, an art collector who makes a charitable contribution of a piece of art is entitled to a deduction equal to fair market value of the art. 
   "Existing tax law discourages charitable donations of artwork for the greater good. Since pieces of art have significantly more value than the supplies used to create them, our amendment would make the tax law fairer to donor artists. It gives them more incentive to donate their works to worthy causes," Domenici said. 
   "I'm pleased the Senate has accepted this worthy provision, and I hope it stays in the bill that finally reaches the President's desk. The fair market deduction is a good first step and I eventually hope we can take up the unfair capital gains rate applied to art work," he said. 
   In allowing for a fair market deduction, the provision stipulates that eligibility applies to literary, musical, artistic, and scholarly compositions if the work was created at least 18 months before the donation. Works must have also been appraised. In addition, the donated work must be related to the purpose or function of the charitable organization receiving the donation. 
   The amendment accepted today was sponsored by Senators Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Robert Bennett (R-Utah), Domenici and Schumer. 
   The amendment mirrors the charitable deduction section of the Art and Collectibles Capital Gains Tax Treatment Parity Act (S.1186) introduced by Domenici and Senator Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) in June. Domenici initially introduced such art and collectibles legislation in 2001. In addition to addressing fair market deductions, his legislation would also equalize the capital gains rate levied on the sale of art. Currently, individuals who invest in art or collectibles are now taxed at 28 percent, compared to the top capital gains tax rate on investment securities of 15 percent. 
   Art plays a major role in the economy, particularly in Santa Fe, which is the third largest art market in the country. Art sales in New Mexico have been estimated to be between $500 million and $1 billion per year. 
   Overall, S.2020 extends a broad series of tax cuts that expire between 2005 and 2010, including the college tuition deduction, low-income savers credit, increased exemption from the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT--one year extension); small business expensing, deduction for state and local taxes, and other expiring tax provisions.
 
 