HISTORIC FORT STANTON BUILDING SELECTED FOR RESTORATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today indicated that a well-known historical site in Fort Stanton will be restored with funding aimed at saving the nation's cultural and notable landmarks and artifacts.  
   The funds were awarded by the National Park Service and the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities. Fort Stanton, Inc. will receive $210,000 through the Save America's Treasures (SAT) grant program that combines several federal entities to preserve endangered historic properties and relics. 
   "Fort Stanton plays a unique role in New Mexico's history as it tracks years of cultural interaction all the way from cavalry soldiers and Mescalero Apache Indians to Japanese Americans during World War II," Domenici said. 
   "I am very pleased Fort Stanton will have the opportunity to renovate this building, especially since the community will likely play host to new visitors eager to see the newly discovered Snowy River passage," he said. 
   The $210,000 SAT award will help stabilize the foundation and exterior walls of the Fort Stanton Administration Building in preparation of a large-scale restoration. 
   The old building was raised in 1855 and served as an Army base in Apache territory until 1896. It has since served the community as a Merchant Marine tuberculosis hospital, a citizen's conservation corps camp, and a World War II interment and relocation center. 
   SAT is a national effort to protect threatened cultural treasures, including historic structures, collections, works of art, maps and journals that document and illuminate the history and culture of the U.S. Established in 1998, SAT was originally founded as a public-private partnership that included the White House, the National Park Service and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. 
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that sets funding levels for the National Park Service and the Save America's Treasures program.
 
 