SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN ANNOUNCE GRANT FOR ROSWELL AIR SERVICE
  New Mexico Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman announced today that the Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded $400,000 to the Southeast New Mexico Air Coalition in Roswell to market the new American Eagle non-stop jet service to Dallas/Ft. Worth.  
   Funds were awarded through the DOT Small Community Air Service Development Program (SCASDP), which provides resources to help communities develop feasible air service solutions to accommodate their needs and circumstances. 
   "These funds from the Department of Transportation will be beneficial as the area promotes the best available transportation options for its residents. I am proud to support southeast New Mexico's successful bid to secure this grant. One of the primary strengths of this funding is the flexibility it provides the Coalition in working to make Roswell to Dallas regional jet service flourish," said Domenici. 
   "This funding will allow Roswell to promote its new air service and help ensure it's a success. I am very pleased that New Mexico is benefiting from the Small Community Air Service Development Program, and I will continue to work to ensure small communities in our state can attract commercial air service," Bingaman said. 
   In June, Domenici and Bingaman sent a joint letter to Mary E. Peters, secretary of the Department of Transportation, asking for a reevaluation of Roswell's application and supporting resources for improved air service options in Roswell through SCASDP.
   The Small Community Air Service Development Program was created in 2000 with the signing of the Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century (AIR-21). The Department awards approximately 40 grants each year to small communities nationwide. The core objective of the program is to secure enhancements that will be responsive to a community's air transportation needs and whose benefits can be expected to continue after the initial expenditure of federal funds.
 
 