SENATE APPROVES SEN. DOMENICI-COSPONSORED RESOLUTION ON DRUG ABUSE PREVENTION, EDUCATION
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today reported that the Senate has approved a resolution he cosponsored calling on citizens to participate in "Red Ribbon Week," an annual campaign to fight illegal drug-related violence and crime.  
   The resolution sets the 2007 Red Ribbon Week for Oct. 23-31. The program was launched in 1988, in part, to honor Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Special Agent Enrique Camarena who was gunned down in the line of duty in 1985. Red Ribbon Week has grown to incorporate drug-abuse prevention and drug-free lifestyles. The program is led by the National Family Partnership (NFP): http://www.nfp.org/. 
   "Illegal drugs continue to wreck the lives of too many New Mexicans. Red Ribbon Week is just one way of calling attention to how individuals, families, schools and whole communities can take action to fight this scourge," Domenici said. 
   In southern New Mexico, mayors from 11 U.S. and Mexican border cities-including Las Cruces-have pledged to work together to reduce substance abuse and violence. Earlier this month, the DEA helped support the 5th Annual Bi-National Red Ribbon Rally involving participants from Las Cruces, El Paso and Ju?rez. 
   The NFP is also working to create Red Ribbon Certified Schools across the country through a federally-funded initiative. Certified schools are highlighted for their efforts to prevent substance use, including drugs, alcohol and tobacco, among youth. For information on the Red Ribbon Certified Schools Project, visit: www.redribbonschools.com/. 
   Sponsored by Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), S.Res.348 states, in part: 
   "Whereas, although public awareness of illicit drug use is increasing, emerging drug threats and growing epidemics such as the abuse of prescription medication-the second most abused drug by youth, methamphetamine, and inhalants demand attention; 
   "Whereas drug dealers are specifically targeting children by marketing illicit drugs that mimic the appearance and names of well known brand-name candies and foods; and 
   "Whereas parents, youths, schools, businesses, law enforcement agencies, religious institutions, service organizations, senior citizens, medical and military personnel, sports teams, and individuals throughout the United States will demonstrate their commitment to healthy, productive, and drug-free lifestyles by wearing and displaying red ribbons during this week-long celebration: Now, therefore, be it 
   "Resolved, That the Senate- 
   (1) supports the goals and ideals of Red Ribbon Week; 
   (2) encourages children and teens to choose to live drug-free lives; and 
   (3) encourages the people of the United States to promote the creation of drug-free communities and to participate in drug prevention activities to show support for healthy, productive, and drug-free lifestyles."
 
 