SEN. DOMENICI CALLS FOR IMMEDIATE, GOOD-FAITH NEGOTIATIONS TO CRAFT NEW SCHIP BILL
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined Republican Senators who voted for legislation to renew the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and strongly urged congressional leadership to immediately begin negotiations to revive the bill.  
   The lawmakers, led by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) as chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee, issued the letter following the failed vote in the House of Representatives Thursday to override President Bush's veto of the SCHIP bill. 
   "I regret that the SCHIP program has been caught in a vortex of partisan hyperbole. I join my colleagues in demanding that good-faith negotiations begin immediately. This program has been a success and we should find a way to improve the program. A stalemate that leaves more children uninsured is no good for anyone," said Domenici, who helped create the original SCHIP in 1997 as Budget Committee chairman. 
   All 18 Republican Senators who voted for the vetoed SCHIP bill signed the letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, and House Republican Leader John Boehner. 
   "Now that the veto of HR.976 has been sustained, we must move forward with legislation that can resolve our differences and reauthorize the program. While our support for that legislation has been registered, it is our hope that the next phase of this effort will be productive and not degenerate into gridlock and partisanship," the letter said. "We strongly believe that health coverage of low-income children must remain the number one goal of the CHIP program. Low-income children and states need a stable and improved program rather than a series of temporary extensions." 
   There are more than 93,500 children in New Mexico without health insurance, which is about 25 percent of all youth in the state. The legislation would have allowed New Mexico to cover children from 133 percent to 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL). 
   Domenici indicated that he would like any new SCHIP bill to include a children's mental health parity provision similar to those in S.1337, the Children's Mental Health Parity Act, that he cosponsored. The provision, added by the Senate to the vetoed bill, would require state child health care plans to provide both medical and mental health benefits on par with one another.
   Senators signing the Hutchison letter include: Domenici; Bob Corker (R-Tenn.); Charles Grassley (R-Iowa); Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.); Kit Bond (R-Mo.); Norm Coleman (R-Minn.); Susan Collins (R-Me.); Orrin Hatch (R-Utah); Richard Lugar (R-Ind.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska); Pat Roberts (R-Kan.); Gordon Smith (R-Ore.); Arlen Specter (R-Pa.); Olympia Snowe (R-Me); Ted Stevens (R-Alaska); John Sununu (R-N.H.) and John Warner (R-Va).
 
 