SEN. DOMENICI RECOGNIZES N.M. HABITAT FOR HUMANITY ON CONSTRUCTION 500TH HOME
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recently congratulated the New Mexico Affiliates of Habitat for Humanity on construction of the their 500th house for families in the state. 
   The 500th home was built in San Pedro through the efforts of the Espa?ola/Los Alamos Habitat for Humanity Chapter and will provide housing for Frances Marquez and her 11-year-old daughter, Amanda. Construction plans for the house were drafted by students at Northern New Mexico College, and over 100 volunteers contributed to its completion. Domenici saluted the milestone in the Congressional Record. 
   "This particular house was a very special project. It involved the community not only through the volunteers who built the house, but also through the suggestions of Northern New Mexico College surveying students who helped draft the plans for the house. I am always looking for ways to help New Mexico communities be the best that they can be, and thanks to organizations like Habitat for Humanity, this common goal can be accomplished," said Domenici. 
   Habitat for Humanity of New Mexico is comprised of 16 statewide affiliates: Alamogordo, Albuquerque, Artesia, Belen/Los Lunas, Carlsbad, Deming, Espa?ola/Los Alamos, Gallup, Hobbs, Las Cruces, Las Vegas, Portales, Roswell, Ruidoso, Santa Fe, Silver City, and Taos. 
   The organization works to promote volunteer efforts and resources in individual affiliates which in turn carry out housing initiatives in their communities. For more information, visit http://www.habitatnewmexico.org. 
   The following remarks appeared in their entirety in the Congressional Record: 
   "This particular house was a very special project. It involved the community not only through the volunteers who built the house, but it also through the suggestions of Northern New Mexico College surveying students who helped draft the plans for the house. Drafting instructor Jeff Tooomey brought this project to his class in order to give them a real world lesson on drafting plans for a client. Thanks to their input, this house was specially designed to meet the needs of the Marquez family. 
   "Habitat for Humanity is responsible for the creation and rehabilitation of over 150,000 homes since its 1976 inception. In my home state of New Mexico, there are 18 affiliates of Habitat for Humanity who have improved the lives of families and communities by striving to provide safe and affordable housing. As a Senator, I am always looking for ways to help New Mexico communities be the best that they can be, and thanks to organizations like Habitat for Humanity, this common goal can be accomplished."
 
 