SENATE OJITO WILDERNESS BILL TO BE SIGNED INTO LAW
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today applauded House of Representatives' passage of their legislation to designate a new wilderness area on Bureau of Land Management Land in Sandoval County. The measure will now be sent to the president to be signed into law.  
   The bill designates 11,000-acre site just south of San Ysidro - known as Ojito - as a wilderness a area. The Ojito Wilderness Act (S. 156), which Bingaman and Domenici ushered through the Senate in July, recognizes that the area's dramatic landforms and rock structures, multicolored badlands, and rare plants are worthy of permanent protection. 
   The measure had broad local support, including the endorsement of the local Sandoval County Commission, the Bernalillo County Commission, the Albuquerque City Council, many of the Pueblos, and several environmental groups. 
   "Ojito is enjoyed for its beauty and for its ecological and cultural significance. Now, because of our bill, this area will be protected from development and enjoyed for generations to come. I look forward to the president signing this bill into law, hopefully later this month," said Bingaman, the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "With House passage, the Ojito Wilderness bill is finally ready for the President's signature. I am very pleased that the House has passed an identical version of this bill, which enables it to get to President Bush for his signature right away. The bill strikes the right balances between protecting the natural resources of the wilderness and protecting state water rights. I look forward to it becoming law," said Domenici, the chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   The Ojito area has been preserved as a Wilderness Study Area since 1991, pending congressional action to formally designate the area as wilderness. Enactment of the Ojito Wilderness Act would add these 11,000 acres to the National Wilderness Preservation System, which protects wild areas that have "outstanding opportunities for solitude or a primitive and unconfined type of recreation." 
   The area will remain open to hiking, backpacking, horseback riding, and rock climbing, as well as grazing and scenic, scientific, educational, conservation, and historical uses. But it also will remain protected from development, including commercial enterprises, road building, and mining, as well as off road vehicle use. 
   The Ojito Wilderness Act also would add protections to lands buffering the proposed Ojito Wilderness that are largely surrounded by the Pueblo of Zia. 
   The Pueblo will be allowed to purchase these lands for public open space, so long as they remain open to the public for continued recreational, scenic, scientific, educational, paleontological, and conservation uses, and so long as their natural characteristics are preserved. 
   In doing so, the Pueblo will be able to unite the two separate parts of its Reservation with aboriginal lands that have important religious, cultural, and historical value to the Pueblo.
 
 