N.M. SENATORS MOVE TO SUSTAIN HIGH ENERGY LASER SYSTEMS TEST FACILITY PROGRAM
  U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today moved to maintain a high-energy research program at White Sands Missile Range, and force the Department of the Army to justify proposed budget cuts.  
   Domenici, with Bingaman as a cosponsor, has offered an amendment to the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill (HR.1585) that addresses future funding for the High Energy Laser Systems Test Facility (HELSTF). The Senate this week resumed consideration of this bill, which authorizes defense policies and programs. 
   The amendment would prohibit the Army from taking irreversible action to close HELSTF and require the Secretary of Defense to provide a report to Congress that contains a cost-benefit analysis of the proposed budget cuts for HELSTF, including an evaluation of the cuts on work carried out by the Navy, Air Force and other federal agencies that use the facility. 
   "I understand the budget constraints facing the Army, but there should not be a rush to abandon HELSTF and its laser test capabilities. It is our preeminent directed energy test facility, and clearly adds to the joint operations goals set by the Pentagon," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and began pressing Army Secretary Pete Geren on the HELSTF cuts in early March. 
   "The High Energy Laser Systems Test Facility has been important to not only the Army, but to all of our armed forces. The proposed cut is shortsighted and without this boost, HELSTF would be virtually dismantled. That would be a mistake," Bingaman said. 
   Last year, the Army requested and Congress provided $16.4 million of HELSTF, but only sought $2.8 million for FY2008. The Senate Armed Services Committee increased the authorization by $7.5 million over the budget at Domenici's request, for total HELSTF authorization of $10.3 million for FY2008. 
   Domenici, Bingaman and Congressman Steve Pearce on Monday also issued letters to secretaries of the Navy and Air Force, as well as the director of the Missile Defense Agency alerting them to the proposed HELSTF budget cuts and asking them to assess the impact of such a reduction on their research and development programs. 
   "We urge you to direct the appropriate test and evaluation element in your agency to immediately engage the Army and the Department of Defense to assess the potential risks to your programs and ensure that your test and evaluation support requirements are clearly understood and accommodated without increased risk before any irreversible action is taken," the New Mexico lawmakers wrote.
 
 