SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES U.S. AIR FORCE ON 60TH ANNIVERSARY
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today paid tribute to the Air Force's 60th Anniversary with congratulatory remarks that will appear in the Congressional Record.  
   Today marked the 60th anniversary of the swearing in of the first secretary of the Air Force, which established the Air Force as a separate military branch with the same status as the Army and Navy. 
   "New Mexico is home to Cannon, Holloman and Kirtland Air Force Bases as well as the former Walker Air Force Base. We in New Mexico are honored and proud that so many Air Force officers and airmen, whose professionalism and dedication are unsurpassed have called New Mexico home," Domenici said. 
   The following remarks will appear in their entirety in the Congressional Record: 
   "New Mexico is home to Cannon, Holloman and Kirtland Air Force Bases as well as the former Walker Air Force Base. We in New Mexico are honored and proud that so many Air Force officers and airmen, whose professionalism and dedication are unsurpassed have called New Mexico home. 
   "The fact that the Air Force is celebrating Air and Space Power is not lost on New Mexico, where work is done in both areas. Holloman will be a premier site of air power when the 49th Tactical Fighter Wing becomes home to the F-22A Raptor, the most advanced fighter in the world. Cannon is also undergoing changes and growth in the air power arena, as Air Force Special Operations Command stands up a new Wing at Cannon on October 1. Kirtland continues to grow as home to much space work, including the Air Force Research Laboratory's Space Vehicle Directorate and the Operationally Responsive Space office. 
   "For the last 60 years America has been protected by the greatest Air Force in the world. I salute the men and women of the Air Force and hope that on the Air Force's 60th anniversary, New Mexicans will take time to thank the officers and airmen who have served and honor the memory of those who have given their lives in our defense." 
   Air Force installations worldwide have held celebratory events in honor of the milestone anniversary. Upcoming events also include a commemorative postmark and a special episode of Jeopardy. 
   For more information, visit: http://www.af.mil/library/usaf60.asp.
 
 