SEN. DOMENICI PART OF BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO RESTORE FUNDING FOR ACADEMIC ANESTHESIOLOGIST PROGRAMS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced his support of a bipartisan measure to fully restore federal Medicare reimbursements to academic anesthesiology programs, allowing them to attract physician residents and to foster research and advancements in the field of anesthesiology.  
   Domenici is cosponsoring a bipartisan bill (S.2056) introduced by Senators Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) to reverse an unfair Medicare payment policy that currently allows academic anesthesiology programs to receive only 50 percent reimbursement for services rendered. The payment policy administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) singularly applies to the field of anesthesiology and is contributing to a nationwide decline of anesthesiology teaching programs. 
   "Anesthesiology is a critically important and complex field of medical practice that should not be saddled with arbitrary and punitive reimbursement policies," said Domenici. "We must restore reimbursement to the physicians who are passing down the knowledge and skills of their craft and ensure the long-term viability of anesthesiology programs across the country. I would hope that enactment of this legislation could help build up anesthesiology education programs like the one at the University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center." 
   Current CMS policy has been in place since 1994 and dictates that anesthesiologists administering services to a patient in the presence of a student or in a teaching environment will receive only one-half of the reimbursement that would normally be due to them. This amounts to an average annual loss of $400,000 for these programs, with others being shortchanged as much as $1 million. 
   Such disincentives are leading to weakened teaching programs, including increased difficulty filling vacant faculty slots, and stifling research and development of advancements in the field. 
   The University of New Mexico's Health Science Center trains 7 anesthesiology residents, two pain specialists, and one pediatric anesthesiologist each year. The bill would ensure that the physician professors are wholly compensated for patient care that is administered while training New Mexico's future anesthesiologists. 
   Domenici, who also cosponsored the Medicare Teaching Anesthesiology Funding Restoration Act in the 109th Congress, serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds federal agencies and programs, including the Department of Health and Human Services and CMS.
 
 