SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES NEW MEXICO TECH FOR NATIONAL RECOGNITION AS 'BEST VALUE' COLLEGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today congratulated New Mexico Tech's strong commitment to academics, financial aid and low tuition costs as it emerges as one of the top value colleges in the nation.  
   New Mexico Tech ranked in the top 10 for the first time this year having been included on the list of overall "best value" colleges for several years. The Princeton Review based its 2006 rankings on academics, tuition, financial aid and student borrowing. 
   "Students come to New Mexico Tech for its outstanding academic reputation, hands-on laboratory learning experiences and opportunities for employment in one of their many research facilities," Domenici said. "This is a well-deserved recognition for the excellent work being done by the faculty and students at this university. 
   "It's a great achievement for New Mexico Tech to be so prominently recognized for its success in delivering quality education at an affordable cost for students. I am proud that the school's hard work and record of success has given Tech the recognition it deserves and has earned," he said. 
   New Mexico Tech ranked second among 81 schools to offer outstanding academics, generous financial aid packages and relatively low admission costs. The college offers graduate and undergraduate degrees in science and engineering fields for 1,800 students at $8,750 in tuition, books, and room and board. 
   As a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici recently requested $35 million for first responder training at New Mexico Tech through the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium (NDPC). 
   "In the past, I have strongly supported New Mexico Tech and have helped them secure defense and homeland security appropriations funding. In return, they have provided the country with first-rate research giving American defense and homeland security planners' better technology to protect military personnel and civilians from attack," Domenici said. "They have been on the forefront of homeland security research, antiterrorism efforts, and bringing new job opportunities to the central New Mexico region." 
   New Mexico Tech has expanded from its beginning as the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology in 1889 to train seven young mining engineers with just two professors in one building. Tech now conducts work in many areas including homeland security, hydrology, astrophysics, information technology, geosciences, energetic materials engineering, and petroleum recovery.
 
 