SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES $12 MILLION NAVY CONTRACT TO HONEYWELL ALBUQUERQUE FOR AIRCRAFT UPGRADES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today congratulated Honeywell Inc. for being awarded a $12.0 million contract to produce sophisticated display equipment for a scope of F-18 fighter aircrafts.  
   Honeywell Inc. in Albuquerque will furnish these multi-mission aircraft with advanced multi-purpose displays (AMPDs) that increase visibility, efficiency and precision. The monitors view AESA radar, TAMMAC mapping, infrared targeting, and sensing video. 
   "The more up-to-date and sophisticated the equipment is for our soldiers, the more accurately and safely they can do their job. I am very pleased Honeywell is again part of the mission to complete our responsibilities abroad and bring our troops safely home" said Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   Honeywell will install 93 forward AMPDs and 60 aft AMPDs in two versions of the Navy's F/A-18 Hornet. AMPDs are large format, high-resolution, all-weather-capable displays that increase the ability for pilots and navigators to accurately identify targets and maneuver through hostile territory and challenging terrain. 
   Operational since 1999, the F/A-18E/F Super Hornet is either a one or two manned long-range, all-weather strike fighter with two weapon stations to accomplish both air-to-air and air-to-ground combat missions. In contrast with its earlier counterparts, the Super Hornet was designed with 17 cubic feet of "growth space" to accommodate new technologies as they become available. 
   The versatility of this aircraft means missions range from day and night strikes, air support, fighter-escort, aerial refueling, and reconnaissance. Used during Operation Desert Storm, Super Hornets are able to engage enemy fighters and bomb hostile targets during the same mission. 
   In the past, Honeywell has partnered with the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Air Force to upgrade and retrofit display panels on two variations on the Navy's F/A-18 Hornet and the AV-8V Harrier, and the Air Force's F-16 Fighting Falcon aircraft.
 
 