N.M. LAWMAKERS INTRODUCE NAVAJO NATION WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today introduced legislation that would settle the Navajo Nation's water rights claims in the San Juan River Basin. Rep. Tom Udall introduced the measure in the House of Representatives.  
   In April 2005, the State of New Mexico and the Navajo Nation signed a settlement agreement that fully resolves the tribe's water claims in the basin. But before it can be officially settled, Congress must enact legislation. 
   In general the legislation reflects the signed agreement. For example, the bill recognizes approximately 600,000 acre-feet per year of water to the Navajo Nation for agricultural, municipal, industrial, domestic and stock watering purposes. It also authorizes federal funding for the Navajo-Gallup Pipeline project and various water conservation projects in the basin. 
   Under the Bingaman proposal, which Domenici and Udall support, the federal government would contribute funding over about two decades to construct the pipeline and perform other activities to implement the agreement. No dollar amount has yet been specified in the bill because the federal government is finalizing the cost of the pipeline project. However, the legislation includes language that guarantees that federal funding will be available. 
   "This bill brings to conclusion many years of negotiations, and would ensure that the Navajo Nation, cities of Gallup and Farmington, and other water users in the basin have adequate and assured quantities of water supplies into the future," Bingaman said. "It will also protect the interests of those receiving water from the San Juan-Chama project. The broad support that exists in New Mexico for this settlement makes it critical to now secure congressional support to settle this claim." 
   "When the resolution of water rights is left up to the courts, someone loses. This bill begins the process of resolving Navajo water claims in a way that brings certainty to water allocation in the Four Corners area. It is also the first step in realizing a long-standing dream of mine to help provide a reliable water supply to Gallup and the Navajo Nation in New Mexico. However, we must make it clear that this is the beginning of a long process. I will continue to listen carefully to the concerns New Mexicans have with this settlement as we move it through Congress. I very much appreciate Senator Bingaman's willingness to work with me on this legislation," Domenici said. 
   "The Navajo Nation, the State of New Mexico and many other residents of northwestern New Mexico have put tremendous effort into reaching an agreement that will provide a more secure future for many vulnerable communities," said Udall. "I am proud to be able to contribute to their work by introducing this legislation in the House, and starting it down the path of Congressional approval. I will work with my colleagues to pass this legislation to move this important water project forward." 
   Bingaman and Domenici, the chairman and ranking member f the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, intend to hold hearings on this bill within the next few months. The House version was sent to the House Resources Committee.
 
 