SEN. DOMENICI ASKS U.S. POSTAL SERVICE FOR MORE PERSONNEL TO IMPROVE MAIL DELIVERY, ESPECIALLY IN LAS CRUCES REGION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today credited the U.S. Postal Service for service improvements in the Albuquerque area, but highlighted ongoing problems in the Las Cruces and southern New Mexico region where mail is often delayed for three days or more.  
   Domenici discussed postal delivery problems with Dan G. Blair, chairman of the Postal Regulatory Commission, as part of a Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee (HSGAC) hearing Thursday. The hearing was on the current state of the USPS and implementation of the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435). HSGAC has oversight jurisdiction over the Postal Service. 
   The Postal Service on Wednesday announced that it would hire 75 new workers in the New Mexico/Albuquerque District. For today's hearing, Domenici asked Blair and Postmaster General John E. Potter to respond to him on concerns about personnel levels at the El Paso Area Distribution Center, which handles mail for Do?a Ana County and southern New Mexico. Blair indicated that he would get back to Domenici with answers to his inquiries. 
   "I appreciate the concentration to improve service in the Albuquerque and Rio Rancho area, but there is more work that must be done. In many areas of the state, mail is consistently late, undelivered and in some areas vandalized," said Domenici, who has assigned field staff to serve on a Las Cruces advisory board on postal service. 
   "I have heard that mail for New Mexico at the El Paso facility is not being processed for delivery, primarily because of a lack of personnel at this plant. I want assurances that this situation will be addressed soon. Some of the worst complaints I have are from the Las Cruces area, and these residents have valid complaints about poor service," he said. 
   Domenici also asked for a report on the efficiency record of area distribution centers that serve New Mexico, and requested information on standards used to recruit and retain qualified Postal Service employees in the state. 
   "These distribution centers must be adequately staffed and maintained. I understand the reason for them, but processing machine failures at centralized facilities have widespread impacts on mail delivery," Domenici said.
 
 