N.M. SENATORS MAKE $20.56 MILLION PLEA FOR SOUTHERN NEW MEXICO LEVEE REPAIRS
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today asked Senate negotiators to accept their request that $20.56 million be made available in the pending FY2007 supplemental bill to begin upgrading the levee system in southern New Mexico.  
   Negotiators are currently working to reconcile differences in the House and Senate versions of the emergency supplemental bill that is primarily intended to fund combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan and address other emergency situations around the country. Domenici and Bingaman made their request in a letter to Senators Robert Byrd (D-W.V.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   The $20.56 million would allow the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) to undertake sediment removal, levee repairs and raising on the levee systems of the Rio Grande Canalization Project in southern New Mexico. The House bill already contains $10 million to address levee repairs in the El Paso area. 
   "Many of the levees on the Rio Grande are showing their age and raising concern about their ability to provide flood protection," Domenici said. "The IBWC needs resources to begin correcting the problem as residents in Do?a Ana County face the prospect of flood insurance costs as FEMA assesses the public safety threat posed by these old levees." 
   "This funding will allow the IBWC to address the most serious problems with its levees in New Mexico, while we work in the coming months to secure the remainder of the resources needed to ensure that FEMA can certify the entire levee system," Bingaman said. 
   The IBWC has complete responsibility for the Southern Rio Grande Canalization Project which includes a 60-year-old levee system that is in disrepair, and according to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), is of inadequate height to protect against floods. The Senators have been working to secure repair funding in response to major summer flooding that occurred in the Hatch area and Do?a Ana County last August. 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee, has been named a Senate negotiator on the conference committee that will reconcile the emergency funding measure.
 
 