SEN. DOMENICI: DROUGHT CONDITIONS REQUIRE SHORT, LONG-TERM FEDERAL ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today said the testimony of New Mexicans on water shortages and severe drought can be useful in trying to prompt Congress to find ways to help alleviate the twin crises that are affecting all aspects of life.
   Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman, the committee's ranking Democrat, received testimony from two panels of witnesses representing farmers, ranchers, and officials at a Senate Energy and Natural Resources field hearing at the Hispanic Cultural Center in Albuquerque. 
   "One only needs to look outside at the Rio Grande to appreciate the dire situation we are in. This is one of the worst droughts in the last 100 years. I fear it will have a devastating affect not just on farmers and ranchers, but also businesses, homeowners, public institutions and our environment. The first-hand testimony we will gather today will be used to guide us in our deliberations on what more the Congress might be able to help," Domenici said.
   "There is no question that New Mexico will need immediate help from the federal government to deal with the drought and its byproducts, including an intense wildfire season. But the only long term solution is to support grant programs and develop new technology that will change the nature of our water supply throughout the West," he said.
   Domenici is currently involved in a number of legislative efforts to provide more drought assistance to New Mexico, including provisions within a pending emergency appropriations package that the Senate will take up next week. In that legislation, Domenici included $7.5 million and an extension of the Bureau of Reclamation's Emergency Drought Relief Act through 2010, and he cosponsored an amendment to provide $4 billion for production loss and economic assistance to farmers and ranchers.
   Domenici also included $5 million for emergency well drilling and water hauling by the Corps of Engineers, and $17 million for emergency disaster assistance for agricultural producers-$5 million of which will be allocated for New Mexico.
   The hearing also reviewed Domenici's legislation (S.2561) to expand and authorize the Water 2025 program, a Bureau of Reclamation assistance program that has been used by New Mexico irrigation districts, including the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District, Carlsbad Irrigation District and others, to improve water use efficiency and conservation. Domenici's bill would allow up to $25 million annually through 2016 for grant awards. Thus far, it is estimated that the Water 2025 has yielded an additional 285,000 acre feet of water per year nationally.
   "The drought illustrates the need to make the most efficient use of the water we do have. We need to formally authorize Water 2025 so that full funding can be made available to irrigation systems and communities that want to implement water conservation and efficiency projects that will serve us now and into the future. We must continue to harness the technological and scientific breakthroughs in desalination and other fields to expand the amount of water available to us," Domenici said.
   As chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici is also a major support of water technology programs through the DOE national laboratories.
   For FY2006, Domenici secured $12.5 million to support a Sandia National Laboratories Water Technology Program. This funding includes: $7 million for desalination and arsenic treatment; $2 million for water supply technology development; and $3.5 million for work for trans-boundary cooperation and to support collaboration between Sandia and New Mexico State Engineer.
   The hearing featured testimony from: Bruce Knight of the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service; Larry Perkins, farm superintendent, Agricultural Science Center at Tucumcari; Randy White of the Black Cattle Ranch; Ruidoso Mayor L. Ray Nunley; Mark Limbaugh, Assistant Secretary of Interior for Water and Science; José Otero, chairman, Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District; New Mexico Water Engineer John D'Antonio; Arvin Trujillo, executive director, Navajo Nation Division of Natural Resources; and Mike Hightower of Sandia National Laboratories.
 
 