SEN. DOMENICI RECOMMENDS GREATER DEA RESOURCES IN RURAL N.M. TO ADDRESS METH PROBLEMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today recommended that greater Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) resources be devoted to rural areas of New Mexico where the scourge of methamphetamine production and trafficking is a growing problem.  
   Domenici serves on the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee that Thursday reviewed the FY2008 budget requests for the DEA, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF), the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and the U.S. Marshals Service. 
   "The Control Meth Act has begun to work to shutdown meth labs in the United States. But now I'm hearing from communities across New Mexico, including Indian reservations, that they are being inundated with meth from Mexico and other countries. It is a serious problem that is affecting people of all social classes," Domenici said. 
   "I believe the DEA should look at how its resources can be better used to help local and tribal law enforcement," he said. "State and local law enforcement reap benefits while working alongside federal agents, but I am concerned that small communities are not able to take advantage of these partnerships. This is especially problematic because community population is neither a variable nor a predictor of illegal drug trafficking or abuse," he said. 
   Domenici asked DEA Administrator Karen Tandy to report to him on current DEA interaction with small communities and how that contact might be expanded. Domenici sought information on how the DEA would use the $29.2 million in new money requested to support the Southwest Border and Methamphetamine Enforcement Initiative. Overall, the FY2008 budget recommends $1.8 billion for the DEA. 
   Tandy reported that the DEA seized more than two metric tons of methamphetamine on the Southwest Border in 2006, a 129 percent increase. She said the SBMEI includes an intelligence sharing component, and highlighted greater cooperation from the Mexican government for joint operations to stop meth traffickers before the drug crosses the U.S. border. 
   Domenici also asked that the DEA report on meth trafficking trends in New Mexico, including those on Indian reservations. 
   For the U.S. Marshals Service, the budget seeks $899 million, including $7.5 million and 53 positions (40 Deputy Marshals for the Southwest Border district offices). Domenici is requesting clarification of what resources will be provided to the Southwest Border region to facilitate the handling of growing federal cases involving illegal drugs and immigration. 
   "The U.S. Marshals play a key role in federal drug and illegal immigration cases. The number of those cases is growing in New Mexico and along the border, and we definitely need more resources," Domenici said. 
   U.S. Marshals are involved in key aspects of the immigration process, including the transport of criminal immigrants and guarding them in federal courthouses. In February, Domenici introduced legislation (S.475) to authorize hiring an additional 50 Deputy U.S. Marshal positions annually for the next five years. The goal is to shore up border security by helping the U.S. Marshals Service meet increased duties associated with transporting and guarding criminal illegal immigrants involved in federal judiciary cases.
 
 