U.S. COURTHOUSE IN ALBUQUERQUE NAMED FOR SEN. DOMENICI
  Sen. Pete Domenici today accepted the honor of having the U.S. Federal Courthouse named for him, and recommitted to striving continuing his work to strengthen the federal judiciary in New Mexico.  
   Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia was the keynote speaker at a naming ceremony, at which the state-of-the-art courthouse - dedicated in early 1999 - was unveiled as the Pete V. Domenici United States Courthouse. Legislative authorization to name the courthouse for Domenici - the longest serving U.S. Senator in New Mexico history - was enacted last year. 
   "I am honored to have my name on this courthouse, which while beautiful is more important for the work it houses and what it stands for in our society. A courthouse is the symbol of American justice and represents the dignity and stability of our federal government," Domenici said. 
   "I've seen the federal judiciary change and expand over 32 years of my Senate career and I've considered it a solemn duty to do my best to keep it dynamic and strong as New Mexico grows," he said. "The task of meting justice is a growing in our state, and I am committed to seeing that our judges, prosecutors and others have the resources to meet the challenge." 
   As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and the former ranking member of the Senate Treasury, Postal Service and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici secured authorization and, beginning in 1992, a total of $56.8 million to build the seven-story courthouse at 333 Lomas Boulevard NE. The facility is the first built in Albuquerque specifically for the federal judiciary since 1911 - a year before statehood. 
   Since Domenici's election in 1972, the federal judiciary in New Mexico has grown from three to seven jurists. Domenici has played a role in the expansion of the judiciary in New Mexico, recommending the nomination three members of the 10th Circuit Court, as well as eight of the 10 sitting District and Senior judges now serving federal District Court bench in the state. In addition, his work in the Senate led to the confirmation of the first permanent District Court judge assigned to Las Cruces, where he is now pushing for a new federal courthouse to be built. 
   The naming ceremony was sponsored by the General Services Administration, the federal procurement and property management agency. The U.S. Courthouse is a first-place winner of the Eagle Award from the Associated Builders and Contractors National Excellence in Construction Competition.
 
 