SEN. DOMENICI TO MEET INTERNATIONAL NONPROLIFERATION OFFICIALS IN VIENNA NEXT WEEK
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a congressional leader in nonproliferation matters, today announced that he will engage in briefings and meetings on the global threat of nuclear proliferation next week at the United States Mission to International Organizations (UNVIE) in Vienna, Austria.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds American nonproliferation programs, departs Sunday for the week-long official trip that will include a meeting with Mohamed ElBaradei, director general of the United Nation's International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and Ambassador Greg Schulte, the U.S. permanent representative to UNVIE. 
   "The proliferation of nuclear materials represents a very real threat to the United States and, frankly, to overall global stability. We live in dangerous times with more nations trying to develop nuclear arms. Activities in North Korea, Iran and Pakistan greatly concern me. The United States is undoubtedly a key partner in the international effort to control the spread of materials that could be used as weapons of mass destruction if they ever got into the wrong hands," Domenici said. 
   "I look forward to hearing directly from those who are today engaged in very sensitive diplomatic efforts related to nonproliferation," said Domenici, who also received classified briefings last week at Sandia National Laboratories in preparation for this official trip to UNVIE. 
   Domenici will be joined on the official trip by Steve Kadner of Albuquerque, president of Canberra Aquila Inc., who has experience in working with the IAEA to improve nuclear material security in the former Soviet Union. 
   As part of his mission, Domenici will also meet with New Mexico scientists from Los Alamos and Sandia national laboratories who are assigned to UNVIE to work with the IAEA. Los Alamos and Sandia are intimately involved in nonproliferation activities and are acutely aware of the necessity of disposing nuclear material, like plutonium, that could be sold or stolen by terrorists. 
   Domenici, who is also chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, had stepped up pressure for the United States and Russia to make greater progress on a plutonium disposition program initially authored and funded by Domenici in 1998. That year, he also secured an initial $200 million to support the Plutonium Disposition Program between the United States and the Russian Federation. A question over potential liability responsibilities had obstructed progress on the United States and Russia each reprocessing 34 metric tons of weapons plutonium into mixed-oxide fuel (MOX).
 
 