SEN. DOMENICI, REP. PEARCE LAUD BORDER PATROL DECISION TO CONSOLIDATE TRAINING AT FLETC ARTESIA
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Rep. Steve Pearce today lauded a decision by the U.S. Border Patrol to consolidate all training - both basic and advanced - at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Artesia.  
   U.S. Border Patrol Commissioner Robert Bonner is expected to make the announcement Friday. FLETC officials have been in discussions with Border Patrol over the proposed move over the past several months. 
   Domenici, a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, has added language to the FY2005 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill to improve utilization of FLETC facilities in Artesia and Georgia, South Carolina and Maryland. 
   "The decision to move all Border Patrol training to Artesia is great news for the community and for the Border Patrol Agency. Already, substantial advanced Border Patrol training is being conducted at FLETC-Artesia. Consolidating basic and advanced training in one facility makes sense. It also ensures that the Artesia campus will have a vital role in law enforcement training and will be more fully utilized," Domenici said. 
   "This decision is great news for southern New Mexico. It demonstrates how New Mexico continues to contribute our nation's homeland security defenses. It also will bring more high paying jobs and stimulate the region's economy," said Pearce. 
   Recently, commercial charter air service was launched from Denver to Roswell to support FLETC-Artesia. Domenici had been pushing for the flights since last fall. The charter air service transports students to Roswell, less than an hour away from Artesia. Prior to the air service, students had to be bused from Albuquerque or El Paso, bus trips that take at least four hours. 
   Domenici has been a strong supporter of FLETC-Artesia programs. In the FY2005 Appropriations Bill, which is awaiting Senate passage, he added an extra $5.0 million for firearms range needs and perimeter safety improvements to prevent unauthorized persons from gaining entry to dangerous and nonpublic areas at the FLETC campus in Artesia. 
   Under the Senate version of the appropriations bill, FLETC operations in New Mexico, Georgia, South Carolina and Maryland will receive a total of $224.4 million in FY2005, $32.7 million over the Administration's budget request. 
   The Artesia facility will be responsible for addressing the basic and advanced training needs for more than 11,000 Border Patrol agents nationwide. New Border Patrol agents must complete a rigorous, 19-week training program that includes courses in anti-terrorism, federal immigration and anti-drug laws, and other law enforcement procedures. 
   "The Artesia campus can provide some unique advantages to the Border Patrol Agency because of its proximity to the Southwest border and similar conditions to which many agents will experience in the field. I'm confident that agents will find their training in Artesia rewarding and productive," Domenici said.
 
 