SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL TO ESTABLISH AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today noted New Mexico's housing needs as he joined Senate colleagues to support legislation that would increase housing assistance resources for low-income individuals and families.  
   Domenici is an original cosponsor of the National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act of 2007, introduced in the Senate today with Senators John Kerry (D-Mass.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Charles Schumer (D-NY), and Olympia Snowe (R-Me.). 
   The legislation would establish a federal trust fund to provide funds to state and local entities to construct, rehabilitate, and preserve 1.5 million housing units for extremely low-income families over the next 10 years. 
   "Housing is a simple necessity that for many is difficult to afford, despite their best efforts," said Domenici. "I believe this legislation can be an important step in helping many families attain viable and affordable housing." 
   According to a 2005 report by the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University, 37.3 million households spent more than 30 percent of their income on housing costs, while more than 17 million spent more than 50 percent. 
   The bill calls for a trust fund financed by several sources including federal appropriations and deposits from the Federal National Mortgage Corporaton and the Federal National Mortgage Association. Funds to states, Indian tribes, and local jurisdictions would be used for affordable rental housing, as well as down payment and closing cost assistance for first-time homebuyers. Similar legislation was passed by the House of Representatives earlier this year. 
   The legislation is supported by over 5,000 housing organizations including the National Low-Income Housing Coalition, National Association of Realtors, the National Association of Home Builders, Chilren's Defense Fund, United States Conference of Mayors, and the National Coalition for the Homeless. 
   Earlier this year, Domenici was an original cosponsor of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act (NAHASDA). The legislation, introduced by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.) and approved by the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, would reauthorize NAHASDA to provide funds to Indian tribes looking to provide housing uniqe to residents in their respective areas.
 
 