SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO ADD NEW FUNDING FOR BORDER SECURITY FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING CENTER-ARTESIA
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that $1.14 billion in emergency supplemental funding for border security efforts has been included in the FY2006 Defense Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2863). Included in that Department of Homeland Security funding is $17.9 million for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Artesia, New Mexico to construct a new language arts facility and upgrade the information technology infrastructure and phone system on the campus.  
   Also included in the bill is $80 million to upgrade law enforcement communications systems; $60 million to replace almost 1700 Custom and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement vehicles; $862 million for new Custom and Border Protection helicopters and facilities; and $120 million for construction and renovation of Custom and Border Protection stations, checkpoints, and infrastructure. 
   "Earlier this year, Congress showed that it is committed to addressing the growing problem on our international borders by providing $9 billion for border security and immigration enforcement in our FY2006 Homeland Security Appropriation bill. The provisions contained in this appropriations bill continue that commitment." Domenici said. 
   The language training facility to be constructed at FLETC-Artesia is expected to cost $8.9 million and will house six language laboratories, two classrooms, 60 break-out rooms, and a common area within a 45,000 square foot structure. It will employ the latest computer-based technology as well as traditional language instruction to prepare Border Patrol agents for their law enforcement mission on our nation's borders. 
   "Adding 1500 new Border Patrol agents in appropriations bills this year means FLETC-Artesia will see a significant increase in activity, since both basic and advanced Border Patrol training takes place there," Domenici said. "I am pleased that Congress is recognizing the importance of adequately equipping FLETC-Artesia to deal with that activity." 
   Domenici noted that many of the items provided for in the Defense Appropriations Bill are assets that he has called for in the Border Security and Modernization Act of 2005 (S. 2049), which he introduced with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) last month. The Domenici/Dorgan bill authorizes additional funding for each of FY2007-2011 for new technologies; additional roads, fences, and vehicle barriers; more air assets, vehicles and other equipment, and new border facilities and checkpoints. 
   Domenici wrote Senator Judd Gregg (R-NH), Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security earlier this month, to express support for including supplemental border security funding in the Defense Appropriations bill. 
   "I am very pleased to learn that you continue to push for more assets on our international borders," Domenici wrote. "I write to offer my support and assistance for those efforts. I also want to ensure that you are aware of plans for a language arts facility at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in my home state and provide you with details of a bill I introduced with Senators Dorgan and Talent, the Border Security and Modernization Act of 2005 (S. 2049). I believe our bill addresses many of your border goals." 
   Domenici indicated that he is especially pleased with the $862 million included in the bill for new Custom and Border Protection air assets. Reports to Domenici indicate that some of New Mexico's air assets might need to be replaced, as two of the helicopters date back to the Vietnam War era. Earlier this year, he asked Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to consider deploying new helicopters for Customs and Border Protection operations in New Mexico. 
   "I have made the Homeland Security Department aware of my concerns for the safety of residents who live on the New Mexico-Mexico border," he said. "I hope Secretary Chertoff will utilize some of the $862 million we are giving him to deploy new helicopters for border operations in New Mexico as part of our efforts to secure the Mexico-U.S. border." 
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and served on the conference committee that has finalized funding levels in the Defense Appropriations Bill that was approved by the House this morning and now only needs a final vote of approval in the Senate before it can be sent to President Bush to be signed into law.
 
 