SEN. DOMENICI CONGRATULATES LEADING N.M. HIGH SCHOOLS CITED BY NATIONAL MAGAZINE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today commended 16 of New Mexico's high schools, including the Academy for Technology and the Classic in Santa Fe and Los Alamos High School, on being recognized among the best in the nation by U.S. News and World Report. 
   The 16 schools from across New Mexico received silver and bronze designations in the magazine's first ever high school rankings which measured student standardized test performance, the academic success of disadvantaged students, and the quality of the coursework at respective high schools. Domenici recognized the schools in a statement published in the Congressional Record.  
   "I was pleased to learn that 16 of New Mexico's high schools were awarded with silver and bronze medals for outstanding performance as part of U.S. News and World Report's first ever high school rankings," said Domenici. "Teachers and staff at these high schools have demonstrated their commitment to excellence through quality education. This is a deserved recognition for the excellent work these schools are doing, and I congratulate them on their success." 
   The following schools received silver awards: La Cueva High School and Sandia High School in Albuquerque, and Los Alamos High School. 
   The following schools received bronze awards: Academy for Technology and the Classics, Santa Fe; Boomfield High School; Clayton High School; Cliff High School; Eldorado High School, Albuquerque; East Mountain Charter High School, Sandia Park; Hagerman High School; Lake Arthur High School; Logan High School; Magdalena High School; Springer High School; Tatum High School; and Texico High School. 
   The following remarks were published in their entirety in the Congressional Record: 
   "Mr. President, I rise today to applaud the top public high schools in my home state of New Mexico. I was pleased to learn that in U.S. News and World Report's first ranking of America's best high schools, sixteen high schools in New Mexico were awarded with silver and bronze medals for their outstanding performance on standardized tests and in providing college-level coursework. 
   "The students come from many different backgrounds, but they are successful because of the mind-set that says every student can succeed. These schools and the communities around them have embraced the differences in their student body and demonstrated that every single student, regardless of background, can and will learn. It takes the dedicated leadership of a good principal, a talented teaching corps and engaged parents to achieve this level. 
   "The teachers and staff of these high schools have demonstrated their commitment to excellence through quality education. I have always been very proud to call New Mexico my home because of the countless opportunities it provides. This is a well deserved recognition for the excellent work being done by these high schools, and I would like to congratulate them on their great success. 
   "The following schools were commended with awards: Academy for Technology and the Classics in Santa Fe, NM; Bloomfield High School in Bloomfield, NM; Clayton High School in Clayton, NM; Cliff High School in Cliff, NM; Eldorado High School in Albuquerque, NM; East Mountain Charter High School in Sandia Park, NM; Hagerman High School in Hagerman, NM; La Cueva High School in Albuquerque, NM; Lake Arthur High School in Lake Arthur, NM; Logan High School in Logan, NM; Los Alamos High School in Los Alamos, NM; Magdalena High School in Magdalena, NM; Sandia High School in Albuquerque, NM; Springer High School in Springer, NM; Tatum High School in Tatum, NM; Texico High School in Texico, NM. 
   "Again, I commend these fine high schools on a job well done, and I hope that these awards will inspire high schools in my home state and around the country to strive for the best. I ask unanimous consent my statement be printed in the Record."
 
 