SEN. DOMENICI: Z MACHINE'S BROAD CAPABILITIES UNDERSCORE NEED TO INCREASE SCIENCE FUNDING AT NATIONAL LABS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today used the dedication of a refurbished Z Machine at Sandia National Laboratories to argue for greater federal investment in scientific research at the national laboratories.  
   Domenici, who has championed the scientific capabilities of the Energy Department's nuclear weapons complex, today took part in the rededication of Sandia's Z Machine--a $91 million project that will greatly expand its application to the stockpile stewardship mission, fusion energy, high energy density physics, and astronomy. 
   "The Z Machine offers both weapons programs and non-weapons science a unique capability. The only thing left to do is to provide full funding for operations," said Domenici, noting how the program started as a $50 million particle beam fusion accelerator in 1985 and was converted to the Z Machine in 1996 for $13 million. 
   "It is moments like this that should remind all of us of the important role our national labs play in realizing our nation's scientific potential. The investments we made over 20 years ago now provide unimagined capabilities and usefulness," he said. 
   Domenici criticized recent attempts in Congress to dramatically cut funding for lab weapons programs under "the false notion that this will reduce our nuclear weapons stockpile and make the world safer from nuclear weapons." 
   "Nothing could be further from the truth," Domenici said. "It's worth noting that the United States is the undisputed world leader in high-performance computing thanks to the stockpile stewardship program. It is these breakthroughs in scientific computing that allow us to forego underground testing, a major nonproliferation objective." 
   "It disappoints me to say this, but I am certain that if faced with the same challenge today, this Congress would not come to the same decision we made a dozen years ago to invest in the stockpile stewardship approach and stick with it," Domenici said. "It troubles me that critics of the labs refuse to be educated about the broad scientific capabilities and the important responsibilities entrusted to our lab employees." 
   Domenici, pledging to continue his advocacy of the national labs' capabilities, commended Sandia for delivering the Z Machine upgrade and expressed his expectation that it will "open new scientific horizons and lead to greater discoveries." 
   The improved Z Machine will benefit from an effort by Domenici, through his role on the Senate Energy and Water Development Subcommittee, for the DOE National Nuclear Security Administration and the DOE Office of Science to support a joint research program in high energy density physics. This year, DOE has formally made this initiative a joint program between the NNSA and Office of Science, with each contributing $12 million.
 
 