SEN. DOMENICI GAINS U.S. POSTAL SERVICE COMMITMENT TO ADD CONTRACT POSTAL FACILITY IN RIO RANCHO
  In a private meeting with U.S. Postal Service officials, Sen. Pete Domenici today gained a commitment to obtain a retail contract mail facility in Rio Rancho, after he expressed his growing concern over poor service in the city and around the state.  
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee (HSGAC) which has jurisdiction over the Postal Service. On Thursday, he met with Postmaster General Jack Potter and Vice President for Government Relations Tom Day, Sr. in his office. 
   Potter told Domenici that the Post Office will set up a retail contract mail facility, which will allow for additional capacity for customers to use. Potter said the USPS is not able to build many individual Post Offices due to budgetary concerns. 
   In November, Domenici sent a letter to Potter asking him expedite the approval process for an additional post office or contract facility in Rio Rancho. Since 1990, Rio Rancho's population has increased from 32,500 to 62,900, a 90 percent change, but the city is still served by just one post office. 
   "The citizens of Rio Rancho deserve better postal service. Rio Rancho has seen dramatic growth over the last decade, but the ability of the post office to deliver mail has not grown with it. It is unreasonable to expect the people of Rio Rancho to drive all the way to Albuquerque to visit the post office," Domenici said. 
   "We are dealing with an increasingly difficult budgetary situation for the Post Office. I understand their restraints, which are affecting the ability to build new facilities. However, today I asked the Postmaster directly to find a way to expand service in Rio Rancho. I'm pleased that he committed to opening a new facility in New Mexico will improve service and make life more convenient for the citizens of Rio Rancho," Domenici said. 
   Domenici said that his office has received numerous complaints from citizens in Rio Rancho regarding postal service. He pointed out that most cities with similar populations have multiple facilities. 
   The meeting also focused on general service problems statewide, including late delivery of first class mail, time sensitive material such as bills, medication, and Social Security payments delivered as much as six weeks late, as well as short staffing at post offices resulting in long lines. Among the biggest problems areas have been Las Cruces, Santa Fe, and Roswell. 
   Potter told Domenici that the Postal Service has put a new management team in charge of New Mexico, and is already seeing improvement. Among the measures to be implemented to improve service are new standard operating procedures and a renewed focus on employee efficiency. 
   Domenici's HSGAC Committee will be involved in postal reform efforts over the coming year.
 
 