DR. PETER LYONS - SEN. DOMENICI AIDE, FORMER LANL NUCLEAR PHYSICIST APPOINTED TO NRC
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised President Bush's recess appointment of his long-time aide Dr. Peter B. Lyons to fill a vacancy on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC).  
   The White House announced Lyon's appointment Wednesday. Lyons, who has worked with Domenici since 1997, was appointed with Dr. Gregory Jaczko to fill two vacancies on the five-member commission. As recess appointments, neither appointment will require Senate confirmation. Both are expected to serve two years. 
   "I am delighted with Dr. Lyons' appointment. He will do an outstanding job. His experience and expertise on nuclear matters is unsurpassed. My only regret is that I will have a very difficult time finding someone of Dr. Lyons' caliber to fill his shoes on the Energy Committee," Domenici said. 
   "Pete has been a trusted aide and good friend, and has excelled in Washington in the same manner he demonstrated while at LANL and as a public servant in Los Alamos. I believe the President has chosen well with this appointment, and believe the NRC and the nation will be well served with Pete Lyons as a commissioner," he said. 
   Lyons is currently a nuclear policy advisor on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which Domenici chairs. On the committee, Lyons' assignment portfolio includes nuclear energy, research and development, and hydrogen issues. He also assists the chairman on nonproliferation and other Department of Energy matters. 
   From 1997 to 2002, Lyons served as a science and technology advisor to Domenici, focusing on military and civilian uses of nuclear technologies and national science policy in support of the Senator's extensive involvement with these issues. 
   Prior to assignment in Washington, Lyons worked at the Los Alamos National Laboratory for 28 years, including serving the last three years of that tenure as director of the LANL Industrial Partnership Office. In previous laboratory assignments, he was Deputy Associate Director for Energy and Environment, Deputy Associate Director for Defense Research and Applications, and Program Director for Nuclear Defense Research. 
   Before joining LANL, Lyons received his doctorate degree in nuclear physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1969 and his B.S. degree in physics/math from the University of Arizona in 1964. 
   While in Los Alamos, he was elected to serve for a total of 16 years on the Los Alamos School Board and six years on the University of New Mexico-Los Alamos Branch Advisory Board. He has also served as chairman of the NATO Nuclear Effects Task Group.
 
 