SEN. DOMENICI AGAIN VOTES FOR LOBBY REFORM BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici late Thursday once again joined the Senate in passing bipartisan legislation to enact significant reforms to the way that Congress operates.  
   The Senate on Thursday passed (96-2) the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act of 2007 (S.1), which reforms the earmarking process and strengthens disclosure of lobbyist and congressional activities to the public. The bill is broadly based on the bill the Senate passed last March (S.2349, 90-8), and which Domenici supported. 
   "This legislation is intended to assure the American people that their representatives in Washington are working in an appropriate manner. It is meant to restore confidence in the legislative process," Domenici said. "Bringing openness and transparency to the way we make laws should reduce the potential for abuse and misunderstanding." 
   This Senate bill amends the Senate Rules to enhance disclosure of legislative earmarks as well as travel and meals provided to Members and staff by lobbyists. The bill further amends the statutes governing disclosure of lobbying activities, limits lobbyist-provided travel and meals, and expands post-government employment restrictions for former members of Congress and their staff. 
   The bill also reforms the ability to add earmarks to appropriations, authorization or tax bills. It expands the definition of an earmark, and stipulates that a lawmaker must certify that earmarks do not benefit them personally. 
   The bill would require lobbyists to file more frequent disclosure reports, which would then be made available to the public. Under the provisions of the bill, lobbyists would have to disclose political contributions they make, travel expenses, and previous employment. 
   Domenici did not support, and the Senate struck, a provision that would have limited so-called grassroots lobbying activities. 
   "It is important that the public have access to disclosure information about lobbyists. This bill will greatly strengthen disclosure requirements for both lobbyists and members of Congress, which is a step in the right direction," Domenici said.
 
 