SEN. DOMENICI ENCOURAGED BY U.S.-MEXICO DEAL ON CEMENT IMPORTS, SEES IT AS BENEFICIAL TO NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said a deal to drastically reduce American tariffs on Mexican cement imports will help ease a shortage of the building material that has escalated the cost of construction in New Mexico and other states.  
   The Commerce Department today informed Domenici that the United States and Mexico have reached an agreement to lower the American duty on Mexican cement imports from $26 a metric ton to $3 a metric ton. The plan would also allow Mexico to increase its imports to the United States by 1 million metric tons. 
   Last October, Domenici wrote President Bush and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez urging them to suspend or reduce the American tariff imposed on Mexican cement. 
   "This is a very welcome development. When implemented, this trade deal should mean cement costs will not continue to be prohibitively expensive for everything from public works projects to business and home construction," Domenici said. "I congratulate President Bush and Secretary Gutierrez for working with the Mexican government to find a resolution to the duty on Mexican cement." 
   "Construction has been an important aspect of the economic activity in New Mexico and the nation in recent years. The shortage of available and affordable cement had the potential for pinching off that activity. We needed this mutually beneficial agreement on cement tariffs to move forward," he said. 
   New Mexico is among 30 states that since 2004 reported cement shortages. Cement prices have escalated with increased global demand and macro economic factors including surges in residential construction and higher fuel costs that affected the cost of shipping cement. In addition, Domenici said recovery construction related to hurricane damage in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast will further increase the cement demand over the next few years. 
   In return for lowering the American tariff, the Mexican government has agreed to begin opening its markets to cement produced in the United States and other nations. The agreement could go into effect in March or April.
 
 