NEW BORDER SECURITY FUNDING NOW LAW, INCLUDING $25 MILLION FOR FLETC-ARTESIA
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that President Bush has signed into law an emergency spending bill that will benefit New Mexico's border region by providing millions in new funding for infrastructure and personnel. 
   Domenici served on the conference committee that put together the final version of the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill, which includes funds for National Guard deployment on the border and for additional vehicle barriers and fencing. The Senate sent the bill to Bush on Thursday.
   This $94.5 billion package includes $1.9 billion for enhanced border security efforts, including $708 million to support National Guard deployments and $316 million for vehicle barriers, patrol roads and some fencing.
   This border package also includes $25 million for additional instruction and infrastructure upgrades at FLETC-Artesia to support Border Patrol agent training.
   "I'm pleased President Bush has quickly signed this measure into law. The U.S. government is serious about adding manpower to the border. Between the President's call for 6,000 new agents by FY2008 and the deployment of National Guard troops, this message is loud and clear: illegal entry into the United States will no longer be tolerated. This package will help us shut down the border to illegal immigrants," Domenici said.
   The law makes Department of Homeland Security funding available to support National Guard work on the Southwest Border. The Bush administration is working with states like New Mexico to organize Guard rotations on the border to support Border Patrol activities.
   In addition, the bill provides $316 million for the DHS Customs and Border Protection (CBP) directorate to construct 256 miles of vehicle barriers, 359 miles of patrol roads, and additional lighting and fencing along the border.
   The border security package includes:
   * $708 million to support deploying up to 6,000 National Guard members to the Southwest Border, including New Mexico.
   * $410 million to provide the resources to hire 1,000 Border Patrol Agents; replace vehicles; support Secure Border Initiative integration efforts; and increase capacity at the Border Patrol Academy in Artesia, New Mexico ($25 million).
   * $95 million through CBP's Air and Marine Interdiction, Operations, Maintenance, and Procurement to purchase two Unmanned Aerial Vehicles and 13 additional helicopters. (Domenici has pushed for the CBP to replace Vietnam-era helicopters now deployed on New Mexico's border with Mexico.)
   * $316 million for CBP construction to add 256 miles of vehicle barriers, 359 miles of all-weather patrol roads, and additional lighting and fencing along the border. This funding will also be used to begin accommodating the new Border Patrol workforce being trained and deployed.
   * $400 million for ICE for 4,000 additional detention beds to support the process of ending "catch and release" practices on the Southwest Border. The new funding would also support: removal and transportation costs associated with these detention beds; and, partnerships with state and local law enforcement involved with enforcing immigration laws.
   Domenici and the Senate will now take up FY2007 Homeland Security funding, which will seek to further support border security measures.
   Audio clip at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309)
 
 