SENATE PASSES WATER RESOURCE BILL WITH DOMENICI PROJECTS FOR MIDDLE RIO GRANDE REGION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted with the Senate to pass a national water infrastructure bill that authorizes more than $65 million for three middle Rio Grande water projects he has championed and paves the way for development of a possible bosque park in the Albuquerque region.
   Middle Rio Grande bosque restoration, South Valley flood control and Rio Grande environmental restoration are among the Domenici projects approved today by the Senate as part of the new Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The measure (S.728) will now have to be reconciled with similar authorization legislation passed by the House of Representatives. 
   WRDA authorizes appropriations for water resource projects, study authorizations and policy modifications for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that provides funding for WRDA-authorized projects. It was approved on a voice vote.
   "The best management of water resources is a national concern, and of particular importance for arid states like New Mexico. I am pleased the new WRDA bill will continue federal support for our ongoing efforts to improve the overall middle Rio Grande watershed and its impact on those who live in the area," Domenici said.
   Domenici said the $25 million annual authorization for the Middle Rio Grande Bosque Restoration project should enable the Army Corps to continue riparian rehabilitation work and set the stage for making more of the bosque accessible to the public for recreation purposes. Domenici said the WRDA authorization closely follows bosque remediation work he wrote into a bill he introduced in February (S.2254).
   "We are well into the second decade of a collaborative effort to save the Rio Grande bosque and this will clear the way for the federal government to continue to be involved in this work. The bosque is a beautiful and natural asset for our state and its health directly impacts on the entire Rio Grande ecosystem," Domenici said. "It is my hope that we can move forward on plans to having a healthy bosque that can be a community asset as a park-like greenbelt for the public to enjoy."
   The following are brief summaries of the three New Mexico WRDA projects included in S.728 at Domenici's request:
   * Bosque Restoration: Authorizes $25 million annually for the implementation of restoration projects in the middle Rio Grande region, from Cochiti Dam to the headwaters of Elephant Butte Reservoir. The program would allow for the removal of unnecessary jetty jacks, reduction of non-native species, increase of cottonwood woodland, removal of dead and down trees, extension of open meadows to reduce fire hazard, and improvement of recreational and educational opportunities throughout the Middle Rio Grande Bosque. In 1991, Domenici launched his Rio Grande Bosque Initiative to save the bosque habitat between Cochiti and Elephant Butte. Non-Federal interests must provide 35 percent of the total cost of bosque restoration projects.
   * Rio Grande Environmental Management Program: Authorizes $25 million annually and establishes a continuing authority for addressing environmental restoration and management on the Rio Grande and its tributaries in New Mexico. The program would support two main components: (1) planning, design and construction of small habitat rehabilitation and enhanced projects and (2) a long-term river data acquisition to assist in managing the Rio Grande watershed. Construction projects approved through this program must be cost-shared on a 65-35 basis with a local entity.
   * Southwest Valley Flood Damage Reduction Study: Authorizes $15.6 million for federal participation in constructing of flood control infrastructure for Albuquerque's Southwest Valley, which is subject to flooding. The project, requiring $8.4 million in non-federal support, includes the construction of detention basins and a pumping station. The Southwest Valley is subject to flooding from rainfall runoff. Due to unfavorable topography, flood waters pond in low lying developed areas and cannot drain by gravity flow to the Rio Grande. The federal government will fund 65 percent of the project, with 35 percent of the project coming from non-federal sources. The estimated completion date for the project is 2013.
   "It has been 20 years since we successfully brought federal attention to the flood control needs of the historic South Valley. This authorization will allow the Corps to continue to work with Albuquerque and Bernalillo County to improve flood protection," said Domenici, who first gained WRDA authorization for this work in 1986.
 
 