SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON EXTENDED HOURS AT SANTA TERESA BORDER CROSSING
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a member of key Senate committees related to homeland security, today issued the following statement related to an extended hours pilot program to be launched at the Santa Teresa border crossing:  
   "Extending the hours of operation at Santa Teresa is a key component for facilitating greater commercial and passenger traffic through this port of entry. More hours means Santa Teresa will be able to help alleviate the existing pressure at the El Paso-Juarez crossing, and it sets the stage for handling more legitimate international traffic as U.S. border security is more broadly enforced." 
   Domenici serves on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, as well as the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 
   Domenici worked to extend port hours at Santa Teresa for years, and worked with the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Directorate of the Department of Homeland Security to extend hours as part of a pilot project to see if the increased hours would result in increased traffic. Implementation of the port hour extension has since been pending negotiations with the Mexican government to coordinate an increase in hours at their companion port. 
   Starting Sept. 3, the pilot program will extend commercial hours at Santa Teresa from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., Monday through Friday, amounting to 20 extra hours of operation a week. Current hours for commercial operation are 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
   In 2006, at Domenici's request, CBP submitted a report on resources allocated to the Santa Teresa port of entry. This included an analysis of the impact of expanding the hours of operations from 10 hours per day to 16 hours per day. 
   As part of the ongoing Senate debate on border security and immigration reform, Domenici added provisions to the Senate bill directing DHS to work with the General Services Administration to assess border crossing infrastructure on U.S. borders with Mexico and Canada and to develop a comprehensive plan for systematically improving border crossings. These provisions follow the Domenici-Dorgan Border Infrastructure and Modernization Act of 2007 (S.575), which was introduced in February. 
   The last comprehensive border improvement effort was in 1986, with a $237 million border improvement plan sponsored by Domenici and former Arizona Senator Dennis DeConcini.
 
 