SEN. DOMENICI: LONG-AWAITED U.S.-RUSSIA PLUTONIUM LIABILITY AGREEMENT IS CRITICAL STEP IN RIGHT DIRECTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed his hope that the United States and Russia will now move forward with reprocessing tons of nuclear-grade plutonium now that the two nations have resolved a long-standing technical disagreement. 
   United States and Russian officials Tuesday have agreed upon text to resolve a liability issue related to a plutonium disposition program initially authored and funded by Domenici in 1998. The question over potential liability responsibilities had stymied progress on the reprocessing of 34 metric tons of U.S. and Russian weapons plutonium into mixed-oxide fuel (MOX). The terms of the agreement were negotiated during the G-8 Summit in Scotland earlier this month.  
   The new liability agreement between the two former Cold War adversaries will permit the partners to move forward with construction of dual MOX fuel fabrication facilities to reprocess the weapons-grade plutonium into fuel for commercial nuclear reactors. 
   "As we see the world become more and more dangerous, it is critical that we make progress on reprocessing weapons-grade plutonium into MOX. Black marketers and terrorists would love to get their hands on this plutonium. President Bush has worked hard to engage President Putin on this issue, and as a result of that continuing dialogue, there is now an agreement to implement a MOX program," said Domenici, who plays a leadership role in the nation's detection, monitoring and securing of nuclear material as part of the nonproliferation activities. 
   "I'm very pleased that this agreement has been made because it will give us a sure-fire way to dispose of weapons-grade material while at the same time providing economic benefits. I am hopeful Russia's Duma will take quick action," he said. 
   The agreement will now require a Russian presidential decree, and then a U.S.-Russian formal signing of the pact-which will allow preparatory activities at the Savannah River site in South Carolina to begin. Finally, the agreement must be ratified by the Russian Duma. 
   Domenici was instrumental in implementing a 1998 U.S.-Russia agreement to reprocess 34 metric tons of excess weapons plutonium-enough to supply 8,000 nuclear weapons-to transform surplus weapons-grade plutonium into a form that can no longer be used in nuclear weapons. That year, he also secured an initial $200 million to support the Plutonium Disposition Program between the United States and the Russian Federation. 
   Last year, Domenici encouraged the Bush administration to become more actively involved in reaching an agreement with Russia on plutonium liability. Since that time, Domenici has met with Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice, Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman, and Under Secretary John Bolton, who have been intimately involved in resolving differences with Russia. In recent months, the U.S. officials have regularly reported their progress to Domenici. 
   "Nonproliferation activities must continue to be a top global priority. This year alone, the U.S. has worked with Russia to strengthen nuclear facilities, develop low-enriched uranium fuel for research reactors, and secure nuclear weapons and material. The Bush administration's focus on these issues is welcome, and I believe will pay dividends in the future. In particular, I would like to thank Secretary Rice, Secretary Bodman and Undersecretary Bolton for their hard work on this issue," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that the DOE national laboratories-including Los Alamos and Sandia in New Mexico-are intimately involved in nonproliferation activities and are acutely aware of the necessity of disposing nuclear material, like plutonium, that could be sold or stolen by terrorists. 
   -30- 
   THE FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT OF A DOMENICI FLOOR STATEMENT: 
   Statement by Senator Pete Domenici 
   Recognizing the Achievement of the Bush Administration to Secure a Liability Agreement on Plutonium Disposition 
   July 19, 2005 
   Mr. President, I have come to the Senate floor today to make my colleagues aware of an important achievement by the Bush Administration to secure an agreement with the Russian Government to ensure that a major nonproliferation program moves forward. This agreement will resolve the long standing disagreement on liability associated with the construction of Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facility in Russia. 
   This agreement will permit the U.S. and Russia to move forward with the construction of dual MOX fuel fabrication facilities to turn weapons-grade plutonium into civilian mixed-oxide fuel that can be burned in commercial nuclear reactors. Each side will dispose of 34 tons of excess plutonium. 
   Today the U.S.-Russian counterparts will agree to the terms of an agreement negotiated during the G-8 summit in England earlier this month. It was during this summit in which terrorists attempted to disrupt the meeting to by setting off simultaneous explosions in the London subway, killing over 40 innocent victims. This senseless violence underscores the importance of the eliminating the possibility, however remote, that terrorists might secure and use plutonium or highly enriched uranium in their acts of terror against civilian or military targets. 
   As we see the world become more and more dangerous, it is critical that we make progress on reprocessing plutonium into MOX. Black marketers and terrorists would love to get their hands on this plutonium. President Bush has worked hard to engage President Putin on this issue, and as a result of that continuing dialogue there is now an agreement to implement a MOX program. 
   I am very pleased that this agreement has been made because it will give us a sure-fire way to dispose of weapons-grade material while at the same time providing economic benefits to both countries. I am hopeful the Russian Duma will take quick action. 
   This agreement breaks a two year diplomatic impasse that has stalled the construction of fuel fabrication facilities in the U.S. and Russia. 
   I would like to recognize the efforts of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Undersecretary of State John Bolton, Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman and the entire Office of Nuclear Nonproliferation within the NNSA. Both the State Department, which negotiated the diplomatic solutions, and the Department of Energy, which has responsibility for managing the design, construction and operation of the nation's first plutonium reprocessing plant, have been exceptional. Both teams have worked hard to realize the ultimate goal of eliminating 34 tons of weapons-grade plutonium from each of the U.S. and Russian stockpiles. 
   Over the past year I have pressed the Department of Energy and the State Department to resolve the liability issue. Upon their confirmations, both Secretary Rice and Secretary Bodman have committed their full support, and they should be proud of their early success. 
   The effort to address the elimination of excess weapons-grade material has been under consideration for over a decade. President George Bush's term initiated the earliest efforts to identify excess weapons-grade material. Over the next decade, the Clinton Administration worked with then President Yeltsin to consider options for eliminating excess material. 
   In 1994, the National Academy of Sciences' (NAS) report on the "Management and Disposition of Excess Weapons Plutonium" found that excess material constituted a "clear and present danger." That same year a joint DOE-DoD review found that 38.2 metric tons of plutonium and 174.3 metric tons of Highly Enriched Uranium were surplus to U.S. defense needs. A programmatic environmental impact statement was undertaken to evaluate options for disposal of this material. 
   In 1995, U.S. and Russian experts met at Los Alamos to provide recommendations on plutonium disposition. Since those early meetings the labs have contributed a considerable amount of time and effort to support this initiative. In fact, Los Alamos prepared the plutonium that is being used as the initial test fuel assembly currently being burned in the Catawba reactor owned by Duke Power. 
   In April 1996, at the Moscow Nuclear Safety and Security Summit, it was determined that irradiating plutonium as part of a mixed oxide fuel in commercial reactors and vitrification are appropriate strategies for disposal. 
   In June 1997, the Independent Holdren-Velikhov Commission issued a final report recommending a disposal pathway identified at the Moscow Summit. The report is a joint U.S. and Russian National Academy of Science review. 
   In July 1998, the U.S. and Russia signed a Scientific and Technical Cooperation Agreement that provides for a joint, small-scale test of disposition pathways. This agreement also provided a five year liability agreement between the U.S. and Russia for coverage of U.S. workers in Russia that expired in July 2003. 
   In September 1998, President Clinton and President Yeltsin entered into a bilateral plutonium disposition agreement. 
   In October 1998, I included $200 million in "emergency" funding dedicated entirely to plutonium disposition to demonstrate to Russia the firm U.S. commitment to plutonium disposition. This funding persuaded Russia to enter into serious negotiations. Today, $150 million of those funds remains available for use to initiate construction. 
   That same month, G-8 members established the Multilateral Plutonium Disposition Group and committed to international financing of the Russian plutonium program. As of January 2005, total pledges from the U.S., U.K., Canada, Japan, Italy and France total $865 million. I am confident that with the liability issue resolved additional funding will be made available to support the Russian effort. The U.S. will fulfill its commitment to build the U.S facility on it own. 
   In March 1999, the U.S. awarded the MOX facility contract to Duke Cogema Stone and Webster (DCS) to design the U.S. MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility. In August, DoE awarded a contract to design the Pit Disassemble and Conversion Facility. 
   In January 2000, DOE issued a Record of Decision on locating the pit conversion and fuel fabrication facility at Savannah River, South Carolina. 
   In September 2000, the U.S. and Russia signed the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement, which calls for each country to dispose of 34 tons of weapons-grade plutonium in parallel. It was agreed that construction would begin by 2003. Unfortunately, one item left unresolved in that agreement was the question of liability protection for the U.S. for work performed in Russia. 
   In January 2001, the Bush Administration began a year long review of all nonproliferation programs with Russia. During this review, the contracting team submitted a Construction Authorization Request to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for approval. 
   January 2002, the Administration decided to pursue a MOX only pathway and put an end to further work on a vitrification program. 
   In September 2002, MINATOM, the Russian counterpart to the Department of Energy, agreed to use an identical design of the U.S. proposed MOX facility. 
   In July 2003, the temporary five-year limited liability coverage provided under the 1998 Science and Technical Cooperation Agreement expired. 
   In February 2004, without a formal agreement on liability, the U.S. announced a delay in the program. Plans to initiate construction in May 2004 were delayed until May 2005. 
   August 2004, the Russians begin site characterization work at the Siberian Chemical Combine in Seversk, Russia as a location of the MOX facility. The site has been cleared and is awaiting construction. Unlike the Savannah River Site, which has a year-round construction season, the Seversk site is limited to work in the summer. 
   In September 2004, Los Alamos shipped 125 kilograms of surplus plutonium to France for fabrication into MOX fuel assemblies for a test burn in a commercial U.S. reactor. This activity is undertaken in France since the design of the U.S and Russian fuel fabrication facility is identical to the French facility that is currently reprocessing spent commercial fuel for European and Asian customers. The shipments between the U.S. and France occurred without incident and the lead test assemblies are now being used in the Catawba reactor owned and operated by Duke Power. 
   In December 2004, the engineering team completed the licensable design of the U.S facility, and the NRC awarded the construction permit for the U.S. facility in March 2005. 
   On April 20, 2005, the U.S. offered a new liability agreement that was ultimately accepted by the Russian Government in July 2005. It took several months of intense lobbying to pressure the U.S. interagency process to produce a liability agreement that was not identical to the liability terms provided under the Cooperative Threat Reduction Agreement. 
   On July 19, 2005, the U.S. and Russia agreed to the terms of a final liability package. This agreement must go to President Putin to be drafted and published as a Presidential Decree. Once circulated, Secretary Rice and her counterpart in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will officially sign the agreement, which will then go to the Russian Duma for ratification. 
   Once this document is signed by Secretary Rice, the Department of Energy will move forward with a site clearing activities in Savannah River, South Carolina, with construction to commence in fiscal year 2006. 
   I am proud of the fact that two different administrations have followed through on this bilateral initiative, and we are now approaching another critical juncture. Following a decade of successful and numerous scientific, environmental and regulatory reviews, we are at a stage where it is important that Congress maintain an adequate and reliable level of funding to complete construction. 
   I am aware of the fact that the House and Senate Armed Services Committees have reduced funding for MOX construction but have preserved the funding within other nonproliferation accounts. I am hopeful that during the consideration of the Senate Defense Authorization bill, Chairman Warner and Senator Levin will agree to restore the funding back into the MOX construction accounts. 
   In addition, I am hopeful that I will be successful in convincing the House to restore critical funding that was eliminated from the MOX construction program. Of the $360 million requested for construction, the House only provided $35 million. Failure to provide adequate funding would undermine a decade of cooperation between the U.S. and Russia and do nothing to reduce the amount of excess plutonium. 
   If we are unable to fully fund the construction program and keep the project on track it will prevent the U.S. from consolidating plutonium across the weapons complex and could result in a $100 million per year penalties to be paid to the State of South Carolina as mandated in the FY 2003 National Defense Authorization Act. We have come too far to not complete this project. 
   I have believed in this initiative from the beginning and believe we can do more to reduce the threat from nuclear proliferation. I am committed to seeing additional resources be used in securing Russian warheads beyond the reach of terrorists. I am committed to strong enforcement by the U.S. or International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to breakup the nuclear black market, where nuclear technology and scientific expertise can be bought for a price. 
   The stakes are too high and the price too great to consider anything but an aggressive effort by the U.S. and our global partners to prevent the spread of nuclear material.
 
 