N.M. LAWMAKERS CONFER WITH BRAC COMMISSIONERS ON CANNON AIR FORCE BASE FUTURE AS PANEL RESHAPES TARGET LIST
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Rep. Tom Udall, today met with two members of the Base Closure and Realignment Commission as part of a new end-game effort to save Cannon Air Force Base from being closed.  
   The lawmakers met with BRAC Commissioners Philip Coyle and General Lloyd W. "Fig" Newton (USAF, Ret.) following a BRAC hearing that addressed adding military facilities to the Pentagon's original 2005 BRAC list. 
   At the hearing, the commission voted (7-1, with one recusal) to add the Oceana Naval Air Station in Virginia for closure or further realignment. This move fits within one commission-generated realignment scenario that would involve shifting assets from Oceana to Moody Air Force Base in Georgia, and then possibly moving A-10 aircraft intended for Moody to Cannon. 
   However, New Mexico lawmakers today indicated their intent, evidenced with their initial meetings with the two commissioners, to also actively pursue the five votes that will be required to simply remove Cannon from the BRAC list and keep it open as an Air Force facility. The lawmakers used the meeting to strengthen their argument that Cannon was wrongly and unfairly evaluated by the Defense Department and that its assets are too valuable for the Air Force to lose forever. 
   "The Oceana decision creates some possibly interesting scenarios related to Cannon's future. But I don't believe our success will solely hinge on Oceana. We have just as good a chance now to convince at least five of the commissioners to keep Cannon as an asset in the Air Force arsenal. Even if the Air Force does not see the full value of Cannon right now, we clearly believe the Air Force will need Cannon in the near future to accommodate new fighter aircraft and training demands," Domenici said. 
   "It's encouraging that the BRAC Commission wants to take a closer look at scenarios that could ultimately benefit Cannon Air Force Base. But regardless of what happens to Oceana, it is my strong belief that Cannon should remain open on its own merits. That is the message we relayed to the commissioners today, and will continue to press in the weeks to come," Bingaman said. 
   "I am pleased that the Commission has taken this step to add Oceana to the list for closure or further realignment. This is further indication that the Commissioners are willing to consider alternative scenarios and will not blindly follow DoD's recommendations," Udall said. 
   The lawmakers said the BRAC hearings Monday and Tuesday clearly indicate that the commissioners are actively engaged in looking at the long-term implications of the 2005 closure and realignment list prepared by the Defense Department, and willing to make bold changes where needed. 
   Following the post-hearing meeting, the lawmakers indicated that both Coyle and Newton expressed that the commission is concerned and carefully reviewing the apparent Air Force deviations in assessing Cannon's value to the military, the opportunities for joint military training opportunities, and the negative economic impact on the Clovis-Portales area.
 
 