SEN. DOMENICI WARNS OF 'HELL TO PAY' IF DELAYED HEALTHY FOREST WORK RESULTS IN BURNED COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today warned federal forest officials that "there will be hell to pay" if a catastrophic fire burns a community where healthy forest work has been delayed.
   Domenici took part in a hearing of the Energy Committee's Subcommittee on Public Lands and Forests to review implementation of the Health Forest Restoration Act (HFRA) of 2003. Rick Delaco, director of forestry for the village of Ruidoso, testified at the hearing. 
   Domenici, a major force behind the enactment of the HRFA, expressed his desire for the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management to do more to expedite HFRA and Healthy Forest Initiative activities to make the forests less prone to catastrophic wildfires, particularly around "wildland urban interface" communities like Ruidoso. This Lincoln County community is rated the most at-risk in New Mexico for a decimating fire.
   "Forest supervisors need to understand that there will be hell to pay if one of our communities burn and we find they haven't moved heaven and earth to get this fuel work done or haven't used the Healthy Forests Restoration Act authority to get it done," Domenici said.
   "I see what progress has been made, but I still see problems and threats that remain to those who live near national forests," he said. "Delays in implementing the Healthy Forests Initiative confound me and they confound my neighbors in New Mexico. One thing I would like to emerge from this hearing today are concrete suggestions on how to use the expedited processes we put into law and what more we must do to stop delay. Delay leads to destruction--destroyed houses, destroyed communities, destroyed lives, destroyed habitat. This Senator has yet to understand how some people apparently believe that delaying critical, life-saving thinning at the risk of destroying people makes sense."
   Forest Service officials testified that federal agencies are expected to complete 25 million acres by the end of 2007, but implementation of HFRA only really began in FY2005 and only about 77,000 acres nationwide have been completed. Domenici also raised concerns that prescribed burning is being relied on more than thinning activities, as well as concerns that forests in the South are being treated at faster rate than those in the West. This year about 84,000 acres in New Mexico have been burned.
   Delaco testified that the Ruidoso is working proactively as a community and a region to protect itself, and working with the Forest Service. However, he criticized the fact that HFRA work is not treating the overgrown areas that pose the worst threat to the village.
   "Ruidoso is deeply concerned and frustrated that a commitment made five years ago remains unfulfilled. There are always plenty of excuses but the facts are that the condition class in Perk Grindstone that contributed to Ruidoso's rating of second highest to catastrophic wildfire in the nation remains," Delaco said in prepared testimony. "We have all witnessed the devastation of the Cerro Grande fire in Los Alamos, New Mexico in 2001. Our citizens do not want to see Ruidoso follow a similar pattern of unrecognized risk and inaction on Forest Service land due to a lack of urgency."
   Domenici serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee that has approved an FY2007 funding bill that provides a total of $2.56 billion for federal wildland fire management activities, including $776.6 million for BLM and $1.783 billion for the Forest Service. The total includes $491.6 million for hazardous fuels reduction, $5 million for Rural Fire Assistance, $73 million for State Fire Assistance and $14 million for Volunteer Fire Assistance.
 
 