SEN. DOMENICI: HOUSE FUNDING BILL WOULD OVERTURN DECADES OF U.S. NUCLEAR DETERRENT PROGRESS
  Sen. Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, today delivered a comprehensive speech on the critical role carried out by three national nuclear weapons laboratories, and the harm that a single bill in the House of Representatives could have on decades of work to manage U.S. nuclear stockpile and deterrence efforts. 
   Domenici delivered the address Tuesday morning as the House began considering its FY2008 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill, which would make striking cuts to U.S. nuclear weapons programs. 
   "That bill, if enacted without substantial change, would send American nuclear deterrence strategy in a new, and absolutely unknown, direction. Think about that. More than 20 years of intensive study, by some of the best minds in the world, could begin to be overturned by enactment of a single appropriations bill," Domenici said.  
   Under the House bill, Domenici said, "The funding cuts are proposed now; a new strategic direction will be forged later in this decade. Such an approach is absolutely backwards. We should forge the new direction, if one is believed appropriate in a world of increasing threats to our security, after great study. We should fund our present strategy, 20 years in the making, now." 
   "The House bill does irreparable harm to the Stockpile Stewardship Program. It cuts all funding for the new CMRR facility which would replace the present facility, which will be inoperable after 2010. Without a new facility, our nation will not be able to support the pit mission, which is a single point failure in the complex. Without a viable pit capability, the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent is vulnerable," he said. 
   In his statement, Domenici also recounts work to reduce the size of the U.S. stockpile, as well as nuclear stores in other nations through nonproliferation programs. (Domenici's full statement is attached.) 
   The Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee is expected to mark up its version of the FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill on Tuesday. 
   STATEMENT OF U.S. SENATOR PETE V. DOMENICI 
   June 19, 2007 
   Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, for more than six decades, the bedrock of American national security has been a strong, reliable, and cutting-edge nuclear deterrent. Literally, thousands of the best scientists and engineers in the world have dedicated themselves to ending World War II, winning the Cold War, and protecting the free world. And, each year, the directors of the three national nuclear weapons laboratories must certify to the President and through him to the rest of the United States, that our nuclear weapons are reliable. That certification process assures Americans, and warns our adversaries, that the nation's nuclear stockpile will be able to continue to perform its basic mission - prevention of a nuclear weapons exchange. 
   During these six decades, discussion of the nature and size of our nuclear deterrent has been literally constant. Each year, hundreds of scientists, engineers, and global strategists devote innumerable hours and days to intense discussions of the proper strategy for this nation and the proper nuclear stockpile to implement that strategy. Each year, Presidents have recommendations, based upon the work of specialists inside and outside the federal government. Since the end of underground testing of our nuclear weapons stockpile, America has relied on a concept called Stockpile Stewardship to try to keep our nuclear weapons resources certifiably reliable. This nation has already embarked upon, and through three different Presidents has re-affirmed, a commitment to physical testing-free testing that has cost billions of dollars. Our strategy has been simple: the most reliable weapons without underground testing, upgraded as strategy dictates. 
   At the same time, the United States has embarked on a major reduction in the size of our stockpile, and in the nuclear stores of other nations. We have done this through programs that this Senator has supported during the past 20 years. I salute Senator Richard Lugar, my colleague from Indiana, and former Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia, for their ground-breaking work in forging these programs and I am proud that I have been able to work with them in this critical effort. Because of these initiatives - Nunn-Lugar, Nunn-Lugar-Domenici, the Nuclear Cities Initiative, the Global Initiative for Proliferation Prevention, the Nuclear-Non-Proliferation Research and Development Program, and others - our world is safer. In total, under Nunn-Lugar we have deactivated 6,982 warheads, 644 ICBMs, 485 ICBM silos, 100 mobile ICBM launchers, 155 bombers, 906 air-launched cruise missiles, 30 strategic missile submarines, and 194 nuclear test tunnels. Indeed, 9 more warheads were deactivated in the last month. We have offered thousands of Russian nuclear scientists alternative pay and occupations, in hopes that they will be less susceptible to blandishments from other parties. We are sharing non-proliferation efforts with other nations beyond the Former Soviet Union states. 
   In more stark terms, Mr. President, under the Washington-Moscow Treaty ratified by the Senate and signed by the President, we will have in our nuclear stockpile by 2013 fewer weapons than at any time since the era of President Eisenhower. We will have fewer nuclear weapons than we had, in other words, before the Cold War began in earnest. 
   So, this two-pronged approach - international cooperation against proliferation and for elimination of weapons, coupled with the inception of Science-Based Stockpile Stewardship - has been America's strong response to the need to reduce the danger of both nuclear weapon stockpiles and underground nuclear testing. 
   Almost a decade ago, in a speech at Harvard University, I outlined what I called a "New Nuclear Paradigm." That paradigm envisioned, among other things, a cut in American nuclear weapons to what I then called a "treat-based nuclear stockpile." That is, a stockpile commensurate with the anticipated international threat to our nation. Critical to that concept was, and remains, the principal of reliability and the continuous battle against degradation of our present stockpile. No serious expert advocated simply keeping the very same physical weapons we had 20 or 25 years ago, with no upgrading or improvements. At some point, the degradation of components in those weapons would mean that the certification necessary form the three weapons labs' directors to the President couldn't be honestly made. In short, without upgrades and continuous non-physical monitoring, our nuclear weapons deterrence could be put in serious doubt. Yet, at this very time, the youngest weapons designs in our arsenal are 20 to 25 years old. Age-related component degradation could impact several different systems at the same time, calling into question reliability. For the past several years, this Senate has supported on a bi-partisan basis spending the money necessary to protect our stockpile form degradation. At the same time, we have recognized that some of our systems are too complicated, pose risks to workers, and need substantial upgrading. 
   This background brings me, Mr. President, to the present Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill for FY08 proposed by the House Appropriations Committee and scheduled for House Floor action this week. 
   That bill, if enacted without substantial change, would send American nuclear deterrence strategy in a new, and absolutely unknown, direction. Think about that. More than 20 years of intensive study, by some of the best minds in the world, could begin to be overturned by enactment of a single appropriations bill. The new direction wouldn't be enacted as the result of 3 or 4 years of intensive study and hearings by all of the relevant committees of Congress. It wouldn't result from convocation of the best minds at our disposal. It wouldn't result from the kind of pain-staking analysis of future risks that any prudent American would demand from its government. No, that new path would begin by a single appropriations bill, devised by a small group with the best of intentions, but far from public view and analysis. In that regard, Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that an article from the Washington Post, "Congress seeks new direction for Nuclear Strategy," by Walter Pincus, be made a part of the Record at this point. 
   Note an important point in this story. The funding cuts are proposed now; a new strategic direction will be forged later in this decade. Such an approach is absolutely backwards. We should forge the new direction, if one is believed appropriate in a world of increasing threats to our security, after great study. We should fund our present strategy, 20 years in the making, now. 
   The House Bill and the Post story focus on the so-called RRW, the Reliable Replacement Warhead. The RRW is a proposed new element of Administration policy. The intent of the RRW, to enable increased reliability and design simplification in weapons of comparable explosive yield is, in my view, a very appropriate consideration, which may well result in the ability to maintain still smaller future stockpiles supported by a still smaller future weapons complex. But, as other legislators have suggested and as I noted in the last paragraph, I agree that a study of the complete role of the RRW in the nation's nuclear deterrent is appropriate. That study must involve far greater resources than those involved in the House Report language. Furthermore, Congress will have many opportunities to review and finalize any decision for actual deployment of the RRW, but the funds proposed for investment in the RRW now should provide the detailed data to underpin any future Congressional decision to shift portions of our deterrent to that design. 
   But far beyond the RRW debate, with or without any RRW, Stockpile Stewardship is absolutely vital to our national security. As long as this nation requires a nuclear deterrent in our defense or in support of our allies, we must maintain the skills and infrastructure that support the viability of that stockpile. That must include both trained people and the facilities to enable their work to proceed. The House bill does irreparable harm to the Stockpile Stewardship Program. It cuts all funding for the new CMRR facility which would replace the present facility, which will be inoperable after 2010. Without a new facility, our nation will not be able to support the pit mission, which is a single point failure in the complex. Without a viable pit capability, the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent is vulnerable. 
   The House bill cuts the Nuclear Material Safeguard and Security Upgrade, required to meet the Design Basis Threat around the key nuclear facilities that contain special nuclear material; it would cut stockpile services, the foundation of the production capability for our nation; it would cut almost in half our pit mission, the critical component of our nuclear deterrent systems; it would cut funding for the repair and elimination of old and unused facilities that now drain funds from required new facilities; it would cripple advanced computing, the key to Science-Based Stockpile Stewardship; force the shutdown of LANSCE, the accelerator needed for a variety of research; and, cut the Z machine, another component of our non-physical testing regime. 
   Mr. President, I urge all my colleagues to attend to this debate as it moves through the House and to markup in Sub-Committee next week on the Senate side. Implementing and funding a new strategic policy after extensive debate is intelligent; de-funding critical parts of our present strategy without a clear new path in view poses serious risks to our national security.
 
 