SEN. DOMENICI: FARMERS, RANCHERS MAY IMPROVE SOIL, AIR, WATER RESOURCES WITH USDA FUNDS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that thanks to funds provided by the Department of Agriculture (USDA) farmers and ranchers throughout New Mexico can implement conservation measures to protect limited resources while still encouraging agricultural production.  
   New Mexico gained $937,500 from the USDA for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). A total of $12 million was awarded to 14 states, including Texas and Arizona. 
   "EQIP helps our farmers and ranchers get the most from their land by offering voluntary measures that preserve their resources," Domenici said. "These funds allow each county to decide how to best serve the needs of the area, whether it is an area severely damaged by drought and in need of water preservation or contaminated soil that needs treatment to be suitable for planting." 
   EQIP, reauthorized in the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (Farm Bill), is a nationwide voluntary conservation program administered by the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) that aims to help farmers and ranchers enhance agricultural production and optimize environmental benefits. 
   Agricultural producers may receive financial and technical assistance in developing and implementing conservation plans which include structural and management practices intended to treat a wide range of natural resource concerns. 
   In New Mexico, the program is being developed at the local level, with input from the people, organizations and government agencies best acquainted with local resource concerns and solutions. 
   EQIP may cost-share up to 75 percent of the costs of certain conservation practices. Incentive payments may be provided for up to three years to encourage producers to carry out management practices they may not otherwise use without the incentive. However, limited resource producers and beginning farmers and ranchers may be eligible for cost-shares up to 90 percent. 
   In awarding the grant, USDA's NRCS considered factors such as effectively addressing national priorities, strategic planning and program implementation, addressing state and local resource concerns, program delivery effectiveness, use of technical service providers and contracts with limited resource farmers and ranchers.
 
 