SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS, ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, June 19, 2006. 
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Briana Cox, KKOB Albuquerque
   * Jack Nixon, KSNM Las Cruces
   * Chris Johnson, KINF Roswell
   REVIEW:
   00:00 - Domenici says he was surprised by developments that led to John Dendahl being named as the Republican gubernatorial candidate in New Mexico. He says he believes Dendahl will be a "surprisingly strong" and tough campaigner.
   00:56 - Domenici says any differences he had with Dendahl years ago are in the past and that he sees Dendahl as bringing a breath of fresh air to the Republican Party in New Mexico. He says he supports the party's choice.
   01:37 - Domenici says he has not been given any indication that new Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne has decided to take any action on the Jemez Pueblo proposal to establish an off-reservation casino in Do?a Ana County. He notes that even if there is a decision within the Interior Department, Governor Richardson would also have to agree to let the project move forward.
   02:11 - Domenici says "all systems are on 'go'" for the federal government to move forward with work to better secure the Southwest Border. He discusses the emergency supplemental funding that will now to go to the border region to pay National Guard troops assigned to assist the Border Patrol. He also notes the thrust to secure the border will mean greater activity at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia.
   04:56 - Domenici praises the release of FY2006 PILT (Payment in Lieu of Taxes) funds to New Mexico counties. He says the funding, $22.8 million this year, is very important to counties, but acknowledges that making PILT an entitlement is not likely because of fiscal constraints.
   06:10 - Domenici says he is enthused that the General Services Administration has reconfigured plans for a new federal courthouse in Las Cruces to fit within funding appropriated by Congress. He says the facility will be a "monumental add on" to downtown Las Cruces.
   07:13 - Domenici says he believes the Senate Appropriations Committee may try to fund a USDA drought relief program for farmers and ranchers when it begins developing the FY2007 Agriculture Appropriations Bill this week. He says similar aid was eliminated from the emergency supplemental bill that President Bush signed into law last week. He says he is aware of the hardships faced by farmers and ranchers, some of whom are being forced to sell off their herds because of the drought.
   Audio clip at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309)
 
 