SEN. DOMENICI: WATER PROBLEMS REQUIRE COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH
  In a message delivered to the University Council on Water Resources 2006 Conference, Sen. Pete Domenici today said that a multi-faceted approach including characterization, planning and technology development provides the nation's best chance at solving water resources problems. 
   In a statement delivered by a member of his water team, the Domenici called for greater understanding of water resources, including the totally supply of surface and ground water, as well as greater investment in technology that could eventually represent solutions.
   "Until we understand the overall resources and their changes through time, we can't do our best management. Our investment in characterization is decreasing. At the moment when we need the most information, we have the least investment," said Domenici, who chairs the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   Domenici said that he was working with a small group of Senators to advocate for increased State Water Cooperative funding. He also noted that the White House is working on a report that outlines how government agencies can contribute to greater characterization, a need which was identified in a 2004 Office of Science and Technology Report.
   For years, Domenici has been advocating major investments in water technology. He has been involved in numerous projects to treat, purify and deliver water, and has used his position as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee to spearhead collaborative water projects throughout New Mexico through the Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation.
   "Water treatment has been advocated for decades. President Kennedy was a strong proponent, but our nation's investment in water augmentation technology development, has decreased precipitously. I believe that further research and development about water reuse, desalination, aquifer storage and recovery may provide ways to meet the challenge of providing high-quality water to our citizens," Domenici said.
   Domenici's FY2007 Energy and Water Appropriations bill contains $5.8 million for desalination research and testing associated with a new facility in Alamogordo, which is expected to bring advances in purification and portability of water.
 
 