NEW MEXICO LEADERS ANNOUNCE JUNE 24 BRAC COMMISSION REGIONAL HEARING IN CLOVIS
  The New Mexico Congressional delegation and Gov. Bill Richardson today announced that the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) will hold a regional hearing in Clovis on June 24 at 8:30 a.m.. A venue has yet to be confirmed, but has been tentatively set for the Clovis Community College.  
   The hearing will consider the impact of the Pentagon's BRAC recommendations on all the affect military installations in New Mexico. In addition to recommending that Cannon Air Force Base be closed, the Pentagon has also asked to move 178 personnel away from White Sands Missile Range. Kirtland Air Force would stand to gain 208 jobs from the Pentagon's recommendations, while Holloman Air Force Base would lose 17. 
   "I'm pleased the BRAC Commission is coming right to Clovis to see for themselves the significant impact that closing Cannon would have on the local community. I strongly believe that Cannon receives some of the best community support of any base in the country, so we're definitely relying on their help to work as a team to save the base," Domenici said. "This represents a golden opportunity for the people of New Mexico to come out and make their voices heard on what the Pentagon has planned for us at our Air Force bases and White Sands Missile Range." 
   "It's good for Cannon that the BRAC Commission's regional hearing will be in Clovis. The hearing will give commissioners more time to see firsthand what the base has to offer, and to witness the strong support Cannon has in Clovis, Portales and nearby communities," Bingaman said. 
   "I am extremely pleased that the BRAC Commission will be coming to Clovis for a hearing so that they can see first hand the level of community support to keep Cannon open. I will attend to add my voice to the thousands of citizens of Clovis and to tell the BRAC Commissioners how important Cannon AFB is to our national defense capabilities and to our state," Richardson said. 
   "We need to take every opportunity to make our case, and this is one of those opportunities. We will work together to fight the closure of Cannon Air Force Base, and convince a majority of the BRAC Commissioners that the Pentagon is mistaken in this recommendation," said Wilson. 
   "This hearing will give us and the community a chance to let the Commission know how wrong the Pentagon's recommendation was. It will also give the commissioners who attend the hearing an opportunity to see the community support for the base, and meet face to face the individuals affected by DoD's recommendation," said Udall, who represents Cannon in the House. 
   "The DOD has only partially answered many questions about the military value of Cannon, particularly the cost/effectiveness of operations over the next 30 to 40 years. There is new information about operations at Cannon that the DOD did not have. I am looking forward to seeing that the commission gets the latest facts," Pearce said.
 
 