NEW MEXICO SENATORS END WEEK OF ENERGY BILL PROGRESS WITH APPROVAL OF CONSERVATION, ELECTRICITY TITLES
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today wrapped up the first week of their bipartisan effort toward committee passage of a National Energy Bill with the approval of far-reaching titles to promote energy efficiency and to modernize the nation's electric grid.  
   The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, led by Domenici as chairman and Bingaman as the leading Democratic member, today ended their first week marking up a comprehensive energy policy bill. Work on the markup of the bill resumes Tuesday. 
   The committee today approved two titles related to Energy Efficiency and Electricity. The substantially expanded Energy Efficiency Title would set in place incentives and structures to measurably improve energy conservation, and energy efficiency in consumer and commercial products. 
   The much-needed Electricity Title set in place reforms to improve the nation's transmission infrastructure, increase regulatory certainty, and encourage greater investment in the electricity industry. 
   "We've had a very productive week and made good progress on this bill. The energy efficiency title is truly far-reaching and will push the nation more quickly toward the use of energy-saving technologies and products. This whole title is aimed at aggressive savings in energy consumption," Domenici said. "The simple truth is we will not be able to produce our way out of an energy crisis, and we cannot conserve our way out of one either. So the answer to this apparent paradox is that we have to do lots of both - more production and more conservation." 
   "No energy policy would be complete without strong conservation measures," Bingaman said. "We must strike a balance between production and conservation if we are going to be able to meet the nation's future energy needs." 
   The Energy Efficiency Title includes a detailed section setting in law energy efficiency standards for consumer and commercial products, such as language to expedite the development and marketing of energy-efficient products. The efficiency title also mandates a 20 percent reduction in energy consumption in federal buildings by 2010, and establishes a grant program to assist state and local governments. It permanently authorizes the Energy Savings Performance Contract program, and authorizes $1.3 billion for weatherization assistance. It also makes numerous other grant programs available to states to increase energy efficiency. 
   The new Electricity Title adheres to the basic concept of removing regulatory barriers to the creation of free markets in electricity, while also recognizing the desire of some regions and electricity providers to retain some of the historical models for providing services to their retail customers. The title is intent on allowing each region of the country to develop plans best suited to it, as well as incorporating protections against marketing practices that are detrimental to rate payers. 
   To view specific titles of the Energy Bill, visit www.energy.senate.gov and look under "Featured Item" in the right hand corner.
 
 