WITH FINAL REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL, SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN LOOK TO COMPLETION OF LANL CONTRACT COMPETITION
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today said they want the competition for the operations and management of Los Alamos National Laboratory to be completed on schedule, despite some concerns with the final request for proposal (RFP) issued by the Department of Energy.  
   Domenici and Bingaman today stressed the importance of the lab and its employees knowing who will lead the renowned facility into the future. The DOE National Nuclear Security Administration issued its final RFP for the LANL contract. 
   Domenici and Bingaman, chairman and ranking member respectively of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, had offered recommendations to the NNSA during the drafting of the RFP. 
   "The final RFP is not everything I would have wanted, but it is what is now in place to dictate the last leg of the competition. It has taken a long time for DOE to prepare this proposal, and I am pleased that in 60 days we will know who the new lab manager will be and we can strengthen our focus on the lab's national security mission," Domenici said. "I know change is difficult, and I know the challenges facing employees and their families. But I have every confidence that it will turn out to be a good situation for Los Alamos." 
   "I remain concerned that under this RFP, senior scientists will decide to retire, and that there will be vastly different pensions for employees depending on when they were hired. But the final decisions have been made, and I'm glad that the bidding process is moving forward. It's my hope that the bidders take to heart our concerns about the pension plan, and that each team puts together a very strong pension proposal," Bingaman said. 
   Based on the final RFP schedule, the bid proposals should be returned in 60 days and a contract award will be made on or about Dec. 1, 2005. After a contract is awarded, the RPF outlines a six-month transition period for all interested parties, including employees, to analyze the new contractor and the benefits agreement in order to make the best decisions for themselves, their family and career. 
   In general, the final RFP is offering a fixed seven-year contract, with an option for another 13 years. For the first time ever, DOE is proposing a fee range for bidders, between $53 million to $79 million annually (30 percent fixed at $17million to $20 million, with 70 percent "at risk" based on annual negotiated milestones). 
   The RFP will mandate a stand alone pension and corporation, and outlines a series of options for existing employees. It also outlines expected contractor support for regional initiatives. 
   "I am hopeful that the end result will be right for the lab, the employees, the state of New Mexico and the nation. From what I can see this will be a vigorous competition. The bidders, including the University of California and its team, will determine what they can offer the lab and the employees as the new manager. I think each team brings outstanding and unique capabilities that will make a positive contribution to the science and management of Los Alamos," Domenici said. 
   "We have three strong teams that have shown interest in bidding for the Los Alamos contract. Which ever team is selected, I firmly believe that LANL will continue to be a premier laboratory for science. I hope the teams will keep in close contact with us as the bidding process moves forward," Bingaman said. 
   The Senators favorably noted that two bidding teams led by national lab directors - Dr. Mike Anastasio of Lawrence Livermore leading the UC team and Dr. Paul Robinson of Sandia leading the Lockheed Martin team and - have proven track records of supporting science and are very familiar with the unique challenges of managing a weapons laboratory.
 
 