BUREAU OF RECLAMATION COMPLETES DRILLING LAS VEGAS WATER WELL, TESTS & PERMITS AWAIT
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) has completed construction on an emergency well intended to help alleviate water shortages experienced by the city of Las Vegas.  
   Drilling and construction of the well was recently completed by BOR. Before the well is fully functional, it must undergo pumping in order to remove sediment and to determine well production rates, the water quality must tested, permits must be issued by the state engineer, and water supply infrastructure must be installed. 
   Domenici has secured a commitment from the State Engineer to ensure that the permitting process is expedited so that the well can come on-line as soon as possible. 
   "In a state as arid as New Mexico, water is a scarce and therefore more important resource than it is in other areas of the country," said Domenici. "The drought conditions in the state last summer illustrated the need for improved water access for the city of Las Vegas. I am pleased to see that the first stage of well construction is complete. Hopefully, the well will soon be complete and the city will better prepared to meet the water needs of its residents." 
   Funding for the project was derived from $9.0 million secured by Domenici as part of the Drought Emergency Assistance Program. Domenici gained a five-year reauthorization of the program as part of the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, which became law in June of last year. 
   Drilling of the well was completed by Rodgers and Company of Albuquerque. The costs of the drilling, casing installation, and water monitoring are estimated at about $3 million and have been financed by BOR, while Las Vegas will provide the additional funds for design, specifications, and permits for the well. 
   In addition to Las Vegas, Domenici also has worked with mayors in Ruidoso Downs, Ruidoso, Capitan, and Cloudcroft to coordinate application for emergency drought aid. Each community has recently faced water shortage issues and imposed water use restrictions on residents. Ruidoso's well was recently drilled to 2,000 feet. The casing installation of the Ruidoso well will be completed this week. Following the casing instillation, the well will also undergo tests and require permits. 
   Domenici is the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee which has funding jurisdiction over the Bureau of Reclamation.
 
 