SEN. DOMENICI LAMENTS CONTINUED JUDICIAL FILIBUSTERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reiterated his disappointment with Senate Democrats who continue to filibuster President Bush's judicial nominations, but said it is not unheard of for the Senate to change its rules on limiting debate for important matters.  
   The Senate is currently debating the nomination of Priscilla Owen to be a U.S. Circuit Judge for the 5th Circuit. Owen, a member of the Texas Supreme Court who was been rated "well qualified" by the American Bar Association, is one of 10 Circuit Court nominees indefinitely stalled by Democrats since 2001. 
   Domenici addressed the contentious matter of judicial filibusters at a news conference with other senior Republican Senators, included Ted Stevens (Alaska), Charles Grassley (Iowa), Conrad Burns (Mont.) and Thad Cochran (Miss.) 
   "Since the day I came to the U.S. Senate in 1973, I have believed strongly that every nominee deserves an up or down vote. That is why over all these years, I have never once voted to filibuster any nominee, even the ones that I ended up opposing. I am truly saddened that the Senate has reached this point. We should resume our long-standing tradition of giving judicial nominees who reach the floor an up or down vote," Domenici said. 
   In 2000, Domenici voted against filibustering Judge Marsha Berzon even though the Senator later voted against her nomination. 
   "Next week, in order to break this unprecedented obstruction, it may be necessary for Majority Leader Frist to move to allow a majority vote on filibustered nominees. I want to make it clear that it would certainly not be the first time the Senate has used a simple majority vote to change the rules of the Senate to limit debate. In fact, I've personally been involved in three instances where the rules were changed with a majority vote. Claims by Democrats that invoking the constitutional option is unprecedented are simply historically inaccurate," Domenici said. 
   Domenici was involved in efforts to limit debate with a majority vote in 1974 (Budget Reform Act), 1978 (Natural Gas Policy Act) and 1981 (Budget Reconciliation). Senator Robert Byrd (D-WV.) also sought rule changes in three instances during his tenure as Majority Leader. 
   "It is important to understand that changing the rules to allow an up or down vote on judges will not affect the legislative filibuster in any way. As someone who has been described as an institutionalist, I support the rights of the minority. In 1995, I opposed an effort by Senate Democrats to eliminate the filibuster completely. Making this limited rule change is about restoring the 200 year tradition of the Senate that judges deserve a vote," Domenici said. 
   President Bush has the worst confirmation rate for appellate judges of any modern President. One-third of his nominees have been blocked.
 
 