AFTER FRUSTRATION, SEN. DOMENICI WELCOMES PROGRESS ON U.S.-RUSSIA PLUTONIUM DISPOSITION
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today expressed relief with the signing of a United States and Russian agreement to advance a cooperative plutonium disposition program to convert at least 34 tons of weapons grade plutonium into a form unusable in weapons from each of their respective stockpiles.  
   Domenici has been frustrated with the lack of Russian progress on the agreement, but welcomed word that the U.S. Department of Energy and the Russian Federal Atomic Energy Agency have signed an agreement on the disposal of 34 metric tons of Russian surplus weapons-grade plutonium. On September 17, Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman declared he would increase the American share of weapons-grade plutonium by 9 metric tons, bringing the United States total to 43 metric tons. 
   "I am relieved to finally see some progress from the Russians on this program. This agreement sends the world a good signal that the U.S. and Russia remain committed to the plutonium disposition program. I think too much time was spent reaching this point, but I hope we can now move forward cooperatively with this worthwhile nonproliferation project. Not only should it make the world safer, but it will also promote clean energy sources," said Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "I am also hopeful that this joint agreement might help us resolve the FY2008 funding situation for DOE and these nonproliferation programs. The House and Senate are on vastly different paths, but the progress announced today could move us closer to a satisfactory resolution of the largest single U.S. nonproliferation project," he said. 
   In recent Senate versions of the Energy and Water Development appropriations bills, Domenici has supported restricting funding to Russia, as well as bill language expressing continued frustration with the lack of Russian efforts to fulfill the terms of the bilateral Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement. 
   Under the initial agreement which Domenici has championed since 1998, the American and Russian excess weapons grade plutonium will be removed from retired, dismantled nuclear weapons and fabricated into mixed-oxide (MOX) fuel for commercial nuclear power reactors. Nine metric tons of plutonium could be used to produce 1,000 weapons. 
   The new plan announced today outlines U.S. cooperative work with Russia to convert Russian weapon grade plutonium into MOX for use in an existing and planned reactor at Beloyarsk, Russia. 
   * DOE statement: http://www.energy.gov/news/5742.htm 
   * DOE Nonproliferation Projects: http://www.nnsa.doe.gov/nuclearnp.htm
 
 