SEN. DOMENICI SAYS LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY SEPARATION PACKAGE NECESSARY, FORCED BY ONGOING BUDGET UNCERTAINTIES
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said he believes the severance package outlined for Los Alamos National Laboratory workers is necessary and expressed hope that the plan will help the lab weather the uncertainties caused by the funding stalemate in Congress.  
   Domenici made the assessment in conjunction with an "all hands" meeting at LANL Monday at which a voluntary separation package of up to 39 weeks of benefits was outlined for lab employees. LANL wishes to reduce its workforce by 500-750 employees with this plan. 
   "Nothing about this situation is satisfying. Faced with ongoing budget uncertainties, LANL's leadership had no choice but to reduce its workforce. I had urged DOE to accept a broader LANL incentive. It chose not to approve that, even though it would have made for a better incentive package. Nevertheless, the severance package being offered is good. Hopefully it will encourage those nearing retirement to take the package and preserve jobs for those who still have a long future at the lab," Domenici said. 
   Domenici remained uncertain as to the outcome of the FY2008 budget for the national laboratories. Domenici is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that crafts the bill to fund the Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration and the nuclear weapons complex that includes LANL and Sandia National Laboratories. These agencies are currently funded at FY2007 levels under a continuing resolution that expires Dec. 14. 
   Currently, the Democratic leadership in Congress has directed House and Senate appropriators to attempt to reach conference agreements on bills like the Energy and Water bill for inclusion in an omnibus appropriations package to fund the federal government for the remainder of the 2008 fiscal year. With these instructions, the leadership also reduced overall subcommittee allocations that are over the president's budget request by 50 percent, or nearly $11 billion. 
   "It should come as no surprise that the budget outlook for NNSA and the labs is very grim," Domenici said. "The bottom line is that we need to end the uncertainty facing our labs and reach a resolution so lab directors can make decisions on how best to carry out their missions." 
   "At this point, I do not know whether that final agreement will amount to an extended CR or an amalgamation of the House and Senate bills. I continue to believe the House bill puts at risk the ability of LANL and Sandia to perform necessary work to certify the reliability of the U.S. stockpile and operate major science projects," he said. "The White House position on any omnibus package and how it is crafted is critical to what does or does not get done in Congress." 
   Domenici also reiterated his contention that the substantial cuts approved by the House would jeopardize such programs as the Z machine at Sandia, as well as LANSCE and DARHT at Los Alamos. He is also critical of the House elimination of the Roadrunner high performance computer at LANL, as well as cuts to the CMR-R project in Los Alamos. 
   "The CMR-R construction project will replace a 55-year old facility that doesn't provide workers with the appropriate safety features. Cutting these funds is unacceptable," Domenici said.
 
 