NEW MEXICO SENATORS JUBILANT WITH DECISION TO ALLOW HARVEST OF NEW MEXICO TREE FOR CAPITOL HOLIDAY
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman Wednesday night expressed jubilation with a decision that will allow New Mexico's gift of a 80-foot spruce tree to be harvested and delivered to the nation's capital for 2005 national holiday festivities.  
   For weeks the New Mexico Senators have expressed concern that the national Capitol Holiday Tree might not be harvested in time from the Santa Fe National Forest. The U.S. Forest Service had responded to a federal court ruling on an environmental lawsuit by suspending all harvesting activities, including cutting down Christmas trees. 
   Federal Court Judge James Singleton (Ninth Circuit) on Wednesday determined that his ruling will not interfere with the scheduled early November harvest of the tree. 
   "This is jolly good news for everyone, young and old, working to share New Mexico's holiday spirit with the nation. I am happy the reindeer games are over and our beautiful tree will grace the Capitol grounds," Domenici said. "Hazardous fuels project and prescribed burning appear to be left out of judge singletons latest ruling and that worries me. So ultimately public and community safety are still at risk, which is ultimately more important that a single holiday tree." 
   "It should have been clear before that the Forest Service had every right to move ahead with plans to cut down the Holiday Tree. But this court ruling leaves no room for confusion," Bingaman said. "Like many other New Mexicans, I am proud that our state will be providing a beautiful tree from the Santa Fe National Forest for the holiday festivities in the nation's capital." 
   The Forest Service had placed a hold on plans associated with cutting down the Holiday Tree, pending a 30-day public comment period, after Singleton in September issued a nationwide ruling for the Forest Service to suspended all projects and activities using categorical exclusions from the NEPA process until project managers allow public notice, comment and the opportunity for appeal. 
   Domenici and Bingaman in early October sent a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns asking for their prompt attention to the possibility of a delay, which could have impeded a statewide tour of the holiday tree and its delivery to Washington D.C. on schedule. 
   After it is harvested in early November, the Holiday Tree will travel throughout New Mexico in November before being delivered to Washington, where it will be lit in a Dec. 8 ceremony at the U.S. Capitol. 
   In addition to the Holiday Tree issue, the Forest Service response to the ruling on Earth Island Institute v. Ruthenbeck could have affected hundreds of outstanding permit and project requests in New Mexico, including 500 personal use permits sought by New Mexicans to harvest small amounts of firewood for home heating uses. 
   For more information about New Mexico's Capitol Holiday Tree work, visit: www.capitolholidaytree2005.net
 
 