SEN. DOMENICI: CRITICAL HABITAT DESIGNATION FOR WILLOW FLYCATCHER AFFECTS NEW MEXICO RIVER SYSTEMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today began his review of new critical habitat areas outlined by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) in New Mexico to sustain the endangered Southwestern willow flycatcher, a small bird that establishes nesting areas in river systems that also provide water for farmers and cities.  
   The FWS today published its outline in the Federal Register designation of 737 river miles within a 100-year flood plane or flood prone areas on 120,824 acres in New Mexico, Arizona, California, Nevada and Utah. (http://arizonaes.fws.gov) 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, had successfully pressed the FWS and Interior Department to allow more time for communities and interested parties to comment on economic impacts and how the new designation could affect ongoing collaborative efforts related to sustaining the endangered Rio Grande silvery minnow and the willow flycatcher. 
   "We now finally know what new restrictions will be placed on private landholders and public land managers with a determination of the areas of critical habitat for the Southwestern willow flycatcher," Domenici said. "I commend the Fish and Wildlife Service for honoring the active habitat restoration and other environmental protection activities in the Middle Rio Grande region by removing some sections from the list of areas for critical habitat designation." 
   In New Mexico, the new willow flycatcher critical habitat areas are in the Upper Gila River (Hidalgo and Grant counties), the Upper Rio Grande (Rio Arriba and Taos counties), the Middle Rio Grande (Valencia and Socorro counties), and Coyote Creek (Mora County). 
   Significantly, the FWS heeded concerns raised by Domenici, the city of Albuquerque and others by not including portions of the middle Rio Grande in the Albuquerque metropolitan area within the critical habitat designations. 
   The city, the Albuquerque Bernalillo Water Management Authority, the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District, the State of New Mexico Interstate Stream Commission and several Tribes argued that a new designation could hamper extensive efforts that are already underway to improve habitat throughout the region including efforts by the Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Collaborative Program. 
   "We've already worked years and spent millions of dollars to improve the middle Rio Grande ecosystem, water supply management, fire protection and land use. This is not an area that needs enforcement action. This is an area that needs to be rewarded. I believe that the Fish and Wildlife Service has partially rewarded this effort," Domenici said. 
   The flycatcher, a small bird that migrates through the Southwest, was designated an endangered species by the FWS in 1995. Court decisions in 2001 and 2003 required the FWS to provide a revamp of its initial 1997 critical habitat plan by Sept. 30, 2005. The current decision is in keeping with that court mandate. 
   The FWS initially included the entire area on the Rio Grande north of Elephant Butte Reservoir in its proposed critical habitat. 
   As outlined in the Endangered Species Act, a critical habitat identifies geographic areas that contain features essential for the conservation of a threatened or endangered species and that may require special management considerations or protection. The designation does not affect land ownership or establish a refuge, wilderness, reserve, preserve, or other conservation area. It does not allow government or public access to private lands.
 
 