SENATE PASSES SEN. DOMENICI RESOLUTION SETTING 2007 NATIONAL CHARACTER COUNTS WEEK
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced Senate passage of the 2007 National Character Counts Week resolution that sets aside seven days to emphasize the importance of strong character in today's youth. 
   The Senate late Thursday approved the bipartisan resolution, introduced by Domenici and Sen. Chris Dodd (D-Conn.), that designates 2007 Character Counts Week as Oct. 21-27.  
   To commemorate the week, several events will take place in schools across New Mexico to highlight character education and the achievements of Character Counts over the years. 
   "Our character is the foundation of who we are as people and how we are perceived by the world," said Domenici. "In New Mexico, we have run many successful Character Counts programs throughout the years. Character Counts works in New Mexico because it is truly a community partnership." 
   "Character education is about celebrating the talents and potential of young people while providing them with the knowledge and skills necessary to make responsible choices," said Dodd. "I am pleased that we are continuing to help expand states' and schools' abilities to make character education a central part of every child's education." 
   Domenici and then Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) first introduced a congressional resolution calling for National Character Counts Week in 1994. The FY2008 Labor-HHS Appropriations Bill, pending in the Senate, contains $50,000 for Character Counts education in New Mexico. 
   In a floor statement accompanying the resolution, Domenici recognized several of New Mexico's upcoming Character Counts events. The following are among the festivities planned in New Mexico to mark National Character Counts Week: 
   * Oct. 19 - Albuquerque: Duranes Elementary "Character is the Heart of New Mexico" Parade, 10:00 a.m., Old Town Plaza and the Albuquerque Museum 
   * Oct. 25 - Roswell: Super Celebration of Character Counts Week, 6 p.m., Roswell High School Commons 
   * Oct. 27 - Gallup: Character Counts Week Parade, 10 a.m., Fourth and Coal to Lincoln Elementary School. 
   Character Counts is an initiative built around the pillars of Respect, Responsibility, Fairness, Citizenship, Trustworthiness, and Caring. Character Counts is used by every New Mexico school district, and the New Mexico Activities Association has extended Character Counts training through the sportsmanship program "Pursuing Victory with Honor." 
   For more information, visit: http://www.charactercounts.org. 
   Domenici's full 2007 National Character Counts floor statement: 
   2007 NATIONAL CHARACTER COUNTS WEEK 
   Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I rise today with my good friend Senator Dodd to introduce a resolution designating the week of October 21st as the 2007 National Character Counts Week. 
   Our character is the foundation of who we are as people and how we are perceived by the world. Everyday our character and ethics are tested through the decisions we make and the behavior we exhibit. The National Character Counts program focuses on "Six Pillars of Character" which are promoted through school and community based character education programs across the country. The six pillars are: trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring, and citizenship. 
   I have supported Character Counts throughout the years because I believe this program reaches out to all youth and adults, as the Character Counts Coalition states, no matter the individual's race, creed, politics, gender, and wealth. In my home state of New Mexico, we have run many successful Character Counts programs throughout the years. While many schools initiate Character Counts programs there are also many other organizations that develop character based programming. I would like to take the time to recognize some of the successful programs we have had in New Mexico for 2007. 
   Character Counts works in New Mexico because it is truly a community partnership. There was a brilliant example last week during the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta. The Balloon Fiesta staff hosted sixty selected school kids for two days of festive activities. Northrop Grumman provided tethered balloon rides. Meals on Wheels fed the young people lunch, and the Albuquerque Balloon Museum gave some of the students a tour of the exhibits to show them the history of hot air balloons. These were fun days, but the children certainly learned about civic responsibility with some of our state's top business and community leaders. A once in a lifetime experience for many of these kids, and exposure to adults demonstrating respect, responsibility, trustworthiness, fairness, citizenship, and caring; the "Six Pillars of Character." 
   During the week of October 21st, I hope everyone takes the time to participate in a Character Counts event in their local area. I know in New Mexico we will be having some special celebrations. On October 19th in Albuquerque, New Mexico there will be a Character is the Heart of New Mexico Parade, put on by Duranes Elementary beginning at the Old Town Plaza and ending at the Albuquerque Museum. On October 25th, Roswell will celebrate thirteen years of Character Counts with a Character Counts Super Celebration at Roswell High School. And on October 27th, Gallup will celebrate with a Character Counts Parade starting at Fourth and Coal and ending at Lincoln Elementary School. All of these organizations and schools as well as the many others not mentioned here, are to be commended for their hard work in developing these programs and spreading the message that character truly does count. 
   I believe this program is making a difference in my home state and across the country. I want to encourage more people to become involved with the Character Counts program, but most of all I hope individuals will take the time to reflect on what the "Six Pillars of Character" mean to them. 
   I hope all of my colleagues will support this effort. 
   I ask unanimous consent that my statement and a copy of the Resolution be printed in the Record.
 
 