RESOLUTION TO SUPPORT YOUTH COURTS, 27 PROGRAMS IN NEW MEXICO
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined a bipartisan group of Senators in recognizing the valuable contributions of youth courts by cosponsoring a resolution that would designate September as "National Youth Court Month."  
   The resolution, introduced by Senators Ted Stevens and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, would recognize September as the 6th Annual National Youth Court Month. There are currently 1,210 youth courts in 49 states, including more than two dozen in New Mexico. 
   "Youth courts are an alternative to the traditional justice system," said Domenici. "By involving the community in the lives of these troubled youth, there is a better chance that they will go on to be positive members of that community." 
   In the youth courts, nonviolent juvenile offenders are tried, represented, and sentenced by their peers. Disciplinary measures in these courts often consist of methods such as oral or written apologies, jail tours, victim awareness classes, and community service hours. 
   New Mexico is home to 27 youth courts, including programs in Alamogordo, Artesia, Bernalillo, Bloomfield, Clovis, Crownpoint, Deming, Espa?ola, Fort Wingate, Gallup, Grants, Hobbs, Lordsburg, Los Alamos, Mesilla, Moriarty, Portales, Rio Rancho, Roswell, Santa Fe, Silver City, Socorro, Taos, and Truth or Consequences. (http://www.youthcourt.net) 
   In June, Domenici met with officials from the Do?a Ana County Juvenile Drug Court, as well as the Cibola County Drug Court Assessment Team. Both groups were in Washington for the 13th Annual National Association of Drug Court Professionals Training Conference. 
   Domenici has used his position in the Senate to support youth justice and leadership programs, including securing $40 million for the federal Drug Court program as part of the FY2008 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill. Since 1994, he has also spearheaded the Character Counts program in New Mexico schools, which seeks to advance the six pillars of good character: trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring, and citizenship.
 
 