SEN. DOMENICI LETTER CALLS FOR END TO MILK INCOME LOSS PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici has authored a letter calling for an end to the costly and controversial Milk Income Loss program (MILC), which puts New Mexico farmers at a disadvantage.  
   The letter, addressed to Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Chairman Saxby Chambliss, was signed by a group of Senators that includes Senator Jeff Bingaman. 
   The letter points out that the FY2006 Budget Resolution requires $3 billion in federal cuts over the next five years. Extending the MILC program, which is set to expire this year, would cost $1.3 billion over the next two years, according to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). 
   However, CBO estimates for the past two years have underestimated the cost of the MILC program, which has seen vast cost overruns of at least $800 million. 
   "At a time of increased international scrutiny on all our agriculture programs, it seems ill advised to extend this market altering program. MILC interferes with the market and the free market response necessary to keep dairy competitive. 
   "Dairy is a complex industry. It needs a single and focused policy developed only after full input from all who have knowledge of its complexity. Another ad hoc program intended to help a few dairy farmers short term at the expense of all dairy farmers and the American taxpayers long term is not in the interest of good dairy policy. Therefore, we respectfully request that you exclude any extension of the MILC program when your committee releases its reconciliation package," the letter reads. 
   The MILC program is set to expire in September and has been consistently opposed by Domenici since it was created in the 2002 Farm Bill. Only 8 percent of the milk produced in New Mexico is eligible for MILC subsidies. 
   New Mexico is the seventh largest dairy producing state in the nation, behind California, Wisconsin, New York, Pennsylvania, Idaho, and Minnesota. The dairy industry in New Mexico directly employs more than 8,000 workers, with the leading dairy producing counties being Chaves, Curry, Roosevelt, Do?a Ana, Lea and Eddy. There is also significant production in Bernalillo, Socorro and Valencia counties. 
   In addition to Domenici and Bingaman, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Larry Craig (R-Idaho), John Cornyn (R-Tex.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Wayne Allard (R-Colo.) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Tex.).
 
 