CHARACTER COUNTS KIDS TO BE HONORED AT NEW MEXICO STATE FAIR IN SEPTEMBER
  School children from across the state are expected to crowd Main Street as the New Mexico State Fair celebrates Character Counts Day on Monday, Sept. 12.  
   As part of the official State Fair activities, young people and their families celebrate the lessons learned the past year through the Character Counts principles of respect, responsibility, fairness, trustworthiness, citizenship, and caring. 
   "Character Counts is more than a set of classroom lessons," said Senator Pete Domenici, who has promoted the character education program since 1994. "It is community collaboration and you can see the evidence with our partners on display during Character Counts Day at the State Fair." 
   Family activities and exhibits will be featured from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. along Main Street at the fairgrounds of Expo New Mexico. Face painting, kids golf with the Hinkle Family Fun Center, cool science with the Atom Mobile of the National Atomic Museum, and prizes and games will also be used to emphasize the Character Counts message. 
   From 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., there will also be Character Counts entertainment at Ford Pavilion. Acts include the Radio Disney Mouselicious Show, the John Robert Powers Hip Hop Dancers, and the Windsor Creek Trio. 
   Other participants and sponsors of Character Counts Day at the New Mexico State Fair include: Starlite Lanes Bowling Center; Public Service Company of New Mexico; Sidekick Productions; KISS-FM; the YMCA of Albuquerque; Boys and Girls Clubs of New Mexico; Kirtland Air Force Base 58th Special Operation Wing; the Albuquerque Bicycle Center; Ronald McDonald House; and a coalition of health organizations. 
   Character Counts is an education initiative Domenici helped launch nationwide 11 years ago. Every school district in New Mexico applies Character Counts in the classroom, and the state recently received a $2.9 million federal grant to further strengthen Character Counts in New Mexico.
 
 