SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF BREAST CANCER RESEARCH POSTAGE STAMP
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today voted to give committee approval to legislation he is cosponsoring to reauthorize for another two years the issuance of a special U.S. postage stamp that will raise funds to support research on treatments and a cure for breast cancer.  
   Domenici is an original cosponsor of the Breast Cancer Research Stamp Reauthorization Act of 2007 (S.597), which was approved by the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee on Wednesday. The measure, introduced by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), is now ready for consideration by the full Senate. 
   "This special postage stamp has been a success with the American people who are increasingly aware of how breast cancer affects virtually every family. The additional revenue generated from this stamp will continue our march toward finding better treatments and an eventual cure to this disease," Domenici said. 
   Current authorization for the Breast Cancer Research Stamp expires Dec. 31, 2007. S.597 would extend this stamp program through 2009. The bill allows a continued stamp surcharge of up to 25 percent above the value of a first-class stamp. The surplus revenues go to breast cancer research. 
   Aside from skin cancer, breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer among women nationwide. The U.S. Postal Service has sold more than 747 million "semi-postal" breast cancer research stamps since 1998, which has generated more than $53.8 million for breast cancer research, as well as focused public awareness on the illness and provided hope to breast cancer survivors. 
   Domenici this year also supported the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program Reauthorization Act (HR.1132), which was signed into law in April. This new law would improve access to examinations and screening for breast and cervical cancer by allowing the Health and Human Services Secretary to waive requirements for awarding breast and cervical cancer grants to states. Domenici cosponsored similar Senate legislation last year.
 
 