SENATE OVERWHELMINGLY APPROVES SEN. DOMENICI'S GULF OF MEXICO ENERGY SECURITY BILL
  The Senate today gave its overwhelming approval to Sen. Pete Domenici's legislation to allow the nation to begin developing its own energy resources in parts of the Gulf of Mexico-a goal he believes can help alleviate pressure now on natural gas and oil supplies demanded by American consumers. 
   The Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 was approved on a 71-25 vote. The measure will now be sent to a conference committee to reconcile differences with House legislation.
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, was elated with the passage of S.3711, which he says is the most significant energy bill Congress will have an opportunity to pass this year.
   "This bill spells relief for families and businesses across the country. With the enormous heat wave rolling across the nation, the demand for natural gas to fuel the plants that power our air conditioners have caused a scarcity. The price jumped 11 percent on Monday alone," Domenici said.
   "With this bill we have chosen to provide some relief by agreeing to tap American-owned natural gas and oil in parts of the Gulf. The more supply we put on the market, the more we can help stabilize prices and perhaps ease our imports of expensive foreign energy," he said. "So, this is not a Gulf States bill. It is a bill to benefit the entire nation, whether you live in a land-locked state like New Mexico or on the Gulf coast."
   S.3711 will allow energy development in areas of Lease Area 181 and 181 South, where it is estimated that there is 1.26 billion barrels of oil and almost 6 trillion cubic feet of federally-owned natural gas-enough to power six million homes for 15 years.
    The bill, setting perimeters for production off the Florida coast, would move forward with a revenue-sharing plan allowing Gulf producing states (Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama) to receive 37.5 percent of royalties from energy production on Lease Hold 181, and direct another 12.5 percent of royalties to the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). The remaining 50 percent would go to the U.S. Treasury.
   The LWCF, created in 1964 and funded with royalties from Outer Continental Shelf energy production, has resulted in an estimated $40 million being invested across New Mexico and to assist states and localities in recreation planning and facility development.
   This fund, for example, was used in 2005 to make improvements to the Eagle Nest State Park in Colfax County, the Manzano State Park in Torrance County, the Living Desert State Park in Carlsbad, the Mesilla Valley Bosque Park in Las Cruces, Chaparral Park in Lea County, Zenith Park in Otero County, and Florence Park in San Juan County. (http://www.nps.gov/lwcf/)
   Audio Clip available at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309.)
 
 