SEN. DOMENICI, INTERIOR SECRETARY KEMPTHORNE CELEBRATE COOPERATION THAT LEADING TO REINTRODUCTION OF ENDANGERED FALCON TO NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairmen of the Senate's Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today joined Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne to celebrate the reintroduction of the endangered northern aplomado falcon to New Mexico's skies. 
   Domenici, Kempthorne, and Fish and Wild Service Director Dale Hall today said that they expect the first falcons to be released on Thursday, Aug. 3 on Ted Turner's Armenderis Ranch east of Truth or Consequences.
   "The aplomado falcon has been missing from New Mexico's skies for almost 50 years, but today we are celebrating a collaborative effort that we hope will ultimately lead to removing the bird from the endangered species list. I'm pleased that Secretary Kempthorne and Director Hall have worked so diligently on this and I appreciate their efforts," Domenici said.
   This week, a total of 11 falcons are expected to be released by the Interior Department in cooperation with the Peregrine Fund. For over a decade, Domenici has supported the Peregrine Fund's work to conserve birds of prey. Domenici has worked to gain $150,000 for the Peregrine Fund to propogate the aplomado falcon in the Senate's FY2007 Interior Appropriations Committee, on top of $150,000 he obtained last year.
   The aplomado falcon is being reintroduced under a "nonessential experimental population" designation under the Endangered Species Act to facilitate their recovery and encourage cooperation. Similar efforts on private land in Texas have been highly successful.
   "This agreement is another example of what can happen when parties work together. Like the collaborative efforts on the Rio Grande to try to save the silvery minnow, private land owners and the federal government are working together to help save the falcon and our ecosystem. I encourage the public to learn more about falcon recovery efforts, and do their part to make sure that man-made hazards do not impede with reintroduction," Domenici said.
   http://www.fws.gov/ifw2es/NewMexico/
   http://www.peregrinefund.org/default.asp
   Audio clip available at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309.)
 
 