SEN. DOMENICI APPLAUDS DECISION TO PROCEED WITH RELIABLE REPLACEMENT WARHEAD PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded a decision by Defense Department and National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) officials to proceed with the Reliable Replacement Warhead (RRW) program, which aims to create an improved and safer nuclear weapons stockpile.  
   The Nuclear Weapons Council (NWC), a working group of senior Pentagon and NNSA officials, today made the decision to proceed after reviewing competing designs for a replacement warhead submitted by Los Alamos and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories. The two labs will now compete to gain acceptance of their respective designs. 
   "I'm very pleased that the Pentagon and NNSA have decided to proceed with the RRW program. The Nuclear Weapons Council showed confidence in our weapons laboratories, including LANL, and I believe that confidence is well placed," said Domenici, who chairs the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee which has funding jurisdiction over DOE and our nation's national labs 
   "This program is about designing a weapon that is safer to store and defend, more reliable, and less costly to manufacture and maintain. I recommend that in the next meeting, the NWC select a lead design laboratory team to complete the design and development of the first RRW. From there, the three nuclear weapons laboratory directors should provide recommendations on the inclusion of the best features from each design to improve the margins, reduce risk and increase safety and security to the weapon," Domenici continued. 
   The idea for a new warhead program originated with the national laboratories, and was first proposed to Congress in 2004. Domenici pushed for its inclusion in the FY2005 Energy and Water Conference Report. The RRW program stems from the Nuclear Posture Review completed in 2002, which found that the current weapons complex is ill equipped to respond to changes from evolving threats. 
   As part of its decision, the NWC agreed to proceed on both the initial RRW design competition, and a second competition that was proposed by Domenici earlier this year in the Senate's FY2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. 
   The NWC expects to select a design for the initial RRW in the next few weeks. Once the design is selected, detailed cost estimates will be developed and presented to Congress. Domenici expects the same design competition process for the RRW-2 process and will urge that design to balance the workload between facilities.
 
 