IN CLOVIS, SEN. DOMENICI SAYS USAF REVIEW TEAM MEANS STEP FORWARD FOR CANNON AIR FORCE BASE FUTURE
  Sen. Pete Domenici, appearing here today with Sen. Jeff Bingaman, said that an Air Force evaluation team visiting Clovis is another positive step in the process of finding a permanent mission for Cannon Air Force Base. 
   The Air Force sent an eight person working group consisting of officers and contractors that began evaluating Cannon Air Force Base for future missions. In August, the BRAC Commission took the unprecedented step of placing Cannon into an "enclave status" and giving the Secretary of Defense until 2009 to try to find a suitable new mission for the base.
   "So far, I am satisfied with the progress made to ensure Cannon's future. There is definitely cause for the community to be optimistic. The USAF working group that visited Cannon is another positive step toward finding a permanent mission for the base. While it is important to understand that this group will not be making decisions about Cannon's future, its evaluation is a good start to what we expect to be a proactive exercise to see that Cannon's assets do not go to waste," Domenici said.
   Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Committee, noted that recent Congressional action ensures that Cannon's military construction improvements remain viable despite its enclave status.
   At the request of Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman, the Senate has also included language in its Defense Appropriations Bill that will prohibit the Pentagon from withdrawing any assets from Cannon until the Secretary of Defense certifies to Congress that he has sought a new mission for the eastern New Mexico base.
   "We are making progress in using the legislative process to advance the case for Cannon. Construction work will continue to make sure that the base remains in top physical condition, and we have a good chance of passing language that will keep F-16s at Cannon and trigger a process wherein the Pentagon must steadfastly search for a new use for the base," Domenici said.
   The FY2006 Military Construction Appropriations Bill passed by Congress includes language proposed by Domenici, and supported by Bingaman, that will ensure that funding for construction projects at Cannon will remain available during the enclave period.
   In the bill, Domenici also helped secure $13.2 million to support construction of two jet fuel storage tanks and a loading facility at Cannon. A modern fuel storage and distribution system will help renovate facilities constructed in the 1960s so that commercial fuel delivery trucks can be safely unloaded.
   Domenici is serving on a Senate-House conference committee to negotiate differences on the FY2006 Defense Appropriations Bill. The Senate version of that bill explicitly prevents the reassignment of personnel or assets from Cannon until the Secretary of Defense seeks a new mission for the base.
   "I hope that business will continue as usual in the Clovis-Portales region, and that people will continue to include the base in their future plans. Cannon is a valuable defense facility, but it is also important to the regional economy. Community support for Cannon remains vital, and I want to personally thank all the community leaders who have worked closely with me and the rest of the delegation to save the base," Domenici said.
 
 