SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS SUMMER 2008 INTERNS, APPLICATIONS DUE MARCH 3
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici announced today that his Washington D.C. office is now accepting applications from qualified students for its summer 2008 internship program.  
   The summer internship program will take place in two six-week sessions, the first running from May to July, and the second from July to August. Priority is given to applicants who are either New Mexico residents or attending school in the state. Applications must be postmarked by March 3. 
   "I've employed interns from a wide range of backgrounds and experiences looking to gain first-hand knowledge of Washington D.C. and the federal government," said Domenici. "Time in Washington helps benefits many students' overall education and opens the door to countless opportunities after they graduate. I encourage all interested and qualified candidates to apply." 
   Interns will gain first-hand experience in all parts of Domenici's office including the constituent services, legislative and communication portions. Applications are available on Domenici's website and can be accessed at http://www.domenici.senate.gov in the "Student's Corner" section. For more information about the program and intern responsibilities, email internships@domenici.senate.gov or call (202)224-6621. 
   Eligible applicants must have completed at least one year of study at a higher learning institution. Students from all majors, including those outside of history/political science, are encouraged to apply. 
   Past Domenici interns come from a variety of schools and academic backgrounds. Past interns have included students from New Mexico State University, the University of New Mexico, Eastern New Mexico University, the University of Texas at El Paso, Notre Dame University and Occidental College. 
   Domenici is New Mexico's longest serving U.S. Senator. He is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and holds senior membership positions on the Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee. He is also a member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and the Indian Affairs Committee.
 
 