SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES DEFENSE CONTRACT FOR HONEYWELL ABQ TO UPGRADE AIRCRAFT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that Honeywell Inc. has been awarded over $12 million to equip 150 F/A-18C/D Hornet and AV-8B Harrier II aircrafts with sophisticated display equipment.  
   Honeywell Inc. in Albuquerque will furnish these multi-mission aircraft with advanced multi-purpose color displays (MPDs) that are designed to increase visibility, efficiency and precision. The monitors view AESA radar, TAMMAC mapping, and infrared, targeting and sensory video. 
   "The defensive work conducted at Honeywell is invaluable to our defense missions at home and overseas. With more specialized equipment, these aircraft can clear dense hot zones and provide air support to troops on the ground with more accuracy," said Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "I am very pleased the Navy and other branches of our military know they can rely on New Mexico-based companies to advance the protection and mission of the United States," he said. 
   Honeywell will install MPDs in 150 aircraft- 138 aircraft for the U.S. Navy and in 12 for the government of Italy. MPDs are large format, high-resolution, color, all-weather-capable displays that increase the ability to accurately identify targets and navigate through hostile territory and challenging terrain. 
   First introduced in 1987, the F/A-18C/D Hornet is a one or two-man all-weather strike fighter with two weapon stations to accomplish both air-to-air and air-to-ground combat missions. The Hornet has ground mapping, precision strike, and night attack capabilities. 
   The AV-8B Harrier is a one-man night attack aircraft conducting air-to-ground combat with laser guided bombs, Maverick missiles, sidewinders, and munitions. The Harrier also serves as helicopter escorts, armed reconnaissance, and close and long air support. 
   Honeywell is a leading global provider of integrated avionics, engines, systems and service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, business and general aviation, military, space and airport operations. 
   In the past, Honeywell has partnered with the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Air Force to upgrade and retrofit display panels on two variations on the Navy's F/A-18 Hornet and the AV-8V Harrier, and the Air Force's F-16 Fighting Falcon aircraft.
 
 