SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS FEDERAL METHAMPHETAMINE CONTROL ACT
  With an eye on the exploding methamphetamine problem in New Mexico and throughout the Southwest, Sen. Pete Domenici today cosponsored federal legislation to combat the production and distribution of this highly destructive illegal drug.  
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate subcommittee that funds the Justice Department, has thrown his support to passage of the Combat Meth Act of 2005 (S.103). The bill would set perimeters on the sale of pseudoephedrine-commonly found in most over-the-counter cold and sinus medicines, and create new law enforcement tools to apprehend and prosecute methamphetamine producers. 
   "We've seen the meth problem in New Mexico grow worse and worse. It doesn't matter if you live in a high-income urban neighborhood, a rural town or an Indian reservation. The methamphetamine epidemic affects everyone. It is a problem that reaches far beyond the dealers and the users, since meth addiction often leads to increased instances of robbery, burglary, and other crimes," Domenici said. 
   "This bill is intended to try to limit the ability of criminals to access the ingredients they need to produce this drug. It also authorizes new means for the federal government to cooperate with state and local law enforcement agencies to control this growing menace," he said. 
   The bill, introduced by Senators Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Diane Feinstein (D-Calif.), would direct that sales of pseudoephedrine be sold only by a pharmacist or pharmacy technician, with buyers limited to nine grams of products containing this drug in a 30-day period. Provisions have been included to address rural areas without pharmacy access. 
   In addition, the measure would authorize $33 million over two years to: 
   * Train officers and prosecutors regarding meth laws and crimes ($15 million), and hire and train attorneys to prosecute federal and state meth offenses ($5 million for each of FY2006 and 2007); 
   * Create rapid response teams to help children affected by meth production ($2.5 million for each of FY2006 and 2007); and, 
   * Treat meth abuse and establish centers to improve such treatments ($3 million for FY2006 and necessary sums for 2007 and 2008). 
   The bill, which has bipartisan support, has been referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
   Domenici has been a strong proponent of federal cooperation with local law enforcement in addressing illegal drug problems. In 1999, Domenici had Rio Arriba, Santa Fe and San Juan counties added to the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program to bring more focus to combating methamphetamine, heroin, and other illegal drugs in the area. In all there are now 13 New Mexico counties in this HIDTA program. 
   According to the Drug Enforcement Agency, small clandestine meth labs are found throughout the state, with serious problem areas including the Albuquerque metropolitan region, the Four Corners area, and areas adjacent to the Mexican border. Hundreds of labs have been seized since 1999.
 
 