SEN. DOMENICI OFFERS BILL TO HIRE MORE DEPUTY U.S. MARSHALS TO EASE BORDER OPERATIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today further affirmed his goal of increasing security along our nation's southern border by introducing legislation authorizing the hiring of 250 new Deputy United States Marshals.  
   The legislation, which is cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, would authorize an additional 50 Deputy U.S. Marshal positions annually for the next five years. 
   The goal is to shore up border security by helping the U.S. Marshals Service meet increased duties associated with transporting and guarding criminal illegal immigrants involved in federal judiciary cases. 
   "Unfortunately, our U.S. Marshals are thinly-stretched with their law enforcement duties, including their role relating to border security and immigration enforcement. This overload poses a risk to our nation's security," said Domenici. "While I know that we are nowhere near the point of solving all of our border security issues, I believe that this legislation is an important step in the right direction and will help give our forces at the border the resources and manpower they need to do their job appropriately." 
   "U.S. marshals play a key role in supporting efforts to secure our borders. Hiring 250 more marshals will free up Border Patrol agents to focus more energy on doing their primary job - patrolling our borders," Bingaman said. 
   U.S. Marshals are involved in key aspects of the immigration process, including the transport of criminal immigrants and guarding them in federal courthouses. The legislation was previously introduced by Domenici and Bingaman as an amendment to last year's Securing America's Borders Act. 
   In 2006, as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici secured $22 million for construction and maintenance at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Artesia as part of the FY2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. The bill also included $379.6 million to hire 1,500 new border patrol agents to be trained at FLETC.
 
 