SEN. DOMENICI: NEW TECHNOLOGY CAN MAKE OIL SHALE VIABLE ENERGY SOURCE FOR AMERICA
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he believes new technologies can help the United States tap into vast resources of oil shale without the environmental problems caused by past attempts. 
   Domenici today chaired a field hearing of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee here to receive testimony on the prospects of recovering an estimated 800 billion barrels of recoverable oil from oil shale on federal lands in Colorado, Utah and Wyoming. Domenici, along with Colorado Senator Ken Salazar and Utah Senator Orrin Hatch, also received testimony on emerging extraction technologies.
   "I believe we as a nation must look at all the energy sources we can produce ourselves here at home. Oil shale is one of those resources. Some will argue that we need to conserve more. Others will say we should just increase efficiency of our cars and trucks or switch to renewable fuels. There are even some who would argue that oil shale is a bad bet, pointing to the past boom and bust," Domenici said.
   "But things are different now. We are more dependent on foreign oil than ever. Our world is a more fragile and unstable place, and energy prices have soared. But it's also different in terms of what it means to you. We do not want to make the mistakes of the past. We are going to make sure we do this right, for you, your communities and for the environment." he said.
   As part of the field hearing, Domenici and his colleagues are also touring oil shale sites in Colorado and Utah. Nearly 80 percent of oil shale reserves in the United States are located on federal lands. Oil shale reserves are mainly located in Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Kentucky, Ohio and Indiana. There are some oil shale resources in the Permian Basin.
   "This field hearing will give us a local perspective on the prospect for developing our nation's vast oil shale and tar sands resources," Domenici said. "I believe that with private citizens, state and local governments and industry working together as a group we can make oil shale recovery work for America. Successfully developing our vast oil shale resource, can mean so much more for America than just finding one more source for energy."
   Domenici noted that the Energy Policy Act of 2005 includes provisions to advance the sound development of oil shale and tar sands. In general, the law directs the Secretary of the Interior to:
   * Make certain lands available for leasing for research and development;
   * Complete a programmatic environmental impact statement for a commercial leasing program; and,
   * Issue final regulations and implement a commercial leasing program in consultation with the States.
   The law also directs the Secretary of Energy to establish a task force that will develop a program to coordinate and accelerate the commercial development of oil shale and tar sands resources, and gives the DOE Office of Petroleum Reserves responsibility to coordinate, evaluate and promote the federal activities in these areas.
 
 