SEN. DOMENICI HONORS SOLDIER FOR BRAVERY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today presented military honors to a New Mexico military serviceman; medals that were earned for meritorious service 20 years ago but until now not issued.  
   Domenici today delivered to Army 1st Lieutenant Damian Horne the Soldier's Medal, as well as the Army Commendation Medal, in recognition of his action to save a fellow soldier while on duty at Fort Wingate, New Mexico in 1987. The ceremony follows Domenici's help in securing the medals for which Horne was previously nominated, but never officially awarded. 
   "Our nation and state should recognize and honor service members for selfless actions to protect those around them. Lieutenant Horne is an exemplary model of service to our country, and I am proud to award him these long overdue medals," Domenici said. "I regret that it took 20 years for him to get these honors. But I hope that this award presentation will demonstrate that we are a grateful nation to those who serve bravely in the Armed Forces, whether it was long ago or on battlefields today in countries half way around the globe." 
   Horne contacted Domenici's office last September to requested assistance in securing the medals, which were quickly awarded following Domenici's letter of recommendation. Horne received the medals for his actions while on a training detail on Oct. 14, 1987 at Fort Wingate. Horne jumped in nearby Lake McFerren in full gear to save a lieutenant who had become disabled and could not swim ashore. Upon bringing him to shore, Horne administered first aid and saved the lieutenant's life despite his own need for medical treatment. 
   The Soldier's Medal is awarded to members of the Armed Forces who distinguish themselves by heroic acts that do not involve conflict with an enemy and involve personal hazard or danger and the voluntary risk of life. The Army Commendation Medal is presented to any member of the Army who distinguishes him or herself through heroic acts, or meritorious achievement or service. 
   Domenici has been a longtime veterans advocate, working to ensure they receive appropriate honor and recognition for their actions. Last August, Domenici presented William L. Rice of Williamsburg with a Purple Heart, which he earned as an aerial gunner on a Navy torpedo plane in World War II. The award was made following Domenici's work with the National Personnel Records Center and the Navy Personnel Command to secure the medal. 
   Additionally, he introduced legislation with the rest of the New Mexico Congressional delegation to rename the Albuquerque VA hospital as the Raymond G. Murphy Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
 
 