SEN. DOMENICI: KIRTLAND PARTNERSHIP EXPERIENCES IN 1995 CAN HELP 2005 EFFORT TO SAVE CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asserted that a decade of experience makes the Kirtland Partnership Committee (KPC) well suited to help citizens of the Clovis-Portales area as they prepare to fight the Pentagon's recommendation to close Cannon Air Force Base as part of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). 
   Domenici was the featured speaker at the KPC's summer meeting. The KPC played a major role in working with New Mexico's Congressional delegation to have Kirtland Air Force Base removed from BRAC consideration in 1995. 
   "The Kirtland Partnership Committee is an outstanding organization that twice now has worked to ensure a successful future for Kirtland Air Force Base. I'm very pleased that Kirtland will see gains out of this BRAC round. It is a testament to the hard work and dedication of the KPC and Kirtland's unique mission," Domenici said.
   "However, right now, our concern must be focused on Cannon Air Force Base, which the Pentagon wants to close, and White Sands Missile Range, which is slated to lose significant personnel. There is no doubt that the KPC's experience in having Kirtland taken out of consideration in 1995 will be very valuable to our current situation," he said. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, has been working with the New Mexico Congressional delegation, state and local officials to mount the most effective counteroffensive to the Pentagon's plans to close Cannon and draw jobs away from Holloman Air Force Base and WSMR. 
   He challenged the KPC to lend itself to this effort, particularly since the Pentagon only Tuesday fully released its 2005 BRAC justification documents. The BRAC Commission has slated a site visit at Cannon for June 23, and a regional hearing in Clovis for June 24. 
   "Everyone is under the gun to cull through this Defense Department material and find its inaccuracies, oversights and weaknesses," Domenici said. "I'm asking the KPC to engage their friends in the Clovis-Portales and Las Cruces-Alamogordo regions, and share their advice and expertise. Tell them what they can expect during this process, and tell them what to avoid. I'm hopeful that the KPC can be part of a team that will save Cannon, just as we did for Kirtland ten years ago." 
   Under the Pentagon's BRAC recommendations, the Air Force Sensors Directorate, currently located at Hanscom Air Force Base in Massachusetts, will be moved to the Space Vehicles Directorate at Kirtland. This recommendation would result in another 206 jobs being assigned to Kirtland.
 
 