NEW MEXICO DELEGATION MEMBERS WELCOME NEWS OF USDA ASSISTANCE FOR EASTERN NEW MEXICO TORNADO RELIEF
  Members of the New Mexico congressional delegation praised the efforts of the Department of Agriculture (USDA), which reported that it will continue to provide disaster assistance to areas of eastern New Mexico hard hit by tornadoes earlier this year.  
   USDA Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, Mark E. Keenum, sent a letter thanking delegation members for their March 28th letter to request disaster assistance on behalf of Curry and Quay Counties. 
   President Bush declared a state of disaster in Curry and Quay Counties due to damages incurred from storms and tornadoes on March 23 and 24. This presidential declaration, issued on April 2nd, will ensure that residents in Curry and Quay Counties are eligible for federal assistance. 
   "Since learning about these storms and the damage they caused to areas of eastern New Mexico, I have worked to ensure that any and all possible federal assistance is made available to help these individuals get back on their feet. I am pleased that the USDA is aware of needs in Curry and Quay Counties and is doing what it can to mitigate long-term damage to the area's livelihood," Domenici said. 
   "Assistance through USDA has been available for the past few months, and I hope New Mexicans who have already applied for it have found it helpful. For those who have not yet applied for assistance, I urge them to apply soon in order to take advantage of the program," Bingaman said. 
   "There still is much to be done to help our neighbors in Quay and Curry Counties who were affected by the tornados, and I'm pleased the USDA has committed to helping everyone try to put their lives back together," Rep. Tom Udall said. "I encourage everyone who is eligible for this program to apply by the deadline." Under terms of the declaration, farmers have eight months from the date of the declaration to apply for low-interest emergency loans to help cover the cost of their losses. According to Under Secretary Keenum, the Farm Service Agency will consider each application based on pre-determined criteria.
 
 