ITEP PROGRAM WILL IMPROVE INFO SHARING BETWEEN LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today commended the Department of Homeland Security for establishing an Information Technology Evaluation Program (ITEP) to break down obstacles faced by law enforcement agencies trying to share vital information.  
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that sets funding levels for DHS programs, said DHS is accepting proposals for novel information technology demonstration projects that eliminate problematic barriers between agencies. 
   "This is a great opportunity for agencies to apply modern technology to fix hindrances in the system. Sharing information between bureaus greatly enhances the mission of DHS and improves our ability to weed out terrorism," Domenici said. 
   State Administrative Agencies (SAAs) in collaboration with state Chief Information Officers and homeland security directors may submit up to three applications for candidate projects. Highest priority will be given to projects that best demonstrate the novel use of existing, "state-of-the-market" information technology to remove one or more significant barriers in homeland security mission critical areas. 
   Applications are due no later than June 30. DHS will review the applications by July 31 and make awards no later than Sept. 30. Applications and selection criteria are available at www.ojp.usdoj.gov/fundopps.htm 
   The Homeland Security Information Technology Evaluation Program (ITEP) is a joint project between the department's chief information officer and Office of Domestic Preparedness. 
   Since 1998, the DHS Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP) has worked with state, territory, tribal, urban area and local public safety agencies to identify homeland security needs and provide resources required to address these needs. The OCIO and ODP will collaboratively manage and administer funds for ITEP projects to ensure alignment with the DHS goal to create a one-stop-shop for state and local homeland security resources. 
   For a fact sheet or additional information on ITEP, contact the ODP Helpline at 1-800-368-6498 or via e-mail at askcsd@ojp.usdoj.gov.
 
 