SEN. DOMENICI APPLAUDS EFFORTS OF MENTAL HEALTH COURTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today observed Santa Fe Mental Health Court proceedings, and met with State District Judge Michael Vigil who runs the program designed to keep repeat minor offenders with mental health problems out of jail. 
   From a jury box vantage point, Domenici watched as eligible defendants appeared before Judge Vigil, who operates the program and monitors the progress of defendants' cases and the stability of their mental health. Following the Mental Health Court proceedings, Domenici discussed the program with Judge Vigil and his staff, and toured the facility. Domenici has been asked to help secure federal funding to broaden the reach of the Santa Fe-based program.  
   "The Mental Health Courts program is a tremendously important effort that addresses criminal activity at its core, and provides the specialized attention to help keep repeat offenders out of jail and on track with therapy," said Domenici. 
   "I commend Judge Vigil and his staff for the good work they are doing here in Santa Fe. I will work to deliver the federal resources to fund the program and expand its services to help as many mentally ill defendants as possible," he said. 
   The Santa Fe Mental Health Court is a program that seeks to keep repeat minor offenders with mental illness off of drugs, out of jail, and in treatment and therapy programs. Eligible defendants are individuals with mental health problems who have been sentenced to probation for repeat minor offenses not involving a weapon. 
   Defendants participate in the program for an average of 14 months, during which they regularly meet with Judge Vigil to report on therapy attendance and use of prescribed medicine, as well as to submit to random drug and breathalyzer tests. 
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds a variety of programs and initiatives in New Mexico. In his FY2008 appropriations request in the Commerce-Justice-Science (CJS) Appropriations bill, Domenici pressed leadership to set aside $200,000 for the Santa Fe Mental Health Court. 
   Currently, the underfunded Mental Health Court program is forced to cap the number of individuals who can benefit from its services at 20 participants. With the additional $200,000, the program would be able to expand both its targeted population and its scope of services. 
   "Because of growing restrictions on earmarked projects, it will be tough to get done, but I'm more than willing to try to get a share of this money to help," said Domenici. 
   Overall, Domenici has also requested $10 million for the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act (MIOTCRA) in the FY2008 CJS Appropriations bill. MIOTCRA grants can be used for a broad range of activities, including mental health courts, mental health and substance abuse treatment for incarcerated mentally-ill offenders, community re-entry services, and cross-training of criminal justice, law enforcement, and mental health personnel. This program received $5 million in FY2006 and $5 million FY2007. 
   Additionally, Domenici has requested $10 million under the American's Law Enforcement and Mental Health Project Act in the FY2008 CJS Appropriations bill. Since 2002, Domenici has secured over $12 million for the Mental Health Courts program under this Act, which was passed in 2000. 
   A longtime mental health advocate, Domenici has also sought other avenues to improve mental health care services and delivery. In February, Senators Domenici and Kennedy introduced new mental health parity legislation that will build on the Mental Health Parity Act of 1996 that began the process of ending health insurance discrimination against people suffering from mental illness.
 
 