N.M. DELEGATION REQUESTS CONSTRUCTION FUNDS FOR CANNON AIR FORCE BASE SPECIAL OPERATIONS FACILITIES
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, along with Reps. Heather Wilson, Tom Udall, and Steve Pearce, today asked Senate and House Appropriations Committee leaders to provide supplemental funding for key construction projects to support Cannon Air Force Base's new Special Operations Command mission. 
   The delegation formally requested that $72.5 million that is currently on the Air Force Special Operations Command's unfunded requirements list be provided in the FY2007 Supplemental Appropriations bill, which will contain funding for emergency measures and military operations overseas. The House and Senate are expected to consider the bill later this month.  
   The $72.5 million would be used to construct a fuel cell hanger and C-130 Corrosion hanger ($31.5 million), CV-22 Simulator Facility ($7.5 million), UAV Squadron Operations/Ground Control station ($17.5 million), MC-130 Squadron Operations Facility ($12 million) and to fund MILCON Planning and Design ($4 million). All projects have been previously identified by the Department of Defense as being requirements for the transformation of Cannon to a Special Operations base. 
   "Special Operations forces are at the very core of our operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Since they are playing such a key role in the global war on terror, we must make sure that their equipment and training is top notch. In order for Cannon to be fully utilized as a Special Operations base, the additional equipment and facilities identified must be provided, so I will do all that I can to get needed funding included this year," said Domenici, a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "We need to move forward aggressively with plans to upgrade Cannon, and this $72.5 million investment is needed to make way for the base's major new mission," Bingaman said. "The sooner we secure the funding, the better." 
   "We need more special operations forces, and Cannon is a very good place for the training and support the Air Force needs," says Rep. Heather Wilson. "We have to get the base in shape so that our airmen have the facilities they need to carry out their very important mission." 
   "These projects are critical to ensure a smooth and timely transition of AFSOC to Cannon. They are also vital to the future success of the base's new mission," said Udall, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. 
   "The arrival of the Air Force Special Operations Command at Cannon Air Force Base will be a key event in the creation of the world's best integrated training environment," Pearce said. "The full funding of Cannon military construction projects will pay immediate dividends for America's national security as well as New Mexico's economy." 
   The FY2008 Defense Department Budget Request does contain $9.2 million military construction recommendation for two Cannon projects-- $7.5 million for an MC-130 Flight Simulator facility and $1.7 million to renovate Hangar 109 to accommodate C-130 aircraft. 
   The delegation request was made to the chairman and ranking members of the Senate and House Appropriations Committees, as well as the chairman and ranking members of the Senate and House Defense Appropriations subcommittees and military construction subcommittees. 
   During questioning by Domenici at an appropriations hearing Wednesday, Deputy Defense Secretary Gordon England said that $200 million has been programmed through the Future Defense Plan for Cannon. However, the Secretary expressed surprise that there is $72 million in FY2008 unfunded AFSOC requirements for FY2008.
 
 