SEN. DOMENICI OFFERS BILL AUTHORIZING 10-YEAR MIDDLE RIO GRANDE BOSQUE RESTORATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today renewed his work to authorize federal participation in a 10-year initiative to rehabilitate and restore the middle Rio Grande bosque in the Albuquerque area into a healthier ecosystem that is more accessible to the public.  
   Domenici, who has promoted bosque preservation since 1991, reintroduced this latest iteration of legislation he previously offered to preserve the bosque within the metropolitan Albuquerque area. 
   The Domenici bill would authorize $10 million in FY2008 to begin carrying out coordinated projects and activities related to substantial ecosystem restoration and preservation, as well as create recreational facilities along the middle Rio Grande--primarily focused on the riparian region between the Rio Bravo and Paseo del Norte bridges. 
   "The bosque is without a doubt a huge asset for central New Mexico, and this legislation would build on more than 15 years of work to save and protect it. My goal continues to be to restore the bosque and make it a more open and attractive place for people to enjoy," Domenici said. "This work would, in turn, also make the bosque less prone to disastrous wildfires that remain a threat." 
   The bill addresses the removal of dead and downed wood, non-native vegetation and undergrowth to protect the bosque from fires. It would encourage the restoration of native trees, shrubs, and grasses, in addition to reestablishing the hydrologic connection between the Rio Grande and the bosque that will ensure permanent, healthy growth and reproduction of native vegetation. Such work would involve the Army Corps of Engineers, state and local governments, local groups like the Bosque Coalition, and the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District that owns this property. 
   Beyond the $10 million authorization for FY2008, the bill would authorize "such sums as are necessary" for the next nine years to conduct preservation and protection activities within the bosque. 
   Domenici said he has expectation that his new bosque restoration bill could eventually be incorporated into legislation to reauthorize the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). This project was approved by the Senate as part of the 2006 WRDA reauthorization, but House-Senate negotiations on the final package did not finish before the end of the 109th Congress. 
   In 1991, Domenici launched his Rio Grande Bosque Initiative to save the bosque habitat between Cochiti and Elephant Butte. Domenici consistently secures annual funding for the bosque consortium, a unique multi-agency effort to continue work on the bosque.
 
 