SEN. DOMENICI ENDORSES SIERRA COUNTY BID FOR FEDERAL PROPERTY FOR VOLUNTEER FIRE STATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed his support for a proposal to give Sierra County rights to 2.5 acres of U.S. Forest Service property to construct a volunteer fire department station.  
   In a letter to the Forest Service, Domenici endorsed the transfer of 2.5 acres of land bordering Black Range Heights from the National Forest System (NFS) to Sierra County. The proposed conveyance will provide Sierra County with the space required to build a new firehouse for the establishment of the Poverty Creek Volunteer Fire Department. 
   "The NFS land transfer to Sierra County is an important step in protecting surrounding private and public lands from the danger of fires in the area. Because the Straight Gulch Administrative Site is the only land adequate for the establishment of this much-needed firehouse, I hope the Forest Service will move quickly to approve the request and implement the transfer," said Domenici, a member of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 
   The proposed fire station would serve as a central location for local fire suppression and rescue activities as well as first responder and fire fighting training. The Poverty Creek Volunteer Fire Department would establish a source of water, equipment, communication, and manpower for fighting wildfires on nearby forest lands. 
   In April 2003, Sierra County initially applied for a special use permit from the Forest Service for construction of a fire fighting facility in the Gila National Forest. After learning of state funding requirements regarding land ownership, Sierra County was compelled to apply for a transfer of the Straight Gulch Administrative Site under the National Forest Townsite Act. 
   The current subject townsite proposal is being processed under the authority of the National Forest Townsite Act of July 31, 1958 (72 Stat.438; 7 U. S. C. 1012a; 16 U. S. C. 478a), as amended by the Sec. 213 of Federal Land Policy and Management Act of October 21, 1976 (90 Stat. 2760).
 
 