SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN ANNOUNCE F-22A RAPTORS SLATED FOR HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced that the Pentagon has expressed its intent to base two F-22A Raptor squadrons at Holloman Air Force Base in Alamogordo, a mission that would replace the F-117 stealth fighters currently at the base.  
   While the plan is still subject to an environmental impact assessment, some Raptors could start arriving from the production line at Holloman in late 2008. The Pentagon has expressed its desire to retire the F-117 stealth fighters currently based at Holloman during FY2008. 
   "Overall today is a good day for Holloman Air Force Base. The Pentagon will be sending its newest and best aircraft to the base. I will still be working with the community to find complementary missions for Holloman, but we now have assurances that we have a new mission and that the future of the base is bright," said Domenici, who serves on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee which funds military programs. 
   "The Raptor has emerged as the Air Force's premier fighter aircraft. Holloman is very well suited for this important new mission, and I'm pleased we now have a replacement for the F117s already lined up for the base," Bingaman said. 
   Domenici and Bingaman, who this week are meeting with Committee of 50 representatives, noted that the increased efficiency and reduced need for maintenance with the F-22 will likely result in fewer personnel stationed at Holloman. The Senators said that they will work with community leaders to pursue other missions to augment the F-22s. 
   While the exact timing of aircraft production is not known at this time, it is possible that Holloman could have F-22s on line near the time when F-117s are retired. The Senators will seek more information from the Pentagon on the timeline of the transition. 
   The F-22A Raptor is a new aircraft that will form the backbone of military air operations for years to come. The aircraft has stealth and supersonic capabilities and is equipped with the latest avionics and weapons systems. It is suited for both air to air and air to ground combat missions. 
   So far, at least 19 aircraft have been delivered, with production expected to average around 20 aircraft per year. Each squadron is likely to consist of 18 F-22s. 
   Holloman is slated to be the third base to receive the aircraft, with F-22A squadrons first being sent to Langley and Elmendorf Air Force Bases. 
   Holloman Air Force Base has been lauded by DoD officials for its facilities, weather and proximity to Fort Bliss in El Paso. The base has previously transitioned from the F-4 and the F-15 before receiving the F-117 as its mission.
 
 