EFFORT TO BATTLE DRUGS IN ESPA?OLA GETS DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE FINANCIAL BOOST
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded $175,000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to boost efforts in Espa?ola to retake troubled neighborhoods from drug dealers and gangs and establish safe-zones.  
   The Office of Justice Programs, a division of the DOJ, has awarded the grant through the Executive Office for Weed and Seed. The funds will support the Weed and Seed project that serves Espa?ola's Westside. 
   "Rio Arriba County in recent years has suffered from the worst per-capita drug overdose death rate in the nation, and meth consumption continues to be a problem throughout northern New Mexico. We must act to retake our neighborhoods from violence, gangs and substance abuse to give our families a safe and nurturing place to live," Domenici said. 
   "The Weed and Seed program has successfully uprooted drugs and gang activity in many neighborhoods in cities like Espa?ola, Albuquerque, and Las Cruces. I am pleased to see additional funds for this program that helps communities be aggressive in tackling youth drug addiction and stop the cycle of violence that revolves around substance abuse," he said. 
   Weed and Seed is a multi-agency strategy that "weeds" out violent crime, gang activity, drug use, and drug trafficking in high-crime neighborhoods and then "seeds" the target area by restoring these neighborhoods through social and economic revitalization. Weed and Seed projects also exist in Las Cruces, Albuquerque and Laguna Pueblo. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Commerce, Justice, State and the Judiciary (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee which sets funding levels for DOJ and its programs. The President's budget for 2006 includes $1.6 billion for Justice Assistance for DOJ, almost $600 million more than the FY 2005 enacted appropriation. This year, Weed and Seed programs are consolidated into the Justice Assistance account. 
   Domenici has long supported efforts to increase federal funding for drug prevention, counseling and law enforcement. Because of Domenici's efforts, the DOJ sent a technical assistance team to Rio Arriba County in 2003 to facilitate a community action plan, and establish a Weed and Seed program for the region. And starting with $750,000 in FY 2000, Domenici has repeatedly secured funding for an after-school program targeted to Rio Arriba County, modeled after the New Mexico Cooperative Extension Service's after-school program. 
   Domenici has also consistently supported the anti-drug efforts of other programs in New Mexico such as the HIDTA (High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area) program. In 1999, Domenici won approval for an amendment to designate Rio Arriba, Santa Fe and San Juan counties as part of the Southwest Border HIDTA, and make $750,000 available to jump start the program in these three counties, which he has supported with subsequent funding.
 
 