SEN. DOMENICI SAYS PLAYAS TRAINING CENTER COULD BE UTILIZED BY STATE EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) should encourage state-based homeland security organizations to utilize the first responder training center established a year ago at Playas, N.M.  
   Domenici made the suggestion in association with Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff testifying on the FY2007 budget before the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. Domenici serves on this committee as well as the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds DHS. 
   The first responder training center in Hidalgo County is operated by New Mexico Tech under five-year use agreement with DHS. Domenici was a leading proponent for the DHS to utilize Playas, a remote copper mining community, for such training. 
   "New Mexico Tech has had much success in using Playas as an effective training ground for first responders. I believe it can be more widely used because its remote location and open space make it ideal for a wide range of training activities. I am interested in knowing if there are any Homeland Security Department plans to make state homeland security directors aware of the Playas facility and its training capabilities," Domenici said. 
   "Getting more use out of the facility will be good for the area, and it will be good for more cities to give their first responders the training they need," he said. 
   Domenici worked to secure $3 million as part of the FY2005 Defense Appropriations Act to install the primary instrumentation grid for the first responder training center. 
   The funding for instrumentation will give all of the operations at Playas the critical data necessary to complete training and research. The center is expected to create about 300 jobs in Playas over the next three years. 
   The town of Playas was developed in the late 1970s by the Phelps Dodge Mining Company to provide housing and services for approximately 500 workers employed at its nearby copper smelting operation. The town has been almost empty since the Phelps Dodge copper smelting operations were suspended in 1999. The community includes 259 homes, 25 apartment units, a community center, bank, gas station, post office, fire station, medical center, and recreational facilities. 
   Domenici has also issued inquiries to Chertoff related to cooperating with the Defense Department to utilize the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) validation and test facility at the Las Cruces International Airport. The FY2007 budget recommends greater use of UAVs to patrol the Southwest Border with Mexico. The Las Cruces center is sponsored by the Defense Department in cooperation with New Mexico State University and the Federal Aviation Administration. 
   "I have been concerned that it has taken more than two years to get an agreement with the FAA on UAV flights to monitor our southern international border. However, I believe New Mexico would be an asset in the use of UAVs for surveillance, and the Las Cruces operation could be an asset to the Homeland Security Department," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also asked Chertoff to report whether any of the $20 million sought for new Customs and Border Patrol helicopters would result in new aircraft being assigned to New Mexico.
 
 