SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL TO CRACK DOWN ON BORDER TUNNELS, PASSAGES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today cosponsored of legislation to crack down on the construction or financing of unauthorized tunnels underneath the U.S. border with Mexico or Canada.  
   Domenici is supporting a bill introduced Wednesday by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) to establish punishments for those who construct tunnels or subterranean passages or who knowingly permit others to build tunnels on their property. 
   The legislation was prompted by the discovery in late January of a massive 2,400-foot smuggling tunnel between San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico. It was the most sophisticated of the 21 such tunnels discovered since September 2001. 
   "Smugglers have begun to build and design more elaborate tunnels between the U.S. and Mexico or Canada to smuggle illegal immigrants and drugs under the border. This bill will penalize the construction of such tunnels," Domenici said. 
   "As Congress takes up comprehensive immigration reform, it's important that we do everything we can to stem the flow of illegal immigration and illegal contraband," he said. 
   The bill would punish those convicted of building a tunnel with up to 20 years in prison, while calling for up to 10 years of prison time for those who let others do so on their land. 
   Also, the bill doubles the sentence for anyone who is caught using a tunnel or passage to smuggle illegal immigrants, terrorists, weapons, drugs or illegal goods. If assets such as guns are involved, the federal government would gain the right to seize them. 
   The Senate is expected to take up comprehensive immigration reform this month. Domenici is the author of two border security and immigration reform bills. The WISH Act (S.2326) recommends a strategy for dealing with millions of illegal workers in the United States and improving guest worker guidelines, while the Border Security and Modernization Act (S.2049) addresses border security infrastructure issues.
 
 