SEN. DOMENICI QUESTIONS DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ON STEALTH RETIREMENTS, WSMR PROJECT CUT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today submitted questions to Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz asking him to clarify the Defense Department's outlook for deep strike capability in light of the budget plans to retire ten F-117 Stealth fighters based at Holloman Air Force Base in Alamogordo.  
   Domenici is a senior member of the Senate Budget Committee, which received testimony from Wolfowitz on the DoD's FY2006 budget request today. Domenici has introduced legislation (S.332) that would block the retirement of stealth aircraft during the fiscal year. 
   "As a former Budget Committee chairman, I agree with the administration's desire to curb spending and reduce the deficit. However, it should not be at the expense of reducing our deep strike capability. During recent conflicts, our air strategy has depended on attacking high value targets in heavily defended airspace. I've asked the Deputy Secretary to reconcile the need for deep strike capability with the Defense Department's desire to retire 10 Stealth aircraft and reduce procurement of the F-22 Raptor," Domenici said. 
   The Senator also asked Wolfowitz to explain the lack of funds in the FY2006 budget for the Mobile Tactical High Energy Laser (MTHEL) program at White Sands Missile Range. Domenici has been a strong support of the project, which uses directed energy and is intended to reduce the threat from rockets, artillery and mortar. 
   "Since 1996, we've spend millions on the MTHEL program. Now, the research has been concluded and we have technology that will work. Last year alone, we spent $46 million. This year, nothing has been requested in the budget. I sincerely hope that we can now find funding to bear the fruit of this large investment," Domenici said. 
   Wolfowitz is expected to provide written answers to Domenici's questions. The Senator will have another opportunity to examine FY2006 defense spending on Wednesday, when the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee holds a hearing.
 
 