USDA TO DOMENICI: GUADALUPE CO. CLEAR OF BOVINE TB, BUT TESTS STILL ONGOING IN EDDY CO.
  Cattle in Guadalupe County have tested negative for bovine tuberculosis (TB), but tests are still ongoing in Eddy County for the disease, a U.S. Department of Agriculture official has reported to Sen. Pete Domenici. 
   In response to an inquiry by Domenici, Bruce I. Knight, USDA Undersecretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, confirmed to the Senator that TB tests on a herd in Guadalupe County were negative, but that testing on a dairy herd in Eddy County is continuing.
   "Bovine TB is very serious and I am pleased to hear that one area of our state has been cleared. The operational and financial impact of ongoing tests can potentially be detrimental to cattle operations, and the possibility of our state losing its TB-free status is disconcerting. I want the USDA to continue to work with our dairies and livestock producers to ensure that these herds are healthy and part of a growing industry in New Mexico," Domenici said.
   Knight ensured Domenici that the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) is working with state and local officials to test the Eddy County herd.
   "This matter is a high priority for the Department of Agriculture, and we assure you that our officials will continue to consult with their state counterparts as we determine how best to proceed," Knight wrote Domenici.
   "We recognize the financial hardship that bovine TB poses for New Mexico producers and worked closely with state officials to restore TB-free status in all but two New Mexico counties (Roosevelt and Curry) in July 2005. We expect this working relationship to continue as we persist in our cooperative efforts to eradicate bovine TB from the United States," Knight said.
   Domenici in early March wrote Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns seeking immediate USDA action to contain bovine TB cases discovered earlier this year in eastern New Mexico. The discovery of the disease prompted APHIS testing. These tests will be used to determine whether New Mexico can maintain its TB-free status. Without the TB-free status, livestock producers in the state would be subject to costly animal testing.
   Domenici asked Johanns to work with New Mexico as testing continues, and requested that "any and all assistance" be made available to the affected livestock producers.
   Bovine tuberculosis is a contagious and infectious disease that affects cattle, bison, deer, elk, goats, and other warm-blooded species. Tuberculosis in infected animals manifests itself in lesions of the lung, lymph nodes, bone, and other body parts, and causes weight loss and general debilitation, and can be fatal.
 
 