SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS AUTISM ACT
  In response to the increasing epidemic of autism among children born in the United States, Sen. Pete Domenici today cosponsored bipartisan legislation to focus greater federal attention on this health problem. 
   The Combating Autism Act of 2005 (S.843) would authorize a collaborative effort between various federal agencies to increase research, education, and prevention aimed at halting the prevalence of the developmental disorder. The bill would award grants to every state to develop statewide autism screening, diagnosis, and intervention programs.
   "Autism is one of the fastest growing developmental disorders affecting families in New Mexico and throughout the United States, but for which we have no cure and little understanding of its cause," Domenici said. "This bill will work to improve federal efforts to address this problem and provide hope to the 24,000 children born with the disease each year."
   Under the bill, the director of the National Institute of Health would develop an annual research budget to fund research on autism spectrum disorders, as well as create a program to provide information and education on autism and its risk factors to health professionals and the general public.
   The legislation includes provisions for centers of excellence regarding autism research through the National Institute of Mental Health, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, the National Institute on Deafness and Other Disorders, and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences.
   Autism is a neurological disorder that interferes with normal development of reasoning, communication, and social interactions/skills. (http://www.nmautismsociety.org/index.html)
   In addition, Domenici has championed significant increases in federal research funding to better understand the human brain and the illnesses that afflict it.
   Domenici is a longtime advocate for persons with mental illness, and has authored mental health parity legislation which would provide equal insurance coverage for diseases of the brain.
 
 