SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, May 1, 2006.
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Kevin Robbins, Clovis-Portales Radio
   * James Cullender, KINF Roswell 
   * Marco Grajeda, KRWG Las Cruces
   * Bill Dupuy, KSFR Santa Fe
   REVIEW:
   00:00 - Domenici discusses his FY2007 Homeland Security appropriations requests to support infrastructure improvements at the Columbus and Santa Teresa border crossings. He says that his membership on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee should prove useful in trying to secure the funding this year. Domenici also notes that he is cosponsoring a Bingaman amendment to the FY2007 Supplemental Appropriations Bill that would direct $20 million to the Border Patrol's El Paso Sector.
   02:39 - Domenici, in light of a nationwide immigrant boycott, stresses that any objective study of the American economy and demographics would show that the United States currently needs, and will continue to need, immigrants to meet workforce needs. He says Congress needs to set a policy to allow for the orderly acceptance of such foreign workers. He says the protests and boycott activities confuse the overall immigration reform issue.
   05:02 - Domenici predicts that the Senate could debate a new immigration reform and border security package in the next few weeks. He says work is being done behind the scenes to craft a consensus bill.
   06:35 - Domenici says he believes the consensus immigration reform bill will most likely be based on the Hagel-Martinez plan that was stymied by Democratic opposition to debating and voting on other border security and immigration amendments. He reviews the basic ideas involved with the Hagel-Martinez plan that established three different classifications for undocumented workers now in the United States.
   12:27 - Domenici says that if Congress enacts a federal immigration reform and border security law that states would then have to operate within the federal guidelines set in the new law, but says the federal proposals do not currently address such issues as drivers licenses or other benefits for illegal immigrants.
   13:51 - Domenici says he will diligently work to secure his EPA appropriations request to fund a State and Tribal Assistance Grant to help the town of Hagerman improve its water and wastewater system. He notes that he has helped secure other STAG funding for communities in New Mexico that need help maintaining critical infrastructure.
   15:55 - Domenici says there haven't been any proposals made as part of the immigration reform debate to amend the U.S. Constitution to strike or change the provision that allows any person born on American soil to automatically become a citizen.
   16:57 - Domenici says an Energy and Natural Resources Committee review of major American energy company records did not reveal any evidence of price manipulation or gouging.
   18:01 - Domenici says a gas price relief package unveiled last week includes provisions to give the federal government and states more authority to investigate possible gasoline price gouging or manipulation. He discusses the difficulty and expense that goes into such investigations, and notes that state attorneys general who now have the power to investigation price gouging have yet to uncover any major wrongdoing.
   20:18 - Domenici expresses some skepticism that gouging is what is now driving up energy prices, and outlines how the value of oil is set by a number of factors. He says the value of a barrel of oil is worth whatever someone is willing to pay for it. Domenici said Americans are stuck with the proposition that it is dependent on oil from counties that are vulnerable to wars and conflict, which affects the overall price of oil.
   24:28 - Domenici says the 2005 Energy Policy Act sets the stage for the United States to move toward alternative automobile fuels over the next 10 years, including expanded ethanol and biomass fuels. He says higher oil prices should accelerate the implementation of new technologies on getting energy from coal and shale.
   29:00 - Domenici says the proposed $100 rebate will help consumers and amounts to about nine-months of a holiday from the federal gas tax for average consumers. He says he supports paying for the rebates by repealing energy tax breaks and finally tapping energy sources from a small section of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. He says the United States needs to send the world a signal that it is willing to use its own resources to meet its energy needs.
 
 