SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS STABLE FISCAL 07 FUNDING FOR USDA JOHNE'S DISEASE PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that he is part of a bipartisan effort working to sustain funding for a federal program to monitor and protect dairies and cattle growers from the infectious Johne's Disease. 
   Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has signed on to a letter encouraging the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee to provide at least $18.74 million in FY2007 to maintain the National Johne's Disease Management and Testing for Cattle. This program is administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
   "A significant outbreak of Johne's Disease could have devastating affects on New Mexico dairies and cattle producers. This federal testing program is important as part of any effort to be consistently vigilant against this threat. Stable funding is necessary to that goal," Domenici said.
   Johne's Disease is an infectious bacterial disease that affects the intestinal tract in cattle, sheep, goats and some other livestock. It can also infect deer and other similar wild animals.
   According to the New Mexico Livestock Board, a small percentage of animals in New Mexico dairies have been infected by Johne's Disease. Veterinary Services estimates that some 22 percent of all dairy herds and eight percent of all beef herds in the United States are affected with the disease.
   The federal program provides producers incentives to develop and implement approved herd management plans, and helps off-set testing costs.
   "This issue is universally recognized as an important program by small and large diary operations across the country, regardless of region or size, by states' Johne's advisory panels (40 states have them), by veterinarians, and by national groups representing producers," Domenici and other Senators wrote Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee chairman and ranking member Senators Robert Bennett and Herb Kohl.
   For more information, visit: http://www.newmexicolivestockboard.com/Files/Animal%20Health%20Regulatory%20Programs/Johnes/Johnes%20General%20Information.htm
 
 