SEN. DOMENICI, REP. WILSON WELCOME NEWEST WAVE OF U.S. FOREST SERVICE WORKERS TO ALBUQUERQUE
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Rep. Heather Wilson today joined Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to welcome the newest wave of U.S. Forest Service employees being located to Albuquerque-an ongoing process that will mean more than 850 jobs here by the end of 2007. 
   Today's opening of the new Human Capital Management Office, eventually to house 360 workers, is part of the Forest Service decision to move most of its administrative services to Albuquerque from the Washington DC region. The first 109 of these human resource employees were welcomed by the lawmakers today. Domenici, Wilson, and Senator Jeff Bingaman, successfully lobbied the Forest Service to open the Albuquerque Service Center.
   "The opening of the Forest Service Human Capital Management Office marks an important milestone for Albuquerque's economy. Senator Bingaman, Heather Wilson and I were convinced that Albuquerque was the right place for these good federal jobs. I know that the people of New Mexico are welcoming these workers with open arms, just as my family was welcomed here 100 years ago this year," Domenici said. "The 850 new workers we will have in Albuquerque by the end of 2007 are a significant addition to a regional economy thriving on private sector, high-tech and government jobs."
   "The Forest Service safeguards great expanses of the American West, and that makes Albuquerque a perfect center for their efforts," Wilson said. "This expansion is another example of Albuquerque's national reputation as a great place to work and raise a family. We welcome these new Forest Service jobs to New Mexico."
   The Forest Service Albuquerque Service Center includes the agency's financial services center, human resources office, and information technology personnel. Currently, 557 employees work at the Center, about two blocks away from the new Human Capital Management Office. Of the 858 jobs added in New Mexico, about 215-or about 25 percent-are expected to be filled by New Mexico citizens. The rest are transfers from other Forest Service locations.
   Domenici, Bingaman and Wilson lobbied for New Mexico and Albuquerque when the Forest Service decided to consolidate the agency's administrative services. In finding a host city, the Forest Service considered such factors as: labor pool (diversity, skill, education), socio-economic composition (tax rates, labor productivity), infrastructure (office space, transportation and telecommunications), and quality of life (housing costs and cost of living)
 
 