SEN. DOMENICI REVIEWS HIGH-TECH WATER MAPPING TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPED BY ABQ ENGINEERING FIRM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reviewed technological advances being made by an Albuquerque engineering firm to develop better maps of New Mexico water resources, an endeavor for which he has secured federal funding. 
   Domenici, who chairs the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, has secured $2.25 million over the last three years for a joint project involving the New Mexico Office of the State Engineer and Bohannan Huston Inc. of Albuquerque to develop photographic maps utilizing the latest high resolution techniques. Mapping technology is expected to provide the basis for hydrographic surveys which will aid in the adjudication of water rights.
   "New Mexico is home to some of the brightest minds who are leading the way in technological innovation and advancement. I am pleased that this brainpower is being harnessed to better understand the complex water rights issues facing our state," said Domenici. "I'm pleased to see first hand the impact that the new technology will have as we work to address the mounting water problems in New Mexico."
   As part of his visit, Domenici received a tour of the facilities and met with senior officials at Bohannan Huston's Albuquerque office. The company's water mapping technologies could be used to carry out the intent of the New Mexico Aquifer Assessment Act of 2006 (S. 3907). Domenici authored this legislation, along with Congresswoman Heather Wilson, to authorize federal involvement in a comprehensive groundwater resources study to shed new light on the extent and nature of water resources in New Mexico.
   "My Aquifer Assessment Act will provide insight into the water crisis New Mexico faces. The mapping technology being developed by Bohannan Huston would be a valuable tool in our efforts to carry out geological studies, including the broad assessment I want of the aquifers that provide a vast majority of the water used by New Mexicans each and every day," Domenici said.
   The Domenici bill designates the study area to include the Estancia Basin, the Salt Basin, Tularosa Basin, Hueco Basin, and Middle Rio Grande Basin. The study will provide an analysis of the aquifers statewide, the availability of groundwater, salinity of resources, interaction between groundwater and surface water, and will include a characterization of surface and bedrock geology.
   While at Bohannan Huston, Domenici also received demonstrations of several homeland security projects developed by the engineering design and information systems firm. Established in 1959 and headquartered in Albuquerque, the company also has offices in Las Cruces, Dallas, and Denver. It employs about 300 workers.
 
 