CANNON AFB CHRISTENED THE 'WESTERN HOME OF THE AIR COMMANDOS'
  On the morning of October 1st, I had the privilege of witnessing the historic transition of the Cannon Air Force Base mission. My colleagues and I were on hand as the commanders of Air Force Special Operations Command and 12th Air Force went through a traditional change of command and redesignation ceremony at Cannon. Colonel West gave up command of the 27th Fighter Wing and Colonel Tim Leahy took command of the 27th Special Operations Wing. Both leaders thanked their families, the people of the greater Cannon community, and the amazing Airmen who serve under them. 
   In a separate ceremony, Colonel Scott West dedicated the F-16 that will be placed in Cannon's Heritage Park to Major Troy Gilbert. Major Gilbert died in Afghanistan while providing close air support to embattled ground forces. This is a fitting way to honor Major Gilbert's heroism.
   Cannon will now house the Air Force's premier special operations unit. Its primary mission is to conduct unconventional warfare, counterinsurgency, and psychological operations. The 27th has the ability to perform insertion, extraction and re-supply of un-conventional warfare forces and equipment into hostile or enemy-controlled territory and perform aerial reconnaissance. The 27th also operates AC-130H Spectre gunships, a heavily armed aircraft designed for close air support, armed reconnaissance, and interdiction. As the 27th grows, Cannon will become home to several additional airframes, including the CV-22 Osprey and unmanned aerial vehicles.
   Air Force Special Operations Command made the decision to name the new wing the 27th Special Operations Wing, in order to honor the distinguished history of the 27th designation and its long association with New Mexico. I, along with my colleagues in the New Mexico congressional delegation, have committed to securing what the Special Operations Command needs to support the full transition and standup of the 27th Special Operations Wing. We are already making headway in the FY2008 military construction bill and are looking for new opportunities to meet this commitment to the Air Force and the greater Clovis-Portales area.
   Though we in New Mexico are sad to see the men and women of the 27th Fighter Wing leave Cannon with their F-16 Fighting Falcons, we are proud to welcome the 27th Special Operations Wing, making Cannon the new "Western Home of the Air Commandos."
 
 