N.M. LAWMAKERS WELCOMEN AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS TO CANNON AFB, COMMIT TO SUPORTING NEW MISSION
  A united New Mexico congressional delegation today welcomed the Air Force Special Operations Command as it officially assumed command of Cannon Air Force Base at Clovis. 
   U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Representatives Tom Udall, Heather Wilson and Steve Pearce, joined local officials for a change of command ceremony during which AFSOC began its administration of the Curry County military base. The event marked the culmination of an extended effort involving the delegation to save Cannon after it was targeted in the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process.  
   Members of the delegation on Monday also renewed their commitment to work in Congress to provide AFSOC with the resources to fully support the new 27th Special Operations Wing at Cannon. It is expected that Cannon will eventually house the AC-130 Gunship, MC-130 Combat Talons and Combat Shadow aircraft, and the CV-22 Osprey, as well as other AFSOC assets. 
   "This is the start of a long and beautiful relationship between Cannon and Special Operations, one that will bring Cannon more people, more aircraft, and more visibility within the Defense Department," said DOMENICI, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "We are committed to doing what's needed to fully stand up this Special Operations Wing. These airmen deserve the best bases, training capabilities and communities, and I know that they will have that at Cannon." 
   "Today marks the official beginning of what I hope will be a very long association between AFSOC and Cannon Air Force Base. I join the people of Clovis and Portales-and our entire state-in welcoming AFSOC to New Mexico," BINGAMAN said. 
   "The formal change in command marks the next chapter in the proud history of Cannon Air Force Base," said UDALL, a member of the House Appropriations Committee whose district includes Cannon. "Though the battle streamers and flag of the 27th Fighter Wing have been retired, we will always recall with great pride the impeccable caliber and history of the men and women of served this unit with distinction. As we begin the new mission of the AFSOC 27th Special Operations Wing, we look forward to the same tradition of excellence, welcome the soldiers who will call New Mexico home and congratulate the entire Cannon community on its successful two-year mission to bring about a promising new future for the base." 
   "Special Operations is a great fit for New Mexico and it's my pleasure today to welcome this new mission and new friends to Cannon," said WILSON. "When you look at the training opportunities with New Mexico's weather, terrain, and air space you cannot find a better place to train for missions in our world's current global hotspots. Air Force Special Operations Command and specifically the 27th Special Operations Wing will be a key asset in fighting terrorism." 
   "I would like to commend Cannon AFB and all the dedicated men and women as they begin this new mission. Day after day, their hard work helps to ensure America's safety both here in the Homeland and for our forces overseas. I look forward to working with Cannon officials in the future and I wish them the best of luck to continue in their tradition of success," PEARCE said. 
   The House and Senate are currently working to finalize a FY2008 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill (HR.2642) that includes just over $10 million to facilitate the AFSOC transition at Cannon. This includes $7.5 million to construct an MC-130 Flight Simulator Facility, and $1.7 million to alter an existing hangar to accommodate C-130s. At the request of Domenici and Bingaman, the Senate bill includes an additional $855,000 for planning and design work on a $31.5 million hangar project needed to support AFSOC aircraft. 
   Cannon could also be affected by aircraft procurement funding included in the FY2008 Defense Appropriations Bill, including $238 million for Special Operations Forces to modify CV-22s. 
   Late last year, the delegation pressed the Pentagon to release $13.2 million in FY2006 military construction funding which they secured to build a modern fuel storage and distribution system at Cannon. This push followed the lawmakers' successful effort to have the Defense Department free another $9.5 million in FY2005 funding to construct a consolidated airmen's center at Cannon that will include a dining hall, postal center, laundry exchange, and other facilities.
 
 