SEN. DOMENICI CREDITS ALBUQUERQUE FIRM FOR ROLE IN PROTECTING NATION FROM WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a leading congressional proponent for controlling the proliferation of materials used in weapons of mass destruction, today said the development of a mobile radiation detection system by an Albuquerque firm can boost homeland security and the state's economic diversification efforts. 
   Domenici Thursday issued a statement in conjunction with the rollout of a prototype of the Mobile Point-of-Needs Detector System (M-PONDS).
   This new radiation detection system was developed by Global Transshipment Monitoring Company, a New Mexico-based nuclear engineering subsidiary of TMC Services Inc. Units will be manufactured in New Mexico and the firm could eventually employ 3,000 workers.
   "We've done a lot of work to control radiological materials, but the world remains at risk. We must be ever vigilant as more nations and certain rogue groups try to get their hands on dangerous materials," Domenici said. "The M-PONDS device gives us another weapon for detecting and containing materials that could be used in weapons of mass destruction against us or our allies."
   "I am proud that a New Mexico firm has developed a new, more mobile detection system that is directly related to our investment in technology at our national laboratories. In this instance, that investment, when coupled with technology transfer opportunities, can make our borders safer and add to the Albuquerque economy," he said.
   In addition to promoting nonproliferation on the national and international level, Domenici has also authored border security legislation that would pour additional resources into technologies to make American land and sea ports of entry safer.
   Domenici serves on several key Senate committees that have policy oversight and funding jurisdiction for nonproliferation that help us protect our land and sea ports of entry-including the appropriations subcommittees that fund the Department of Energy and Department of Homeland Security. He is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and serves on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee.
 
 