SEN. DOMENICI SAYS NEW BANKRUPTCY LAW NECESSARY TO CURB ABUSES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed the enactment of the first significant changes to the nation's bankruptcy system, saying the reforms signed into law Wednesday should curtail patent abuses of the current system.  
   President Bush Wednesday signed into law the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (S.256), which had broad bipartisan support in the Senate. The bill, among other things, establishes a "needs-based bankruptcy relief" standard to determine which debts must be repaid or forgiven. 
   "There is no question that this law is very much needed. It has taken us almost a decade to reach a point were we can no longer ignore the patent excesses and obvious abuses of the existing bankruptcy system. I believe this new law is a sound way to improve the system," Domenici said. 
   The new law, which goes into effect in six months, puts in place a needs-based bankruptcy relief standard that would require bankruptcy courts, in some cases, to force an individual with the means to repay more of their debt by filing under Chapter 13 rather than the more commonly-used Chapter 7. 
   A bankruptcy court would determine whether to convert a case to Chapter 13 status through a means test based on state median income levels. It is estimated that fewer than 10 percent of filers, those earning more than the median income, will be forced into Chapter 13. 
   "The means test will allow maximum leniency for those who truly deserve it should they find themselves involved in bankruptcy filing. The new system should not harshly treat those who find themselves in bankruptcy because of job loss, medical problems or other catastrophic problems," Domenici said. 
   The new law also includes provisions making it more difficult for persons to use bankruptcy to avoid child and domestic support obligations. It also addresses small business and municipality bankruptcy requirements, as well as preventing corporate bankruptcy abuse. 
   Since Congress created a modern bankruptcy code in 1978, filings have escalated at a rapid rate. From 1983 to 2003, bankruptcy filings have increased 500 percent. Congress has been unsuccessful since 1997 in passing a bankruptcy reform bill. In December 2000, President Clinton pocket vetoed an earlier version of this bill.
 
 