SEN. DOMENICI REITERATES COMMITMENT TO DELIVER BIPARTISAN ENERGY BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reiterated his commitment to have the Senate debate and act on a bipartisan national energy bill by this summer, and praised President Bush's renewed push for Congress to finally produce a national energy policy.  
   As chairman of the Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee, Domenici responded to President Bush's call Wednesday for Congress to deliver an energy bill to him this summer. 
   Domenici was among a select number of lawmakers who met with Bush yesterday at the White House to discuss energy policy. He said the Senate bill currently being crafted by committee Republicans and Democrats meets the four criteria outlined today by President Bush in a major speech to the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. 
   "I concur with President Bush's call to set aside partisan politics and pass a bipartisan energy bill. This long season of spiraling prices and tight supplies has convinced Republicans and Democrats that we must produce more and conserve more. We can no longer talk about doing just one or the other. I think the energy political landscape in the Senate is more bipartisan today than I've seen it in a long time. I have been working closely with ranking Senator Jeff Bingaman and committee Democrats and Republicans to craft a bill I hope will receive strong bipartisan support on the Senate floor this summer," Domenici said. 
   "I applaud President Bush's remarks today. As I reported to him at the White House yesterday, my committee has made solid headway this spring in crafting a bipartisan bill that meets the President's criteria. I agree with President Bush that Congress must swiftly pass legislation that helps us produce more, conserve more and diversify our supplies if we are to free our economy from the impact of global energy demand and world politics," he said. 
   In his speech to the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the President again called for an energy bill that produces more energy in environmentally-sensitive ways, conserves more energy, diversifies energy supplies and modernizes energy infrastructure. He urged Congress to stop ducking behind partisan politics and deliver an energy bill to his desk before the August recess.
 
 