SEN. DOMENICI OPTIMISTIC ABOUT SAN JUAN COUNTY ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
  In a speech to Farmington and San Juan County leaders today, Sen. Pete Domenici expressed confidence in the long-term economic outlook for the region based, in part, on increased energy production. 
   Domenici Thursday addressed a combined luncheon for Farmington's two Rotary Clubs and toured the Farmington Boys and Girls Club. The Senator delivered a legislative update and addressed local concerns and issues.
   "Our national economy is doing very well, and that progress should show up here in northwest New Mexico. This region has what the rest of the country needs-energy. The National Energy Policy Act we enacted last year will cut down red tape and make it easier for natural gas and oil from Western states to hit the market. That will directly benefit the Farmington area and should help lower prices, which is a growing concern for all of us," Domenici said.
   Domenici noted that since August 2003, nearly 5.2 million jobs have been created nationally. The first quarter of 2006 brought the best first quarter job growth in six years, with 211,000 new jobs created in March alone.
   Domenici said the Energy Policy Act will also work to create new American jobs as the nation ramps up production of its own domestic energy sources. Part of that energy and job creation equation is linked to the bill's creation of a pilot program to create seven BLM offices in five western states-including two in New Mexico at Farmington and Carlsbad-to streamline the permitting process for energy production on federal lands.
   "Cutting through years of delay in the permitting process will allow our producers to get in the fields to produce more oil and natural gas more quickly. It means we can add to the more than 18,000 independent oil and gas wells already in New Mexico, many of them right here. And ultimately, it can help producers nationally bring more than seven trillion cubic feet of natural gas to the market more quickly," Domenici said.
   Domenici also discussed a Senate Energy and Natural Resources field hearing Wednesday in Albuquerque to receive testimony from New Mexicans on the growing drought and water crisis in the state. Arvin Trujillo, executive director, Navajo Nation Division of Natural Resources, was among those testifying on the ramifications of severe drought conditions.
   "This hearing very clearly defined the desperate situation we face today and in the future as these severe drought conditions persist," Domenici said. "I'm doing everything I can to see that New Mexico gets immediate federal assistance. We must conserve and invest in technology to extend the use of the water we have available. I've authored legislation to expand programs that work to give local communities a hand and our national labs the resources they need to develop water technology."
   Also Thursday, Domenici visited the Farmington Boys and Girls Club, where he met the 2006 "Youth of the Year," eight-year-old Rilee Shaw. Domenici is a major supporter of Boys and Girls Clubs, and as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, helped obtained $85 million in federal juvenile justice funds for the Boys and Girls Club national organization to support after-school and educational programs for youth.
 
 