SEN. DOMENICI: NATIONAL GUARD & RESERVE DESERVES HIGHER PENTAGON PROFILE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today recommended a higher profile for the National Guard and Reserve among the decision-makers within the Defense Department, particularly as the Pentagon develops its future force transformation plans.  
   Domenici took part in a Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing on the FY2006 budget for the National Guard and Reserves. 
   "The National Guard and Reserves, including many from New Mexico, are doing stellar work to support the war on terror. Through their service in Iraq and Afghanistan, they have demonstrated just how important they are to our Armed Forces and our domestic homeland security activities," Domenici said. 
   "Unfortunately, I believe the active duty services can be slow to recognize that the Guard and Reserve are not second-class arms of our military structure. I believe the Guard and Reserve should have a higher profile among the decision-makers at the Pentagon. They have certainly earned it," he said. 
   Domenici said greater National Guard and Reserve influence could be crucial, for instance, as the Air Force pursues its long-term Future Total Force (FTF) transformation proposal. Domenici noted concerns in the Air National Guard-including the 150th Fighter Wing (TACOS) based at Kirtland Air Force Base-that the FTF could result in fewer National Guard F-16 aircraft and erode the vital role the Guard plays in homeland and overseas missions. 
   Domenici today also submitted questions asking General Steven Blum, chief of the National Guard Bureau, and General Daniel James III, director of the Air National Guard, to explain apparent discrepancies in the FTF goals of potentially reducing aircraft and the "Falcon Star" program to extend the use of F-16 aircraft by the Air National Guard through 2020. 
   "I would like a better understanding of how the Defense Department intends to transition the eventual use of the F-22 or F-35 for Guard use while also working to extend the life of F-16 units well into the future," Domenici said. 
   There are 959 New Mexicans associated with the Air National Guard, with an annual payroll of $17 million. There are about 2,972 people assigned to the New Mexico Army National Guard, which has seen units from Alamogordo, Albuquerque, Belen, Clovis, Las Cruces, Las Vegas, Rio Rancho, Roswell, Santa Fe, Springer, and Taos deployed since 2000. The TACOS Fighter Wing has also been assigned to support a number of recent missions, including narco-terrorism and counter-drug efforts in South America. 
   Related to these deployments, Domenici is also advocating greater National Guard and Reserve support for the concept of Home Station Mobilization that would allow small, experienced units to collectively train in their home states rather than training at far-off mobilization stations. 
   "This concept would allow Army Guard units to train closer to home as part of their mobilization orders, which would lessen the burden on Guard members and their families," Domenici said.
 
 