SEN. DOMENICI WANTS ASSESSMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY PRIORITIES FROM SECRETARY CHERTOFF
  Sen. Pete Domenici today invited Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to view New Mexico's contributions to border protection and homeland security initiatives first-hand to stress the importance of utilizing the national labs and such programs as an unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) program based in Las Cruces.  
   During a Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, Domenici also asked Chertoff to weigh in on the ongoing debate on homeland security grant distribution, and elaborate on his plans to fund key programs in New Mexico. The Senator stressed the importance of keeping funding for border security a priority as the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) advances its FY2006 budget. 
   "Rest assured, despite all we have done since 9/11, terrorists will continue to try to conjure new ways to infiltrate our nation, which is why we need to continue our progress to secure the nation's borders and critical infrastructures," Domenici said. "New Mexico is a big player in advancing the technologies that guard the border and train law enforcement agents. I would encourage the Department to develop stronger partnerships with institutions like Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, NISAC, and our research universities." 
   During the hearing, both Domenici and Chertoff agreed that DHS does not have to start at square one but needs to take advantage of existing resources in developing better ways to secure the nation. Domenici named research and development as a top priority that largely hinges on the cooperation of universities and laboratories, and urged Chertoff to promote greater networking between the Department and New Mexico institutions. 
   Domenici recently requested $28 million for the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC), operated by Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories. NISAC addresses the potential economic and security consequences of failures in electrical, natural gas and telecommunication systems as well as dams, highways, airports and seaports. 
   New Mexico is also home to an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) validation and testing facility which is sponsored by the Department of Defense and run out of New Mexico State University. Domenici, who recently requested over $40 million for the Department's UAV program, told Chertoff that as a result of this expertise the Las Cruces International Airport would be well-equipped for Department of Homeland Security UAV use on the border. 
   The Senator also stressed the importance of New Mexico receiving its share of federal security funds, with special consideration for the unique potential targets that exist in the state such as nuclear weapons laboratories and military bases. 
   "New Mexico is a rural state and therefore may be easy to pass up for risk-based homeland security grants. But New Mexico is home to two national nuclear weapons laboratories, four military installations, a Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and three land ports of entry. I believe it would be in the best interest of DHS to consider lucrative assets, not only population," Domenici said.
 
 