SEN. DOMENICI TOURS MOUNTAINAIR SALT CEDAR REMOVAL, APPLAUDS EAST MOUNTAIN BUSINESS GROWTH
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today toured a rural corridor along Highway 60 to survey the impact that invasive salt cedar has on the area's native ecosystem and reviewed progress on a federal, state and local collaboration to eradicate the water-thirsty pest.  
   Domenici toured the Abo Arroyo Watershed Salt Cedar Project near Mountainair to see work led by the Claunch-Pinto Soil & Water Conservation District, which along with federal, state and local partners, to remove salt cedar from seven miles of the Abo canyon, clearing 292 acres of invasive vegetation. 
   "I am so impressed with the cooperation that has gone into this project. It is gratifying to witness firsthand the positive results of this collaboration. But I have also seen the damage that the salt cedar inflicts on the ecosystem and more should be done across the state and the West to eradicate invasive species that inhibit natural vegetation and hurt the ecosystem," said Domenici, ranking member on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   Domenici was briefed on Abo Arroyo project by area landowners, State Forester Butch Blazer, Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Secretary Joanna Proukup and others. 
   The Abo Arroyo Watershed Salt Cedar Project partners have entered into a cooperative agreement with the U.S. Forest Service to treat 60 acres of seed source salt cedar above the Canyon to preserve the landscape and prevent further expansion of the invasive species. 
   Domenici authored the Salt Cedar and Russian Olive Control Demonstration Act, a measure to survey the extent of infestation by salt cedar and Russian olive in western states and determine long-term solutions to manage invasive species and reestablish native vegetation. President Bush signed the legislation into law late last year. 
   Later in the day, Domenici witnessed an altogether different kind of expansion. He participated in a groundbreaking ceremony to celebrate expansion of Mountainair's P & M Signs. Currently the largest employer in the community, the expansion of P & M Signs will add 50 new jobs, which could help stimulate the local community. 
   "The business expansion we are celebrating today is a good indicator of a strong and growing local economy in Mountainair. I congratulate P & M Signs on their success and thank them for their contribution to this community," Domenici said.
 
 