SEN. DOMENICI CELEBRATES $2.93 MILLION GRANT TO PROMOTE STATEWIDE CHARACTER EDUCATION INITIATIVE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today celebrated the award of a $2.93 million federal grant to enhance character education initiatives through New Mexico, funding that he believes to build on the 10 year success story of Character Counts in the state.  
   Domenici, who in 1994 threw his support behind the Character Counts initiative in New Mexico and nationally, and Education Under Secretary Deborah A. Price visited the Dolores Gonzales Elementary School Friday to announce that the U.S. Department of Education has approved a $2.93 million grant over four years to advance character education in New Mexico school districts. 
   The grant funding is derived from a federal program, initially authored by Domenici in 1994, to provide federal resources toward advancing character and values education. Originated as a pilot program initially, the program was given permanent authorization within the No Child Left Behind education reform law signed by President George W. Bush. For FY2004, Congress provided $24.84 million for the grant program. 
   "I firmly believe a new generation of children in New Mexico is better for the character education they are receiving in their schools," Domenici said. "The six pillars of Character Counts - trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring and citizenship - transcend political barriers and represent core values for any good person. Exposing children to them helps make them better students and citizens." 
   "I am very excited that the educators from across the state got behind this single, coordinated application for federal resources. This grant is a sizable award and I couldn't be happier that these resources will be put to work to train more teachers and administrators on the best ways to imbue the tenets of good character into the lives of their students," Domenici said. 
   The funding will go toward a coordinated effort to train district character education facilitators, who will be responsible for establishing and supporting character education in their schools, communities and sports programs. A portion of the funding will be used to make the PED a Character Counts workplace, with every PED employee will receiving character education training. 
   The PED will also uses portions of the funding to support character education through the KOAT TV "Connect with Kids" education television program. 
   "The success of character education in New Mexico has helped demonstrate that our relatively small investment in character education can help make schools better," Domenici said. "One of the most exciting things I have done in education is to visit schools in New Mexico that have character education or Character Counts as part of their education program. There is a true excitement among administrators, teacher and the children."
 
 