SEN. DOMENICI GAINS SEAT ON KEY HOMELAND SECURITY PANEL, RETAINS ENERGY PANEL CHAIRMANSHIP
  Sen. Pete Domenici has been informed by Senate leadership that he will serve on the newly reconstructed Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs for the 109th Congress.  
   Domenici will continue to serve on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, where he is expected to remain Chairman, and will also retain his positions on the Budget Committee, the Appropriations Committee, and the Indian Affairs Committee. 
   As part of a Senate-wide reorganization passed in October, oversight power for portions the Department of Homeland Security was given to the Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, which was formerly known as the Government Affairs Committee. 
   "I'm very pleased to be joining the Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs. New Mexico has emerged as a true leader in the protection our nation's homeland, from Playas to NISAC. In addition, the committee serves as a watchdog for the entire government. I look forward to working with Chairwoman Susan Collins on matters of interest to New Mexico and the nation," said Domenici, who is serving in his New Mexico-record sixth term. 
   "I'm also pleased to be returning to my current committee assignments. On the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, I will continue to work towards passing a comprehensive Energy Bill in what I believe will be a more receptive climate. I will also continue to look out for New Mexico's interests on the Appropriations Committee and the Indian Affairs Committee, and will serve on the Budget Committee with an eye towards reducing the deficit and protecting taxpayers," he continued. 
   Full committee Chairmanships and Subcommittee assignments will be finalized in January, when committees meet for the first time. However, Domenici is expected to retain his Chairmanship of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Department of Energy and its national laboratories and federal water projects. 
   Committee assignments for the 109th Congress are subject to approval by the full Republican Conference, which will take place next month.
 
 