SEN. DOMENICI SAYS FY09 BUDGET NEEDS MORE MONEY FOR INDIAN LAW ENFORCEMENT, DETENTION FACILITIES
  As the executive branch begins constructing FY2009 federal funding priorities, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined fellow Senators in urging President Bush to consider conditions and needed improvements at Indian detention facilities.  
   In a letter sent to President Bush today, Domenici joined a bipartisan group of Senators to request increased FY2009 funding for Indian detention facilities, which have been subject to insufficient staffing, conditions, and space due to tight budgets in recent years. The letter was also signed by Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Ala.), John Tester (D-Mont.), John Thune (R-SD), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Tim Johnson (D-S.D.), and Ben Nelson (D-Neb.). 
   "As you consider your funding priorities for the Fiscal Year 2009 budget, please be mindful of a public safety crisis in Indian Country. The conditions and funding of Indian tribal detention facilities are in such a dire state that Indian communities are not adequately protected and the rule of law is not adequately enforced," the Senators wrote. 
   According to a 2004 report by the Inspector General at the Department of the Interior, tribal detention facilities are classified as "Neither Safe Nor Secure." Many tribal judges have been unable to keep up with the crime rate in Indian communities--which the Department of Justice estimates is nearly twice the national average--thus forcing many officials to reduce sentences or release offenders. 
   "The current funding levels for tribal prison construction through DOJ and operation, maintenance facility improvement, and repair of existing facilities through BIA are woefully deficient. Consequently, in order to fulfill the United States' trust responsibility to Native Americans and to begin addressing the public safety crisis in Indian Country, we urge you to at least double these funding levels in your FY 2009 budget," the Senators wrote. 
   Domenici requested and successfully included $8.63 million in FY2008 federal funding for construction of tribal detention facilities through the DOJ Indian Justice Assistance Programs as part of the omnibus appropriations bill passed by the Senate this week. The bill appropriates $22.44 million for the Tribal Assistance program overall, including funds for tribal alcohol and substance abuse reduction assistance grants and tribal law enforcement assistance through the COPS program.
 
 