SEN. DOMENICI HIGHLIGHTS 'GOOD NEWS' & BIPARTISAN PROGRESS TO ALBUQUERQUE BUSINESS LEADERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asked New Mexicans to consider the "good news" coming out of Washington, most of it the result of bipartisan efforts that transcend the mostly partisan battles and politicking that dominate daily news reports. 
   Addressing civic and business leaders assembled for a Greater Albuquerque Chamber of Commerce luncheon, Domenici highlighted progress on mental health, the economy, and American energy security.  
   "If you strip away all the political rhetoric and posturing, all the exaggerations on both sides about global warming, all the arguing about the war on terror and in Iraq, and all the early disputes among presidential candidates, you will find something really remarkable--good things are happening," Domenici said. 
   "Good things are happening because of two important qualities that still exist in Washington, D.C.--bipartisanship and optimism," he said. "Partisanship and pessimism get the headlines. But I have seen what a few good folks in Washington, working with each other can, and have, done by overcoming the partisan atmosphere and the mind-set that the challenges ahead are to great for us to solve." 
   Domenici said he expects broad bipartisan support when the Senate takes up the Mental Health Parity Act of 2007 (S.558), legislation he crafted with Senators Ted Kennedy (D-Mass) and Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) after a year of intense negotiations among mental health advocates, and business and insurance organizations. 
   "This bill does a simple thing. It says that if you belong to a health insurance plan that offers any kind of mental health benefit--and 98 percent of health insurance plans do--that package must provide nearly the same benefits for mental illness as it does for physical ailments, like heart disease," Domenici said. "For millions of Americans and their families, many of them left bankrupt while trying to deal with a serious mental illness, this is truly blessed news." 
   While praising as good news a booming American economy that boasts consistent new job creation, a soaring stock market and declining federal budget deficits, Domenici said serious imbalances in the federal budget pose serious problems, including the threatened insolvency of both Social Security and Medicare. Again, he pointed to a bipartisan effort he launched with Senator Dianne Feinstein to force Congress to enact reforms to save both entitlement programs. 
   The bipartisan Entitlement Reform Commission would assess the financial condition of federal entitlement programs and make recommendations in the form of legislation for Congress to consider. The bill mandates expedited legislative procedures that will force Congress to take action to bring entitlements into fiscal solvency. 
   "We owe it to all Americans, young and old alike, to make sure that Social Security and Medicare are sound and will be sound for the next 75 years. And we owe it to every American taxpayer to guarantee that these programs are as efficient as possible," Domenici said. "So there is good news on the fiscal front and at least a small step forward on the entitlement front." 
   Finally, Domenici said the good news keeps rolling as the Energy Policy Act of 2005 is more fully implemented. Crafted on a bipartisan basis with Senator Jeff Bingaman, this comprehensive energy policy is showing positive results. 
   "Enactment of the Energy Policy Act took four years of really hard work--and literally daily collaboration with Senator Bingaman--to get done. That was good news then, and it has brought even better news now," Domenici said. 
   He said that among other things, EPAct has led to groundbreakings for 73 new ethanol plants, plans for 30 nuclear power plants, new investment in wind energy, hundreds of thousands of new hybrid vehicles on U.S. roadways, tax credits for clean coal projects, designs for 159 coal-based facilities, and plans for seven new or expanded liquefied natural gas terminals. Domenici also noted that EPAct has helped create 160,000 American jobs. 
   "More jobs, cleaner and more secure energy, lower deficits, stronger pension plans--now that is good news," Domenici said.
 
 