SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY, FAA PACT FOR UNMANNED FLIGHT RESEARCH
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced a cooperative agreement between New Mexico State University (NMSU) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that will help establish the university as the primary test center for unmanned aircraft systems (UAS).  
   NMSU and FAA signed the Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) to create the university's UAS Flight Test Center (FTC) for government and private research, development and testing of unmanned systems, including a designated air space in southern New Mexico to safely carry out this work. 
   "This agreement is the result of years of work, both on my part and on the part of those at the FAA and New Mexico State University," said Domenici. "This is important research, and the information gained will be important as the need to safely integrate unmanned aircraft into the airspace system increases." 
   The FTC expects to provide research and development for unmanned aircraft use in areas such as the establishment of standard UAS regulations, in addition to providing relevant technology for homeland security, agriculture, defense and science operations. Operated by NMSU/Physical Science Laboratory (PSL), the center will be headquartered in Las Cruces and utilize existing airspace, infrastructure, and policies and procedures to carry out its work. 
   No standards currently exist for the routine deployment of UAS within the National Airspace System (NAS). Domenici indicated he expects the agreement will allow researchers to develop standards consistent with safe and useful operation of UAS that in the end will be mutually beneficial to NMSU and the FAA. 
   The agreement follows significant efforts on the part of Domenici to secure federal defense funding for the laboratory's UAS Operations Validation Program (USOVP), as well as federal approval for NMSU/PSL as a research hub. In a 2006 letter to the FAA, Domenici noted the need for a UAS flight research center, as well as NMSU's strong qualifications for hosting such a program. 
   "Over the past several years, I've remained convinced that NMSU is a prime setting for this kind of innovative research. Its geographic location, proven research capabilities, and positive impact on New Mexico's economy are just a few of the reasons I expect the program to be well served through the signing of this agreement," Domenici noted. 
   Domenici is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, including subcommittees that fund the FAA, Department of Defense, and Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Over the years, he has pressed DHS to deploy UAS in southern New Mexico. 
   For more information on NMSU's Physical Sciences Laboratory and its work with UAS, visit: http://www.psl.nmsu.edu/uav/.
 
 