SEN. DOMENICI: ALBUQUERQUE FIRM'S WATER RECYCLE TECHNOLOGY SETS GOOD EXAMPLE FOR ENERGY-PRODUCING REGIONS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today praised an Albuquerque-based firm for setting a good example in using technology to recycle water used to produce oil and gas, and said such innovations will be critical as the quest for water and energy becomes more challenging.  
   Domenici, ranking member on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today toured the Altela Inc. facility in Albuquerque which produces "rain towers" that are capable of cleaning water from oil and gas drilling sites. The firm, created in 2005, has established several towers in San Juan County, which are recycling water from drilling sites and making it available to the city of Farmington and the Navajo Nation for aquifer recharge, agricultural and other uses. 
   "Water and energy are the lifeblood for our economy and modern life, and policymakers must pay greater attention to the interconnection between the two. We must pursue methods to reduce water demands for energy production and continue vigorous development of desalination and other water purification technologies," Domenici said. 
   "I am excited by Altela's product and the promise it has to purify once unusable water for use. This technology can help cut energy production costs and allow us to get more mileage out of every gallon of water. I think this firm is setting an example of the innovation we need to see more of today and in the future," he said. 
   Domenici's visit served as prelude to his scheduled Friday address at the Western Coalition of Arid States (WESTCAS) conference in Albuquerque. Domenici is expected to discuss the interconnections between water and energy at the conference titled "Water Resource Planning for Climate Change in the Arid West." 
   Altela's proprietary technology, developed at Arizona State University, is expected to have wider applications to water desalination and decontamination needs by municipalities and other business interests. (http://www.altelainc.com/home/index.asp) 
   On Wednesday, Domenici also visited Abba Technologies, a fast-growing, minority-owned computer/information technology firm in Albuquerque.
 
 