SEN. DOMENICI SUPPORTS CONFIRMATION OF MIKE JOHANNS TO LEAD USDA
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised Senate confirmation Mike Johanns to be Secretary of Agriculture, making known his expectation that the Nebraska governor's experience should help the nation develop an effective national drought policy.  
   The Senate today conducted a voice vote to confirm Johanns, who will take the helm of the U.S. Department of Agriculture from former Secretary Ann Veneman. 
   Domenici supported the Johanns nomination citing several issues, including drought policy, global trade challenges, and rural economic development. 
   "I strongly support the confirmation of Mike Johanns. Through his dedicated public service he has shown a great understanding of the complex nature of the agriculture industry and the problems facing it," Domenici said. 
   "Mr. Johanns has been an important leader on drought policy, a subject that is very important to many communities in the West. I believe that with his experience in this area, the country can move forward in establishing a concrete and coherent drought policy that provides tangible benefits for those affected by this serious problem," he said. 
   Domenici this year expects to reintroduce his National Drought Preparedness Act, which would create a National Drought Council within the USDA to improve national drought preparedness, mitigation and response efforts. It would also improve forecasting and monitoring of drought by facilitating the development of the National Drought Monitoring Network to improve the characterization of current drought conditions and the forecasting of future droughts. 
   "The governor has demonstrated a keen knowledge of international trade policy, a subject that will continue to increase in importance as the world moves toward a more globalize economy. I look forward to working with Mr. Johanns to ensure that future trade agreements the food and fiber industry is treated equitably," Domenici said. 
   Johanns, who was raised on an Iowa dairy farm, is serving his second term as governor of Nebraska. As governor, Johanns has emphasized the importance of value-added agriculture, renewable fuels such as ethanol, and job creation in rural areas.
 
 