NEW MEXICO LEADERS HERALD NEW MISSION FOR CANNON AIR FORCE BASE, PENTAGON CHOOSES AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPS
  The New Mexico congressional delegation, with Gov. Bill Richardson and local leaders, today said they are all extremely pleased with the Pentagon's decision to base Air Force Special Operations assets and personnel at Cannon Air Force Base-a military facility targeted for closure as part of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC).
   Michael W. Wynne, Secretary of the Air Force, today informed New Mexico lawmakers via teleconference of the good news. Cannon's fate was decided during a meeting with military leaders with Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld at the Pentagon today. 
   The new mission will entail a mix of up to 100 Special Operations aircraft under the command of a new wing - the 16th Special Operations Wing - to stand up by October 2007. The F-16s now at Cannon will be transitioned out over the next few years.
   U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman and Representatives Tom Udall, Steve Pearce and Heather Wilson, along with Governor Bill Richardson, met and offered unified praise of the decision and commitments to work with the Department of Defense and community leaders during the transition.
   In a conference call, the lawmakers were joined by Clovis Mayor David Lansford, Portales Mayor Orlando Ortega and Randy Harris of Clovis who spearheaded the "Keep Cannon" campaign.
   "Cannon Air Force Base has been given a new lease on life, and one that has been hard fought and well worth the effort. Our success has been no little matter. We now have more work to do, and I'm ready to get to it," Domenici said. "Air Force Special Operations, which have been vital to the war on terror, will find a good home in New Mexico. I am confident that this new mission could eventually be expanded as we continue to promote all the assets at Cannon and the surrounding communities."
   "This news could not be better for Clovis. A year ago, the community was facing an uncertain future, but now Cannon has an important new mission that will help keep it and eastern New Mexico vibrant for many years to come. All of us in New Mexico knew just how valuable an asset Cannon Air Force Base is and could remain, and the community did a great job helping us convince the Pentagon that closing it would be a huge mistake," Bingaman said.
   "This is a victory for the people of Clovis and Portales and the entire State of New Mexico, and recognition of our outstanding military tradition and commitment to defending our nation. I'm proud of how the community, the state, and our Congressional delegation worked together, in a purely bipartisan way, in the best interests of all New Mexicans," Richardson said.
   "We are extremely pleased with the news that Cannon Air Force Base will be receiving this new mission. There was never any doubt that a mission would be found, given the strengths of Cannon and the wonderful spirit and support of the people of Clovis and Portales. I am certain the incoming personnel involved in the new mission will be made to feel right at home when they arrive in New Mexico," said Udall, whose district includes CAFB.
   "Special Operations is a great fit for New Mexico and the Pentagon's decision is a real relief to the people of Clovis and Portales. We all look forward to welcoming this new mission and new friends to Cannon," Wilson said.
   "This time last year, we were concerned America would lose Cannon's exceptional national security advantages - great weather, clear skies, no population encroachment, and most of all a tremendously supportive community," Pearce said. "Cannon's new mission is most exciting because it opens up new opportunities to grow businesses that support the transformation of our military. Only New Mexico has the combination of special operations at Kirtland, the new F-22 at Holloman AFB, the Army's Future Combat System at White Sands/ Fort Bliss, and the powerful idea factors at Sandia and Los Alamos."
   "The successful effort to preserve Cannon Air Force Base is proof positive that a dedicated and supportive community can make a difference," said and Lt. Governor Diane Denish, chair of the state-level Military Base Planning Commission. "I would like to acknowledge the hard work of the people of Curry and Roosevelt counties, who pulled together and played a major role in the effort to keep Cannon."
   "The community of Clovis welcomes the news of a new mission at Cannon AFB. The people of Clovis take great pride in the relationships we have with our military families. The mission and the people will change yet our support for the mission and our love for the people who carry out our countries military objectives will never change," Lansford said.
   "I am very pleased with the announcement. Our communities have endured a year of uncertainty in regards to the future of Cannon Air Force Base and its impact to the population that support it. We now have a new mission. We welcome that new mission, its personnel and their families to our communities with open arms. We will continue our tradition of supporting our military and look forward to a long lasting positive relationship," Ortega said.
   The new mission announcement is a 180-degree reversal from the May 2005 decision by the Pentagon to recommend to the BRAC Commission that Cannon be closed. In August, the commission instead decided to create an unprecedented military "enclave" at Cannon. This decision allowed the Air Force to move all F-16 aircraft now at Cannon to other bases, but directed the Secretary of Defense to study the base and find possible new missions for the base by 2009.
   Audio Clip at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309)
 
 