SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF GILA CLIFF DWELLINGS NATIONAL MONUMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the remarkable cliff dwellings left by the Mogollon people centuries ago in southwest New Mexico are a reminder to everyone of the reliance on land and environment.  
   Domenici made the assessment in a Congressional Record statement Wednesday marking the 100th anniversary of the Gila Cliff Dwellings National Monument, and ongoing local events marking the centennial of the storied site. 
   "This monument gives Americans a glimpse of the great cultures and societies that once occupied the North American continent prior to the arrival of European settlers," Domenici said in his tribute. "Like the Mogollon, we are reminded daily of our dependence on the land, and therefore take a devout interest in its health and management. The Gila Cliff Dwellings and the Gila National Forest remain much the same as so many years ago, and I am glad this will be the case for generations to come." 
   The monument, created by proclamation on Nov. 16, 1907, preserves 533 acres that includes a collection of 40 two-room homes build by the Mogollon people in sandstone caves above a branch of the Gila River. These structures, built in the late 13th and early 14th centuries, are just one draw in a region that also includes the Gila National Forest with its 1,500 miles of recreation trails and over 360 miles of mountain streams, creeks, rivers and lakes. 
   In commemoration of this special centennial event, an unexcavated surface site referred to as the TJ Ruin will be open for a limited number of guided tours. 
   In conjunction with the summer solstice, the centennial celebration will feature a "Stories in the Stars" event Friday, sponsored by the Astronomical Society of Las Cruces, the Grant County Archeological Society. (6-10 p.m. Mountain, Grapevine Campground and Gila Visitor Center, 505-536-9461 or www.nps.gov/gicl) Other events will take place throughout this weekend. 
   Other events such as Stories in the Stars, Stories in the Shards, Rock Art and Storytelling are scheduled. In addition, other related activities, like a Silver City Museum exhibit and the Chiricahua Apache Culture Days, will be held throughout the year to celebrate the centennial. 
   "The attractive weather and abundance of forest and desert flora and fauna in the Gila region of southwest New Mexico attracts over 60,000 visitors every year who contribute the economies of communities like Silver City, Cliff, Deming, Bayard, and Lordsburg," Domenici said. "To all, past and present, who have worked hard to preserve the Gila Cliff Dwellings, I extend a heartfelt thank you and honor you this centennial year."
 
 