SEN. DOMENICI VOTES FOR HIGHER EDUCATION MEASURE ADDING NEARLY $177 MILLION FOR NEW MEXICO STUDENT GRANT, LOAN AID
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici early Friday morning voted for Senate passage of a higher education measure that would increase student aid by nearly $177 million in New Mexico, allowing a college education to be more readily accessible and cost-effective for students in the state.  
   The Higher Education Access Act of 2007 (HR.2669), the first of a two-part legislative package to improve federal higher education policies, would provide over $17 billion in student grant aid over the next five years. The bill would restructure the college aid program by cutting private lender subsidies by nearly $19 billion over five years and making the money directly available to students and universities. 
   The measure also makes Pell Grants more available to more low-income students by easing the income eligibility requirements to receive the maximum grant available. 
   "There is no denying that a college education costs more today than it did even several years ago, which means it is harder to afford for more students and families in New Mexico. This is a good piece of legislation that will ease the financial burden placed on students by making more resources available to them," said Domenici. 
   Other provisions in the legislation would assist students bearing excessive college debt by imposing a cap on federal student loan payments of 15 percent of an individual's discretionary income. Relief is also extended by forgiving student loan debts for 10 or more years of work in a public service-type career. Domenici voted against an amendment to strike this provision. 
   "Serving one's community as a teacher, nurse or public safety officer is tremendously rewarding. We must attract more capable young people into these fields, which may not be as lucrative as others. We can help by forgiving some of the debt they incur in preparing for these important jobs," said Domenici, who has previously supported legislation that would ease or forgive student loans for people entering public service and health-related fields in rural, tribal and other under-served areas. 
   The student grant and loan portion of the bill passed the Senate on a 78-18 vote. The underlying Higher Education Access Act of 2007 is expected to be considered next week.
 
 