THE OTHER CASUALTIES OF WAR
  Our servicemen and women who served in Iraq and Afghanistan survived bombs and bullets on the battlefield, but many of those who return home face an equally great danger--combat-related mental health disorders such as depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PSTD), and in too many tragic cases, suicide. 
   When 22-year-old Army Specialist Joshua Omvig of Iowa returned from a valiant 11 month tour of duty in Iraq in 2005, he was haunted by the experience and died as a result of untreated PSTD. The untimely death by his own hand brought this often overlooked form of war casualty into the national spotlight. In 2007, I joined 26 other Senators in honoring Joshua's memory and I cosponsored the Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act (S.479).
   I am moved by this critical issue and committed to protecting those who protect our country, and with Senator Obama by my side, I introduced the "Veterans' Mental Health Outreach and Access Act" (S.38) in May. This legislation would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to contract with community mental health centers and other qualified entities to provide peer outreach and support services, readjustment counseling and mental health services in any remote area of the country in which the VA determines there is inadequate access to medical services. It also will require any contract-provider to hire a trained peer specialist as well as have its clinicians participate in a training program to be certain they well provide "culturally competent" services.
   Veterans are not alone in the stress and mental health challenges they often face upon returning from combat service. Their families and loved ones, too, have made sacrifices for our country and S.38 will support their needs as well. The bill will expand access to services so that families can better help veterans adjust back to civilian life, and also help the families as they readjust to having their loved ones back from duty.
   I firmly believe that outreach and access to treatment are essential to prevent readjustment problems and mental health issues for our returning veterans and their families. Left untreated, these disorders can become chronic and debilitating. I will continue the fight to reduce the risk of veterans becoming casualties of this serious problem.
   The recent article, "Suicide risk much higher for male veterans," illustrates the devastating effect mental health issues have on returning veterans.
 
 