SEN. DOMENICI: FEDERAL AGENCIES MUST BE PREPARED TO IMPLEMENT CHANGES IN PASSPORT REGULATIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said adequate manpower and resources are still needed as the Departments of State and Homeland Security plan to roll out revised restrictions governing land and sea travel for U.S. citizens traveling outside the country. 
   The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) on Wednesday announced the Jan. 2008 rollout of travel restrictions that will require all U.S. citizens traveling in and out of the United States through a land or sea port to present certain documents such as a passport or a government-issued photo ID and proof of citizenship to border authorities.  
   "This latest plan by the Department of Homeland Security to implement 9/11 Commission recommendations is important to improve homeland security. But DHS and the Department of State must be prepared for the added burden these restrictions will place on their own workforces and passport application processing. Based on the problems we've seen this year alone, we must demand that the Departments have a feasible plan in place before new rules like this are implemented," said Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 
   "The land and sea phase of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative will affect the thousands of New Mexicans who regularly cross the border to visit towns like Palomas or Juarez. They will soon be required to present official documentation for those trips," Domenici said. 
   "I will work with my colleagues and relevant agencies to place as little burden on legitimate travelers as possible as these measures are rolled out at the borders in a practicable way," he said. 
   This is the second phase of heightened passport regulations mandated by the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). In Jan. 2007, DHS and the State Department implemented the first phase, which requires a passport for U.S. passengers traveling by air to or from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, or Bermuda. In response to a 9/11 Commission recommendation, WHTI was mandated by Congress in the Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 to strengthen border security and facilitate entry into the U.S. for citizens and legitimate international visitors. 
   In light of recent problems experienced by New Mexicans applying for passports, Domenici cosponsored an amendment to the FY2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill to delay implementation of WHTI. The full Appropriations Committee accepted the amendment, which restricts implementation of the passport program until June 1, 2009, or when technology and manpower are in place to properly carry out the passport program. 
   Following WHTI air travel restrictions taking effect early this year, the State Department was flooded with passport applications causing unprecedented processing delays. 
   In early June, DHS and the State Department announced a temporary suspension of regulations for U.S. citizens traveling to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda who have applied for, but not yet received, passports. Such individuals can temporarily travel in and out of the U.S. by air without a passport. In lieu of a passport, citizens will be required to present a government-issued photo I.D. along with official State Dept. proof of application for a passport. The temporary travel flexibility will take effect immediately and last through Sept. 30, 2007. 
   Domenici aired his concern regarding extreme passport application delays in a May letter to Maura Harty, Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs at the State Department. In his letter, Domenici highlighted the escalating number of constituent complaints his office was encountering because of the increasingly long passport application process.
 
 