NEW MEXICO SENATORS OFFER WELCOME TO USAF SPECIAL OPS DELEGATION TO CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today joined in welcoming members of the U.S. Air Force Special Operations Command and their spouses to the Clovis-Portales area, as Cannon Air Force base prepares to become the newest Special Operations base in 2007. 
   A total of 46 officers, airmen, and spouses arrived in Clovis for a two-day visit designed to familiarize members with the base and the region. The visit includes tours of medical and educational institutions an opportunity to visit with base support groups and area leaders.
   "I'm very pleased that a delegation including members of the Special Ops Command and their spouses will have the opportunity to visit the Clovis-Portales area. Throughout the BRAC process, one of the best things Cannon had going for it was the strong support for the base by the entire community. I know that the members and families of the new wing will receive a warm welcome from eastern New Mexicans," Domenici said.
   "I'd like to join the Clovis-Portales community in welcoming AFSOC members and their families to our state. When this delegation gets to know the community and becomes better acquainted with eastern New Mexico there is no doubt in my mind that they will feel very much at home," Bingaman said.
   Earlier this year, the Air Force announced that the 16th Special Operations wing will assume command of Cannon effective October 1, 2007. The decision marked the end of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, which had originally resulted in a recommendation that Cannon be closed. The BRAC Commission ordered that the base be placed in enclave status, allowing Domenici, Bingaman and New Mexico leaders to seek an alternative mission for the base.
   While specific details of the force structure and units to be assigned have not been formally announced, it is expected that Cannon will eventually house the AC-130 Gunship, MC-130 Combat Talons and Combat Shadow aircraft, and the CV-22 Osprey.
   Cannon was selected to house the new wing for a variety of reasons, including near-perfect weather, ample air space with no encroachment, and up to date infrastructure.
 
 