SEN. DOMENICI: $1.88 MILLION GRANT ISSUED TO SUPPORT LOCAL NEW MEXICO CRIME PREVENTION EFFORTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that in an effort to help police departments across New Mexico, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded a nearly $1.88 million grant to support local crime prevention initiatives. 
   The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant has been awarded to the New Mexico Department of Public Safety (DPS), which will use the funding, in part, to attack drug and gang problems in the state. DPS is also expected to utilize almost half of the grant to support multi-jurisdictional task forces and other crime-prevention efforts. The formula grant total for DPS is $1,879,901.
   "New Mexico has been able to use the Byrne grant program to specifically bolster local efforts to keep communities safe. Problems like methamphetamine use and production demand greater cooperation among all levels of law enforcement, and this grant will be used to help make that occur more efficiently," Domenici said.
   The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program is a partnership among federal, state, and local governments to create safer communities by preventing and controlling crime. Funds may be used for technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, and supplies.
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, noted that Congress must still address the Bush administration's budget recommendation to restructure Justice Department grant programs-including cutting funding for the Byrne program.
   "I know that the Byrne grants are popular and widely used by police departments throughout New Mexico. Congress will take a critical eye at the plan to do away with them, while at the same time realizing we have a major squeeze on non-defense discretionary federal spending," Domenici said.
   Domenici noted that as part of last week's Senate debate on the FY2007 Budget Resolution, the Senate accepted an amendment to restore Byrne grant funding to its FY2003 level of $900 million. Congress last year appropriated $634 million for the Byrne program in FY2006.
 
 