WATERWAYS CAUCUS SHOULD INCREASE FOCUS ON IMPROVEMENTS, MAINTENANCE BACKLOGS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he expects the newly-formed Congressional Waterways Caucuses in the Senate and House to bring needed attention to the looming backlog of work to maintain and improve America's waterways and infrastructures. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that has funding jurisdiction over federal water projects administered by the Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation. He will serve as co-chair of the Senate caucus.
   "I want these caucuses in the Senate and House to help convince our colleagues and the public that we, as a nation, cannot afford to let our waterways to slide into decline," Domenici said. "Each year we seem to find it more and more difficult to stretch taxpayer dollars to meet the needs around the country. I understand fiscal constraints we live under, but we cannot deny the necessity to insure the viability of our waterways."
   The caucuses were formed to raise the profile of the economic and environmental benefits of water-borne transportation of goods, flood control, hydropower and other important benefits the nation derives from having a safe, well-maintained, reliable waterways infrastructure.
   Domenici indicated that developing the FY2005 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill will be especially difficult. He indicated that the proposed budget for the Army Corps of Engineers, if accepted by Congress, would force the termination of ongoing construction contracts and cost taxpayers an estimated $300 million in termination fees, demobilization costs, and delays in project schedules.
   "While this plan was recommended with an idea of eliminating a backlog of on-going work, I think it's fiscally shortsighted. If we do this, we compound the backlog on unconstructed projects and the critical maintenance backlog," Domenici said.
   The proposed FY2005 Corps budget would cause the backlog of unconstructed projects to increase from $52 billion to $55 billion, and would add another $89 million to the cost of critical maintenance backlogs over 10 years.
 
 