SENATE PASSES SEN. DOMENICI SALT CEDAR ERADICATION BILL
  The Senate has approved legislation authored by Sen. Pete Domenici to find the best way to eradicate water-depleting Tamarix and other nonnative species that thrive along the river banks and exhaust already parched waterways. 
   The Senate passed the Salt Cedar and Russian Olive Control Demonstration Act (S.1516) late Wednesday by unanimous consent. The Senate bill authorizes a research and demonstration program to accelerate the eradication of the non-native species thriving along rivers in the western United States. Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, introduced the bill in July 2003.
   "Salt cedars, introduced a century ago for erosion control, are today a very serious problem. Salt cedars, Russian olives and other nonnative invasive species tax our water resources in an era of extreme droughts. It is time that we got serious about controlling the problem," Domenici said.
   "I am pleased the Senate has passed my bill to launch a multifaceted, aggressive approach to getting rid of these water-depleting plants. Our task now will be to work out a single bill with the House and get this demonstration program enacted," he said.
   The Domenici legislation, cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, was amended to incorporate aspects of a similar bill introduced by Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell.
   "Salt Cedar and Russian Olive trees have invaded watersheds throughout the state, draining our most precious resource, increasing the risk of catastrophic fire, and reducing the quality of natural habitat. This bill will ensure that land and water resource managers have access to the best information on the benefits of eradicating these exotic trees, while substantially advancing important research by funding on-the-ground projects. This legislation supports the good work already being done in New Mexico in the Rio Grande and Pecos River watersheds," Bingaman said.
   The Domenici bill directs the Secretary of the Interior, working with other federal agencies, to complete an assessment of the extent of salt cedar and Russian olive infestation in the western United States, undertake a minimum of five eradication demonstration projects, and analyze possible beneficial uses of the resulting bio-mass.
   S.1516 authorizes $20 million in FY2005, and $15 million each fiscal year thereafter. Each demonstration project can utilize up to $7 million in federal funding, and would be subject to a non-federal cost share match on non-federal lands. The bill does not specify demonstration project locations, but does encourage them to be paired with existing programs where possible.
   The Domenici bill is similar to a legislation introduced by New Mexico Congressman Steve Pearce. The Pearce bill, HR.2707, passed the House in late February.
   The primary difference between the Senate and House bills is that Domenici bill makes the Interior Department the lead agency, while the Pearce bill would have the U.S. Department of Agriculture administer the program.
   Domenici, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds federal water programs, has worked to secure funding for existing Bureau of Reclamation salt cedar removal work like the Pecos River Basin Salvage project.
 
 