SEN. DOMENICI RECOMMENDS THREE N.M. PROJECTS FOR NEW NATIONAL WATER RESOURCE LEGISLATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today identified three New Mexico projects he considers priorities to be included in a new Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) bill being crafted in the Senate.  
   At the request of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Domenici has formally requested that WRDA reauthorization legislation include provisions authorizing funding and Army Corps of Engineers participation in Middle Rio Grande bosque restoration, South Valley flood control and overall Rio Grande environmental restoration projects. 
   "Renewal of WRDA has been long overdue, but I am optimistic that this year we can get a new bill and with it authorize much-needed work in the middle Rio Grande region," Domenici said. 
   WRDA authorizes appropriations for water resource projects, study authorizations and policy modifications for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. Domenici is ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that provides funding for WRDA-authorized projects. 
   The Southwest Valley Albuquerque New Mexico Flood Damage Reduction Project would authorize the Corps to construct detention basins and a pumping station in the Southwest Valley of Albuquerque for flood control. This would be a continuation of a program supported and funded by Domenici over the years. 
   The Middle Rio Grande Restoration Project would authorize the Corps to increase its efforts to remove jetty jacks, replace invasive species like salt cedar with native vegetation like cottonwoods, and create paths, viewing areas and other educational and recreational opportunities throughout the Middle Rio Grande. This project is associated with Domenici's initiative to create a park-like bosque greenbelt through metropolitan Albuquerque. Domenici has requested that the federal government pay for all improvements on federally-owned lands. 
   The Rio Grande Environmental Management Program for Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas would authorize the Corps to address environmental restoration and management on the Rio Grande and its tributaries through planning, construction, and evaluation of habitat rehabilitation and enhancement. This program also calls for long term river data acquisition coupled with an adaptive management program.
 
 