SEN. DOMENICI PLEASED OSPREY TRAINING MISSION STARTING AT KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed news of the first delivery of a CV-22 aircraft, a variation of the vertical launch Osprey, to Kirtland Air Force Base as part of a test and evaluation mission first announced in January. 
   Domenici last week met with Lt. General Michael W. Wooley, commander of the Air Force Special Operations Command, who personally delivered the test aircraft to New Mexico Monday. The aircraft is the first of four that will be sent to Kirtland, where the 58th Special Operations Wing will provide advanced training to Air Force special operations pilots and crews.
   "This is yet another dynamic mission for Kirtland, and I appreciate General Wooley's personal interest in this training program. This mission signals the Air Force's confidence in Kirtland, which will prove to be an ideal location for training pilots and crews for this innovative aircraft," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
   The remaining training aircraft are expected to be delivered to Kirtland by summer. In all, the Air Force is expected to procure 50 Ospreys for the Special Operations Command, and the first combat squadron will be based at Hulbert Air Force Base, Florida. 
  In January, Domenici announced a $37.4 million Navy contract to the Bell-Boeing Joint Program Office to provide logistic services in support of the CV-22 Developmental Test and Initial Operational Test and Evaluation program. Half of the contract will be carried out at Kirtland AFB, while the remainder will be conducted at Edwards AFB in California.
   The contract is part of an effort to develop a long-range Special Operations CV-22 for U.S. Special Operations Command. The Osprey program is a joint-service, medium-lift, multi-mission tilt-rotor aircraft developed by Boeing and Bell Helicopters. The aircraft is being designed to operate as a helicopter for take off and landing, while converting to a turboprop aircraft when airborne.
   The FY2006 Defense Appropriations Bill, which was signed into law Dec. 30, provided $1.5 billion for the V-22 aircraft procurement program.
 
 