SEN. DOMENICI QUESTIONS ADMINISTRATION RELUCTANCE TO FUND N.M. INDIAN WATER SETTLEMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the administration must end its reluctance to work with Congress to find the money needed to meet federal responsibilities to three Indian water rights settlements in New Mexico.  
   Domenici today again questioned Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne on three pending Indian water settlements in New Mexico--the Aamodt, Abeyta, and Navajo settlements. These settlements, reached after years of negotiations, will require an estimated federal contribution of about $1.1 billion. 
   "We are past the point of merely waiting for the administration to help identify how to pay for these Indian water settlements in New Mexico. We're working to get Congress to address this, and it would be better for the administration to be a willing and proactive participant in this process. It should not be left in the lap of the Congress. The Interior Department and OMB must help find the money, too," Domenici said. 
   Kempthorne was testifying before the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee on the proposed Interior Department budget for FY2008. The Administration's FY2008 budget request contains just $34 million for the Indian Land and Water Claims Settlement Fund which funds, in part, Indian water rights settlements. 
   Noting that Interior Department staff had recently visited New Mexico on the settlements, Kempthorne pledged to have his staff meet with Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman soon. The two New Mexico senators have committed to working jointly on legislation to authorize the settlements, which will include a funding plan. 
   Domenici also submitted questions asking Kempthorne to explain why the administration seems reluctant to seriously address the New Mexico settlements while agreeing to fund similar settlements involving Arizona. Domenici noted that the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) recently gave its approval to the proposed San Joaquin Settlement, which is estimated to cost roughly $650 million. In addition, the administration did not oppose the Arizona Water Rights Settlement Act which cost roughly $2.4 billion. 
   "Given the importance of our three settlements to our future, New Mexicans would be eager to hear an explanation as to why these Arizona settlements received favorable treatment from OMB while the New Mexico Indian water rights settlements have not," Domenici said.
 
 