SEN. DOMENICI MARKS BEGINNING OF NEW ERA AT LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY WITH OPENING OF NEW BUILDING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today heralded the opening of the new National Security Sciences Building as the beginning of a new, exciting era at Los Alamos National Laboratory. 
   Domenici participated in a ceremony to open the new facility, which will house the lab's administration and key staff. Domenici funded construction of the building as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Committee which funds the Department of Energy and its national labs.
   The $97 million building was completed under budget and ahead of schedule, and will house 680 offices, as well as a 600 person lecture hall. It was built to be environmentally friendly and won the "New Mexico Best of 2005 Design-Build Award."
   "As chairman of the subcommittee that paid for its construction, I'm particularly pleased that the new building has come in under budget and ahead of schedule. The National Security Sciences Building represents a new face for the lab in a new era that includes a new contract, a new and broader attention to sciences, and renewed DOE efforts to help transform the city of Los Alamos into a modern, 21st Century city," Domenici said.
   Domenici noted that 96 percent of lab employees accepted job offers under the new contract, which is particularly important given the challenging missions facing the lab.
   "The nation is counting on LANL scientists to come up with solutions to our biggest problems, including national security and America's need to reduce dependence on foreign sources of oil. We need you to keep making scientific advances in nuclear fuels, hydrogen fuel cells, and nanotechnology. As we move forward, I wish the new lab managers the best of luck, and thank Director Bob Kuckuck for his service during such a challenging period," Domenici said.
   The Senator said he was optimistic about the future of science thanks to increased momentum to invest in the physical sciences and education programs. In January, President Bush unveiled his American Competitiveness Initiative, a $137 billion program to help America retain its leading edge in math, science and technology.
   Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman are the authors of the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, which supports basic research and provides a needed boost for math, science and engineering education. The bill would call on Los Alamos to help train young men and women interested in scientific fields.
   Domenici also said that he is working to secure a five-year extension for DOE to complete the Los Alamos County land transfer project, which will make property available for new housing and economic development.
 
 