SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES BILL TO IMPROVE N.M. STATE ENGINEER'S WATER ASSESSMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation that will begin the process of delivering federal aid and resources to the New Mexico Office of the State Engineer (OSE) to improve its ability to carry out statutorily-required duties and conduct additional water resource analysis. 
   The New Mexico Water Planning Assistance Act will authorize the state of New Mexico to receive technical assistance from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). It authorizes a total of $12.5 million ($2.5 million per year for 2005-2009) for the OSE to perform hydrologic models of New Mexico's most important water systems, basins and tributaries.
   "There is no more important issue for the state of New Mexico than water-it is literally our life's blood," Domenici said. "With the scarcity of water, it is important that the Office of State Engineer undertake the necessary assessments and investigations of our numerous stream systems and ground water basins in New Mexico. However, this office quite simply lacks the resources it needs to undertake these vital tasks."
   "My legislation will alleviate some of the strain on the State Engineer by authorizing the state to receive aid from the Bureau of Reclamation and the USGS. It will also provide funding for a comprehensive study of our water systems. We cannot sit idly by as water shortages place our state at risk. I will work to make sure the Senate considers this legislation and provides assistance to our state," he said.
   The federal agencies aiding the OSE will provide technical assistance, such as acquiring hydrologic data, assessing existing water resources, coordinating efforts with federal water management initiatives, and assisting with numerical analysis and modeling to provide an integrated understanding of water management options.
   The bill is expected to be referred to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, which Domenici chairs. If enacted, funding would be provided through the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, which Domenici also chairs.
 
 