SENATE APPROVES MEASURE TO ADVANCE DEVELOPMENT OF BIOLOGICAL PARK ALONG RIO GRANDE
  The Senate last night approved legislation Sen. Jeff Bingaman wrote to help advance the development of Albuquerque's Biopark.
   Bingaman's legislation, which is cosponsored by Senator Pete Domenici, clears title to two tracks of land, paving the way for the city of Albuquerque to complete its development of a Biological Park along the middle Rio Grande. The Biological Park incorporates the Rio Grande Botanical Garden, Tingley Beach, the Zoo and the Aquarium. 
   In 1997, Albuquerque paid the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District (MRGCD) to acquire two parcels of land - Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park. However three years later, the city's title to the parcels was called into question by the Bureau of Reclamation's assertion that the MRGCD had in 1953 transferred its assets - including Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park - to the United States as part of an easement associated with the construction of the Middle Rio Grande Project. As a result, the city has been hampered in its efforts to create the Biological Park.
   Bingaman has pointed out that Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park are surplus to the needs of the Middle Rio Grande Project. Accordingly, his legislation - called the Albuquerque Biological Park Title Clarification Act (S. 213) - directs the Bureau of Reclamation to convey any interest the United States may have in Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park to the City of Albuquerque, clearing the city's title and paving the way for Albuquerque to move ahead with its plans.
   "When it's complete, the Biopark will be a tremendous asset to Albuquerque, increasing tourism and providing Duke City residents with a wonderful place to spend their free time," Bingaman said. "The federal government does not need these two properties and it's time to hand title over to the Albuquerque so the land can be put to better use."
   "I hope Senate passage of this legislation to give the city clear title to this property will now have plenty of momentum to get through the House. This legislation has been designed out so that Albuquerque can rehabilitation Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park as part of a larger, more long-term effort to restore and enhance the Rio Grande bosque," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   Now that the bill has gained Senate passage, it will be sent to the House of Representatives for approval. Bingaman said he hopes his legislation will be sent to President Bush in the coming months.
 
 