IN FINAL AGREEMENT, SEN. DOMENICI SECURES $1.5 MILLION FOR FLIGHT SAFETY TRAINING CENTER IN ROSWELL
  In what should be the last day of the 108th Congress, Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that he has successfully secured $1.5 million to support the Flight Safety Center in Roswell.  
   Domenici, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, requested the funding in March as part of the Transportation, Treasury and General Government Appropriations Bill. House and Senate appropriators have completed negotiations on transportation funding for FY2005. These projects will be part of a massive omnibus appropriations package that will include nine separate appropriations bills. 
   The Congress is expected to give final passage to the omnibus bill Saturday. All items in the $388 billion measure will be subject to a 0.8 percent across-the-board reduction. 
   "This is a very important appropriation for this Roswell program," Domenici said. "I couldn't be more pleased to have been able to help get resources needed to advance the work of the flight safety center." 
   This appropriation, Domenici noted reinstates federal support for this Roswell program. The funding is provided through the FAA Research, Engineering and Development program. The Flight Safety Training Center at the Roswell Industrial Air Center is designed to train commercial pilots to handle loss-of-control aircraft situations utilizing technology developed for the U.S. military. 
   The center is designed to train commercial pilots to handle loss-of-control aircraft situations. The classroom and simulation training are akin to the same techniques now used to train test pilots, and the center will also refine "upset recovery" technology used to train military pilots. The project is supported by the N.M. Transportation Department-Aviation Division, the city of Roswell, Eastern New Mexico University-Roswell, the Calspan-University of Buffalo Research Center, and General Dynamics Corporation. 
   Elsewhere in the bill, appropriators agreed to provide $11.9 million to support four International Law Enforcement Academies (ILEA) run by the Department of State, including the ILEA program in Roswell. As such, each program will receive about $3 million in FY2005.
 
 