SEN. DOMENICI WATER RESEARCH BILL RECEIVES HEARING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today chaired a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing that explored his legislation to utilize the expertise of Sandia, Los Alamos and other national laboratories to reinvigorate the nation's investment in water technologies.  
   The committee Thursday received testimony on the Energy-Water Efficiency Technology Research, Development, and Transfer Program Act of 2005 (S.1860), which would amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to improve energy production and reduce energy demand through improved use of reclaimed waters. 
   The measure is intended to address the inextricable link between water availability and energy production by investigating ways to use water more efficiently in the production of energy. For example, estimates show that every barrel of oil produced requires at least 10 barrels of water. 
   "We simply must reduce water demand for energy production, reduce energy demand for water production, and develop new sources of water. That's a tall order, but I am confident our national laboratories have the wherewithal to help us find cost-effective technologies to do it," Domenici said. "Finding additional sources of fresh water is critical to our population and for meeting our energy needs. My bill is intended to boost our federal investment in this realm." 
   "Without new research, we in the West will have a difficult time meeting our future water needs. This bill will allow our nation to ramp up investment in research and development of water technology, and I am very glad to lend my support to this worthy effort," said Bingaman, who is a primary cosponsor to S.1860. 
   The bill would create a new program within the DOE to promote the research, development and commercialization of technology relating to the relationship between energy and water, including reducing water demand for energy production and developing new technologies to more efficiently use water, and develop technology to produce additional water for human use. 
   Sandia, Lawrence Livermore and Oak Ridge national laboratories are the three lead facilities designated to carry out the program. Each of the three leading laboratories will be required to select a university partner for research. 
   Among those testifying about the act at the hearing was Dr. Les Shephard, Vice President for Energy, Resources and Nonproliferation at Sandia, who reiterated the increased demands on water for energy, and discussed Sandia's role in finding a solution. 
   "Sandia strongly supports the establishment of the Energy-Water Efficiency Technology Research, Research, Development and Transfer Program Act of 2005 as a vital component to U.S. energy and economic security. We are committed to working with the Department of Energy to make the proposed act successful," Shephard said. 
   The bill directs the Secretary of Energy to assess research being performed by other agencies, and creates an advisory panel to guide research priorities and identify potential legal issues. It also creates a competitive grant program under which other laboratories, agencies, and non-governmental organizations can compete for grants. Initially, the bill will provide $5 million for FY2006 to start the office, with plans to fund it as necessary in coming years. 
   Among the bill's bipartisan cosponsors are Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), and Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.).
 
 