SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS HEALTH CARE TAX BREAK BILL FOR FEDERAL CIVILIAN, MILITARY RETIREES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced his support for legislation to make health care insurance more affordable for civilian and military retirees by allowing them to pay premiums with pre-tax dollars.  
   Domenici is now among 43 Senators who are cosponsoring a bill to provide tax relief for federal civilian and military retirees, many of whom were once part of the sizeable federal workforce in New Mexico. The bill, introduced by Senator John Warner (R-Va.), has been referred to the Senate Finance Committee. 
   The bill would allow federal civilian and military retirees to pay health insurance premiums on a pre-tax basis. This would give them the same status as federal employees, who are allowed to pay premiums with pre-tax dollars. 
   "This legislation would be one way to help certain retirees afford health care premiums, which continue to rise. I believe retired military and civilian workers should have the same health benefit tax break as current federal employees," Domenici said. "These individuals have served their country well and should not face additional financial burdens when they retire." 
   The legislation would help ensure that more federal and military retirees can continue their health care coverage with the FEHB program and supplemental TRICARE health insurance plans. 
   Employees participating in the Federal Employee Health Benefit Program (FEHBP), as well as many in private sector, state and local governments are allowed to pay their insurance premiums with pre-tax dollars. In 2005, premiums are expected to increase an average of 7.9 percent for more than 8 million federal employees, retirees and their families covered under FEHBP. 
   The Warner bill will affect about 2.3 million federal and military retirees, spouses, widows and widowers, and would result in an annual average savings of $434 annually for each annuitant. 
   S.484 has been endorsed by the National Association of Retired Federal Employees, the Military Coalition, the Fleet Reserve Association, and the Association of the Army.
 
 