SEN. DOMENICI: CLIMATE CHANGE MUST BE ADDRESSED THROUGH ECONOMICALLY AND ENVIRONMENTALLY FEASIBLE MEASURES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said any American action on global climate change will require policies and legislation that is economically and environmentally feasible.  
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that today conducted the second in a series of hearings on global climate change issues. Today's hearing was called to hear testimony regarding the economics of strategies to manage climate change. 
   "It is clear that something is happening with the earth's climate. I am aware that many in the scientific community are warning us that something needs to be done. I am also aware that there are equally qualified members of the scientific community who do not share those views," Domenici said. 
   "Nevertheless, I believe that it is prudent to heed the warnings we are hearing and begin to find ways of alleviating the human contribution to climate change. With this hearing, we will continue the search for meaningful, economically feasible answers that will produce real reductions in greenhouse gas emissions," he said. 
   Domenici said Congress must carefully consider the economic impact associated with various proposals to reduce domestic greenhouse gas emissions. 
   "It is clear to me that developing a system of mandatory controls on carbon emissions could be a daunting task. Controls must be effective - they must produce positive emission reductions. The cost of such controls should have the least possible overall negative effect on our economy and any burdens must be as equitable as possible," Domenici said. 
   "It is often said about legislation, 'the devil is in the details' and I am hoping that our witnesses today will help us identify some of the 'devils' we may encounter as we try to develop an effective response to climate change," he said. 
   Among those testifying at the Tuesday hearing were Jason Grumet of the National Commission on Energy Policy, and Dr. Howard Gruenspecht, deputy administrator of the Energy Information Agency, and Dr. Anne Smith of CRA International. Witnesses were asked to compare and contrast the economic impacts of different approaches to establish a national program of mandatory, market-based limits on greenhouse gas emissions. 
   Additional information is available at energy.senate.gov
 
 