RIO PUERCO WATERSHED BILL GETS SENATE HEARING
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today heard testimony in favor of legislation U.S. Senators Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici wrote to continue restoration efforts on one of New Mexico's largest tributaries to the Rio Grande.  
   The bill reauthorizes the R?o Puerco Watershed Management Program, which Bingaman first wrote into law in 1996. Over the past decade, the Rio Puerco Watershed Management Program has helped restore much of the 7,000 square-mile degraded watershed. 
   "In my opinion, the R?o Puerco management program has become one of the most effective collaborative land management efforts in the Southwest. Much work remains to be done within this watershed, which is why we must pass legislation to allow this important work to continue," said Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "Sediment problems on the Rio Puerco have an impact on the health of the Rio Grande and we want to continue this program that will improve the overall riparian health of these two tributaries. The program has been working and I hope we can get it reauthorized in a timely manner," Domenici said. 
   The Rio Puerco Watershed Management program authorized the creation of the Rio Puerco Management Committee - a panel comprised of federal and state agencies, Native American Indian tribes, local governments and private entities. Congress has provided the committee with more than $6 million over the past decade to develop and implement proposals for watershed rehabilitation. 
   The R?o Puerco Management Committee has become one of the most effective collaborative land management efforts in the Southwest. Among the committee's accomplishments is a project to return the R?o Puerco to its original streambed, originally altered to accommodate the construction of State Highway 44, now U.S. Highway 550, in the late 1960s. According to the BLM, the channel became a primary contributor of erosion and sediment in the river's main stem, and even began advancing toward U.S. 550, threatening the highway's stability. The large-scale project is one of only three in the entire country like it. 
   The legislation authorizes funding for the R?o Puerco Management Committee over the next ten years to continue its efforts. 
   According to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), while the R?o Puerco contributes less than ten percent of the total water to the R?o Grande, it represents the primary source of sedimentation entering the Upper R?o Grande. The R?o Puerco contributes the majority of the silt entering Elephant Butte Reservoir about 65 miles downstream of its confluence with the R?o Grande. 
   Michael Nedd, BLM's assistant rector for mineral, realty & resource protection testified in favor of the bill. 
   "The collaborative nature of the Rio Puerco Management Committee has resulted in successful implementation of activities to restore and protect the watershed, and the BLM looks forward to continuing this important work," Nedd said. 
   The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee can now vote on the legislation.
 
 