MEW MEXICO COMMISSION FOR THE BLIND LANDS FLETC-ARTESIA CONTRACT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that a contract worth more than $9.2 million has been awarded to provide food services the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Artesia.  
   The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) issued the sole source contract to the New Mexico Commission for the Blind in Santa Fe. Funds will be used to for the purchase of food and equipment, preparation and serving, and maintenance and upkeep of the dining facility. 
   "FLETC-Artesia has remained in the spotlight as one of the premier law enforcement training facilities in the country. The services it renders are invaluable to defending our homeland security and makes New Mexico a leader in protecting our borders," Domenici said. "This federal funding helps FLETC conduct the day to day activities that keep this important center running, giving our officers the best training available." 
   The Commission will provide food services to FLETC through its Business Enterprise Program (BEP). The program provides competitive employment opportunities for blind individuals who wish to operate food service facilities. BEP already sponsors a wide variety of food establishments including small dry stands, vending routes, and a full military cafeteria at Kirtland Air Force Base in Albuquerque. 
   The contract with FLETC, as with other facilities, will aim to provide government employees with quality food service that is conveniently at the campus. 
   "The Commission's current operations, such as the cafeteria at Kirtland, have shown the success of BEP as a source of employment for the visually impaired and as a service provider to the community. This is a concrete example of the valuable contributions this institution makes and the accomplishments of its members," Domenici said. 
   As a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici is set to serve on a conference committee to finalize the FY2005 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill which includes a number of funding items for FLETC-Artesia. 
   In the Senate bill, Domenici gained $5.0 million for firearms range construction and perimeter safety improvements to prevent unauthorized persons from gaining entry to dangerous and nonpublic areas at the campus. Additionally, he included language that will give FLETC administrators more authority over use of each campus. 
   The Senate bill also contains the Bush administration's request for $25 million to continue Federal Flight Deck Officer (FFDO) training program and Domenici language directing the Transportation Security Administration to assess the cooperation by air carriers and pilots in scheduling this training, and to continue using FLETC facilities for the FFDO program.
 
 