SEN. DOMENICI RECOGNIZES NEW MEXICO'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded the noteworthy efforts of the many designers, architects, collectors and collaborators whose work over the past decade culminated into the largest exhibit of American Indian history in the country.  
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, marked tomorrow's grand opening of the National Museum of the American Indian with a statement issued into the Congressional Record that both acknowledged the cultural distinction of these early Americans and recognized several New Mexicans who made significant contributions to the effort: 
   "All who have collaborated on this project have done so in an effort to promote and celebrate a deeper understanding of the diversity of the American Indian people and to celebrate their rich culture and storied history. This museum will forever tell the story of the American Indians-their trials, tribulations, triumphs and successes. 
   "New Mexico is home to three native tribes whose lands are full of fascinating customs, extraordinary landscapes, captivating ruins, and a broad array of handmade arts and crafts. With the opening of this national museum, the traditions and history of the Pueblo, Navajo and Apache people can be shared with all as they take their permanent place on Washington D.C.'s National Mall." 
   Domenici, who will attend the Tuesday opening ceremony, also called attention to three New Mexicans who dedicated time and talent to the endeavor: 
   "Santa Fe weaver Ramona Sakiestewa has been involved with the project's development since 1994, collaborating with a team of designers and architects as the lead interior designer for the museum. Donna House of Acalde coordinated much of the landscape, and Duane Blue Spruce of Laguna and San Juan pueblos served as the facilities manager for the entire project. 
   "As the years go on, New Mexico's tribes and pueblos will add to the ongoing exhibits and programs to be offered in this museum. I hope all take time to visit the museum, walk its corridors, and view the priceless treasures that reveal the rich history of this diverse group. To those who have worked so hard to make it possible, I give my highest praise for a 'job well done'."
 
 