FAIR MENTAL HEALTH COVERAGE, ALMOST - SENATE UNANIMOUSLY PASSES MENTAL HEALTH PARITY
  It was not so long ago that society considered mental illness untreatable and shameful. Over the years as greater advances have been made to understand the brain, the stigma associated with mental illnesses has begun to recede. We understand now that mental illness is a disease of the brain that can be diagnosed and treated. Too often, however, health insurance policies have not kept pace with this progress. With Senate passage of sweeping mental health parity legislation we are a major step closer to eradicating this stigma and provide the same level of insurance coverage for individuals battling mental disorders that might be offered to patients with conditions like heart disease, cancer or diabetes. It's a matter of fairness.
   I've spent much of my career in the Senate trying to raise mental health awareness and working to end all forms of discrimination against people who suffer from a mental illness. It is with a true sense of joy and triumph that I report Senate passage of the Mental Health Parity Act of 2007 (S.588), and with great anticipation that I look ahead to full congressional approval of the bill. 
   After nearly two years of negotiations between lawmakers, mental health advocates, and insurance and business organizations to develop compromise legislation, the Senate on Sept. 18 passed by unanimous consent S.558, the parity bill that I introduced with Senators Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) in February. The remaining steps are to reach an agreement with the House of Representatives and deliver a final bill to the President. Then this important health policy reform can be implemented to benefit the millions of Americans and their families who are affected by mental illness.
   S.558 requires health insurance plans that offer mental health coverage to provide that coverage on par with financial and treatment coverage offered for other physical ailments. It would lift the restrictive standard being applied to mental health coverage and allow these diseases of the brain to be treated under the broader standard applied to medical and surgical coverage.
   Currently, 26 percent of American adults or nearly 58 million people suffer from a diagnosable mental illness. In New Mexico approximately 370,000 individuals have some kind of mental disorder. Of these, 71,000 adults have a serious mental illness, which include individuals with schizophrenia, manic depressive, major depression, panic disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Additionally, nearly 19,000 children and adolescents in New Mexico have a severe emotional disturbance.
   This bill will provide mental health parity for about 113 million Americans who work for employers with 50 or more employees. It expands parity by including deductibles, co-payments, out-of-pocket expenses, coinsurance, covered hospital days, and covered out-patient visits. The measure also includes a small business exemption for companies with fewer than 50 employees, as well as a cost exemption for all businesses.
   S. 558 will build on the 1996 Mental Health Parity law that I authored with the late Senator Paul Wellstone. The 1996 law began the parity process, and helped raise greater public awareness to the plight of those with mental illnesses and the societal sigma often associated with those illnesses. The passage of this new 2007 bill draw us nearer to completing this important work which has, to me, been a decade-long priority. I am proud to have been a part of this effort to better address treatment for the millions of Americans and hundreds of thousands of New Mexicans who suffer from mental illness or disorders.
   For more information regarding mental illness research and statistics, please visit the following websites:
   To hear the Press Conference announcing Senate passage of the Mental Health Parity Act visit: http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/domenici9_19_07.mp3 
   National Institute of Mental Health can be viewed at http://www.senate.gov/cgi-bin/exitmsg?url=http://www.nimh.nih.gov
   Substance Abuse & Mental Health Services Administration can be viewed at http://www.senate.gov/cgi-bin/exitmsg?url=http://www.samhsa.gov
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention can be viewed at http://www.senate.gov/cgi-bin/exitmsg?url=http://www.cdc.gov
 
 