SEN. DOMENICI SEES BRIGHT FUTURE FOR ALBUQUERQUE AS IT ENTERS ITS FOURTH CENTURY
  In a luncheon speech to the Greater Albuquerque Chamber of Commerce, U.S. Sen. Pete Domenici said that while there are many challenges ahead, the future for Albuquerque looks bright as the city celebrates its 300th birthday and races into its fourth century.
   In a keynote speech that is part of GACC's annual congressional luncheon series, Domenici celebrated his hometown and presented an update on key issues confronting the Albuquerque area and the state--specifically noting new job growth numbers that show a vibrant and expanding economy in New Mexico and nationwide. 
   "On Albuquerque's birthday, I think we should celebrate all the good that is going on for this city and our state," Domenici said. "Today I'm happy to report that new job numbers confirm what we already knew--our economy is booming, both nationally and right here in New Mexico. The new numbers released today show that in the last year, New Mexico has added 23,000 new jobs. Our state's unemployment rate has dropped from 5.4 percent to just 4 percent, the second biggest drop in the entire country. This nation has just experienced our best first quarter job growth in six years, and since August 2003 we have created 5.2 million jobs across the country."
   "If you are looking for evidence of economic prosperity right here in Albuquerque, just take a drive down Fourth Street, where buildings I never thought would be renovated are being reborn. Low interest rates, tax cuts, and incentives for businesses have created the right climate for economic growth," he continued.
   "I think it's heartening that as Albuquerqueans celebrate their Tricentennial that we can look at 'help wanted' signs and expansive construction projects as a sign of a healthy, growing and vibrant community. I'm proud of my hometown," he said.
   Domenici said that while high energy costs and gas prices are a major concern for all Americans, the National Energy Policy Act of 2005 will benefit New Mexico because of its role as an energy producing state. As chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Domenici led the bipartisan work to enact the comprehensive energy law last year.
   "The energy bill we passed last year is particularly good for New Mexico. Not only will it reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy, but it will also create an estimated 500,000 new jobs, many of which will be right here in our state. Our region will see strong benefits from provisions that will streamline the permitting process for oil and natural gas production. And, we will benefit from the incentives to developing more efficient, low-emissions energy sources like solar, wind and biomass," Domenici said.
   "Just as importantly, our nation will need to use less foreign oil. Ethanol will play a big role in supplanting oil, and New Mexico is well positioned to take advantage. More nuclear power plants are on their way as a result of the energy bill, which will generate clean, safe energy. We won't see a reduction in gas prices and energy costs overnight, but in time, as we produce more of our own energy, our wallets will suffer less," he continued.
   Domenici pointed to the state's water crisis as another area of concern, but again pointed to progress being made that should help the long term outlook, including the San Juan-Chama water project which is nearing completion.
   "What makes this city great is its leaders' ability to foresee the needs of the residents and businesses well into the future. The San Juan-Chama water diversion project is one shining example. It will take that same type of vision and leadership to see us through some of the seemingly mind-bending problems we face now," Domenici said.
   Domenici, as chairman, hosted a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee field hearing in Albuquerque Wednesday to receive testimony from New Mexicans on the growing drought and water crisis in the state, and to explore possible federal actions to assist the states hit by severe drought conditions.
   "This hearing very clearly defined the desperate situation we face today and in the future as these severe drought conditions persist," Domenici said. "I'm doing everything I can to see that New Mexico gets immediate federal assistance. We must conserve and invest in technology to extend the use of the water we have available. I've authored legislation to expand programs that work to give local communities a hand and our national labs the resources they need to develop water technology."
 
 