SENS. DOMENICI, LIEBERMAN RENEW EFFORT TO STREAMLINE FEDERAL BUDGET PROCESS
  Sens. Pete Domenici (R-N.M.) and Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.) today renewed efforts to implement a two-year federal budget cycle that would allow Congress to avoid rush omnibus funding packages and have more time to carry out oversight of government action.  
   Domenici, a former Budget Committee chairman, and Lieberman, currently the Ranking Member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, introduced legislation that will convert the appropriations and budget process to a two-year cycle and enhance oversight of federal programs. 
   By changing the budget process, Domenici and Lieberman aim to slash government waste, while increase congressional oversight. Under a biennial budget, the President and Congress would establish a two-year budget in the first session of Congress and then devote the second session to enhanced agency oversight to improve government operations. Domenici is a longtime advocate of the idea, having first proposed it in 1987. 
   "Frankly, Congress and the President must get serious about deficit reduction. While holding the line on spending is admirable, we could further advance government thrift and efficiency by creating more time for congressional oversight. Too much of our legislative year is now taken up with a budget and appropriations process that is redundant, inefficient, and destined for failure each year," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that virtually every year, lawmakers struggle to finish the budget well into December. Since 1950, Congress has only twice met the October 1 fiscal year deadline for completion of all appropriation bills that fund the government. 
   "Clearly, the current system is not serving the Congress or the American people well," Domenici said. "By moving to a biennial budget cycle, we can budget more effectively, strengthen our oversight and watchdog functions, improve the efficiency of government agencies and complete our work on the budget in an intelligent, fair, and deliberative manner." 
   "Biennial budgeting is not a new concept. It is tried and true. It has been a historically preferred method among state legislatures and would be a vast improvement over the contentious, time-consuming budget process we endure year after year. Moving to a two-year cycle would give Congress more time to legislate and engage in oversight and it would provide more time to work through the nation's spending priorities in a reasonable and efficient fashion," Lieberman said. 
   It is crucial, the Senators contend, that Congress not abdicate its oversight responsibilities. Many appropriations for non-defense programs are operating under authorization laws that have expired. A two-year budget cycle would allow Congress to devote the second session to reviewing these authorizations. 
   Domenici said support is growing for his biennial budget legislation, which he first introduced in the late 1990s. Among the Senators cosponsoring this proposal are Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Budget Committee members Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Russ Feingold (D-Wis.), Wayne Allard (R-Col.), Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), and Jim Bunning (R-Ky.). Senators Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) are also cosponsors. 
   The Domenici-Lieberman bill will be referred to the Senate Budget Committee.
 
 