SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES NEA GRANT TO SUPPORT TRAVELING O'KEEFFE EXHIBITION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) has awarded a $120,000 grant to the Georgia O'Keeffe Museum in Santa Fe to support a traveling exhibit that highlights the important contributions of the late artist and several colleagues.  
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee that provides funding for the NEA. NEA selected the Georgia O'Keeffe Museum to lead off a national initiative to bring esteemed artistic work to urban and rural areas. The tour will be launched in Santa Fe. 
   "I am very pleased this new exhibition highlights the remarkable work of Georgia O'Keeffe, many of whose pieces manifest the beauty and serenity of New Mexico. This exhibit will allow her unique style and expression to be shared with school children and admirers nationwide," Domenici said. "It is appropriate that this tribute kicks off in Santa Fe, the home of a museum dedicated to O'Keeffe's work, and I hope New Mexicans will take the opportunity to visit and explore her achievements." 
   The Georgia O'Keeffe and the Women of the Stieglitz Circle will tour 11 museums around the country to highlight O'Keeffe's work in relationship to other pioneering women artists who made important, although under-recognized, contributions to the American modern art movement. 
   Alfred Stieglitz, an internationally acclaimed photographer and artist, was a first to recognize the achievements of women artists and their significance to modern art. The exhibit will feature works from O'Keeffe along with Gertrude Kasebier, Pamela Colman Smith, Anne Brigman Georgia Engelhard, and Katherine Nash Rhoades - all of whom were featured at one time in Stieglitz's New York art gallery. 
   The traveling project launches NEA's American Masterpieces: Three Centuries of Artistic Genius, a national multi-year grant initiative designed to bring renowned art collections to the public. 
   The Georgia O'Keeffe Museum in Santa Fe, America's first art museum dedicated to the work of a woman artist of international stature, opened to the public in 1997. Devoted to preserving and presenting the life work of one of America's preeminent artists, the 13,000 square-foot museum houses a permanent collection of O'Keeffe's art.
 
 