SEN. DOMENICI DEDICATES NEW MICROENGINEERING CAMPUS AT SANDIA NATIONAL LABS
  Calling it a key milestone in the quest to create new micro-scale engineering, Sen. Pete Domenici today helped dedicate new facilities for Microsystems and Engineering Sciences Applications (MESA) programs at Sandia National Laboratories.  
   The new MESA complex will integrate Sandia's microsystems laboratory, microsystems fabrication and the weapons integration laboratory. These facilities will support continued evolution of existing design systems and allow for the discovery of new capabilities. 
   "There is nothing small about this project since it is the largest in our state's history. I am proud that Sandia is at the forefront of microengineering, which will develop new, miniature technology that can be easily used for a variety of purposes," Domenici said. 
   "Already, our national defense is benefiting from new microengineering, as miniaturized radar technology developed by Sandia is being used in Iraq for unmanned aerial surveillance. The completion of MESA couldn't come at a better time, as we press forward with a reliable replacement warhead program that will lead to a safer, more efficient deterrent," he continued. 
   As chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee which funds DOE programs and the national labs, Domenici has obtained $463 million to build the MESA complex. The total cost of the project is expected to top $500 million, the largest in New Mexico's history. Domenici pointed out that the program will be completed ahead of schedule and on budget. 
   The microsystems laboratory will use state of the art chemical, electrical and laser labs to design and create prototypes for new systems. The new fabrication facility will provide clean rooms to develop microelectronics and semiconductors. The third component of the complex, a weapons integration facility, will allow designers and manufacturers to collaborate in classified and unclassified settings using high quality simulation capabilities. 
   Domenici also said that he remains committed to ensuring that programs like those at Sandia have a bright future by producing students with science and technology backgrounds and interests. The Senator has introduced the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, which supports basic research and provides a needed boost for math, science and engineering education. 
   "The developments that will come from MESA will be the latest accomplishments from Sandia's scientists. But we must act now to make sure that there is another generation behind them that will help maintain and boost America's competitive edge in the global marketplace. The PACE Act, along with President Bush's strong commitment, will accomplish that goal," Domenici said. 
   Domenici's Energy and Natural Resources Committee has already passed the energy portions of the PACE Act. Action on the entire PACE package could come this summer.
 
 