SEN. DOMENICI SAYS FUTURE U.S. ENERGY WELL-BEING BEGINS AT INSTITUTIONS LIKE SAN JUAN COLLEGE'S SCHOOL OF ENERGY
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today asserted that the nation's ever-growing thirst for energy can only be satisfied through institutions like San Juan College's School of Energy, which trains young professionals to develop and harness U.S. energy resources.  
   Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today toured and was briefed on the growth of the School of Energy, which began as of the Regional Energy Training Center for which the Senator helped gain Department of Labor funding in 2003. The school offers associates of applied sciences degrees and certificate programs in areas such as natural gas compression, renewable energy, industrial process operations, well control and rig operations. (http://www.sjc.cc.nm.us/pages/3431.asp) 
   Domenici noted his ongoing sponsorship of legislation to increase American energy conservation, energy efficiency and expand renewable energy development--including a new Senate-passed bill he and Senator Jeff Bingaman developed to promote greater energy diversification. 
   "While we push for wider use of renewable energy sources, we must also recognize that, in the near term, we will continue to rely on oil and natural gas. In doing so, we can develop all our domestic energy sources in a responsible, safe way," Domenici said. "The important role that the School of Energy in Farmington plays in that effort cannot be overstated. The work of ensuring secure and affordable energy for our nation's well being starts right here," he said. "The demand for qualified workers in an expanded energy sector is not likely to diminish anytime soon, so this school is doing yeoman's work to meet the demand for these workers." 
   The recently-passed Senate energy legislation includes a mandate for 36 billion gallons of biofuels annually by 2022, the first increased vehicle efficiency or CAFE standard in decades, and expanded research for technologies to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This bill builds on the Energy Policy Act of 2005 spearheaded by Domenici and Bingaman, and the 2006 Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act authored by Domenici that will make nearly 6 trillion cubic feet of American natural gas and 1.26 billion barrels of oil available. 
   "Our energy future is exciting and dynamic, and San Juan College is doing a wonderful job preparing the next generation of young professionals. I remain optimistic for a bright future for our nation's energy security and the roles played by New Mexico schools to meet the challenge," Domenici said.
 
 