SEN. DOMENICI STRESSES NEED FOR PRESIDENTIAL DISASTER DECLARATION FOR FLOOD-TORN AREAS OF N.M.
  Sen. Pete Domenici today threw his full support behind the state of New Mexico's request for a presidential disaster declaration for flood-damaged Do?a Ana County, and continued to warn federal officials that more help may be needed in the state. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate committees that have oversight and funding jurisdiction over the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). As such he today asked agency personnel to quickly assess a request made Monday by Gov. Bill Richardson for federal recovery assistance for Hatch and other Do?a Ana County communities that received major flood damage last week.
   "Clearly, this is an unusual monsoon season and I've had staff working with federal agencies since the initial bad floods in Alamogordo in June. FEMA must step up to the plate now and quickly. Hatch and Sunland Park are in particular need of expeditious action to restore the community so its residents can resume normal, day-to-day activities," Domenici said.
   "I have stressed with FEMA the need to try to get temporary facilities in place for the schools, and I am continuing to press the Bureau of Reclamation and Army Corps of Engineers to provide assistance to Hatch and other communities that need work done to repair damaged infrastructure and ensure safety from any further flooding," he said.
   Since the Hatch flood last Tuesday, Domenici's Las Cruces staff has met with the Red Cross, elected local officials and law enforcement. In addition, they have participated in volunteer cleanup activities. Domenici has also had Washington and New Mexico field staff tour flood damaged areas in Do?a Ana and Otero counties.
   Domenici staff has also met with the Elephant Butte Irrigation District officials to review work to drain Hatch and shore up the failed arroyo that caused the flooding.
   "Many have taken heroic efforts to prevent flooding, save lives and property during these floods, and to address the ensuing devastation. The fact that so few have been injured is a tribute to our law enforcement and local governments, along with those who have come to their assistance. To the national guard troops from our state and from Arkansas, the border patrol, the Elephant Butte Irrigation District who had the equipment and gumption to drain Hatch so recovery could ensue, to the Red Cross and all others who have taken extra ordinary steps to help, thank you," Domenici said.
   Domenici in July wrote a letter to FEMA addressing flood damage in Otero County and highlighted the likely need for federal aid in Sandoval, Harding, Sierra, McKinley, San Juan and Quay counties as a result of heavy rains and flooding.
   Domenici has pushed for both agencies to take action throughout the state to provide emergency response for flooded areas around the state. The Corps currently has provided emergency response to seven communities in Bernalillo, Sandoval, Valencia, Do?a Ana, and Socorro counties, as well as at the Laguna Pueblo. As chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Bureau and the Corps, Domenici has provided $19 million in FY2006 for flood control projects throughout the state.
   Finally, Domenici is reviewing options for agriculture assistance provided through the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Natural Resources and Conservation Service for producers hurt by the heavy summer storms and subsequent runoff.
 
 