SEN. DOMENICI: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY NANOTECH CENTER CAN SERVE AS CATALYST FOR R&D, TECH SPIN-OFFS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asserted that a new nanotechnology gateway facility at Los Alamos National Laboratory will help solidify New Mexico's position as a center for cutting-edge research and development.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funded new nanotechnology centers at LANL and Sandia National Laboratories, today took part in a ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Center for Integrated Nanotechnology (CINT) gateway facility at Los Alamos. 
   "Today we gather to celebrate the opening of a gateway facility at Los Alamos for the study of nanotechnology. DOE has made a very large investment in a very small technology. That technology could hold the key to advances in biology, chemistry and physics," Domenici said. 
   "New Mexico is at the forefront of nanotechnology research. Los Alamos and Sandia scientists will work to explore the integration of nanostructures into the micro and macro world. It is vital that our nation remain competitive with the rest of the world when it comes to science and technology, so the work being done at DOE labs is particularly important," Domenici said. 
   Domenici provided $75 million for two nanotechnology centers in New Mexico, including $18.3 million for a gateway facility at LANL, and $57 million for a core research facility at Sandia National Laboratories. Domenici is working to secure $19 million for the operation of the two centers. In all, DOE is establishing nanotechnology research facilities at five national laboratories. 
   "We are leveraging the significant investment in these facilities and scientific resources to benefit this important research," Domenici said. "In New Mexico, the centers will attract many new researchers to New Mexico, and I hope will serve as catalyst for technology spin-off and collaboration with the state's universities." 
   Nanotechnology is the study of extremely small molecules. According to the National Research Council, nanotechnology will lead to new materials and new systems with applications to virtually every sector of our economy, including medicine, telecommunications, and computers. It will also bring important advancements to areas of national interest such as homeland security. 
   With a nanometer equaling just 1/billionith of a meter, nanotechnology already has had a significant impact in the development of light weight materials, paints, superconducting wire, computer chips and electric lighting. 
   Research conducted at the new 34,000-square-foot LANL center will be combined with the Neutron Science Center and the National High Magnetic Field Lab. On Wednesday, Domenici will visit Sandia National Laboratories to help kick off the development of a 95,000-square-foot CINT there. 
   Domenici is the author of the Protecting America's Competitive Edge Act (PACE), which invests heavily in math and science to make America more competitive with the rest of the world. The bill contains $25 million for national laboratories to train teachers and students in key disciplines.
 
 