SEN. DOMENICI STILL SET ON EXPANDING MENTAL HEALTH PARITY, WILL APPEAR ON N.M. NEWS PROGRAM ON AUG. 22
  Sen. Pete Domenici, in advance of his appearance on a news program to promote local mental health care, today said he remains committed to Congress expanding a decade-old federal law intended to end health care discrimination against treating mental illnesses.  
   Domenici will participate in the KRQE-TV "Call Center" at 4 p.m. Tuesday, Aug. 22, to discuss mental health care and to spotlight the services offered by the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill (NAMI) in New Mexico. (http://nm.nami.org/) 
   "We've seen progress in knocking down the walls of prejudice against mental health issues, but more needs to be done. I am frustrated that Congress has not acted to improve the 1996 mental health parity law. I am committed to it and I am looking for any opportunity to get it passed this year," Domenici said. 
   Domenici authored the landmark 1996 Mental Health Parity Act that requires insurance companies to provide parity between mental health benefits and medical and surgical benefits. Domenici has since garnered overwhelming bipartisan support for new legislation to expand on the 1996 law by prohibiting a group health plan from imposing treatment limitations or financial requirements on mental health benefits unless comparable limitations are imposed on medical and surgical benefits. However, his efforts to advance the new legislation have been stymied by a few members of Congress. 
   Domenici and his wife Nancy have long been mental health advocates, and Mrs. Domenici is a former NAMI board member. For New Mexico, the Senator has worked to direct federal resources to New Mexico for care, as well as research and development. Last year, he gained $350,000 to support the Bernalillo County Mental Health Court. For FY2007, Domenici is working to secure $750,000 for the state to implement a Telehealth Behavioral Healthcare Initiative in rural areas and $300,000 for the state to develop a Comprehensive State Behavioral Healthcare Plan. 
   "Clearly, New Mexico faces challenges in providing mental health care as a large, rural state with a history of healthcare professional shortages. There is not single solution to improve access to mental health services, but there are actions that can be taken to address the problem," Domenici said.
 
 