SEN. DOMENICI ENCOURAGES TEAMWORK & SPORTSMANSHIP AT BACK-TO-SCHOOL CHARACTER COUNTS RALLY
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined students, teachers, and area dignitaries in rallying around the six pillars of Character Counts at a back-to-school event in celebration of "Pursuing Victory with Honor," a program that promotes good sportsmanship in all student activities.  
   Domenici participated in a workshop and rally as students, all of whom have participated in the New Mexico Activities Association (NMAA) "Pursuing Victory with Honor" program, presented their own skits, and band and chorus performances. The program, sponsored by the New Mexico Activities Association, was broadcast statewide in live streaming video. The event can be viewed at www.nmact.org. 
   Following the student-led component of the rally at Piedra Vista High School, Domenici addressed the assembly, applauding their involvement in the program and encouraging the character-building lessons to be applied in all avenues of their lives. 
   "I want you all to know, that the lessons in integrity you learn today and put into practice in the classroom and on the playing field, will serve you well for the rest of your lives. You'll call on these lessons in your jobs, in your homes, and in your communities. The friendships I forged as young man in Albuquerque playing ball with teammates in an environment of sportsmanship and respect are friendships that I still have and treasure," Domenici said. 
   Following the rally, Domenici joined students and teachers from Farmington, Aztec, Dulce, Bloomfield, Kirtland, Shiprock and Navajo Prep at an informal lunch. 
   "In the more than 12 years that Character Counts has been taught in schools across New Mexico, I have always believed it can be a program of critical importance to young men and women's success. And I believe that today more than ever. With responsible, respectful, honest young people, like those I've met today, growing and poised to one day lead our nation, we have a very bright future ahead of us," Domenici said. 
   Domenici is a national sponsor of Character Counts, a character education program that promotes the six pillars of trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring and citizenship. The NMAA has taken "Pursuing Victory with Honor," training based on those pillars, to students, athletic directors and coaches in every state school district. 
   Domenici and former Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) first introduced a congressional resolution calling for National Character Counts Week in 1994. Since then, New Mexico's program has grown from an idea at an Albuquerque elementary school to a statewide effort that incorporates character education into the public, private and parochial classrooms every day. 
   Domenici was also an initial proponent of a U.S. Department of Education grant program specifically intended to promote character education throughout the nation. This grant funding has helped to expand Character Counts initiatives in schools throughout the state.
 
 