PRESIDENT SIGNS BILL TO ELIMINATE 'PROSECUTION-FREE ZONES' WITHIN PUEBLO LANDS
  President Bush today signed into law a bill supported by the entire New Mexico congressional delegation to eliminate so-called "prosecution-free zones" by clarifying federal, state and tribal prosecution responsibilities within pueblo lands.  
   The President signed the bill (S.279) on Tuesday, December 20th, 2005. This measure was authored by U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and supported by Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall and Steve Pearce. 
   The new law more clearly defines federal and state authority to prosecute crimes committed on private lands within pueblo borders. Prior to the enactment of this measure, there have been essentially "prosecution-free zones" on such lands where in crimes could be committed without the certain prospect of being prosecuted. 
   "My hope is that this new law will mean criminals can no longer escape judgment for crimes they commit on these lands. I hope it means victims and their families will now know that they might yet find justice where it was once denied," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. 
   "Under this new law, there will be no confusion over who has criminal jurisdiction when a crime has been committed. I'm very glad we were finally able to get this enacted," Bingaman said. 
   "Every inch of New Mexico is now under the rule of law. The signing of this bill protects Pueblo sovereignty and establishes that criminals face consequences. We've cleared up the murky jurisdictions that could have been a loophole for criminals," Wilson said. 
   "The signing of this bill culminates a good example of the way the federal government should work: a problem was brought to our attention, tribal members and the victims affected by the gap in jurisdiction communicated with the entire New Mexico Congressional delegation and the State to find an appropriate solution, and then we all went to work to make it happen," Udall said. "I am proud to have played a role in securing justice for all New Mexicans." 
   "This legislation provides long-overdue, common sense reforms in our criminal justice system," Pearce said. "I particularly wish to commend New Mexico's pueblo leaders for the energy, effort, and vision they provided to this effort. They enabled us to achieve a result that honors the distinct heritage and autonomy of the pueblo system by ensuring justice for all." 
   The New Mexico lawmakers, working in conference with the U.S. Attorneys Office and tribes, drafted the law because federal and state case law held that neither the federal government nor the state of New Mexico had jurisdiction to prosecute crimes committed on thousands of acres of privately-owned land within pueblo boundaries. As a result, in recent years there have been stabbings, sexual assaults, and aggravated battery charges that have not been prosecuted because of jurisdictional questions. 
   The new law amends the Indian Pueblo Land Act of 1924 as it pertains to serious criminal acts within the exterior boundaries of a pueblo. It clarifies when a crime should be prosecuted in federal, tribal or state court. Recent federal and state criminal cases have left open the question of who prosecutes serious crimes committed on private lands within Indian Country.
   Contact: Matt Letourneau, 202/224-7073; Jude McCartin, 202/224-1804; Joel Hannahs, 202/225-6317; Tom Nagle, 202/225-6190; David Host, 202/225-4759.
 
 