SEN. DOMENICI COMMENTS ON NEW LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY MANAGEMENT CONTRACT
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Department of Energy and its national laboratories, today said the award of a new management and operation contract for Los Alamos National Laboratory signals a new era for the facility that for 60 years has been a world leader in science and technology.  
   The Department of Energy today announced its selection of the team headed by the University of California and Bechtel. The team includes BWXT, Washington Group International and a consortium of New Mexico schools comprised of the University of New Mexico, New Mexico State University and the New Mexico Institute for Mining and Technology. 
   "I am pleased that the Department of Energy has made its choice and look forward to working with DOE, the lab and its employees in ushering in a new era for Los Alamos. 
   I feel that this great laboratory will thrive under the management team led by Bechtel, an international leader in project management. The University of California is a recognized scientific leader and I am certain UC will furnish leading-edge scientific capability to this management team. I admire the expertise and talent of Dr. Michael Anastasio and expect him to ably lead the lab into a new era," Domenici said. 
   "I particularly hope the new management team will clarify lines of authority and minimize bureaucracies so our scientists can focus on science. BWXT, Washington Group International and the consortium of New Mexico schools will play key roles in ensuring that LANL remains a world science leader," the senator said. "I have every reason to believe this selection was made in a thoroughly objective manner. I compliment both applicant teams. DOE was faced with a very difficult choice. I am certain the quality of each team made the other better. 
   "I look forward to a smooth and successful transition for the lab and its employees," he said. "The contract requires the rehiring of all lab employees. I look forward to ample input from them and believe they will be pleased with both the transition and the new team. I plan to be in Los Alamos soon after the holidays to visit the lab and discuss this new era." 
   For the past 60 years, LANL has been managed by the University of California (UC). The process of finding a new contractor has taken more than two years. 
   During the process, Domenici consistently advised DOE to carry out the contract competition with the intent of selecting a lab management plan that retains current employees-with the exception of the most senior officials-and, fully protects current compensation and retirement benefits. The Senator also pressed DOE to maintain contract authority regarding corporate citizenship, economic development and subcontracting. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds DOE and the national laboratories. He is also chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee with policy and oversight jurisdiction over DOE.
 
 