N.M. SENATORS IMPLORE DEFENSE SEC. GATES NOT TO END F-22A RAPTOR PRODUCTION
  As the Pentagon prepares its FY2009 budget submission, U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced their opposition to any plan that would end Air Force procurement of F-22A Raptors.  
   Domenici and Bingaman were among a bipartisan group of 28 Senators who wrote Defense Secretary Robert Gates to express their recommendation that the Air Force continue to procure the F-22A aircraft and not cease production of the fighter planes. 
   Two 18-aircraft squadrons of F-22A Raptors are scheduled to be deployed at Holloman Air Force Base. The F-22A aircraft is scheduled to arrive at Holloman beginning in the first quarter of 2009. Continuing F-22A procurement, as requested in the letter, could result in squadron being expanded to 24-aircraft. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, and Bingaman this year supported the $3.1 billion in FY2008 defense acquisition funding to procure 20 F-22A aircraft, the fighter jets that will replace the retired F-117 stealth fighter jets at Holloman Air Force Base. 
   "We believe production of the F-22A should continue for a number of good reasons, not the least among them the fact that many Air Force aircraft date back 20 or 30 years," Domenici said. "Meeting the goals of the Air Force procurement plan would help ensure a more modern Air Force and make it possible for more Raptors to be placed at Holloman." 
   "With the retirement of stealth fighter jets, the Air Force needs to acquire a worthy replacement. The F-22A clearly fits the bill and we need to ensure we have an adequate number of them to meet our national security needs," Bingaman said. "It's important to stay on target with the procurement plan." 
   The Senators' letter to Gates calls the possible cessation of F-22A procurement "ill-advised and premature, given the recapitalization shortfalls facing our U.S. Air Force and the rapidly emerging airborne and surface-to-air threats facing our nation's military." It points out that the Air Force needs to replace approximately 500 1970-80s vintage F-15A-D Eagles. 
   "We urge you to continue procurement of the F-22A Raptor by including sufficient funds in the FY09 budget request to procure long-lead items for an additional lot of planes, beyond the current multi-year contract. We believe any decision to terminate production of this aircraft at such an early stage is more appropriately deferred until completion of the 2009 Quadrennial Defense Review which will assess current and future threats, and recommend the necessary procurement strategies to fully support our national security requirements," the Senators wrote Gates.
 
 