PRESIDENT SIGNS SEN. DOMENICI BILL TO ACQUIRE MINERAL RIGHTS AT VALLES CALDERA PRESERVE
  President Bush has signed into law a bill authored by Sen. Pete Domenici to acquire the remaining mineral rights at the Valles Caldera National Preserve and Trust in north central New Mexico.  
   The Valles Caldera Preservation Act of 2005 (S.212), cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, was signed into law on Tuesday, December 20th, 2005. The measure was supported in the House by Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall, and Steve Pearce. 
   The new law enables the Secretary of Agriculture to acquire, by condemnation, certain subsurface rights to the preserve's Baca Ranch area if a voluntary sale with the current owners cannot be negotiated. If condemnation is necessary, the owners would be entitled to just compensation as determined by a court. The bill would specify that any difference between the Secretary's estimate of the value of the subsurface rights and the amount awarded by the court would be paid from the permanent claims and judgments fund. 
   Among other things, the new law also clarifies the Valles Caldera National Preservation & Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act of 1999 in terms of employment classifications, and resource management and funding authority. In 2000, Congress authorized the federal purchase of the 95,000-acre Baca Ranch and provided $101 million to buy the property. 
   "We now have on the books a law that should help resolve some of the impediments to better management of the Valle Caldera. I hope it provides the impetus to negotiate a mineral rights purchase agreement and better clarify the governing board's unique responsibilities," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "This law not only settles mineral rights, it provides the Valles Caldera board with important new management tools that will benefit the preserve and those who visit it," said Bingaman, who is ranking member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "The Valles Caldera National Preserve is another of New Mexico's treasures. This new law helps protect the history and natural beauty of this area for generations. By expediting purchase of remaining mineral rights, we both ensure the preservation of this scenic landscape and provide fair compensation to the current owners of these mineral rights. Still in use as a working ranch, the Preserve is a beautiful destination for hunters, hikers, sportsmen and sightseers," Wilson said. 
   "The Valles Caldera National Preserve has the potential to be a model of a unique and innovative approach to public lands management. We all know the development of the Valles Caldera Trust is a work in progress," Udall said. "The legislation signed into law today will help further the important goals and ideals set forth in the original Valles Caldera Preservation Act."
 
 