SEN. DOMENICI HELPS BREAK GROUND ON NEW FEDERAL COURTHOUSE IN LAS CRUCES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined leaders from southern New Mexico and the state's legal community to break ground on a new, state of the art federal courthouse in downtown Las Cruces.  
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici has been instrumental in facilitating the project from its inception. He initially obtained over $60 million for the courthouse, followed by language making additional funds available to cover final construction costs. He has also been an outspoken voice in favor of additional space and more judges for southern New Mexico. 
   "Today marks an important step in my quest to alleviate the crisis that now exists in our court system in southern New Mexico. The judges here currently are overworked and lack the space and technology they need to enforce the laws of the land. This new courthouse will provide relief for the dedicated men and women who serve on the bench, as well as the lawyers and citizens that visit the courthouse every day," Domenici said. 
   "A courthouse is much more than a building. It stands as a symbol of freedom that gives our citizens due process and justice. Here in Las Cruces, this courthouse also will give us the foundation for a new, vibrant downtown that will serve as a fitting center for this growing community," he continued. 
   The new courthouse will stand five stories tall and have a total of 237,000 square feet. It will house the United States District Court, Magistrate Court, Marshals Service and General Services Administration. 
   Domenici has always placed a priority on supporting New Mexico's federal judiciary. He is the author of legislation (S.389) that will authorize eleven new federal judgeships for southwest border states, including two new federal district judges for New Mexico. 
   Also on Thursday, Domenici helped break ground for a new multipurpose event center at the Southern New Mexico State Fairgrounds. 
   In 2002, Domenici obtained $1 million through the Department of Housing and Urban Development to help construct the facility, which will provide a year round event center at the fairgrounds. 
   "A new event center at the fairground will serve as a magnet for economic activity in Do?a Ana County. The annual fair is an important event for the community, it only happens once a year. Already, I understand that a rodeo has agreed to use the new center. Activities like that will provide economic benefit to the entire region. I look forward to seeing its completion," Domenici said. 
   The Turquoise Circuit Rodeo has signed an agreement to come to Southern New Mexico Fairgrounds in future years, using the new center.
 
 