SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES VALENCIA COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ADDRESSES GROWTH ISSUES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today told Belen-area leaders that he was excited by strong growth and economic development in Valencia County.  
   In a keynote address to the Belen Chamber of Commerce, Domenici noted that the population of Valencia has increased by 50 percent over the last 15 years, leading to new opportunities, but also increased infrastructure responsibilities. 
   "It amazes me every time I head south on I-25. Valencia County is growing by the day. As this region grows, difficult choices will have to be made. Concurrent planning for transportation, water, open space, public utilities, housing and economic sustainability will continue to be a challenge," Domenici said. 
   As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee and Chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici has provided federal assistance to Valencia County for infrastructure improvements. 
   The Senator secured a $75 million authorization in the 2005 federal highway bill to support the New Mexico commuter rail project. In order to obtain the money, the State of New Mexico must request it and meet certain federal guide lines. 
   Among the water initiatives Domenici funded this year (FY2006) are $1 million from the EPA for improvements to the wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system in Belen, $600,000 for Middle Rio Grande Flood Reduction from Bernalillo to Belen through the Army Corps of Engineers, and $5 million for the Corps to continue support for water infrastructure projects in Bernalillo, Valencia and Sandoval counties. 
   "Our water forecast for this year is developing into a dire situation. So far, this has been the driest year on record. I am pleased that President Bush's proposed budget supports the Middle Rio Grande project, which includes Belen, with a $5 million increase. I'll be continuing to support federal projects that will assist New Mexico's water situation, such as arsenic removal," Domenici said. 
   Domenici has convened a working group of Senators to address the EPA's upcoming strict arsenic water standards, which is placing a strain on communities that lack the resources to comply. He is the author of legislation that creates grant programs for communities (S.689 and S.1400), and has provided $7 million for arsenic and desalination research at Sandia National Laboratories. 
   In his speech, Domenici also promoted his Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, which seeks to improve U.S. competitiveness in science, research and energy technology. The bill has gained widespread, bipartisan support in the Senate, and President Bush has committed federal resources in his budget proposal to address the issue.
 
 