SEN. DOMENICI, REP. PEARCE ANNOUNCE FIVE-YEAR CONTRACT RENEWAL FOR ILEA-ROSWELL OPERATIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Rep. Steve Pearce today announced the successful effort to win a new five-year contract for New Mexico Tech and its partners to continue operating the International Law Enforcement Training Center in Roswell.  
   Domenici and Pearce had been pressuring the State Department to approve a multi-year contract for New Mexico Tech after early indications that single-year contracts could be awarded. The New Mexico lawmakers initially began their interaction with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice last May. 
   New Mexico Tech with its partners--Eastern New Mexico University-Roswell, Sam Houston University, and the Science Applications International Corp.--have operated ILEA-Roswell under a cooperative agreement with the State Department since 2001. The existing contract is set to expire at the end of March. 
   "This is great news for the ILEA program in New Mexico. It will ensure a level of stability that will enable ILEA-Roswell to expand its work to train law enforcement officials from around the world. Its mission is important for our own national security as we promote international crime-fighting standards that benefit us and our partner nations," Domenici said. "New Mexico Tech and its partners have done a very good job with ILEA and this multi-year contract renewal is deserved." 
   "New Mexico Tech has effectively led an outstanding consortium of institutions in creating a leading light in the war against crime and terror," Pearce said. "This new contract will enable ILEA-Roswell to build upon its exemplary record of uniting diverse cultures and backgrounds in this epochal fight against the enemies of humanity." 
   ILEA-Roswell training was launched in 2001 using $10 million secured in 1999 and 2000 by Domenici and the late Congressman Joe Skeen. The facility operates on about $5.0 million annually and has trained 1,878 students from 68 countries. 
   ILEA is an outgrowth of a 1995 United Nations meeting at which former President Clinton announced a United States commitment to international law enforcement in order to tackle transnational criminal issues, such as counter-narcotics and money laundering. Training in Roswell includes extensive language education, as well as instruction in global criminal justice and modern policing strategies. 
   The State Department now has four ILEAs located in Budapest, Bangkok, Botswana and Roswell. Roswell is the only program that is university-based and offers a degree program. The curriculum at every ILEA has extensive course-work regarding attention to human and civil rights in the practice of law enforcement. 
   On Wednesday, Feb. 22, Domenici and Pearce will join officials from ILEA-Roswell, the city of Roswell, and others to dedicate a new $5.4 million facility to house the program. The ceremony is scheduled for 11 a.m. at 47 Gail Harris Drive at the Roswell International Air Center.
 
 