SEN. DOMENICI: U.S. MILITARY & BORDER PROJECTS OPEN 'WIDE WORLD OF OPPORTUNITY' FOR N.M. BUSINESSES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today encouraged New Mexico businesses to aggressively pursue contracting opportunities that will support major new federal security initiatives pursued by the departments of Defense and Homeland Security.  
   Domenici today took part in a broad meet-and-greet event in Las Cruces to introduce New Mexico businesses to the major contractors involved in the Army's Future Combat Systems (FCS) program and the Homeland Security Department's Secure Border Initiative (SBInet). The event was designed to open doors for possible subcontracts to support these multi-billion dollar initiatives. 
   "The thrust of our military and homeland security missions are evolving. Future Combat Systems and the Secure Borders Initiative are major endeavors that won't just magically happen. It will take a lot of work and a lot of input from private-sector businesses. This is where New Mexico firms can find a wide world of opportunity to serve their country, grow and create jobs at the same time," Domenici said. 
   Since the Pentagon decided to base FCS at Fort Bliss, Domenici has worked to ensure that New Mexico firms are involved in the implementation of this equipment modernization program being lead by the Boeing Co. FCS equipment will be evaluated and tested at Fort Bliss and White Sands Missile Range. 
   Domenici gained a commitment last September from the chairman of Boeing that small businesses, research universities and other entities in New Mexico would be considered to help implement SBInet, a high-tech border security network. Boeing won a three-year SBInet contract worth an estimated $2.0 billion in September; that contract requires small business participation. 
   Domenici has also previously asked General Charles Cartwright, the Program Manager of FCS, to learn about New Mexico businesses for FCS requirements. 
   "There are any number of firms in southern New Mexico that will bring a high level of quality and competence to help advance both FCS and SBInet," Domenici said. "Boeing has committed to providing a level-paying field for us and now there are opportunities for manufacturing, engineering and high-tech companies to help develop the tools our soldiers and border protectors will need in this age." 
   Domenici is a senior member of both the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee as well as the Homeland Security Appropriations Committee. He commended Boeing and the numerous southern New Mexico-based economic development, business and educational organizations that hosted the day-long, one-on-one event for contractors to meet with corporations involved in both FCS and SBInet. 
   Domenici noted that the Bush administration's FY2008 budget requests $3.6 billion in funding for research, testing and development of FCS, and an additional $79.5 million for FCS-related procurement. 
   Through the DHS Customs and Border Protection Directorate, the FY2008 budget recommended $1.0 billion for SBInet for fencing, infrastructure and technology to gain better control of U.S. borders. The CPB budget also requests $100 million for construction of new border patrol facilities, $4.6 million to upgrade CBP aircraft; and $6 million to hire 55 CBP officers to deploy and operate radiation portal monitors.
 
 