SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS MORE 'REALISTIC' ADMINISTRATION STANCE ON AAMODT WATER CASE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today encouraged the Bush administration to become more involved in pending water settlements involving Indian tribes in New Mexico, and to be more realistic in its evaluation of federal liability in the Aamodt case.  
   Domenici addressed the federal government position on the Aamodt case, and the ramifications of that stance, in a letter sent Friday to Joshua Bolten, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget. Last week, the Justice Department indicated that federal liability on the Aamodt settlement would be an estimated $11 million. 
   "It is my sincere hope that the administration will reconsider its position and will continue to work with the respective parties to determine an appropriate and realistic federal contribution to these important settlements," Domenici wrote Bolten. 
   "The current policy of the U.S. Government endorses Indian water rights settlements as a way to resolve Indian water rights claims in a manner beneficial to all involved (55 FR 9223-01). In spite of this, while the Aamodt case has moved towards resolution, the Justice Department recently pronounced that the administration would oppose any settlement of the Aamodt case that would require a federal contribution exceeding $11 million. This small Federal contribution indicates to me a dramatic change of policy and it cannot stand," he wrote. 
   In contrast, Domenici noted that the administration did not oppose Indian water rights settlements and the final federal contribution levels reached on the Arizona Water Settlement Act of 2004 and the Snake River Water Rights Act of 2004-a combined cost of about $2.3 billion. 
   "The current position, as expressed by the Justice Department in the Aamodt case, shows a completely different and contradictory policy approach that causes great concern for my state and other states, communities, people and Indian Tribes. In particular, I am concerned about two additional pending conflicts involving the Navajo Nation Water Settlement and the Taos Valley (NM) Water Settlement (Abeyta case), which require on-going active negotiation on the part of the U.S. Government and support for final resolution," Domenici wrote. 
   The Aamodt case, filed in 1966, is presently the longest-standing case in the federal court system and has been in court-ordered mediation since 2000. The case involves four pueblos, scores of individuals and communities. The Interior Department is also a party to the Aamodt suit. 
   "This conflict is enormously costly to all involved, the urgency for resolution has reached a critical juncture and the conflict must be resolved," Domenici said. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has dedicated extensive staff resources toward aiding the parties in concluding a settlement on the Aamodt case. The New Mexico lawmaker also serves on the Senate appropriations committees with funding jurisdiction over the Interior Department and other federal water projects.
 
 