SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES BILL TO BOOST HOMELESS AID
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation that could bring more federal support for homelessness and mental health programs in New Mexico.  
   Domenici and Senator Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) have proposed a change to funding formula for the Projects for Assistance in Transition for Homelessness (PATH) program run by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. In 1991, Domenici authored the legislation creating the PATH Program, and has been was instrumental in raising overall funding for the program over the years. 
   The current formula for funding limits places an emphasis on urban areas, placing rural states like New Mexico at a disadvantage. The maximum amount rural states could receive under Domenici's bill would be increased from $300,000 to $600,000, subject to appropriations. 
   "The PATH program reaches out to those who are sometimes overlooked in society. Many homeless people suffer from mental illness and need the kind of help that the PATH program provides. Unfortunately, rural states like New Mexico are at a disadvantage to receive funds because of the current funding formula. By raising the maximum amount rural states can receive, the bill I have introduced could lead to as much as twice as much funding, depending on availability," Domenici said. 
   The PATH Program funds community-based outreach, mental health, substance abuse, case management and other support services, as well as a limited set of housing services for people who are homeless. 
   While Congress has increased overall PATH funding to $50 million, it has not changed the formula to distribute the funds since the programs inception in 1991. In fact, under the formula, 25 states and territories will never see an increase PATH funding. 
   Currently, New Mexico is eligible to receive $300,000 in PATH funds, with the State of New Mexico providing matching funds of $100,000. There an estimated 15,000 homeless people in New Mexico, of which 35 percent are believed to suffer from mental illnesses. 
   In FY2003, the PATH program served 875 New Mexicans through four institutions: St. Martin's Hospitality Center in Albuquerque, Albuquerque Health Center for the Homeless, The Life Link in Santa Fe, and Southwest Counseling Center in Las Cruces.
 
 