SEN. DOMENICI COMMENDS EFFORTS TO STRENGHTEN CIBOLA, OTERO COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today commended Cubero Volunteer Fire Department for successfully completing another round of FEMA grant funding that will finance the purchase of new bunker gear, field tools and a drop tank for the area.  
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee which sets funding levels for FEMA, announced that the Cubero Fire Department in Cibola County was selected to receive funding from a group of 20,000 other grant applicants. 
   "Within the past summer months, New Mexico has been afflicted with several dangerous and damaging fires that have consumed homes, land and wildlife. As we battle another dry summer, I am pleased to see local fire departments making the extra effort to be prepared," Domenici said. "Even small efforts such as making sure our firefighters have new protective gear and the tools they need out in the field can help keep our firefighters safe. 
   "In addition, Cubero will be able to purchase a drop tank which holds 2,000 gallons of water that assists in blazes and minimizes damage these and other fires have on our communities," he said. 
   The Cubero Volunteer Fire Department will use the $32,238 awarded by the U.S. Fire Administration to purchase new sets of bunker gear, self-contained breathing apparatus (SBCA) including new cylinders and spare bottles, rescue kits, and several firefighters tools including foam eductor and forcible entry kits. 
   Domenici also announced that the Otero County/Dungan Volunteer Fire Department, which serves the greater Alamogordo area, will use a $43,875 award from the U.S. Fire Administration to purchase 15 new self-contained breathing apparatus (SBCA) including new cylinders and spare bottles. Currently, breathing compressors used by firefighters in this area date back to 1987 or before. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) awarded these one-year grants after Congress appropriated and President Bush signed into law $750 million in federal funds for firefighters throughout the nation.
 
 