COMBATING AUSTISM ACT ADVANCES IN SENATE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he is encouraged by Senate progress on bipartisan legislation he cosponsored to focus greater federal attention on this health problem. 
   The Combating Autism Act of 2005 (S.843) was approved this week by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, clearing the way for the measure to be considered by the full Senate. The bill would authorize a collaborative effort between various federal agencies to increase research, education, and prevention aimed at halting the prevalence of the developmental disorder. The bill would award grants to every state to develop statewide autism screening, diagnosis, and intervention programs.
   "I am hopeful that the Senate will soon pass this bill. Considering the apparent increase in autism among children in New Mexico and around the country, I think the added resources this bill would sanction to understanding this disorder is a good thing," Domenici said.
   Under S.843, the director of the National Institute of Health (NIH) would develop an annual research budget to fund research on autism spectrum disorders, as well as create a program to provide information and education on autism and its risk factors to health professionals and the general public.
   The legislation includes provisions for centers of excellence regarding autism research through the National Institute of Mental Health, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, the National Institute on Deafness and Other Disorders, and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences.
   Domenici serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee that Thursday approved increased funding for each of these NIH agencies as part of the FY2007 Labor, Health & Human Services Appropriations Bill. The committee directed the NIH to pay more attention to the High Risk Baby Sibling Autism Research Project, gene-environment interaction research in autism, and regressive autism.
   Autism is a neurological disorder that interferes with normal development of reasoning, communication, and social interactions/skills. (http://www.nmautismsociety.org/index.html)
   In addition, Domenici has championed significant increases in federal research funding to better understand the human brain and the illnesses that afflict it. Domenici is a longtime advocate for persons with mental illness, and has authored mental health parity legislation which would provide equal insurance coverage for diseases of the brain.
 
 