SEN. DOMENICI: COMMITTEE OKAYS VET BENEFITS FUNDING, NEW MEXICO MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined his colleagues on the Senate Appropriations Committee to approve an $81.0 billion bill that funds veteran benefits and continues military construction upgrades at Defense Department installations-including the three Air Force bases in New Mexico.  
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that today approved the FY2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill. The measure, which now goes to the full Senate for consideration, provides $70.7 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs and $10.2 billion for military construction projects. 
   "This bill is not only important for directing construction upgrade funding to our New Mexico bases. It will also be important to the significant veteran population in our state that relies on the benefits and health care offered through the VA. We are in the process of correcting the apparent and serious shortfall in VA health care funding," Domenici said. 
   Related to military construction projects, Domenici worked to secure $34.8 million for work at Cannon, Kirtland and Holloman Air Force Bases in New Mexico. This includes: * Holloman - $15 million for renovating two existing fire stations, both built during the 1960s, and construct an additional fire station to house vehicles, equipment, and personnel; 
   * Cannon - $13.2 million for two jet fuel storage tanks and a loading facility; and, 
   * Kirtland - $6.6 million for a new flight training simulator. 
   Of the $70.7 billion for the VA, the Senate Appropriations Committee included almost $1.98 billion to address a projected shortfall in VA health care funding for FY2006. The committee-passed bill provides a total of $23.3 billion for VA Medical Services, which is $1.33 billion over the initial budget request. 
   The bill outlines $36.6 billion for mandatory VA programs, which includes benefits and other compensation. Another $34 billion was approved for discretionary VA needs, including: $607.1 million for major construction projects and $208.7 million for minor projects; $1.45 billion for a new VA information technology account; $412 million for medical and prosthetic research; and $104 million for the extended care facilities grant program for states. 
   Domenici noted that House and Senate negotiators are expected to provide as much as $1.5 billion in emergency supplemental FY2005 funding in the pending FY2006 Interior Appropriations Bill to address immediate shortfalls in VA benefits funding. It is hoped that appropriations negotiators will finalize the Interior Appropriations Bill-with the emergency VA funding-before the start of the August congressional recess.
 
 