SEN. DOMENICI: MAJOR CONSTRUCTION COMPLETED ON TULAROSA BASIN DESALINATION FACILITY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the Bureau of Reclamation has completed major construction on a water desalination facility in Otero County, clearing the way for full operations to begin at the nation's only major research facility for studying inland desalination of brackish and other impaired waters. 
   Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, said the Bureau of Reclamation's Brackish Groundwater National Desalination Research Facility at Alamogordo could lead the way to finding more efficient and affordable ways to expand water sources in arid states.
   "I commend the Bureau for its diligence on this project. The Bureau, with its partners, is putting together a facility that can be of immense importance to states like New Mexico that sit atop vast amounts of brackish water. I am glad we have reached a point where we can turn otherwise unusable water resources into viable water sources," Domenici said.
   The 15,000-square-foot facility will now undergo a commissioning phase during which it will be tested and prepared for full operation in the coming months. The facility will provide research space to develop solutions to concentrate management problems, renewable energy/desalination hybrids, desalination technologies for produced waters, and small-scale desalination systems. (http://www.usbr.gov/pmts/water/research/tularosa.html)
   "Water needs in the western United States are increasing," said Reclamation Commissioner Robert W. Johnson. "This facility will help us study, test and understand how we can make it economical to augment our current water supplies with water that has previously been unusable."
   Over the past four years, Domenici has secured more than $20 million in Bureau and Department of Energy science funding to facilitate the construction of the facility and launch of research capabilities with partners like Sandia National Laboratories.
   "With this Tularosa Basin research facility, we have a place for our best and brightest minds to advane desalination technologies and making them available for practical use," Domenici said.
   "Through the use of applied research and development targeted at reducing the cost of treating impaired waters and partnering with federal and non-federal entities Reclamation feels that we can facilitate the efficient advancement and deployment of technologies and best practices," Johnson said.
   Domenici pushed for the facility to be built in the Tularosa Basin because it provides one of the most ideal locations in the world for desalination research due to the abundant availability, easy accessibility and variability of its saline water supplies. The northeast portion of the basin alone contains over 200 million acre-feet of saline water ranging from 1,000-10,000 parts per million total dissolved solids (TDS), with over 20 million acre-feet easily recoverable that is less than 4,000 ppm TDS. In addition, water levels are relatively shallow, allowing easy access to the saline groundwater supplies.
   The Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee is scheduled to consider the FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill next Tuesday. This bill funds the Bureau of Reclamation and the Army Corps of Engineers.
 
 