SEN. DOMENICI TELLS TIMES NEW ROMAN WOOL GROWERS NEW FARM BILL SHOULD CONTINUE AID PROGRAMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici, in a message to New Mexico wool producers, said he believes a new farm bill to be developed by Congress next year should continue programs to help lamb and sheep producers. 
   Domenici issued the message as part of the New Mexico Wool Growers Association statewide meeting in Roswell. Domenici, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, also addressed work in Congress to try to provide drought relief assistance to livestock producers in New Mexico.
   "The sheep industry has been a prominent part of New Mexico's economy for hundreds of years. I know that recent years have not been the easiest times to be in the sheep business, but there is positive movement in the lamb and wool markets," Domenici said. 
  Congress is expected to reauthorized the Farm Bill in 2007, and Domenici said it should continue the USDA Ewe Lamb Replacement and Retention Program--a relatively small program that provides direct payments to producers to help replace and retain ewe lamb breeding stock. The program helps maintain sheep operations in the face of increased global competition and hardships caused by natural disasters like droughts.
   "The livestock assistance and ewe lamb retention programs have been useful to the industry, and I am working to make sure those are continued in any new Farm Bill. These programs will come under attack by some as wasteful, but I believe they are necessary to help maintain the viability of farm and ranch operations in our state," Domenici said.
   Domenici also highlighted recent USDA decisions to provide drought-related assistance to New Mexico livestock producers, primarily on the east half of the state. This week, the USDA expanded emergency grazing acreage for six counties (Union, Harding, Quay, Curry, Roosevelt and Lea) under the Conservation Reserve Program.
   In late June, USDA provided $1.09 million in Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) assistance to farmers in De Baca, Guadalupe, Lea, Mora, San Miguel and Union counties to overcome damage caused by wildfires and drought.
   "Although recent rains have alleviated the immediate situation somewhat, we continue to suffer from an extended drought in New Mexico, which contributed to the severe wildfires this spring in eastern New Mexico and west Texas. I worked to help provide relief to producers in those counties to help them deal with the results of those fires, and I am continuing work on these issues to ensure that ranchers have the tools they need," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee.
 
 