SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES TWO-MONTH COMMENT EXTENSION ON WILLOW FLYCATCHER DESIGNATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today learned that the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) will grant his request to provide the public with more time to comment on the proposed critical habitat designation for the endangered southwestern willow flycatcher.  
   Domenici indicated that the FWS will extend the comment period by two months, from March 31 to May 31. The FWS, an agency within the Interior Department, did not specify when the official notice regarding the extension will be printed in the Federal Register. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, formally requested an extension in early February and this month pressed Interior Secretary Gale Norton to personally review the matter. 
   "This extension gives all parties in the middle Rio Grande more time to assess the plan for the willow flycatcher. I am particularly hopeful that agencies, like the Bureau of Reclamation and Army Corps of Engineers, will use this time to fully focus on how to mesh the needs of the flycatcher with our good and ongoing work to save the bosque," Domenici said. 
   "I have suggested to Secretary Norton that a conservation program may be the best way to address the needs of the willow flycatcher and other endangered species in the area, while at the same time allowing important restoration of the bosque. I hope that the parties interested in this proposed designation consider that option in the coming months," he said. 
   Placed on the Endangered Species list in 1995, the southwestern willow flycatcher breeds in dense riparian habitats along rivers, streams, or other wetlands-such as the bosque or in areas dominated by salt cedar or Russian olive. (http://ifw2es.fws.gov/swwf/) 
   Meanwhile, the Bureau of Reclamation and Army Corps of Engineers-both federal agencies funded through an appropriations subcommittee chaired by Domenici-are extensively involved in bosque restoration activities, including clearing the unique ecosystem of accumulated litter, eradicating nonnative foliage like salt cedar and Russian olive, removing unnecessary jetty jacks, and managing the land to prevent devastating fires like those that occurred in the Albuquerque bosque in 2003. 
   "We have dedicated significant resources and manpower to restoring the bosque, and we need to carefully study how we can continue that work in conjunction with the effort to allow the willow flycatcher to flourish in a native habitat. Salt cedar and the like are not native to the middle Rio Grande and are not native habitat for the willow flycatcher," Domenici said. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Bureau and Army Corps. In 1991, Domenici launched a Rio Grande Bosque Initiative to save the bosque habitat. Domenici consistently secures funding for a bosque consortium, a unique multi-agency effort, to continue work on the bosque and improve habitats for endangered species.
 
 