SEN. DOMENICI: DOE SHOULD BE AGGRESSIVE TO INTEGRATE OFFICE OF SCIENCE R&D WITH NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION LABS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today encouraged the Department of Energy to be more aggressive in tapping into the expertise of its weapons laboratories to bolster the mission of the department's Office of Science. 
   The DOE Office of Science and its FY2008 budget was the focus of a Senate Energy and Water Appropriations hearing Wednesday. DOE Undersecretary for Science Dr. Raymond Orbach testified about the $4.39 billion budget request for the Office of Science, which is $600 million over FY2007 funding levels.  
   Domenici included language in the FY2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill that directed DOE to integrate high energy physics machines such as Z and NIF into its Office of Science R&D program. The FY2008 budget is the first in which Orbach would have to integrate research at all Office of Science labs and those under the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). 
   "DOE should move more aggressively to integrate the NNSA into the DOE Science program. Doing so can work to advance our scientific missions and promote the American Competitiveness Initiative that has growing support with Congress and the administration," Domenici said. "The NNSA labs support some of the best science in the world. Unfortunately, the funding provided by the Office of Science to these labs is disproportionately low even though they have great facilities that should be incorporated into science research programs." 
   For New Mexico, the Office of Science budget recommends $54 million for work at Los Alamos National Laboratory, $49 million for Sandia National Laboratories, and $20 million in operating funds for the Center for Integrated Nanotechnology (CINT), which is jointly run by both New Mexico labs. 
   "Greater integration of the Office of Science components within NNSA labs should mean more investment and reliance on the scientific and research expertise at labs like Los Alamos and Sandia," the Senator said. "Facilities like the Z Machine and MESA at Sandia will open up tremendous new research opportunities to scientists and must be thought of as national user facilities." 
   Domenici said Orbach should help explain how DOE will support and integrate high performance computing at all labs, particularly as the Office of Science looks to expand its capabilities and NNSA wants to reduce the number of its labs with high performance computing capabilities from three to two. 
   "As we put more emphasis on American competitiveness, it would seem that a strong high performance computing capability is essential to ensuring American capabilities in science and engineering, as well as guaranteeing the future safety and reliability of our weapons stockpile," said Domenici, who is cosponsoring a $1.0 billion amendment to the FY2008 Budget Resolution to increase scientific research related to American competitiveness. 
   "This science can then be applied to any number of critical challenges facing us today, including climate modeling or carbon sequestration to combat global climate changes. Unfortunately, I don't believe DOE has dedicated sufficient resources, nor demonstrated a commitment to developing the next generation architecture that will enable our country to sustain its leadership in this field," he said. 
   Overall, the Office of Science $4.39 billion budget request includes: High Energy Physics, $782 million (up 1 percent); Nuclear Physics, $471 million (up 3.8 percent); Biological and Environmental Research, $531 million (up 4.2 percent); Basic Energy Sciences, $1.49 billion (up 5.5 percent); Advanced Scientific Computing Research, $340 million (up 6.8 percent); Fusion Energy Sciences Program, $427 million (up 34 percent); Safeguards and Security, $76 million (equal to FY2007); Science Program Direction, $185 million (up 8.2 percent); Workforce Development for Teachers, $11 million (up 0.4 percent).
 
 