SEN. DOMENICI URGES NEW MEXICO YOUTH TO TAKE PART IN 2006 YOUTH SERVICE DAY ACTIVITIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici, who has agreed to again cosponsor Senate legislation to designate National and Global Youth Service Day, today encouraged New Mexico youth to participate in community service activities. 
   The Senate in early April is expected to act on a Senate resolution declaring April 21, 2006 as National and Global Youth Service Day, which salutes student volunteers and encourages others to get involved in community improvement programs. Millions of youth worldwide will spend April 21-23 doing community works.
   "I am proud of New Mexico youth, who engage in community service and learn that every individual can make a difference in their community and in the lives of others," Domenici said. "Their work sets a good example, and it fits wonderfully with the Character Counts pillars of 'citizenship' and 'caring.'"
   "It would be great to see more schools and groups like 4-H, the scouts, YMCA and others act on opportunities for our youth to be active in making their communities better places to live," he said.
   The goals of National and Global Youth Service Day are to mobilize youth as leaders to identify and address the needs of their communities through service and service-learning, to support youth on a lifelong path of service and civic engagement, and to educate the public, the media, and policymakers about the year-round contributions of young people as community leaders. Information about local opportunities can be found online at http://www.ysa.org/nysd/.
   A strong supporter of youth recognition programs, Domenici said this event compliments the Character Counts initiative program in New Mexico. Character Counts, celebrated since 1994, calls upon the nation to embrace six fundamental principles of good character: trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring and citizenship.
   "Programs and celebrations such as Character Counts and National and Global Youth Service Day establish and reaffirm the core values and principles we as a community need to pass on to the next generation," Domenici said.
 
 