SEN. DOMENICI OFFICIALLY WELCOMES NEW MEXICO BORDER PATROL TO FLETC-ARTESIA
  Sen. Pete Domenici today took part in a dedication ceremony for the new Border Patrol Academy that will bring all training for Border Patrol agents to FLETC-Artesia. 
   Domenici joined FLETC and Department of Homeland Security officials to praise the expanded mission for FLETC-Artesia that will involve a consolidated and rigorous 19-week training program for new Border Patrol agents.
   "It is a proud day for me and for the men and women of FLETC-Artesia who have worked long and hard to build this state-of-the-art, world-class law enforcement training facility," Domenici said. "Our federal law enforcement personnel deserve the very best, and the American taxpayers deserve the best use of their tax dollars to secure the nation."
   In the past, basic training was conducted at FLETC-Glynco while all advanced border training was completed at FLETC-Artesia. Consolidating the programs and locations will make all four sites more efficient and cost-effective.
   "We now have 11,000 Border Patrol personnel to secure the nation's 6,000 miles of border, including 2,000 miles of border with Mexico. It is more important than ever that federal law enforcement officers are well-trained and operate as one unified force to counter terrorist threats, as well as criminal threats," Domenici said.
   Within the FY2005 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, Domenici included important policy provisions to ensure more complete use of all FLETC facilities, which played a factor in the decision to locate border patrol training in Artesia.
   Domenici stressed the vital role FLETC plays in securing our borders, citing that the Border Patrol made over 1.1 million arrests and seized over $1 billion worth of illegal drugs last year. Because of their increased role since Sept. 11, Domenici included an additional $5 million for renovation and construction at FLETC-Artesia.
   On Monday, the President signed the $31 billion Homeland Security Appropriations Act that includes $222.4 million for FLETC, an increase of $30.7 million above the President's budget request.
   Domenici, as a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, was instrumental in the 1988 establishment of the FLETC campus in Artesia and its subsequent growth as a pivotal law enforcement training center.
 
 