SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEXICO AWARDED $14.5 MILLION TO EXPAND ACCESS TO DRUG TREATMENT SERVICES
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici announced today that New Mexico has been awarded approximately $14.5 million from the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy to improve substance abuse treatment and recovery support services.  
   The funds, part of the 2007 Access to Recovery program, are expected to increase and enhance treatment and recovery support services by sustaining and expanding its current voucher-based system over the next three years. Current operations have already served over 11,000 clients. Additionally, the program is expected to reach out to potential clients, new providers, and referral partners in order to expand drug abuse recovery options across the state. 
   "New Mexico's drug rehabilitation services are growing and expanding thanks to funds such as this from the Office of Drug Control Policy," said Domenici. "In the future, it is my hope that drug treatment and recovery services will be more readily available to those who need and seek them to get over addictions to meth, heroine and the like. I expect these funds will help treatment services across the state as they work to achieve this goal." 
   New Mexico is one of 19 states and five tribal organizations that received funding awards as part of the competitive 2007 Access to Recovery grant program. 
   The Access to Recovery program is administered by the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Created by Congress in 2004, the program looks to expand the availability of drug abuse treatment for those seeking it. According to the 2006 National Survey on Drug Use and Health, approximately 182,000 individuals were unable to successfully access drug treatment they were seeking. 
   For more information, visit: www.atr.samhsa.gov/stateprograms.aspx 
   Domenici is a long-time member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which plays a pivotal role in determining spending plans for federally administered programs, including those carried out by the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
 
 