NEW MEXICO PUBLIC TELEVISION STATIONS GET FUNDS TO FINISH DIGITIZATION CONVERSION PROJECT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today noted the award of more than $1.8 million in federal funding to try to finalize a cooperative effort to offer digital television program throughout New Mexico through public stations in Albuquerque, Las Cruces and Portales.  
   Domenici said KNME-TV, based at the University of New Mexico, is the lead station that will receive $1,853,701 from the Department of Commerce to support the final phase of a plan to convert KNME, KRWG-TV in Las Cruces and KENW-TV in Portales to a digital format. The overall cost of the project is estimated to be $3.49 million. 
   The funding was awarded through the Public Telecommunications Facilities Program (PTFP), and is the latest in a series of grants to support the digital conversion project for these stations. The funding will be issued to purchase microwave distribution systems, test equipment and backbone master control equipment for KRWG, KENW, and KNME and their translators. 
   The partnership, which serves about 2.5 million viewers, received a total of more than $1.5 million in two separate awards last year to purchase digital transmitters, routers, a multichannel video server, six microwave relay sites, and encoding equipment. 
   "These awards have allowed three strategically placed public stations to broaden the scope of their services to reach those in more rural areas. With a station in Albuquerque, Las Cruces and Portales, many more New Mexicans will be able to share in public programming," Domenici said. "While these areas come under the realm of digital service, they will also be able to participate in educational opportunities otherwise unavailable from great distances." 
   The PTFP supports the expansion and improvement of public telecommunications services by providing matching grants for public facilities that deliver educational and cultural programs across the nation. Since its inception in 1962, PTFP has contributed to bringing public broadcasting services to almost 97 percent of the population. The program has also provided funds to educational institutions and non-profit organizations for a variety of technology-oriented distance learning projects. 
   Domenici is a member of the Commerce, Justice, State and Judiciary Appropriations Subcommittee that sets priorities and funding levels for the Department of Commerce. Public and commercial broadcasters are required to make the change from analog to digital by 2005. The expensive task is particularly challenging for public broadcasters whose networks include numerous translator stations, located in largely rural areas.
 
 