SEN. DOMENICI SUPPORTS WATER DESALINATION & REUSE EFFORTS, ADVOCATES MULTI-FACETED APPROACH TO WATER ISSUES
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a leading congressional proponent for more economical desalination technologies to address a growing water crisis, today said such water reuse efforts in New Mexico and elsewhere are only one facet of what is needed to avert a looming crisis.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today helped open the 49th annual New Mexico Water Conference through a message recorded for the event. The New Mexico Water Resources Research Institute is hosting the conference, titled "Water Desalination and Reuse Strategies for New Mexico." 
   "I have a keen interest in bringing less expensive, less energy intensive and less wasteful water purification technology into common use in New Mexico," said Domenici, who has spearheaded an effort to build a federal research and development center in Otero County. 
   The Tularosa Basin National Desalination Research Facility will be used to conduct research and tests on the feasibility of more affordable desalination technologies that can benefit communities that face water supply shortages. 
   "New water supplies are essential. We must tap sources that have previously been unusable, like the large saline aquifers and we need to reuse water. The key issues in expanding water supplies are cost effective water treatment and appropriate disposal of waste by-products," Domenici said. 
   "While the focus of this conference is desalination and reuse, overall solutions to the water supply problems we face in New Mexico will require a broad set of tools. These include water markets, understanding our resources more completely, more efficient use of existing supplies and expanding those supplies," he said. 
   Domenici reviewed legislation he is pushing to aid New Mexico tackle its water problems. 
   The Senate last week passed a Domenici-authored bill - the New Mexico Water Planning Assistance Act (S.2460) - giving the New Mexico Office of the State Engineer to receive technical assistance from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS to perform hydrologic models of the states most important water systems, basins and tributaries. The Senate also passed a Bingaman-Domenici bill authorizing a new program to assess groundwater resources on the Southwest Border. 
   Domenici lauded the resolution of the Arizona Water Settlement Act (S.437), which his committee has approved, that gives New Mexico funding and better access to its allotment from the Central Arizona Project. He said outstanding water settlements involving New Mexico tribes need to be resolved-a process that will be essential to establishing water markets. 
   "In many regions of the West, Indian water rights have not yet been adjudicated and this uncertainty affects the long-term investment needed to expand our water supplies. At this point we are working on four such settlements that affect New Mexico alone. These negotiated settlements, if completed within a manageable budget, offer the best opportunity to support existing uses and to bring surety to basins in conflict," Domenici said. 
   "Congress does not negotiate the settlements, but I have directed a great deal of my staff time to study these settlements. All are difficult and expensive, but I am confident that we will persevere to completion," he said. 
   A broad bipartisan groups in both the Senate and House has also behind a Domenici bill to greatly expand federal investment in water augmentation research and development, with the Department of Energy's national laboratories being given lead roles in the project. The DOE National Laboratory Water Technology Research and Development Act of 2004 (S.2658) would authorize $200 million annually for basic and applied research and development in water supply technologies. 
   "In addition to using technology to augment our supplies, using our water more efficiently means more than just turning off the tap when you don't need water. It means rebuilding infrastructure in a way that utilizes every drop of diverted water to its maximum extent," Domenic said. "However, the money to build or revitalize our infrastructure is lacking. To partially address this issue, I am pushing for a loan guarantee program for the Bureau of Reclamation. We intend for this money to revitalize existing infrastructure with an eye to increasing all forms of efficiency."
 
 