SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES VOTER REGISTRATION CLARIFICATION ACT
  With largely unregulated voter registration drives raising the specter of possible voter fraud nationwide, Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation to protect the integrity of this fall's general election.  
   Domenici introduced legislation (S.2818) to amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA) by extending the existing federal identification requirements to individuals who have not registered in person with their authorized government entity. In addition, it would enhance criminal penalties for individuals who knowingly and fraudulently register 10 or more persons. 
   Domenici said the proliferation of so-called 527 committees and their unregulated voter registration drives were not foreseen when Congress passed HAVA, and that numerous questionable registration tactics across the nation make the "simple and straight-forward" amendments contained in his new legislation necessary to protect the integrity of the upcoming fall elections. 
   "The Help America Vote Act of 2002 and the hundreds of new state laws that implement it fail to provide adequate, uniform systems to verify voters' identity and eligibility to vote. Since 2000, we have focused all of our attention on the validity of the ballot cast. But I believe it is just as important to ensure the validity of the person casting the ballot," Domenici said. 
   "Americans already have to provide identification for a broad range of services and products. Requiring a voter to provide identification prior to voting is not an unreasonable imposition, given the possibility of fraud. Simple and straightforward reforms, such as the ones I am proposing, will make it easier to vote but harder to cheat. Showing the American public that we are serious about election fraud will go a long way toward restoring confidence in the voter registration and balloting process," he said. 
   The bill would require newly-registered voters to provide identification at the polls if they did not register in person with their official government agency, such as a county clerk's office. HAVA currently requires voters who register by mail to provide identification when they reach the polls. The Domenici bill would extend that requirement to persons who have been registered by a third party-such as a 527 or other group. 
   "While no one will argue against the laudable goal of increasing voter registration and voter turnout, the unintended consequences of these activities are immense," Domenici said. "The paid volunteers of these 527s are largely untrained and not familiar with the communities in which they are working, nor are they familiar with the realities of election laws. In many cases, the volunteers are being paid by the number of people they are able to register. This has resulted in certain voters being registered two or more times at multiple addresses under multiple names." 
   In his introductory statement to the Senate, Domenici recounted such incidences occurring in New Mexico, a so-called swing state that has drawn very active voter registration drive efforts by 527s and other groups. 
   "There is a recent court decision in New Mexico that has taken the plain reading of a very clearly written state statute and turned it on its head," Domenici said. "In a bizarre contortion of logic, the New Mexico Secretary of State has determined that a third party can register 10 or 100 or 1,000 voters. And, as long as that third party shows up in person at the county clerk's office, the actual voter does not have to show identification." 
   The second primary thrust of the Domenici bill would double the federal penalties-either fines and/or jail time-for anyone convicted of fraudulently registering 10 or more voters. 
   "Skeptics may say my motive with this bill is political. But voter fraud is not about partisanship or politics. It is about fairness. Voter fraud is not a political act, it is a criminal act," Domenici said. "The 2004 general election is quickly approaching, and all Americans must be ensured that when they cast their ballot, they will do so with the knowledge that the United States has done everything possible to ensure that the election will be fair." 
   The Domenici bill is expected to be referred to the Senate Rules Committee. He says he hopes the legislation will be quickly considered by both the Senate and House. As written, the voter identification provisions would be considered effective as if they were included in the enactment of HAVA. The voter fraud penalty provisions would become effective upon enactment of the Domenici bill.
 
 