SEN. DOMENICI AMENDMENT GIVES NATIONAL GUARD OPTION TO WORK ON BORDER SECURITY IN STATE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today reported the introduction of a plan that would give border state governors broader authority to deploy National Guard personnel for border control activities.  
   Domenici offered the amendment to the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill (HR.1585), which the Senate is debating and expected to complete next week. 
   The Domenici amendment would expand existing federal law that now allows governors to utilize their state's National Guard for counter-drug activities in their home states. The amendment would authorize border state governors to use the respective state's National Guard units for border activities in support of the federal Customs and Border Patrol. 
   "Operation Jump Start has allowed the National Guard to successfully assist in border activities, and there is broad support for continuing that work. My plan would give governors the option to build on the success of these border security efforts whether or not Operation Jump Start is maintained," said Domenici. 
   "Operation Jump Start is providing guardsmen with valuable training in fleet maintenance and in providing support for surveillance, reconnaissance, and intelligence analysis. At the same time, National Guard support is helping to deter illegal crossings," he said. "We should not do away with this valuable work that is beneficial to everyone involved." 
   Much like activities involved with Operation Jump Start, the Domenici amendment would allow governors to use National Guard units for border protection activities, including: road, fence and vehicle barrier construction; search and rescue; surveillance and reconnaissance; communications and information technology support; camera installation and operation; infrastructure repair and maintenance; aviation support and maintenance; and logistics support. 
   In order to participate, governors would be required to submit Guard border support plans to the Defense Department to gain approval from the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security. 
   As part of the debate on HR.1585, Domenici is also cosponsoring an amendment authored by Senator Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) to authorize an additional $400 million to maintain Operation Jump Start on the Southwest Border. Operation Jump Start involves Guard units from all 50 states. 
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, as well as the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. Domenici has been a long-time proponent of the National Guard drug interdiction activities in New Mexico. He began advocating the expansion of that counter-drug program to include broader border control activities as part of the Border Security and Modernization Act of 2005 he introduced in the 109th Congress.
 
 