SEN. DOMENICI SAYS DAIRY AMENDMENT MAKES UNFAIR SITUATION WORSE FOR NEW MEXICO DAIRIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today decried a vote by the Senate Appropriations Committee to extend and expand an existing federal dairy program that is grossly unfair to the growing New Mexico dairy industry.  
   Domenici was among five members of the Senate Appropriations Committee that today battled against the dairy amendment, which was ultimately added to the FY2005 Veterans Affairs, Housing and Urban Development and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) Appropriations Bill. The amendment, offered by Senator Herb Kohl (D-Wis.) was accepted on a 17-5 vote. 
   The Kohl amendment would extend by two years the Milk Income Loss Compensation (MILC) program, which was created in the 2002 Farm Bill. MILC is set to expire Sept. 30, 2005. The amendment would extend the program through FY2007 and increase subsidies offered to some dairies-primarily smaller operations in the Northeast and Midwest. 
   "This is a bad amendment and wrong on so many levels. It takes a program that is already unfair to New Mexico dairies and makes it worse," Domenici said. "This creates a new and expensive dairy program that specifically does not allocate funding fairly. It penalizes Western dairies, just as the 2002 Farm Bill did. I opposed that 2002 bill and I oppose this amendment." 
   "Dumping this highly-controversial amendment on the bill that funds our veterans' programs is ill advised. It certainly has the potential to sink the bill," he said. 
   Domenici noted that the Kohl amendment will face a "budget point of order" motion when the Senate takes up the FY2005 VA-HUD Appropriations Bill because it adds more than $2 billion beyond existing federal budget caps. It will take 60 votes to sustain the Kohl amendment, and Domenici is hopeful the provision will be stripped from the bill then. 
   In opposing the 2002 Farm Bill, Domenici argued that its dairy program binds New Mexico dairy farmers into a policy that penalizes them for efficiently producing milk and dairy projects. 
   "We've lived with this situation-one specifically designed to prop up less efficient operations in the Northeast-since 2002. I cannot see expanding an already unfair program," Domenici said. 
   New Mexico is the seventh largest dairy producing state in the nation, behind California, Wisconsin, New York, Pennsylvania, Idaho, and Minnesota. The leading dairy producing counties in New Mexico are Chaves, Curry, Roosevelt, Do?a Ana, Lea and Eddy. There is also significant production in Bernalillo, Socorro and Valencia counties.
 
 