SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS SPRING '08 INTERNS TO WORK IN WASHINGTON OFFICE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici announced today that his Washington D.C. office is accepting applications for its Spring 2008 internship program and encouraged interested college-age students to apply by Oct. 15.  
   The Spring 2008 internship session will run from January through May. Participants will have the opportunity to take part in the various facets of Domenici's Washington office by working in each of the office's areas including those related to constituent services, legislation, and communications. 
   Students who are either New Mexico residents or attending school in the state are eligible to apply. Applications must be postmarked by Oct. 15. 
   "Students who intern in my office have an exceptional opportunity to experience politics and the legislative process first-hand," said Domenici. "I believe that students from every area of study, and with any level of political interest, can benefit from interning in my Washington D.C. office. I encourage every student who is interested to apply." 
   Applications are available on Domenici's website, http://domenici.senate.gov, in the "Student's Corner" section. For more information about the program and intern responsibilities, email internships@domenici.senate.gov or call (202) 224-6621. 
   Eligible applicants must have completed at least one year of study at a higher learning institution. New Mexico residents and/or students will receive priority in the selection process. Students from all majors, including those outside of history/political science, are encouraged to apply. 
   Participants in previous Domenici internship programs have come from a wide variety of schools and backgrounds including universities, community colleges, and vocational schools both inside and outside of New Mexico. 
   Domenici is New Mexico's longest serving U.S. Senator. He is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and holds senior membership positions on the Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee. He is also a member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and the Indian Affairs Committee.
 
 