SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEXICO ENTITIES COULD HAVE ROLE IN SBINET CONTRACT AWARD TO SECURE BORDER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he believes there is room for small businesses, research universities and other entities in New Mexico to help implement the Secure Border Initiative (SBInet) network that will deploy high-tech to help secure America's land borders. 
   Domenici serves on Senate committees with oversight and funding jurisdiction over the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) which today awarded a three-year contract to Boeing Co. to implement SBInet on the United States borders with Mexico and Canada. The contract is estimated to be worth a reported $2.0 billion, and Boeing has set a 40 percent target for small business participation.
   "I have contacted the chairman of Boeing and he has assured me that New Mexico companies and institutions will be able to compete as subcontractors for portions of this effort on a level playing field as they make these decisions. I am pleased by this contract. I hope New Mexico small businesses will aggressively seek relevant opportunities to integrate more effective and extensive high-tech systems into security on our borders," Domenici said.
   The Boeing contract has an option for three, one-year extensions. The DHS Customs and Border Protection (CBP) directorate awarded the contract through a competitive process to identify a team to provide high-technology systems to help detect and deter illegal border crossings. Initial deployment of these systems are expected to be implemented during the next eight months with work beginning on the Arizona border, and then proceeding to other regions of the Southwest and Canadian borders.
   As part of the FY2007 Defense Appropriations Bill that Congress is working to complete before Oct. 1, Domenici is working to include $3.0 million to continue the UAV Systems and Operations Validation Program that involves the New Mexico State University Physical Science Laboratory. Being developed at that the Las Cruces International Airport, the program is giving the Defense Department capacity to test unmanned aerial vehicle platforms in civilian air space.
   As part of the FY2007 appropriations process, Domenici has supported $1.8 billion for construction of 370 miles of triple-layered fencing along the Southwest Border. This funding, expected to eventually become law in the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, will also support construction of 461 miles of vehicle barriers. Segments are expected to be erected in Do?a Ana and Luna counties in New Mexico.
   The House and Senate are also working to reconcile funding levels for the CBP for FY2007. The Senate-passed bill includes $18.82 billion for border security and enforcement of immigration and customs law. This includes $6.64 billion for CPB and provides for the hiring of 1,000 additional Border Patrol agents in FY2007. Combined with the FY 2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2,000 new agents will be on board by the end of FY2007. This will bring the total strength of the Border Patrol to 14,319 agents for FY2007, as compared to 12,319 agents for FY 2006. The bill has $151.86 million to sustain FY 2006 program increases.
   The Senate bill also included language specifying that within the border construction program, the El Paso Sector, and specifically, the Deming field office, would receive $7.463 million for vehicle barriers.
 
 