SEN. DOMENICI SAYS RIVER MANAGERS SHOULD 'KEEP CONSTANT WATCH' ON RIO GRANDE LEVEE SYSTEM
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said he has asked federal agencies that manage Rio Grande water resources to carefully monitor the levee system on the river as it experiences its strongest winter runoff in years. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate subcommittee that funds the Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation. Domenici has written to BOR Area Manager John Poland and the Corps' Albuquerque District Commander Lt. Col. B.A. Estok regarding the levee system in light of a recent hearing on the poor outlook for FY2009 funding to upgrade the infrastructures.
   "I am concerned about our fragile levee system. I've asked both the Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation to both exercise caution with regard to the amount of water released down the Rio Grande," Domenici said.
   Domenici said he welcomed the snowpack that now allows for a healthy flow in the river, but said the use of this water must be balanced with the need to properly and safely manage the flows in the Rio Grande.
   "Given the recent attention drawn to levees nationwide and in New Mexico, I believe it is especially important to keep a constant watch on areas that are susceptible to weakening, given the amount of snowpack runoff that we are facing this year. I call on you to use the skills and professionals with the particular knowledge of the Rio Grande to assess the flow rate of the river and the levees in order to ascertain an appropriate management plan for releasing water down the river this year," Domenici told Poland and Estok.
   Last week, Domenici asked Gen. Robert L. Van Antwerp, chief of the Corps, for an engineering opinion regarding the levees on the Rio Grande. Owned by the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District, the levees have reached the end of their economic life and need additional work.
   Domenici has raised concerns about the President's FY2009 budget for the Corps, which eliminates funding for Albuquerque levee evaluations and for Rio Grande bosque restoration, as well as construction funding for eight projects including the middle Rio Grande flood control, northern New Mexico acequias, Central New Mexico Infrastructure Program (Bernalillo, Valencia and Sandoval counties), and tribal assistance.
 
 