REASONED APPROACH, INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION REQUIRED ON CLIMATE CHANGE
  Reasoned Approach, International Cooperation Required on Climate Change
  U.S. Senator Pete V. Domenici
   In the coming months, the Senate is expected to consider legislation aimed at addressing climate change. This will be an important debate, and one that will have far reaching implications. As we consider various proposals, it is important to keep a few basic principles in mind.
   Last year, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) concluded, with 90 percent certainty, that man-made greenhouses gases are "very likely" contributing to our warming climate. I have no reason to dispute that finding or question the science behind it. 
   What I do want to emphasize, however, is the global nature of this problem. China has already passed the United States as the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases. A report to be released by the University of California warns that China's carbon dioxide emissions have been underestimated, and that their future emissions are likely to be much greater than previously estimated. China's emissions of carbon dioxide in 2010 are projected to be 600 million metric tons higher than they were in 2000-an amount five times greater than the reductions committed to by all developed nations in the Kyoto Protocol during the same span.
   Climate change is not simply an American problem, it is a global problem. While America can and should take steps to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions, without international cooperation, any progress made within our borders will have little to no positive impact on the environment and quite negative effects on our nation's economic strength.
   It is for this reason that the cap and trade proposal introduced by Senators Joe Lieberman and John Warner is so troubling to me. While cap and trade has not been implemented in the U.S, we now have empirical evidence from abroad that demonstrates its ineffectiveness. In 2006, carbon dioxide emissions in the U.S. declined by 1.5 percent, while the European Union, under a cap and trade system, saw increases of up to 1.5 percent. The Wall Street Journal reports a similar increase in 2007.
   It would be bad enough to implement a proposal which will not address the problem it aims to solve, but the reality is much worse than that. A new report by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency found that the economic impact of the Lieberman-Warner bill, as passed by the Environment and Public Works Committee, would be staggering. In 2030, it could decrease domestic GDP by up to $983 billion per year and raise the price of electricity by 44 percent.
   The authors of another study done by SAIC Corporation noted that "Higher energy prices would have ripple impacts on prices throughout the economy and would impose a financial cost on households." They state that people "on fixed incomes, such as the elderly will also suffer disproportionately" as a result of Lieberman-Warner.
   I believe it would be foolish for our nation to pursue a policy that takes a domestic regulatory approach to a global problem. If the U.S. were to undertake such strict carbon caps, we would be placing American companies-and jobs-at risk. I'm not opposed to America taking a position of leadership in the fight against carbon emissions. I am opposed to doing it in a way that will benefit our foreign competitors at a time when there is widespread agreement that America's competitiveness is being challenged.
   In this era of multi-national corporations, we should not create regulatory burdens in this nation that will drive companies to other parts of the world where they face less stringent laws. It is hard enough to keep American jobs from going overseas without creating another massive incentive.
   It is also clear to me that high energy prices are one major reason for our current economic slowdown. We are in the unenviable position of attempting to increase energy capacity while reducing emissions. Also, while we may wish that it was not the case, America will be reliant on oil for the foreseeable future. We would be much better off if more of it came from domestic sources than from unstable regions.
   Throughout my 36 year career, I have witnessed America's ingenuity rise to the challenge time and time again. I believe this time, with these energy challenges, will be no different. In fact, it has already started. America is currently undergoing a nuclear renaissance, which has led to unprecedented interest in building new nuclear power plants which will produce large amounts of emissions free energy.
   Patrick Moore, a cofounder of Greenpeace who stridently opposed nuclear power in the 1970s, now states that "...the clear fact is that clean, reliable nuclear power will be crucial to meeting...future energy demands." Already, the volume of greenhouse gas emissions prevented at the nation's 104 nuclear power plants is equivalent to taking 96 percent of all passenger cars off America's roadways. Congress has also challenged our automakers by setting new CAFE standards that will reduce consumption and pollution.
   We have also invested large amounts in research and development of clean technologies, but even more is needed. Last month, I introduced legislation that would create a Clean Energy Investment Bank to provide the infusion of necessary capital for clean energy technologies in the domestic marketplace. By helping to get these industries off the ground, we will be creating jobs and investing in a more secure energy future.
   As a nation, we must reduce our dependence on foreign oil. As a world leader, we must foster consensus and implement strategies that will reduce carbon dioxide emissions. But as we debate these issues, we should not propose to overhaul traditional energy industries without a serious debate about the likely impacts that such actions will have. We must ensure that any solution to the global climate problem will truly reduce global emissions and not place America's economy at a disadvantage. I hope that my fellow Senators and Americans will carefully consider these issues as we embark on this debate.
 
 