SEN. DOMENICI CRITICAL OF NEW MEXICO LAWSUIT ON OTERO MESA
  Sen. Pete Domenici today criticized a new lawsuit filed by the state of New Mexico to stop the federal government from allowing oil and gas exploration on federal property at Otero Mesa in south-central New Mexico.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, was critical of this suit announced today by New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson, Attorney General Patricia Madrid and the Coalition for Otero Mesa. 
   "I think this lawsuit is uncalled for. It's hard not to see its rollout today as pure Earth Day posturing. The fact is that BLM has bent over backward to put in place a policy that protects federal land at Otero Mesa, allowing only certain areas to be open for possible energy exploration," Domenici said. 
   "BLM has followed the letter of the law in developing its Otero Mesa plan. After extensive interaction with the public and the state, the approved plan makes virtually unprecedented efforts to limit the impact of any exploration at Otero Mesa. It is one of the most restrictive plans ever offered," he said. 
   "I think it's good that our past governors haven't joined environmental groups to stop oil and gas leases, because then state and this governor would certainly have less royalty money to spend on schools and other things in New Mexico," he noted. 
   Related to federal lands at Otero Mesa, BLM has for years considered this decision pursuant to the procedure set forth in the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 and Title 43 of the Code of Federal Regulations. In 1998, BLM initiated the National Environmental Policy Act scoping process, which was followed by the 2000 release of a draft Resource Management Plan Amendment (RMPA) and an Environmental Impact Statement. The BLM then accepted public comments from the state and the public and modified the proposed RMPA released in 2003. 
   The RMPA implements suggestions made by Governor Richardson's 2004 Consistency Review of and Recommended Changes to the United States Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management's Proposed Resource Management Plan Amendment and Final Environmental Impact Statement for Federal Fluid Minerals Leasing and Development in Sierra and Otero Counties. 
   Additionally, the plan provides 14 Areas of Critical Environmental Concern and four Wilderness Study Areas totaling more than 88,000 acres that are closed to leasing. 
   In the remainder of the grassland areas, leasing will be allowed, but will be required to operate as one unit with shared roads and pipelines, as well as fewer well sites. Greater planning and coordination of development activities on the part of the oil and gas industry will be required.
 
 