SEN. DOMENICI TOURS KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE FACILITY BUILT TO ADHERE TO NEW EPA ARSENIC STANDARD
  Sen. Pete Domenici today toured a water treatment facility designed to allow Kirtland Air Force Base meet the EPA's strict new arsenic water standard.  
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici obtained $6.96 million to help build the facility through the FY2004 Military Construction Appropriations Bill. Construction of the treatment system was managed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 
   Domenici has repeatedly expressed his concern regarding the inability of New Mexico's communities to meet the new 10 parts per billion standard. The Senator has called on Governor Richardson and the New Mexico Environment Department to grant extensions to communities that are struggling to comply with the standard. 
   "The new arsenic treatment facility at Kirtland is an excellent demonstration of how technology can help solve our water problems in the future. Unfortunately, however, we cannot provide millions of dollars in federal funds to every community that doesn't meet the standard like we did for Kirtland. The New Mexico Environment Department must be as flexible as possible to ensure that communities receive the assistance they need to meet the new standard," Domenici said. 
   Domenici, along with officials from Kirtland Air Force Base and the Army Corps of Engineers, reviewed the Kirtland facility, which includes a two million gallon blending tank, a refurbished control room and pump station, and more than 22,000 linear feet of new pipeline. 
   The facility supplies 1.2 billion gallons of groundwater annually to KAFB. The arsenic levels in Kirtland's five wells vary from 12 ppb to 2 ppb, but by blending the water the entire supply meets the 10 ppb standard. 
   Domenici has sent letters to Richardson and NMED urging extensions for communities that cannot meet the standard. The Senator also recently met with the EPA Administrator to discuss his concerns. Recent reports are that the agency is considering relaxing the arsenic standard.
 
 