DRUG CZAR ACTS TO IMPLEMENT SEN. DOMENICI ANTI-DRUG BILL FOR ENTIRE ALBUQUERQUE METRO AREA
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he expects stronger and better coordinated attacks on illegal drug production and trafficking throughout the Albuquerque metropolitan area as a result of the Bush administration acting to expand a federal anti-drug program to three jurisdictions surrounding Bernalillo County. 
   White House Office of National Control Policy Director John Walters announced in Albuquerque today that Sandoval, Valencia and Torrance counties will now be covered under the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). This federal program, already applied in 13 New Mexico counties, fosters coordination on drug trafficking investigations among federal, state and local law enforcement agencies. Walters announced an additional $300,000 to support the expanded program.  
   This administrative action follows the intent of legislation Domenici introduced this year to include the trio of counties in HIDTA, primarily because of the proliferation of methamphetamine and other illegal drug activities in counties surrounding Albuquerque. U.S. Marshal Gorden Eden joined Domenici and Walters in making the announcement at the federal courthouse in Albuquerque. 
   "I am very happy that the White House and Director Walters have agreed not to wait for Congress to act, and instead administratively bring added law enforcement authority into Sandoval, Valencia and Torrance counties. This action will ensure that the entire Albuquerque metro area--including Rio Rancho and the growing East Mountain region--is eligible for the intense anti-drug efforts that are part of HIDTA," Domenici said. 
   "Over the years, we've made progress in the war on drugs, but we must continue to rise up and fight new challenges. Lately, meth use has been on the rise all over our state, and crack cocaine and heroin are still prevalent. In addition, our status as a border state puts us at risk for heroin and marijuana. HIDTA helps cities and towns by coordinating federal and local efforts to disrupt the flow of drugs before they hit the streets," he continued. 
   New Mexico HIDTA's mission is to reduce drug availability by creating intelligence-driven drug task forces aimed at disrupting or dismantling international and domestic drug trafficking organizations. The focus is on eliminating the harmful consequences of drugs through enhancing and helping to coordinate drug trafficking investigative efforts among federal, state and local law enforcement agencies. 
   In 1999, Domenici successfully passed legislation to have Rio Arriba, Santa Fe and San Juan counties added to the Southwest Border HIDTA. Besides Bernalillo, other HIDTA counties in New Mexico include: Chaves, Do?a Ana, Eddy, Grant, Hidalgo, Lea, Lincoln, Luna, and Otero. 
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici has been a strong advocate for anti-drug programs. This year, he supported $227 million for HIDTA activities nationwide, as well as $40 million for weed and seed programs that weeds out violent crime and seeds areas through revitalization. He also supported $85 million to fight meth hot spots, $20 million for removal of materials at meth labs, with an additional $15 million for drug courts. 
   Domenici cosponsored the Combat Meth Act (S.103), a new law that gives law enforcement tools to apprehend meth producers and places federal limits on access to ingredients that can be used to create methamphetamine. 
   New Mexico Drug-related crime: http://www.whitehousedrugpolicy.gov/statelocal/nm/nm.pdf 
   Southwest Border HIDTA: 
   http://www.whitehousedrugpolicy.gov/hidta/southwest.html
 
 