SEN. DOMENICI FORMALLY ASKS BUSH TO OKAY N.M. DISASTER DECLARATION, HIGHLIGHTS NEW BELEN EROSION-FLOOD CONTROL PACT WITH ARMY CORPS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today formally asked President Bush to approve a major federal disaster declaration for New Mexico and allow federal agencies to aid in flood recovery efforts in Do?a Ana County and around the state.  
   The Domenici letter endorsed the disaster request sought by Governor Bill Richardson, and builds on other work by Domenici and his office to ensure suitable federal assistance is available to communities that have been damaged by heavy summer rains since late June. 
   "Given the extent of damage suffered in these areas, I am hopeful that you will support the Governor's request for a declaration of disaster," Domenici wrote Bush. "While the State has mustered resources to manage the floods, the federal government can provide considerable assistance towards these challenges." 
   "New Mexicans are very concerned about the recovery efforts underway in Do?a Ana County and elsewhere. I believe that we as federal officials have an obligation to ensure that these Americans are given the necessary resources to recover from these floods," he said. 
   As part of his request letter, Domenici reiterated his request that the Federal Emergency Management Agency make mobile housing units now in Arkansas available to flood victims in Do?a Ana County. He also said Bush should approve a similar request for Otero County. 
   Domenici has prompted the Army Corps on Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation to work with flood-prone communities to shore up or repair flood damaged water infrastructure. As such, Domenici today commended the Army Corps for signing an agreement with the city of Belen to implement an erosion and flood control project. 
   The $1.65 million Camino del Llano Storm Water Project will address erosion and storm runoff in an area near the city airport that has previously flooded. The project will be funded through Section 595 of the Water Resources Development Act for nonfederal projects in New Mexico and other Western states. The Corps will dedicate $1.23 million toward the Belen project, which will be match with $412,500 in nonfederal funds. 
   "This work will help protect the Belen area from future flooding and is necessary to protect the community and allow it to grow safely and economically," Domenici said. "I am pleased with the Corps' agreement with the city, and again commend it and the Bureau for working around the state to help in flood recovery efforts." 
   The Corps has provided emergency response to seven communities in Bernalillo, Sandoval, Valencia, Do?a Ana, and Socorro counties, as well as at the Laguna Pueblo. As chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Bureau and the Corps, Domenici has provided $19 million in FY2006 for flood control projects throughout the state.
 
 