SEN. DOMENICI APPLAUDS NEW FOREST SERVICE RULE
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, issued the following statement expressing his strong support for the final Forest Planning Rule issued by the U.S. Forest Service.  
   The 2004 rule builds on the work of the 2000 rule to incorporate strong public input and reliance on the best available science while allowing for timely and economic completion of forest plans. 
   "This is a great Christmas present for our national forests and the people who depend on them. This new rule involves the public from start to finish but reduces the potential for long delays. In too many western states, forest planning became so convoluted under the old rules that the process was taking 10 and 15 years to complete. 
   "This new rule makes planning more efficient, allows the agencies to respond to change more quickly and doesn't bust forest supervisors' budgets. Last year alone, we spent $200 million on just nine new forest plans and standard amendments to the others. I'd rather spend that money on our land and our wildlife. We need more money spent to maintain water quality, wildlife habitat and clean air. 
   "In my State of New Mexico, our forest plans were completed in 1986 and 1987 and were due to be revised every 10 to 15 years. However, the planning process became so convoluted and broken that the Forest Service has reported that our plans could not be revised until 2011, fully 25 years after they were first conceived. 
   "This new rule will allow the agency to protect the environment, respond to new conditions, us sound science, and to complete plan revisions in a cost efficient manner. Most importantly, we will now be able to revise our forest plans in New Mexico much more quickly than under the old, inoperable rule. 
   "While some may believe the planning rule released in the 11th hour and 59th minute of the Clinton Administration would have sufficed, analysis of that rule by the Forest Service field personnel showed those planning regulations to be unworkable and overly expensive to implement." 
   "This new rule combines the best of the Clinton Rule, the 1982 Rule and new thinking on forest sustainability to craft a final rule that allows our forest land managers to respond swiftly to the changing needs of the forests they manage."
 
 