SEN. DOMENICI: $4.0 MILLION DOE ENDOWMENT FOR WERC IS AN INVESTMENT IN YOUTHFUL INNOVATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said a $4.0 million federal endowment granted to a science education program based at New Mexico State University should help ensure that new generations of young Americans will be trained to meet environmental? human health, and energy challenges.  
   Domenici visited NMSU today to announce a Department of Energy endowment to support WERC: A Consortium for Environmental Education and Technology Development. Domenici founded WERC in 1990 and has continually supported the DOE cooperative agreement through which WERC receives annual federal funding. 
   The large endowment will be made available to establish a WERC foundation for long-term support of the program, including operations and personnel. The funds will be invested by the NMSU Foundation and income generated from it will be used by WERC. 
   "Seventeen years ago, I had an idea that tapping into the brightest young minds could give us fresh, new ideas on how to solve some of the most pressing environmental problems facing the country. The result was WERC, which as been a tremendous success," Domenici said. "Through WERC, we have made great strides in our quest to develop the next generation of minds so that they will be equipped to deal with environmental, waste, energy, human health and other problems." 
   "Major challenges like global climate change and energy supplies still loom, but armed with this endowment WERC will be able to inspire and coax solutions from smart young people in New Mexico and around the nation. WERC is an important tool we have to keep America competitive. I applaud the Energy Department for investing in WERC and its mission." 
   Domenici noted that the goals of WERC mesh well with the American Competitiveness Initiative outlined by President Bush and a corresponding bipartisan congressional effort he is promoting in the Senate. That broad national initiative is intent on recruiting new generations of American youth for careers in math, science, engineering and technology. 
   WERC, partnered with NMSU, UNM, New Mexico Tech, Diné College, and Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, involves educational outreach to thousands of middle and high school students, as well as students in dozens of colleges around the country. 
   More than 40,000 students have participated in WERC-sponsored programs providing environmental education throughout New Mexico, Texas and Ju?rez, Mexico. In New Mexico, the program has been able to take advantage of talent available at Sandia and Los Alamos Laboratories to provide students and teachers with top-notch training 
   Domenici, as a senior leader on the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, has consistently directed DOE funding to support WERC. The consortium is currently operating through 2009 under at cooperative agreement with DOE for $2.5 million annually. The program is also supported through state and industrial partners. 
   Visit this site for more WERC details: http://www.werc.net/
 
 