SEN. DOMENICI LAUDS GRAND OPENING OF NEW INTERNATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY-ROSWELL FACILITY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today helped dedicate a new building to house the International Law Enforcement Academy (ILEA) in Roswell, which will be the home to global training designed to make the world safer.  
   ILEA is a State Department sponsored program designed to train international law enforcement officers in criminal justice matters. The academy is operated by a group included New Mexico Tech and Eastern New Mexico University-Roswell. 
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici secured $2.1 million toward the overall $5.4 million needed to build the center. The remaining amount was paid for by the U.S. Department of State. 
   "My friend Joe Skeen and I began our efforts to bring ILEA to Roswell in 1999. I know Joe would be very proud to see this project come to fruition. ILEA helps bring strong international partnerships and sound law enforcement strategies to combat crime across the globe. By training foreign law enforcement officials in criminal justice matters, we are benefiting both our partner nations and our own country through future alliances and opportunities to work together," Domenici said. 
   The new state of the art facility features wireless internet service, six translation booths, and enough classroom space for up to 100 students at a time. To date, nearly 1,900 law enforcement officials from 68 countries have benefited from training. 
   On Tuesday, Domenici and Representative Steve Pearce applauded a decision by the State Department to extend the New Mexico Tech team's contract to operate ILEA another five years. The pair wrote to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in May of last year advocating the extension. ENMU-Roswell, Sam Houston State University and SAIC partner with New Mexico Tech to operate ILEA. 
   "It is fitting that with a new building comes a new operating agreement. This extension means that the same great team headed by New Mexico Tech will continue to provide their expertise to law enforcement around the world. Not only is it good for our efforts to fight crime and terrorism, but its also good for the local economy and diversity of Roswell," Domenici said. 
   ILEA-Roswell training was launched in 2001 using $10 million secured in 1999 and 2000 by Domenici and the late Congressman Joe Skeen. The facility operates on about $5.0 million annually and has trained students from 68 countries. 
   ILEA is an outgrowth of a 1995 United Nations meeting at which former President Clinton announced a United States commitment to international law enforcement in order to tackle transnational criminal issues, such as counter-narcotics and money laundering. Training in Roswell includes extensive language education, as well as instruction in global criminal justice and modern policing strategies. 
   The State Department now has four ILEAs located in Budapest, Bangkok, Botswana and Roswell. Roswell is the only program that is university-based and offers a degree program. The curriculum at every ILEA has extensive course-work regarding attention to human and civil rights in the practice of law enforcement.
 
 