SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES WEED, SEED GRANT TO CREATE ALTERNATIVES TO DRUGS IN LAS CRUCES NEIGHBORHOOD
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the Department of Justice (DOJ) for issuing a $73,484 grant to the Las Cruces Weed and Seed program to reduce substance abuse and strengthen community anti-drug coalitions.  
   The funds, awarded by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, a division of the DOJ, are authorized by the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997. The funds will support the Weed and Seed project that serves Las Cruces. 
   "The fight against drugs and violence is an on-going effort that I continue to support. Weed and Seed has been successful in many parts of the state and I am pleased this is the fourth award for Las Cruces," Domenici said. "I look forward to seeing the residents of Las Cruces join together and work with law enforcement and city officials to improve their neighborhood's safety and productivity." 
   The designated area includes the boundaries of Main Street to the east, Madrid to the north, Solano to the west, and Lohman to the south of the Mesquite Street Neighborhood. 
   Weed and Seed is a multi-agency strategy that "weeds" out violent crime, gang activity, drug use, and drug trafficking in high-crime neighborhoods and then "seeds" the target area by restoring these neighborhoods through social and economic revitalization. 
   This project emphasizes agency cooperation and community involvement, and has fostered many successful programs over the years. The combination of mentorship, education, and participation in after-school activities has helped deter youth from exposure and drug use since this site received official recognition in February 2000. 
   Residents can combine resources to establish drug prevention with the help of federal funds, law enforcement officers, educational institutions, and social agencies. The local Weed and Seed project, while encouraging anti-drug lifestyles by promoting block parties and after-school programs, solidifies the commitment between these groups to create a stronger anti-drug coalition. 
   The Drug Free Communities Act of 1997 was created through a bipartisan act of Congress and authorizes the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy to carry out a national initiative that awards federal grants directly to community anti-drug coalitions in the United States. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that sets funding levels for DOJ programs, attended a block party of local students and group members in June 2001 to celebrate the end of the school year. The lawmaker also toured the Fielder Memorial Safe Haven on Tornillo Street, the program's headquarters, and was briefed on the group's latest anti-drug efforts.
 
 