SEN. DOMENICI SAYS ARMY DECISION TO EXPAND FT. BLISS IS GOOD FOR NEW MEXICO, MCGREGOR RANGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said that New Mexico will benefit from a U.S. Army proposal to expand its mission at Fort Bliss by adding an infantry brigade to the base.  
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, said the Army decision to put a Brigade Combat Team Units of Action (BCT(UA)) at Fort Bliss will increase the training activities carried out at the McGregor Range. An infantry brigade is comprised of 3,800 soldiers. Fort Bliss' primary mission has been air defense related. 
   "This will be a major expansion to the mission of Fort Bliss and a new role for the McGregor training range. In terms of pre-BRAC announcements, I believe this is a good omen for our military installations in southern New Mexico," Domenici said. "Because the McGregor Range in New Mexico will be used for training the thousands of new military personnel that would be stationed at Fort Bliss, it is even more important that we move forward with the road improvements I have requested on Highway 54." 
   The Fort Bliss plan was disclosed to members of Congress today as part of the FY2005 and FY2006 force structure changes notice affecting various installations. In FY2006 pending permanent stationing consistent with BRAC analysis, the Army will form and temporarily station BCT(UA)s at Fort Bliss, as well as Fort Benning, Ga., Fort Bragg, N.C., and Fort Riley, Kansas. The Army will address permanent stationing through the BRAC 2005 analysis. 
   Within the Senate's FY2005 Military Construction Appropriations bill, Domenici has secured $1.6 million to complete the detailed design and costing to create vehicle underpasses or overpasses on Highway 54 between Fort Bliss and Holloman Air Force Base. The bill awaits consideration by the full Senate. 
   McGregor Range, while entirely in New Mexico, comprises nearly 700,000 of 1.12 million acres that make up Fort Bliss's 1.12 million acres. McGregor Range is the nation's principal training facility for air defense systems. Fort Bliss, Holloman AFB, White Sands Missile Range and McGregor Range make up the largest military training area in country. 
   In 1999, Domenici and the late Congressman Joe Skeen shepherded language through Congress renewing the U.S. Army's lease on public lands that comprise the McGregor Range.
 
 