SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL TO EXEMPT SMALL WATER SYSTEMS FROM IMPENDING ARSENIC REGULATIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today became an original cosponsor to legislation that would open the door to exempting small communities and rural water systems from stricter arsenic drinking water standards that go into effect in 2006.  
   Domenici today joined Senator Ben Nelson (D-Neb.) to introduce the Rural Community Arsenic Relief Act (RCARA) which would exempt nonprofit small public water systems from certain drinking water standards related to naturally occurring contaminants like arsenic, radon or radium. Senator Larry Craig (R-Idaho) is also an original cosponsor of the Nelson bill. 
   "With each passing day it is increasingly evident that small communities will not be able to count on any immediate federal assistance in converting their water systems to meet the new arsenic standards. This bipartisan bill represents one means of giving more time to these communities, most of which have lived with naturally-occurring arsenic and the like for ages," Domenici said. 
   Eligible systems would be those who serve 10,000 or fewer individuals and petition for the exemption based on economic infeasibility, adverse impact on low-income families, diminished access to affordable technologies, and lack of unreasonable health risks. 
   Starting Jan.1, 2006, the EPA will impose its new 10 parts per billion (ppb) arsenic water standards, a level sharply lower than the current 50 ppb standard. Communities granted an exemption would be required, on a graduated scale, to meet the new arsenic standard by 2015. 
   In New Mexico, implementing the new standards will cost between $370 and $440 million in capital outlays plus $18 million per year in operating costs. Albuquerque and an estimated 100 smaller communities and water systems in New Mexico have arsenic levels that would be required to be lowered to meet the new EPA standard. 
   "The plain fact is that virtually all these systems in New Mexico do not have the wherewithal or the resources to meet the EPA standard by 2006. I believe most will be able to make the case that doing so would mean financial hardships on their operations, and more importantly, on the families hooked up to these water systems," Domenici said. 
   The New Mexico Bureau of Geology and Mineral Resources estimates that meeting the 10 ppb arsenic level could increase the cost of water for the average New Mexican by $50 to $90 a month. 
   Within the Nelson bill, the University of New Mexico is listed as one of six schools that would comprise a university-based arsenic research consortium. The Environmental Protection Agency is directed to establish the consortium to conduct reviews, analyses, and health effects studies related to the low levels of arsenic commonly found in the United States. The consortium would be required to make recommendations on which levels of arsenic in drinking water constitute unreasonable risks to public health. 
   Domenici continues to press for action on his Community Drinking Water Assistance Act (S.1432), which would create a six-year, $1.9 billion grant program to assist disadvantaged communities, tribes and water associations in meeting the new arsenic drinking water standards set by the EPA.
 
 