SEN. DOMENICI: NUMEROUS ENERGY BILL PROVISIONS ADDRESS GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has issued an extensive summary of provisions in the Senate's National Energy Policy Act that would improve American response to global warming. 
   The Senate is in the second week of debate on the bipartisan comprehensive energy policy legislation, including extensive consideration of several amendments dealing with climate change.  
   Domenici on Tuesday delivered remarks to the Senate on the climate change issue and delivered a wide-ranging summary of provisions in the bill that would help the United States begin to curtail ozone-damaging emissions. 
   "The Energy and Natural Resources Committee, from the inception of this bill, has been worried about climate change and the gases that have an impact on climate change, according to scientists in the United States," Domenici said. 
   "The bill before us might even have been called the Clean Energy Act because so much of it is directed at producing for the United States energy that will have little or no effect in terms of emitting carbon that is the principal problem with global warming," he said. 
   Among the highlights in the bill, Domenici said, is an entire section dedicated to the development of clean energy technologies: Title XIV - Incentives for Innovative Technology. 
   "This is a very different section than you find in most technology-promoting or science-producing bills because it says this entire provision is aimed at new technologies that will produce energy sources that have no global warming emissions," Domenici said. 
   The following is Domenici's summary of how the Senate energy bill addresses climate change concerns: Summary of Support for the provisions in the energy bill passed by the Senate Energy Committee would promote responsible progress on climate change. 
   HIGHLIGHTS 
   The Bingaman RPS floor amendment that requires at least 10% of electricity in 2020 to be generated from low-emission renewable sources, such as solar, wind, geothermal and biomass. EIA estimates that such an RPS would result in a reduction of greenhouse gases of nearly 3 percent by 2025. 
   In addition, the energy efficiency improvements embodied in Title I is estimated by ACEEE to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 433 million metric tons by 2020 and reduce electricity demand by 23 quadrillion Btus. 
   The incentive provisions contained in Titles IV (Coal), IX (R&D), and XIV (Incentives) are designed to improve efficiency performance and reduce carbon emissions from electric generating stations, industrial power and gasification applications and to encourage the development of new clean energy sources such as advanced nuclear power and renewable energy. 
   LONG-TERM TECHNOLOGIES 
   Research in the energy bill could lead to fundamental reductions in GHG emission trends even with a healthy growing economy. The new technologies could be used in developing countries where greenhouse gas emissions are growing most rapidly. R&D on Long-term zero-greenhouse gas (GHG) and low-GHG technologies include: Hydrogen Fuels-funding enhances the potential for practical use of hydrogen fuels by addressing everything from safe delivery to the codes and standards for hydrogen use. 
   Coal Gasification, Carbon Sequestration and Efficiency Improvements-could allow coal to be used to generate carbon-free or low-carbon electricity. 
   Fuel Cell Research-will address technical and cost issues and potentially speed fuel cell use in residential, commercial and transportation applications. 
   Energy Conservation and Efficiency-the Next Generation Lighting Initiative and initiatives like advanced electric motor control device research could significantly reduce overall energy use, further reducing GHG emissions. 
   NEAR-TERM TECHNOLOGIES 
   The energy bill promotes or requires actions to improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout the economy. Research and incentives for near- and medium-term zero and low-GHG intensive technologies include: 
   National Requirements for increased ethanol use and decreased petroleum use; 
   Federal Agency Requirements covering metering, percentage reduction schedules and new options for contracting to reduce energy use and GHG emissions; 
   Communities and States have new funding for energy efficient appliance programs, weatherization assistance and state energy conservations plans; 
   Efficiency Standards and Incentives for Public Housing will improve energy efficiency; 
   Efficiency Standards and Incentives for Individuals and Businesses adds energy conservation standards for a wide range of commercial appliances and other products. 
   NEAR-TERM ENERGY SOURCES 
   Incentives and improved flexibility for near- and medium-term expansion of zero and low-GHG energy sources include: Renewable Energy options for increased production of renewable energy on federal lands; 
   Natural Gas incentives and reduction of barriers to marginal or unconventional natural gas and installation of LNG terminals will increase supplies of this lowest-carbon fossil fuel; 
   Nuclear Power options improve, promoting continued use of carbon-free nuclear power, development of new modular nuclear reactors. 
   Details on the Energy Bill's Contribution to Energy Efficiency and Responsible Climate Policy. 
   The energy bill advances the following significant actions on potential climate change. 
   Critical Research, Development and Demonstration of Zero or Low-GHG Technology Options 
   HYDROGEN 
   Authorizes $12.5 billion over 10 years for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant Project for research, development, design, construction and operation of an advanced, next-generation, nuclear energy system leading to alternative approaches to reactor-based generation of hydrogen. (Title VI-Nuclear Matters, Sec. 631-635-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $3.2 billion over five years for programs enhancing the potential for using as an energy source in the U.S. economy. Program elements address: 
   Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Technology Research and Development ($1.9 billion); 
   Hydrogen Supply and Fuel Cell Demonstration Program ($1.3 billion); 
   Development of Safety Codes and Standards ($38 million); 
   Reports ($7.5 million); (Title VIII-Hydrogen-6/8/05) 
   ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
   Authorizes $1.8 billion over nine years for the Clean Coal Power Initiative for projects that advance efficiency, environmental performance or cost competitiveness of coal gasification and related projects. Establishes a 60% thermal efficiency target for coal gasification technologies and 7% improvements in thermal efficiencies of existing units. (Title IV-Coal, Sec. 401, 402, 405, 406, 407-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $2.8 billion over eight years for energy efficiency and conservation research, development, demonstration and commercial applications including: 
   Minimum $400 million over eight years for the Next Generation Lighting Initiative for energy efficient advanced solid-state lighting technologies. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 911, 912-6/8/05) 
   Creates National Building Performance Initiative to, in part, energy conservation. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 913-6/8/05) 
   Minimum $21 million over three years for research, development and demonstration for improving performance, service life and cost of used vehicle batteries in secondary applications. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 911, 914-6/8/05) 
   Minimum $105 million over three years for Energy Efficiency Science Initiative. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 915-6/8/05) $825 million over three years to promote distributed energy and electric energy systems including: 
   High Power Density Industry Program to improve the energy efficiency of data centers, server farms and telecommunications facilities; (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 921-6/8/05) 
   Micro-Cogeneration Energy Technology for increased efficiency in small-scale combined heat and power for residential applications; (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 923-6/8/05) 
   Distributed Energy Technology Demonstration Program to accelerate utilization of efficient and low-emitting technologies such as fuel cells, micro-turbines and combined heat and power systems. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 924-6/8/05) 
   Electric Transmission and Distribution Programs to ensure in part, energy efficiency of electrical transmission and distribution systems. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 925-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $140 million over five years for fuel cell research on proton exchange membrane technology for commercial, residential and transportation applications. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 951, 952-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $891 million over three years for R&D and commercial application programs to facilitate systems including integrated gasification combined cycle, advanced combustion systems, turbines for synthesis gas derived from coal, carbon capture and sequestration research and development. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 951, 955-6/8/05) 
   Establishes a Federal/State cooperative program for research, development, and deployment of energy efficiency technologies. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 126-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $110 million over three years to establish a research partnership to develop and demonstrate railroad locomotive technologies that, in part, increase fuel economy. (Title VII-Vehicles and Fuels, Sec. 721-6/8/05) 
   Mandates a study of feasibility and effects of reducing the use of fuel for automobiles. (Title XIII-Studies, Sec. 1309-6/8/05) 
   Calls for a study of how to measure energy efficiency. (Title XIII-Studies, Sec. 1323-6/8/05) 
   RENEWABLE ENERGY 
   Authorizes $20 billion over three years for renewable energy research, development and demonstration including: 
   Biofuels research aimed at making fuels that are price-competitive with gasoline or diesel in internal combustion or fuel- cell-powered vehicles; (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 931, 932-6/8/05) 
   Concentrating Solar Power Research Program for the production of hydrogen including cogeneration of hydrogen and electricity. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 931, 933-6/8/05) 
   Hybrid Solar lighting R&D for novel lighting that combines sunlight and electrical lighting. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 934-6/8/05) 
   Evaluation of other technologies including ocean, wave, wind, and coal gasification technologies; (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 935-6/8/05) 
   Establishes a Federal/State cooperative program for research, development, and deployment of renewable energy technologies. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 126-6/8/05) 
   Establishes the Advanced Biofuel Technologies Program to demonstrate advanced technologies for the production of alternative transportation fuels. (Title II-Renewable Energy, Sec. 209-6/8/05) 
   Requires a study of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and its impact on alternative fueled vehicle technology, availability of technology and cost of alternative fueled vehicles. (Title XIII-Studies, Sec. 1305-6/8/05) 
   Requires a strategy for a research, development, demonstration, and commercial application program to develop hybrid distributed power systems that combine one or more renewable electric power generation technologies. (Title XIII-Studies, Sec. 1310-6/8/05) 
   NUCLEAR 
   Authorizes $1.6 billion over 3 years for Nuclear Energy research, development, demonstration and commercial application activities including: Research to examine reactor designs for large-scale production of hydrogen using thermochemical processes. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 942-6/8/05) 
   Nuclear Energy Plant Optimization Program to address productivity, reliability, and availability of nuclear plants. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 942-6/8/05) 
   Generation IV Nuclear Energy Systems initiative to advance understanding of efficiency and cost opportunities for next generation nuclear power plants. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 942-6/8/05) 
   SEQUESTRATION 
   Establishes grant program to encourage projects that sequester carbon dioxide as part of enhanced oil recovery. (Title III-Oil and Gas, Sec. 327-6/8/05) 
   Mandates research on technologies to capture carbon dioxide from pulverized coal combustion units. (Title IX-Research and Development, Sec. 956-6/8/05) 
   Institutes loan guarantees for projects that avoid, reduce, or sequester anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases and employ new or significantly improved technologies. (Title XIV-Incentives for Innovative Technologies, Sec. 1401-1404-6/8/05) 
   SCIENCE 
   Authorizes $13.7 billion over three years for basic science research that could have significant implications for long-term trends in the nation's greenhouse gas emissions. (Title IX: Research and Development, Sec. 961-6/8/05). 
   These programs include: 
   Fusion Energy Science Program (Sec. 962); Fusion and Fusion Energy Materials Research Program (Sec. 969); 
   Catalysis science research that may contribute to new fuels for energy production and more efficient material fabrication processes (Sec. 964); 
   Nanoscale science and engineering research (Sec. 971); 
   Advanced scientific computing for energy missions (Sec. 967); 
   Genomes to Life Program with a goal of developing technologies and methods that will facilitate production of fuels, including hydrogen, and convert carbon dioxide to organic carbon (Sec. 968). 
   Use of High-Efficiency Technologies and Zero or Low-GHG Energy Sources 
   NATIONAL 
   Mandates that motor vehicle fuel sold in U.S. contains 4 billion gallons of renewable fuel in 2006, rising to 8 billion gallons in 2012. (Title II-Renewable Energy, Sec. 204-6/8/05) 
   Establishes a self-sustaining national public energy education program which will cover, among other things, conservation and energy efficiency, and the impact of energy use on the environment. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 133-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $450 million over five years to create a comprehensive national public awareness program regarding the need to reduce energy consumption, the benefits of reducing energy consumption during peak use periods, and practical, cost-effective energy conservation measures. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 134-6/8/05) 
   Requires the President to implement measures to reduce U.S. petroleum consumption by one million barrels per day in 2015 as compared to 2005 EIA reference case. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 151-6/8/05) 
   FEDERAL AGENCIES 
   Directs Secretary of Energy to revise Federal building energy efficiency performance standards to require, if life-cycle cost-effective, that new Federal buildings achieve energy consumption levels at least 30 percent below the most recent version of ASHRAE or the International Energy Conservation Code. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 107-6/8/05) 
   Promotes plans for energy and water savings measures in Congressional buildings as well as reductions in energy consumption in federal buildings nationwide. Authorizes $10 million over five years for the Architect of the Capitol to carry out the Master Plan Study. (Title: I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 101-6/8/05) 
   Establishes percentage reduction schedule for fuel use per gross square foot of Federal buildings for 2006 through 2015. (Title: I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 102-6/8/05) 
   Calls for all Federal buildings to be metered or sub-metered to promote efficient energy use and reduce electricity costs. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 103-6/8/05) 
   Directs federal agencies to procure Energy Star or FEMP designated-energy efficient products. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 104-6/8/05) 
   Permanently extends and expands existing federal agency authority to contract with energy service companies to assume the capital costs of installing energy and water conservation equipment and renewable energy systems in federal facilities, and recover life-cycle energy cost savings over the term of the contract. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 105-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes the Secretary of Energy to enter into voluntary agreements with energy intensive industrial sector entities to significantly reduce the energy intensity of their production activities. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 106-6/8/05) 
   Promotes increased use of recovered mineral component in Federally funded projects involving procurement of cement or concrete. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 108-6/8/05) 
   Amends the Energy Policy Act of 1992 to require Federal agencies to purchase ethanol-blended gasoline and biodiesel. (Title II-Renewable Energy, Sec. 205-6/8/05) 
   Amends Energy Policy and Conservation Act to promote Federal agencies' use of alternative fuels in duel-fuel vehicles. (Title VII-Vehicles and Fuels, Sec. 701-6/8/05) 
   Requires energy savings goals for each Federal agency and requires the use of fuel cell vehicles, hydrogen energy systems, and stationary, portable, and micro fuel cells. Authorizes $450 million over five years to achieve these goals. (Title VII-Vehicles and Fuels, Sec. 732, 733-6/8/05) 
   Mandates a study on energy conservation implications of widespread adoption of telecommuting by Federal employees. (Title XIII-Studies, Sec. 1324-6/8/05) 
   Requires a study on the amount of oil demand that could be reduced by oil bypass filtration technology and total integrated thermal systems and feasibility of using the technologies in Federal motor vehicle fleets. (Title XIII-Studies, Sec. 1325, 1326-6/8/05) 
   COMMUNITIES AND STATES 
   Amends the Energy Conservation and Production Act and reauthorizes $1.2 billion over three years for weatherization assistance. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 121-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $325 million over three years and amends the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to promote State review their energy conservation plans, with a state energy efficiency goal of a 25 percent or more improvement by 2012 compared to 1992. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 122-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $250 million over five years for State energy efficient appliance rebate programs. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 123-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $150 million over five years for grants to State agencies to assist local governments in constructing new energy efficient public buildings that use at least 30 percent less energy than comparable public building meeting the International Energy Conservation codes. (Title: Energy Efficiency, Sec. 124-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $100 million over five years for grants to local government, private, and non-profit community development organizations, and Indian tribes to improve energy efficiency, develop alternative renewable energy supplies, and increase energy conservation in low income rural and urban communities. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 125-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $1.25 billion worth of grants over five years to States to develop and implement building codes that exceed the energy efficiency of the most recent building energy codes. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 127-6/8/05) 
   Calls for a study of State and regional policies that promote utilities to undertake cost-effective programs reducing energy consumption. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 139-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $25 million for States to carry out programs that encourage energy efficiency and conservation of electricity or natural gas. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 140-6/8/05) 
   EFFICIENCY STANDARDS AND INCENTIVES FOR PUBLIC HOUSING 
   Encourages increased energy efficiency and water conservation through amendments to the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 by promoting installation of equipment conforming to new standards. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 161-6/8/05) 
   Requires public housing agencies to purchase energy-efficient appliances that are Energy Star products or FEMP-designated products when purchasing appliances unless these products are not cost-effective. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 162-6/8/05) 
   Includes energy efficiency standards in amendments to the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 163-6/8/05) 
   Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to develop and implement an integrated strategy to reduce utility expenses at public and assisted housing through cost-effective energy conservation, efficiency measures, as well as energy efficient design and construction. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 164-6/8/05) 
   EFFICIENCY STANDARDS AND INCENTIVES FOR INDIVIDUALS AND BUSINESSES 
   Creates energy conservation standards for commercial clothes washers, ice makers, refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners, and heaters. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 136-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $6 million for pilot projects designed to conserve energy resource by encouraging use of bicycles in place of motor vehicles. (Title VII-Vehicles and Fuels, Sec. 722-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $95 million over three years to reduce energy use by reducing heavy-duty vehicle long-term idling. (Title VII-Vehicles and Fuels, Sec. 723-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $15 million over three years for a biodiesel testing partnership with engine, fuel injection, vehicle and biodiesel manufacturers to test and improve biodiesel technologies. (Title VII-Vehicles and Fuels, Sec. 724-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $10 million over five years for CAF? enforcement obligations. (Title VII-Vehicles and Fuels, Sec. 711-6/8/05) 
   Establishes a DOE/EPA voluntary Energy Star Program under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to identify and promotes energy-efficient products and buildings. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 131-6/8/05) 
   Directs the Secretary of Energy in cooperation with EPA to undertake an educational program for homeowners and small businesses on energy savings from properly maintained air conditioning, heating, and ventilating systems. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 132-6/8/05) 
   Adds energy conservation standards definitions for additional products (e.g. lamps, battery chargers, refrigerators, external power supply, illuminated exit sign, low-voltage, transformer, traffic signal module) to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 135-6/8/05) 
   Initiates a rulemaking under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of current energy efficiency labeling on consumer products. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 138-6/8/05) 
   Requires natural gas and electric utilities to evaluate energy efficiency or other demand reduction programs and, if beneficial and feasible, to adopt them. (Title I-Energy Efficiency, Sec. 141-6/8/05) 
   Supply of High-Efficiency Technologies and Zero or Low-GHG Energy Sources 
   RENEWABLE ENERGY AND INCREASED EFFICIENCY 
   Authorizes study of the potential for increasing hydroelectric power production capability at federally owned or operated water regulation, storage, and conveyance facilities. (Title XIII-Studies, Sec. 1302-9/29/03) 
   Prioritizes funds for renewable energy production incentives, placing emphasis on solar, wind, geothermal and closed-loop biomass technologies. (Title II-Renewable Energy, Sec. 202, 9/29/03) 
   Establishes goals for the share of federal government purchases of electricity from renewable sources to the extent economically feasible and technically practicable. (Title II-Renewable Energy, 203, 9/29/03) 
   Authorizes $36 million for the establishment of a Sugar Cane Ethanol Program to promote the production of ethanol from sugar cane. (Title II-Renewable Energy, Sec. 207-6/8/05) 
   Expands the scope of the Commodity Credit Corporation Bioenergy Program. (Title II-Renewable Energy, Sec. 208-6/8/05) 
   Authorizes $125 million over 5 years for grants to facilities that use biomass to produce electricity, sensible heat, transportation fuels or substitutes for petroleum-based products. (Title II-Renewable Energy, Sec. 232, 9/29/03) 
   Authorizes $125 million over 5 years for grants to persons researching ways to improve the use of biomass or add value to biomass utilization. (Title II-Renewable Energy, Sec. 233, 9/29/03) 
   Improves geothermal energy leasing procedures, terms and conditions to increase use of geothermal energy. (Title II-Renewable Energy, Subtitle D, 9/29/03) 
   Facilitates use of the OCS for alternative energy sources such as wind power and ocean thermal energy. (Title III-Oil and Gas, Sec. 321, 9/29/03) 
   Calls for a study of the potential for renewable energy on Federal land and make recommendations for statutory and regulatory mechanisms for developing these resources. (Title XIII-Studies, Sec. 1304-6/8/05) 
   NATURAL GAS SUPPLIES 
   Provides incentives to continue natural gas production on low-yield (marginal) properties by reducing the royalty rate when prices fall. (Title III-Oil and Gas, Sec. 313, 9/29/03) 
   Provides incentives for natural gas production from deep wells in the shallow water of the Gulf of Mexico. (Title III-Oil and Gas, Sec. 314, 9/29/03) 
   Extends royalty relief for natural gas production in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico. (Title III-Oil and Gas, Sec. 315, 9/29/03) 
   Authorizes $125 million over five years to reduce fugitive methane emissions by establishing a program to properly plug and abandon orphaned, abandoned, or idled wells on federal land. (Title III-Oil and Gas, Sec. 319, 9/29/03) 
   Authorizes $350 million over five years to facilitate timely action on natural gas leases and permits and creation of Best Management Practices for processing permits. (Title III-Oil and Gas, Sec. 342, 9/29/03) 
   Requires the creation of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Department of Interior and Department of Agriculture to facilitate natural gas development on National Forest lands. (Title III-Oil and Gas, Sec. 343, 9/29/03) 
   Establishes a Federal Permit Streamlining Pilot Project to expedite processing of natural gas permits. (Title III-Oil and Gas, Sec. 344-6/8/05) 
   Facilitates the building of LNG terminals thereby increasing the supply of natural gas. (Title III-Oil and Gas, Sec. 381, 9/29/03) 
   Authorizes $165 million over 5 years for research aimed at facilitating production of natural gas from Methane Hydrates. (Title IX-Research and Development, Sec. 953-6/8/05) 
   NUCLEAR ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES 
   Reauthorizes for 20 years the Price-Anderson Act, the long-standing liability insurance system for all nuclear operations in the country. This system has existed for more than 40 years and never required payment from the federal government. (Title VI-Nuclear Matters, Sec. 602-6/8/05) 
   Improves the regulatory treatment modular reactors, facilitating the installation of new, more cost effective nuclear power reactor designs. (Title VI-Nuclear Matters, Sec. 608-6/8/05)
 
 