SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO SEND FY 2005 DEFENSE SPENDING BILL TO BUSH
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted for final passage of a massive Defense Department funding bill that contains at least $80 million in additional funds he secured to support national security work carried out in New Mexico.  
   The Senate today gave final congressional approval to the FY2005 Defense Appropriations Bill, a massive $420 billion measure that now goes to President Bush for his consideration. Domenici, as a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee, served on the conference committee that wrote the final bill. Bush is expected to sign the bill into law. 
   "For the sake of our men and women in uniform, I am pleased that Congress has completed this bill to support them. It will be the only appropriations bill to move this swiftly," Domenici said. "The funding we provide will meet immediate national security needs and build on projects that will keep our military strong in the future. For New Mexico that means additional funding to support the contractor and research work on which the Pentagon relies." 
   This year, Domenici secured additional funding for national defense programs carried out at Kirtland Air Force Base, the Air Force Research Laboratory in Albuquerque, and the White Sands Missile Range (WSMR). The bill will support the New Mexico National Guard and research done by New Mexico universities and defense contractors in the state. 
   Overall for America's military, the bill provides an average 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for military personnel; $350 million for National Guard and Reserve equipment; and $25 billion sought by President Bush to support antiterrorism activities in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   In addition to the increased funding for defense work in New Mexico, the defense appropriators in the House and Senate also agreed to provide $500 million in firefighting funding in the defense bill. In addition, the final bill includes: $685.3 million for diplomatic requirements in Iraq; $95 million for refugee aid in Sudan and Chad; $50 million to assist state and local law enforcement agencies in Boston and New York City with additional security at the national political conventions; and $26 million for defender services within the federal judiciary. 
   The bill provides $66.2 million to support the High Energy Laser-Joint Technology Office (HEL-JTO) in Albuquerque, which oversees the allocation of defense funding for high energy laser research and development. The JTO was placed in New Mexico following the enactment of 2001 Domenici-authored legislation to force better coordination of the nation=s high energy R&D. 
   The bill also contains language requested by Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman that prevents the Air Force from retiring any of the F-117 Stealth Fighters at Holloman Air Force Base. In addition, $9.8 million for the Stealth Fighters at Hollman was added to the bill by Representatives Steve Pearce and Heather Wilson. Domenici protected the funds during the Senate-House conference committee. 
   "I commend Representatives Steve Pearce and Heather Wilson for securing additional funds for the F-117 Stealth Fighter program at Holloman," Domenici said. "These funds, combined with the language preventing the retirement of the aircraft also in the bill, emphatically shuts the door to this misguided attempt to save a few dollars." 
   At Domenici's request, the bill includes $11.5 million in third-year funding to support Navy participation in a major water desalination program in Otero County. He gained $5.6 million in FY2004 and $6 million in FY2003 for the Expeditionary Warfare Water Purification program. In addition, he secured $5.25 million to complete the Microelectronics Technology and Obsolescence Program at New Mexico Tech at Socorro. 
   Conferees agreed to Domenici's request and have provided $3.0 million to install the primary instrumentation grid to support a homeland security and emergency responder facility at Playas, N.M.
 
 