BUDGE PLAN EXTENDS MILK INCOME LOSS CONTRACT SUBSIDY DESPITE SEN. DOMENICI OPPOSITION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today vehemently opposed to an amendment to extend the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program as part of FY2007 Supplemental Appropriations Bill.  
   During the Senate Appropriations Committee markup today of the FY07 Supplemental Appropriations Bill, Domenici opposed an amendment to extend the MILC program for an additional 30 days. The amendment, offered by Senator Patrick Leahy, passed on a voice vote. 
   The Leahy amendment would act to exempt the MILC program from federal pay-go rules and lead to its reauthorization in the upcoming Farm Bill, as well as extend a funding formula that is unfair to New Mexico dairy producers. 
   Domenici opposed the amendment for budgetary reasons and on grounds that MILC is inefficient and discriminating, since only half of the country's milk qualifies for payments. 
   "The MILC program is bad for New Mexico and the overall dairy industry. While our state represents a sizable portion of dairy production that is constantly growing and highly efficient, we still receive very little in MILC subsidy funds," said Domenici. "In addition, this program artificially stimulates milk production by smaller less efficient dairies. In the best interest of New Mexico, and the overall dairy industry, I refuse to support this inefficient and inequitable program." 
   MILC is currently set to expire 30 days before the expiration of the 2002 Farm Bill. A report released by the U.S. Department of Agriculture shows that the MILC program has actually reduced the price paid to farmers for milk and is at odds with the Dairy Price Support Program. 
   "I represent the milk cows that will be slaughtered by this amendment. We have spent over $3 billion on this 'temporary' program. It's time for a new approach to bring these non-competitive dairies into the marketplace," Domenici continued. 
   New Mexico is the seventh largest dairy and the eighth largest cheese producing state in the nation. However, it receives the least in milk subsidies. The industry in New Mexico directly employs more than 8,000 workers, with the leading dairy producing counties being Chaves, Curry, Roosevelt, Do?a Ana, Lea and Eddy. There is also significant production in Bernalillo, Socorro and Valencia counties.
 
 