NASA GRANT TO SPUR INTEREST IN MATH, SCIENCE AMONG NEW MEXICO STUDENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the New Mexico Partnership for Mathematics and Science Education will receive a grant award from NASA to implement programs that foster greater interest in math and science education.  
   The National Aerospace and Science Administration (NASA) issued the $20,000 investment to inspire students to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). 
   "We need to get the word out to all our young people that science and engineering are exciting and diversified careers open to anyone of any background who's willing to work hard and think creatively. New Mexico State University, a federally designated minority institution, is already one of the nation's leading producers of American Indian and Hispanic engineers, and I believe the drive to excel in these areas will continue if we implement related programs at an early age," Domenici said. 
   The NASA grant will help fund a two-year program in cooperation with the National Alliance of State Science and Mathematics Coalitions (NASSMC) to help bring STEM education to low-income and minority neighborhoods. 
   The program provides assistance with planning, developing, administering, and implementing STEM activities, including public awareness, for state-based organizations that comprise a coalition of business, education and public policy leaders. 
   The New Mexico Partnership for Mathematics and Science Education is an organization of individuals and institutions committed to improving the quality and the quantity of education in science, mathematics, engineering, and other related fields in the state of New Mexico. 
   In his 2006 budget, the President included a total of $16.5 billion for NASA, an increase of $386 million (+2 percent) above 2005. Increases are proposed for space exploration and science and the space station with offsetting reductions in education and aeronautics programs.
 
 