SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO STOP MEDICAID CUTS AS APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE PASSES SUPPLEMENTAL BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today supported an amendment that would stop the implementation of new federal regulation that would reduce Medicaid payments made to public hospitals and healthcare providers in New Mexico.  
   Domenici has worked to stop the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) from implementing a rule to limit Medicaid payments to public hospitals. The CMS rule would hurt New Mexico's public hospitals, school health clinics and public nursing homes. It could mean reducing Medicaid payments by an estimated $30 million annually to the University of New Mexico Hospital. Without action, the rule could go into effect on Sept. 1. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee that today approved an amendment to the FY2007 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill that would impose a two-year moratorium on the imposition of the CMS rule. The amendment, offered by Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), was approved on an 18-11 vote. 
   "New Mexico needs this help. Simply put, our public hospitals can't take what will happen to them under this rule. It would have a devastating effect on public hospitals and those they care for," Domenici said. "I am not thoroughly satisfied with the funding offset for this amendment, but we can work that out. I think it is important we being to set the record straight that the Senate adamantly opposes this CMS rule." 
   Domenici was among the 60 Senators who last week signed a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt strongly urging him to withdraw the rule. 
   The Durbin amendment prohibits the HHS Secretary from implanting this proposed rule and a new proposal to restrict Medicaid payments for graduate medical education for two years. 
   The full Senate could take up the supplemental package next week. The $121.5 billion bill, however, faces a veto threat related to a March 2008 withdrawal mandate for U.S. military now serving in Iraq.
 
 