SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his 'ACCESS' radio news conference Monday, May 22, 2006.
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Larry Moehlenbrink, KKOB Albuquerque
   * Mike Jackson, KSVP Artesia
   * John McBreen, Millenium Media Gallup 
   * James Cullender, KINF Roswell
   REVIEW:
   01:20 - Domenici says he is appreciative of a recent study that ranks him as the sixth most powerful Senator in the Senate. He said that the study is subjective, but that he hopes it is a reflection of his effectiveness in passing legislation and serving New Mexicans well. He also says that as of now, he is planning on running for re-election in 2008 because he still has important jobs to undertake for New Mexico. He also says that he has no regrets about leaving the chairmanship of the Senate Budget Committee before his term was up and is looking forward to passing another big energy bill as chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   05:20 - Domenici says that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Artesia is training and deploying new border patrol agents as fast as possible. He noted new agents must be recruited and meet certain standards before they head out to the border. He says that after years of neglect, the appropriations process is supporting border patrol efforts by providing new air support and equipment.
   09:50 - Domenici also says that he is aware of an affordable housing crunch in the Artesia area, but that the government cannot force lower cost housing to be built. Domenici said that he met with local officials to discuss the problem.
   11:12 - Domenici says that it is unclear if he will be serving on the conference committee with the House on immigration reform legislation that is currently pending before the Senate. He says that the House must accept some of the Senate provisions. He also says that he will be serving on the conference committee to address the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill, which is likely to contain $1.9 billion for border security.
   15:05 - Domenici says that under the compromise agreement before the Senate, a portion, but not all, of the illegal immigrants currently in the U.S. will be sent back to Mexico. He says that of the 11-15 million Mexicans that are here, the portion that has spent under two years in the U.S. will likely have to return to Mexico in an orderly fashion. He says the others will be placed into different categories that will allow them to work and stay in the country.
   19:15 - Domenici says that he is not sure what the impact of immigration will have on consumer prices, but that the bill will likely contain provisions to allow for agricultural workers so prices should stay stable. He says that if employers have been underpaying, that will have to be fixed and businesses will need to comply with the law. He also says that if the law did not contain a guestworker provision, the economy could not grow and inflation would be a possibility.
   22:02 - Domenici says that he is still under the impression that General Hayden is likely to be confirmed as CIA director. He says there will have to be a vote one way or the other on his nomination. He also says that intelligence officials deserve credit for working to keep America safe.
   Audio Clip available at: Audio Clip
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309.)
 
 