SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN SEEK TO ENSURE F-22A CAPABILITY BEFORE F-117 PHASE-OUT AT HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced that they are pushing to ensure that F-22A Raptor aircraft are ready for deployment before the Air Force retires the entire fleet of F-117 stealth fighters at Holloman Air Force Base in Otero County. 
   With its FY2007 budget submission to Congress, the Air Force renewed its request to retire 10 F-117's in FY07 and the remaining 42 fighters in FY2008. It has subsequently indicated that the F-22A Raptor will eventually be assigned to Holloman.
   The New Mexico Senators have asked the Senate Armed Services Committee to ensure that the F-22A is fully deployed before the F-117s is completely withdrawn by including language in the FY2007 Defense Authorization Bill.
   "We fully intend to work with the Air Force and its plans to bring the F-22 to Holloman. However, I am concerned that retiring the nation's premier stealth capability for deep strike penetration over a two-year period may be imprudent, unless the new capabilities are fully online. I believe Congress should be on record expressing that concern," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
   "We are all very pleased that the Raptor will find a new home at Holloman. Our goal is simply to ensure that there won't be a gap between the time the F-117s are retired and the Raptors are delivered," Bingaman said.
   The language requested by Domenici and Bingaman reads:
   "While the Committee understands the Department of Defense's desire to modernize its fleet of aircraft and supports the request to retire 10 F-117's in FY2007, the Committee is concerned about the proposal to retire 42 F-117s in FY2008 without a fielded replacement capability in place and urges the Department of Defense to consider whether this is the most appropriate course of action for America's defense capabilities. The Committee believes new capabilities, including F-22s, should be ready for deployment before the entire fleet of F-117s is retired."
   The F-22A Raptor is a new aircraft that will form the backbone of military air operations for years to come. The aircraft has stealth and supersonic capabilities and is equipped with the latest avionics and weapons systems. It is suited for both air-to-air and air-to-ground combat missions.
   So far, at least 19 aircraft have been delivered, with production expected to average around 20 aircraft per year. Each squadron is likely to consist of 18 F-22s. Holloman is slated to be the third base to receive the aircraft, with F-22A squadrons first being sent to Langley and Elmendorf Air Force bases.
   Holloman Air Force Base has been lauded by DoD officials for its facilities, weather and proximity to Fort Bliss in El Paso. The base has previously transitioned from the F-4 and the F-15 before receiving the F-117 as its mission.
 
 