SEN. DOMENICI EXPECTS DOUBLE EAGLE II INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS TO LEAD TO GREATER JOB CREATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he fully expects the completion of a wave of major infrastructure improvements at the Double Eagle II airport to help draw thousands of new jobs to the Albuquerque region as the airport becomes a manufacturing hub.  
   Domenici participated in a ribbon-cutting ceremony with the city of Albuquerque and the Army Corps of Engineers to showcase results of the Double Eagle II Water and Wastewater Infrastructure Project, for which Domenici was integral in securing a majority of the $10 million needed for the project. The Senator is chairman of the appropriations subcommittee that funds the Army Corps. 
   The project includes construction of major improvements to water and wastewater systems, including construction of over 10 miles of water pipeline to support the airport's existing business and industrial development, while creating capacity for development-including the proposed Eclipse Aviation aircraft assembly facility that could ultimately employ 2,000 workers. 
   "Today we are celebrating improvements to Double Eagle II's water and wastewater infrastructure, but I believe that we are also celebrating an important event for Albuquerque's economic development," Domenici said. "Already we have the opportunity to bring 2,000 new jobs to the West Side. This project is a permanent investment in Double Eagle II so that it can attract similar businesses and become a hub in air travel and trade." 
   As chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici secured about $7.0 million of the total project cost through Section 593 of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The lawmaker is also seeking to increase the authorization level in Section 593 this year, which allows federal and state cost sharing on water and wastewater projects in Bernalillo, Sandoval and Valencia counties. 
   "This project alone paved the way for 2,000 new jobs in the area, and with continued federal and state cooperation, New Mexico will draw in more business ventures. This is an exciting prospect for my hometown, and I am pleased to have a part in that dream by helping address the infrastructure needs of Double Eagle II," he said. 
   The Corps participation in the Double Eagle project is possible using a 1999 WRDA legislative effort authored by Domenici that allows the Corps to assist in the design and construction for water-related environmental infrastructure and resource protection projects in Bernalillo, Valencia and Sandoval counties. 
   As part of WRDA in 1999, Domenici was instrumental in authorizing a $25 million program to support publicly-owned water-related infrastructure projects in the three central New Mexico counties. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici has worked to provide actual funding to meet this authorization, including more than $5 million in FY2005 for Section 593 funding through which the Double Eagle II project is financed.
 
 