BUSH SIGNS BILL FUNDING ADELANTE, MENTAL HEALTH COURT, LAW ENFORCEMENT PROGRAMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that President Bush has signed a spending measure into law that will bring millions of federal dollars to law enforcement initiatives and other critical projects in Albuquerque, including the Adelante Development Center. 
   The funding is included in the FY2006 Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations Bill which passed the House and Senate last week. Domenici, who also serves on the CJS Subcommittee, helped draft the legislation signed by Bush on Tuesday.  
   The bill includes funds for key initiatives in New Mexico, including $1 million obtained by Domenici for the Adelante Development Center, which helps disadvantaged citizens get jobs to benefit the local economy. Last month, Domenici attended the opening of a new headquarters building for the center, for which he has now secured $4.6 million in the past four years. 
   "I appreciate President Bush signing this bill into law. It means that the Adelante Development Center will receive $1 million to help continue its work to place individuals with disabilities into stable jobs. This law will also provide funds for the Albuquerque Police Department's Party Patrol program to be implemented in the rest of Bernalillo County, and for anti-gang initiatives," Domenici said. 
   Domenici secured $150,000 for the New Mexico Department of Public Safety to enforce laws against methamphetamine and help clean up meth labs after they have been discovered. The funds will be used to purchase the equipment needed to protect members of the state meth lab team during the dismantling of clandestine drug labs. 
   The bill also contains $500,000 Domenici secured for the Bernalillo County Mental Health Court. The Senator visited the Albuquerque court last month and saw first hand its positive impact. Overall funding for the program nationally has been increased by $4.6 million in the bill, for a total of $5 million. 
   Mental health courts operate with a separate docket and are specially geared toward the mentally disabled, with personnel trained in understanding mental illnesses. The court includes a training component so that law enforcement is better able to recognize signs of mental illness. 
   "This law also provides specific support for the Bernalillo County Mental Health Center. Having visited the court recently, I know firsthand how well it works. For the first time, it will not have to share funds with other similar facilities, but will receive its own," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also obtained $240,000 for communications equipment for the Sandoval County Sheriff's Department, $85,000 to expand the Albuquerque Police Department's Party Patrol teen anti-drinking initiative to Bernalillo County, and $750,000 for a national anti-gang initiative sponsored by the Police Athletic League that includes New Mexico. 
   Domenici noted that the bill also has $405 million for the Southwest Criminal Alien Assistance Program, which helps counties in Southwest border states defray costs associated with illegal immigration. On Tuesday, Domenici announced that 14 counties had been awarded $1.08 million in FY2005 SCAAP funding--including Albuquerque $225,367, Valencia County $5,618, Santa Fe County $15,897, Rio Arriba County $15,520, and Taos County $1,634. 
   Among the other highlights of the law for New Mexico are: 
   * JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 
   Methamphetamine Enforcement and Clean Up: At Domenici's request, $150,000 through the COPS program delivered to the NM Department of Public Safety to purchase equipment to help clean up labs after they have been shut down. 
   Bernalillo County Mental Health Court: At Domenici's request, $500,000 specifically for the Bernalillo County Mental Health Court to support operations. 
   Sandoval County Communications Equipment: At Domenici's request $240,000 to provide communications equipment to Sandoval County law enforcement personnel to improve communications with emergency services personnel. 
   PAL Anti-Gang Initiative: $750,000 for the Police Athletic League's Gang Prevention and Intervention Program, which targets at risk youth in New Mexico, California, New Jersey and Florida. 
   San Juan County Juvenile Services: At Domenici's request, $150,000 for life skills and character building programs for juveniles in San Juan County. 
   High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA): The Senate approves language to continue White Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) administration of the HIDTA Program. The administration had recommended putting the program under the Drug Enforcement Agency. Thirteen counties in New Mexico are part of the Southwest Border HIDTA. $228.35 million is provided in the Senate T-THUD Appropriations bill for HIDTA. 
   Party Patrol Teen Anti-Drinking Initiative: $85,000 for the Party Patrol teen anti-drinking initiative to be expanded for Bernalillo County, which discourages underage drinking and driving. Specifically, the program puts teams of patrol officers on the streets at times when underage drinking and driving is most likely to occur. 
   New Mexico State Police Satellite Mobile Data Terminal: $75,000 to complete the final phase of a multi-year project to equip all NMSP vehicles with satellite mobile data terminals and computer-aided dispatch to ensure reliable communication with officers in the field. 
   Southwest Border Prosecutors Initiative: At Domenici's request, $30 million within SCAAP funding for this program to assist states that share the border with Mexico in prosecuting criminal cases associated with illegal immigration, drug trafficking, and other activities. 
   Southwest Criminal Alien Assistance Program: $405 million for Southwest border states to help reimburse them for costs associated with illegal immigration. 
   Violence Against Women Act (VAWA): $386 million for VAWA programs, $4 million over FY2005. 
   New Mexico Care for Juvenile Offenders: $25,000 to continue a program to provide low-risk youth offenders with short-term placement with trained families or in licensed group homes to provide lower cost and more effective interventions with juvenile offenders. There are centers in Albuquerque, Las Cruces and Santa Fe. 
   Indian Justice Assistance Programs - $35 million for justice assistance to Indian tribes including $2.0 million for tribal prison construction, $8.0 million for tribal courts, $5.0 million for alcohol and substance abuse assistance and $20 million for tribal law assistance through the COPS program. 
   Mental Health Courts Program (national) - $5 million at Domenici's request, $1.6 million above current levels. 
   VIVA Hispanic Outreach - $100,000 at Domenici's request for a New Mexico/Texas-based pilot program to recruit, train and sustain a strong volunteer base of Girl Scout Troop leaders within the Hispanic community in order to increase Girl Scout participation rates among Hispanic girls. 
   Community Foundation of Southern New Mexico - $475,000 at Domenici's request to support the Child-Safe/Ni?os Seguros program that aims to significantly reduce child abuse in Do?a Ana County. The amount restores the program to full funding. 
   * NASA 
   Ultra-long Duration Balloon Program - At Domenici's request, $1.75 million for the NMSU program that develops balloon systems capable of carrying payloads that weigh several tons to roughly 40-kilometer altitudes on flights that last several months. 
   UNM Astromaterials Institute - At Domenici's request, $1.25 million for the UNM Astromaterials Institute, which will be a unique center for the design and development of next generation instruments and tools to further space exploration. 
   * NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (NSF) 
   Very Long Array & Very Long Baseline Array (Socorro County): At Domenici's request, $51.4 million for the National Radio Astronomy Observatories, including the VLA and VLBA, which is $4 million over FY20005. The bill retains language requested by Domenici expressing concern that NSF continues to underfund operations for radio astronomy, particularly for the operations, maintenance and development of new instrumentation at the VLA, VLBA and Green Bank Telescope. 
   * COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 
   Program for Investments in Micro-entrepreneurs (PRIME) - At Domenici's request, $2 million, same as the budget request and current levels. 
   National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA): At Domenici's request, this funding includes $22 million for the Public Telecommunications Facilities Program. 
   Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program: The Senate, as did the House, rejects the budget request to fold the CDBG program into a consolidated "Strengthening America's Communities" Initiative under the Commerce Department. CDBG will remain under the Treasury Department and funded in a separate bill. 
   * SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
   Adelante Development Center: $1.0 million for the Adelante Youth Development Center in Albuquerque. Domenici is a long time supporter of this group, which provides jobs for the disadvantaged. 
   NMSU Arrowhead Center: $1.0 million in SBA funding to support Domenici's request for Arrowhead Center at NMSU. The appropriation will support the center, which has been developed to commercialize the intellectual property of the university. (Domenici also gained $2.0 million in FY2006 DOE funding to support this center.) 
   WESST Corp. Community Development Loan Fund: $1.0 million SBA earmark to support the Albuquerque-based WESST Corp. Community Development Loan Fund, which is part of the Women's Business Centers program. 
   Women's Business Centers: $12.5 million for WBC's, as well as authorization for sustainability grants under the WBC pilot program to support centers such was WESST Corp. in New Mexico. 
   Women's Business Council: $750,000 to support the Women's Business Council. 
   SBA Native American Outreach: $1 million for the SBA to provide Native American communities with assistance to development small business in Indian country. 
   SBA Microloan Assistance: $13 million for microloan lending through SBA was is targeted to small entrepreneurs in need of capital and technical assistance.
 
 