NEW MEXICO SENATORS SEEK LEVEE RECONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS IN PENDING NATIONAL WATER LEGISLATION
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced their bid to authorize levee reconstruction in New Mexico within a national water infrastructure bill that is pending in the Senate.  
   The Senators are also asking that authorizing language for the Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Collaborative Program be included in the pending Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2005 (S.728). The measure awaits consideration by the full Senate. 
   WRDA sanctions water resource projects--flood control, storm damage reduction and environmental restoration--for the Army Corps of Engineers civil works program. 
   In both cases, the language requested by the Senators would authorize the Army Corps of Engineers to carry out and participate in both the levee reconstruction and collaborative program initiatives. Currently, the Corps is not authorized to carry out the levee reconstruction project and has limited authority relating to the collaborative program. 
   "The Corps of Engineers has indicated that it needs specific authorization to initiate levee repair activity that may be necessary in New Mexico. The necessity of such projects has been highlighted by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, when we all saw first-hand the importance of properly maintaining and improving critical flood control structures and other water-related infrastructure," the Senators wrote in a letter to the leadership of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. 
   The lawmakers propose a $35.0 million authorization for levee reconstruction in New Mexico. The majority of these levees are in the Rio Grande basin. 
   The second request from the New Mexico Senators amounts to incorporating the Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Collaborative Program Act (S.1540) into the WRDA legislation. This legislation, authored by Domenici and Bingaman, was originally introduced in July. 
   "New Mexico faces a variety of environmental restoration and river management issues that impact the work of the Corps of Engineers. The presence of the silvery minnow and the southwestern willow flycatcher complicates that work," the Senators wrote in their request letter. 
   "The Corps of Engineers needs authority to lead and work with the Middle Rio Grande ESA Collaborative Program (established in 2000) so federal and state agencies, cities, Pueblos, environmental groups, farmers and business interests can work together to develop solutions to shared problems regarding resource management. The program also needs an organizational structure, a decision making hierarchy, and formal authorization to continue its important work," the Senators continued. 
   The Senators are asking that the levee reconstruction and collaborative program language be added as amendments to S.728 when the full Senate debates the bill, probably early next year. S.728, which Domenici has cosponsored, was approved by the Environment and Public Works Committee in April, and already includes the following programs of interest to New Mexico: 
   * Bosque Restoration: Authorizes a total of $25 million for the implementation of restoration projects in the middle Rio Grande region, from Cochiti Dam to the headwaters of Elephant Butte Reservoir. The program would allow for the removal of unnecessary jetty jacks, reduction of non-native species, increase of cottonwood woodland, removal of dead and down trees, extension of open meadows to reduce fire hazard, and improvement of recreational and educational opportunities throughout the Middle Rio Grande Bosque. Non-Federal interests must provide 35 percent of the total cost of bosque restoration projects. 
   * Rio Grande Environmental Management Program: Authorizes a total of $25 million and establishes a continuing authority for addressing environmental restoration and management on the Rio Grande and its tributaries in New Mexico. The program would support two main components: (1) planning, design and construction of small habitat rehabilitation and enhanced projects and (2) a long-term river data acquisition to assist in managing the Rio Grande watershed. Construction projects approved through this program must be cost-shared on a 65-35 basis with a local entity. 
   * Southwest Valley Flood Damage Reduction Study-Albuquerque: Authorizes approximately $19.5 million to support the construction of flood control infrastructure for Albuquerque's Southwest Valley, which is subject to flooding. The federal government will fund 65 percent of the project, with 35 percent of the project coming from non-federal sources. The estimated completion date for the project is 2013. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that has actual funding jurisdiction for the Army Corps on Engineers. 
   Domenici and Bingaman are, respectively, chairman and Democratic ranking member, of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
 
 