SEN. DOMENICI HOSTS PROGRESS REPORT ON INDIAN POLICIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici held a meeting with top Indian leaders to discuss progress made in federal American Indian policy, including health care, education, economic development, and transportation. 
   The event was held at the Indian Cultural Center and was moderated by John Gonzales, former Governor of the San Ildefonso Pueblo and former President of the National Congress of American Indians. Among those making presentations were Dr. Taylor McKenzie, former Vice President of Navajo Nation, Joe Abeyta, Superintendent of the Santa Fe Indian School, Governor Paul S. Chinana of the Jemez Pueblo, and Governor Leonard Armijo of the Santa Ana Pueblo.
   "I'm pleased to report that we are making substantial progress in federal Indian policy. In area after area, from diabetes prevention programs to the construction of new Indian schools, the Bush Administration has delivered on its promises and that is good news for the Indian people. The discussion we had today is a good overview of the ways that the federal government is involved in improving the quality of life for Native Americans," Domenici said.
   With regard to Indian diabetes prevention, Domenici reported that $150 million is being provided each year, an increase of $50 million above the 2003 level. He also said that the Navajo Nation alone receives $14 million per year-double what it was for the entire country during the last years of the Clinton Administration.
   "Diabetes is a major problem for Native Americans. Over the past few years, the Bush Administration has stepped up and devoted major resources to preventing and treating the disease, and I'm pleased by that commitment," Domenici said.
   Overall funding for the Indian Health Service has doubled during the past twelve years, to $3.7 billion. Funding for Indian Health facilities has been increased by $143 million since 1997.
   Domenici also pointed to major construction of new Native American schools. In the first four years of the Bush presidency, 26 new schools were constructed. During President Clinton's final four years in office, only nine were constructed.
   "President Bush should be known as the 'Indian Education President' because he kept his commitment to the Indian people to build new schools and improve education. In Pueblo country, the Santa Fe Indian School, SIPI, IAIA, Isleta and Zia are all receiving new schools or facilities, and nine Navajo schools are being replaced with new schools, with seven more new schools on deck to be built. This is truly a remarkable achievement and gives me great hope for the future of Indian education," Domenici said.
   Overall, President Bush has requested $68.55 million for FY2005 specifically for new replacement schools, including three in New Mexico. In New Mexico, Santa Fe Indian School has received $39 million, Zia Day School was replaced for $9 million, SIPI received $12 million for a new science and technology facility (along with $4.2 million for repairs), the Isleta Day School was replaced for $11 million, and the Mescalero Apache Tribal School received $22 million.
   Another area discussed at the meeting was transportation in Indian Country. Current national funding for Indian Reservation Roads is $275 million, but Domenici has sponsored a bill to increase funding to $480 million by FY2009. The American Indian Reservation Transportation Improvement Program Act (S.1145) would ensure that by FY2009, Navajo Nation will receive $77 million and Pueblo and Apache tribes will receive $26 million for roads.
 
 