SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW - QUESTIONS & ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, October 22, 2007.  
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Elaine Baumgartel, KUNM Albuquerque 
   * Evan Woodward, KRWG Las Cruces 
   * John McBreen, KYVA Gallup 
   TOPICS: 
   Updating the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) 
   Operation Stonegarden 
   Gallup Water Rights and the Navajo Water Settlement 
   Turkish and Kurdish Tensions 
   Domenici Archives 
   Republican Primary Senate Race 
   Broadcast Fees Assessed with FISA 
   High Oil Prices and the Strategic Petroleum Reserve 
   REVIEW: 
   00:00 Domenici explains the need for the House and Senate to reach a compromise to update the FISA law. He says any immunity clauses in the final bill must not be broader than necessary to maintain the effectiveness of the law, which he says is a valuable tool in the war on terror. 
   03:10 Domenici says border security programs like Operation Stonegarden have merit. However, he says such programs should be carried out with care so that constitutional rights are not violated. He says he wants to "wait and see" whether there is merit to lawsuits filed against Otero County related to Operation Stonegarden. 
   02:45 Domenici says the agreement allowing the city of Gallup to access water from the Navajo Water Settlement will be useful in moving federal legislation forward to authorize the Navajo settlement. He says he has met with Senator Bingaman to discuss progress on their Navajo Water Settlement legislation. 
   07:29 Domenici states his belief that President Bush and the administration is doing everything they can to ease tensions between Turkey and the Kurds in northern Iraq. He says the United States must stress to Turkey that acting against the Kurds would be dangerous to the region. 
   09:28 Domenici says he is working with both New Mexico State University and the University of New Mexico to develop details of "legacy" projects. He notes it is too early in the process to elaborate. He notes however that details are not worked out. He also expresses his appreciation to NMSU for its enthusiasm to work on this endeavor. 
   11:16 Domenici says that at this point he does not plan to endorse a Republican candidate vying for his U.S. Senate seat. He expressed his hope that the primary campaign proceeds in a manner that will allow the nominee to run a strong race in the general election. He also generally discusses the upcoming races to fill vacant U.S. House seats in New Mexico, noting that it is good to have qualified people willing to run for office. 
   13:11 Domenici says the government must determine fair rates that telecommunications firms might charge the federal government for surveillance activities carried out under FISA. He also discusses penalties levied against firms that do not participate in the program. 
   18:46 Domenici says he does not believe it would be a good idea to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve as an effort to stabilize rising crude oil prices. He questions whether there is sufficient oil in the reserve to affect market prices over the long term, and discusses the purpose of the reserve.
 
 