SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES N.M. CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPACE FLIGHT, PROMOTES UPCOMING HOLLOMAN AIR & SPACE SHOW
  Noting that the first U.S. rocket ever to reach orbit was launched from south-central New Mexico, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today saluted New Mexico's past and ongoing efforts to advance space travel. 
   Domenici's tribute in the Congressional Record highlights the early rocketry research and testing carried out in Roswell, astronauts who grew up in New Mexico, and future of space flight in the state, including the upcoming 2007 X-PRIZE Cup competition and Air and Space Show at Holloman Air Force Base, Oct. 27-28: http://www.xprize.org/ or http://www.hase2007.info/.  
   "I am proud of New Mexico's role and rich history in space and with NASA. It is a great honor for New Mexico to contribute in so many ways to this remarkable program which has played such a large role in our nation's history, and which continues to be so important to our advancement," Domenici said. 
   Domenici recognized Robert H. Goddard's groundbreaking work in the Roswell area that directly led to the first American rocket launched into orbit in 1946 from what is now White Sands Missile Range. He also cited NASA's ongoing work to train Space Shuttle astronauts at WSMR, and the agency's research collaborations with New Mexico universities, as well as Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, on new space-related technologies. 
   "NASA has collaborated with, and funded, research at the University of New Mexico, New Mexico State University, and New Mexico Tech. This funding has been used to continue to expand the limits of understanding in the fields of science and technology," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds NASA. 
   The Senator also tips his hat to the astronauts who grew up in New Mexico, including Drew Gaffney (Carlsbad), Sidney Gutierrez (Albuquerque), Edgar D. Mitchell (Artesia), and former U.S. Senator Harrison J. Schmitt (Silver City). 
   Domenici encouraged New Mexicans to take part in the Air and Space Expo taking place at Holloman as part of the X-PRIZE competition in southern New Mexico. This event will feature lunar lander vehicle competitions, launches, and air show performances will take place along with ground static displays of rockets, NASA displays, robotic displays, and military aircraft displays. 
   "I know that the competition will again be fierce for the X-PRIZE Cup, and I am very excited that all the action will take place in New Mexico," Domenici said. 
   For more information about New Mexico and the U.S. space program visit: 
   * Astronaut biographies: www.hightechscience.org/biographies.htm 
   * New Mexico Museum of Space History, Alamogordo: www.nmspacemuseum.org 
   * NASA: www.education.nasa.gov 
   * New Mexico Space Grant: www.spacegrant.nmsu.edu 
   The following is the full text of Domenici's statement to the Senate: 
   50th ANNIVERSARY OF NASA AND THE SPACE AGE 
   Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I rise today to commemorate the 50th anniversary of space flight, the NASA space program, and its contributions past and present to the United States, as well as to New Mexico. 
   Just over 50 years ago on October 4, 1957, the Soviet Union launched Sputnik, the first artificial satellite to orbit around Earth, which propelled the world into the Space Age. This era saw an unprecedented rise in scientific and technological developments benefiting mankind both on and off the surface of the earth. 
   New Mexicans have a long history of contributions to NASA and to the U.S. space program, beginning in 1929 when the "Father of Modern Rocketry" Robert H. Goddard moved to Roswell and began his work designing and testing rockets. In 1946 the first ever rocket was launched from U.S. soil into space from what is now White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico. 
   Shortly after the Soviet launch of Sputnik, the United States launched Explorer I, using Goddard's research on the Redstone rocket as the launch vehicle. Later that year on July 29th, Congress passed the National Aeronautics and Space Act. This law created NASA as we know it today in order to "provide for research into problems of flight within, and outside the earth's atmosphere, and for other purposes." 
   In 1961 a chimpanzee named ENOS, trained at Holloman Air Force Base in Alamogordo was launched into orbit around Earth and safely returned after two full orbits. Fellow space travelers, Astronauts Drew Gaffney, Sidney Gutierrez, Edgar D. Mitchell, and former Senator Harrison J. Schmitt, who I had the honor of working with years ago, all call New Mexico home. 
   White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico currently provides an alternative landing site for the space shuttle, serves as the primary training area for NASA Space Shuttle pilots, and is used for research on the next generation of the space shuttle. NASA has collaborated with, and funded, research at the University of New Mexico, New Mexico State University and New Mexico Tech. This funding has been used to continue to expand the limits of understanding in the fields of science and technology. NASA continues to work with Sandia and Los Alamos National Laboratories on cutting edge research and development programs. 
   New Mexico's Holloman Air Force Base in Alamogordo is also home to the 2007 X-PRIZE Cup competition, the world's largest air and space flight demonstration. In just a few days on October 27th and 28th, lunar lander vehicle competitions, launches, and air show performances will take place along with ground static displays of rockets, NASA displays, robotic displays, and military aircraft displays. I know that the competition will again be fierce for the X-PRIZE Cup, and I am very excited that all the action will take place in New Mexico. 
   I am proud of New Mexico's role and rich history in space and with NASA. It is a great honor for New Mexico to contribute in so many ways to this remarkable program which has played such a large role in our nation's history, and which continues to be so important to our advancement. 
   From the Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo missions of the 1960s space race to the shuttle age and beyond, NASA has been on the cutting edge of technology, and they are consistently pushing the limits of understanding. Through space exploration we continue to gain a clearer picture of the history of our universe, our planet, and ourselves. 
   In honor of 50 years of space flight, NASA will be hosting Lecture Series, Future Forums, and science expos throughout the country beginning this month and continuing through October of 2008. I am in awe of what NASA has done, and can only anticipate what exciting things they will bring this country, and the world, over the next 50 years.
 
 