NEW MEXICO'S CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION UNVEILS PO\'PAY STATUE IN U.S. CAPITOL
  All five members of New Mexico's congressional delegation today participated in a ceremony to unveil a statue of the pueblo Indian revolt leader Po'pay in the U.S. Capitol.  
   Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall, and Steve Pearce welcomed the 100th and final state statue in the Capitol. Members of the leadership in the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives formally accepted the Po'pay statue, which was designed by Jemez Pueblo sculptor Cliff Fragua. 
   Po'pay led the Pueblo Revolt of 1680 that drove Spanish settlers from northern New Mexico for 12 years. The New Mexico legislature in 1997 selected Po'pay to be New Mexico's second statue in Statuary Hall. 
   The ceremony included a traditional blessing by San Juan Pueblo Governor Joseph Garcia and featured tribal dancing by the Ohkay Owingeh Dance Group. Ohkay Owingeh is the traditional name of the San Juan Pueblo. 
   "The Po'pay-led insurrection against the Spanish conquerors was at its core a basic human and American need to challenge oppressors. This statue represents not only the history of a single man, but a legacy that helped ensure the survival of pueblo and American Indian culture in New Mexico. That culture is today a rich part of what makes New Mexico so unique among states," Domenici said. 
   "Po'pay was an extraordinary leader at a very troubling time in New Mexico's history. His victorious struggle against those who sought to tear apart the people of New Mexico's pueblos ensured that the culture, tradition and religion of those people would remain as strong and vibrant as it is today," Bingaman said. 
   "Today is an opportunity to express our pride in our great state and complete this historic collection. Some two million people visit this great building every year," Wilson said. "Po'pay, a pueblo leader, led a rebellion against Spanish rule in 1680. As a result, many elements of pueblo culture survive today that might otherwise have been lost. Today, 325 years later, the unique blending of traditions and cultures continues to define the Land of Enchantment." 
   "Because of Cliff Fragua\'s stunning achievement, we can get a glimpse of who Po'pay was - as will thousands of visitors to Washington, D.C. each year. And when they see this work, they will get a sense of New Mexico\'s history and our country\'s history," Udall said. 
   "I am delighted that we are marking the completion of the U.S. Capitol\'s pantheon of heroes with a depiction of New Mexico\'s rich and unique multicultural heritage,\" said Pearce. \"Crafted by Cliff Fragua, an artist from the Jemez Pueblo who becomes the first and only Native American sculptor represented in the National Statuary Hall collection, this statue will stand through the generations as a symbol of Po'pay\'s humility, courage, and fierce independence. These values transcend all differences between us, weaving our nation together as one people." 
   The Po'pay statue will join New Mexico's statue of the late U.S. Senator Dennis Ch?vez, which was installed in 1966. For at least the next several months, the Po'pay statue will be on display in the Capitol Rotunda.
 
 