SENATE COMMITTEE OKAYS SEN. DOMENICI-BACKED BILL TO INCREASE SUPPORT FOR NEW MEXICO RURAL TELEPHONE SERVICE
  The Senate Commerce Committee today approved legislation cosponsored by Sen. Pete Domenici that would direct more federal funds toward rural telephone providers in New Mexico and other mostly-rural states.  
   The committee approved the Rural Universal Service Equity Act (S.1380), a bill to revamp the formula used to distribute revenues in the Universal Service Fund that is used to subsidize telephone and Internet service in rural areas. The formula currently restricts states like New Mexico from benefiting from the fund, which is financed through a federal tax on telecommunications providers. 
   "The changes encapsulated in this bill will make the distribution of Universal Service revenues more equitable for states like New Mexico. As it stands now, we're left out of the equation even though our state needs more help to improve telecommunications services in rural areas," Domenici said. "I'm pleased the committee has approved the bill, and I have some hope that perhaps Congress can act on this before the end of the year." 
   The Rural Universal Service Equity Act is now ready for consideration by the full Senate, although there is some question as to whether it will be debated before the end of the 108th Congress later this year. If not, the issue is expected to be visited early in the new Congress. 
   S.1380, which is supported by the Western Governors Association, would ensure that states now shut out of the Universal Service Fund distribution-New Mexico, Oregon, Nevada, North Dakota and Washington-would receive funding. It is estimated that New Mexico would receive additional investments of $3 million to $5 million if the Rural Service Equity Act is adopted. 
   Overall, just eight states now receive funding from the "non-rural carriers" portion of the Universal Service Fund. This year, the fund is expected to disperse about $277 million. 
   A House companion bill (HR.582) as been cosponsored by Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall and Steve Pearce. It is pending in the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
 
 