SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON HOUSE COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF OJITO WILDERNESS BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today issued the following statement regarding House committee approval of legislation to create the Ojito Wilderness Area in New Mexico.  
   The House Resources Committee today approved legislation sponsored by Representatives Tom Udall and Heather Wilson to designate the Ojito Wilderness Study Area as a federal wilderness area. Similar legislation sponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman and cosponsored by Domenici is pending in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "I am pleased with the progress being made in the House on the Ojito bill. We continue to make progress on resolving outstanding issues in the Ojito bill we have in the Senate. I appreciate the progress made with the Zia Pueblo and BLM to work through rights-of-way issues associated with this wilderness designation. 
   "In light of New Mexico's growing water problems, I believe on principle that the bill must not create an outright or implied federal water right even if the Ojito wilderness does not ultimately require a water right. With previous wilderness and other federal designations, unaddressed water rights issues have often resulted in a reserved water right to support the federal use. I believe this bill can, and will, pass with an expressed negation of a federal water right. There is still time during this congressional session to work through these issues, and I continue to push for their resolution so that our bill can clear the committee and go to the full Senate." 
   The proposal would designate the 11,000-acre Ojito area now held by the Bureau of Land Management as wilderness. If enacted, the area just south of San Ysidro in Sandoval County, would be added to the National Wilderness Preservation System, which protects wild areas that have "outstanding opportunities for solitude or a primitive and unconfined type of recreation."
 
 