SEN. DOMENICI: SOUTHWEST BORDER HIDTA GETS $3.2 MILLION MORE TO TARGET DRUG TRAFFICKERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today indicated that the organization that works to coordinate local, state and federal anti-drug trafficking activities in New Mexico and the Southwest has been given an additional $3.2 million to target drug trafficking organizations.  
   As the federal government wraps up the 2004 fiscal year, the Office of National Drug Control Policy agreed to direct another $3.2 million to the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA), which is comprised of New Mexico, Texas, Arizona and California. 
   The funding, provided through the Consolidated Priority Organizational Target (CPOT) program, will be used in the four border states to target identified drug trafficking organizations and individuals involved in illegal drug-related activities including transportation, production, distribution, money laundering, extortion, murder and bribery. 
   "The millions provided in this award help to disrupt the drug traffic lines that invade our communities and destroy the lives of many New Mexicans," Domenici said. "HIDTA targets areas most troubled by illegal trafficking, predominantly in counties adjacent to the Mexican border, to undermine the drug industry," Domenici said. "Every year we have succeeded in increasing funding for HIDTA to continue to apprehend and castigate leaders in the drug trade and dismantle New Mexico's illicit drug rings, not only those on the border but also in the northern reaches of our state." 
   Domenici on Wednesday met with New Mexico's HIDTA program director Errol Ch?vez of Las Cruces, and deputy director Ernie Ortiz, on the status of their operations and the outlook to expand support for HIDTA operations in the state. [Digital photograph available from the Domenici press office.] 
   The Senate Appropriations Committee, on which Domenici serves, has approved $228.35 million to support HIDTAs throughout the country, a $20 million increase above the President's request and $2 million above FY04's funding level. 
   Through the CPOT project, federal drug enforcement agencies have shared intelligence to identify 53 organizations and individuals that represent the most significant threats to the United States and its citizens. The funding directed to the Southwest Border HIDTA will support efforts to disrupt the activities of these targeted organizations and individuals. The CPOT list, created in 2002 represents the first time federal agencies have worked together to develop a single target list. 
   There are 13 New Mexico counties that make up the state's participation in the Southwest Border HIDTA, including Bernalillo, Chaves, Do?a Ana, Eddy, Grant, Hidalgo, Lea, Lincoln, Luna, and Otero counties. In 1999, Domenici had Rio Arriba, Santa Fe and San Juan counties added to the program to help in battling heroin, methamphetamine and other illegal drug problems in those regions of northern New Mexico.
 
 