SEN. DOMENICI SAYS MEDICARE, SOCIAL SECURITY REPORT SHOULD SPUR ACTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today urged passage of legislation that would ensure the financial viability of Social Security and Medicare in light of today's trustee report indicating that both federal entitlement programs face funding shortfalls. 
   The report, released today, indicates that federal trust funds for Social Security and Medicare will be expended by 2041 and 2019, respectively, which is one year later than last year's report estimated.
   The report also shows that under the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, a warning issued for two consecutive years requires that the President propose legislation within 15 days of his next budget to bring Medicare spending under the 45 percent threshold. That legislation is required to receive expedited consideration by Congress.
   "These signs are not good. For years, we have seen the growing crisis with entitlement funding and have still done nothing substantial to fix the problem," said Domenici. "I am upset at how the federal government has been content to sit by and watch while Americans who have contributed to and are counting on these programs face undue hardship at the prospect of fund depletion."
   Domenici and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) introduced legislation in January that would mandate government reform of these federal entitlement programs. The Social Security and Medicare Solvency Act (S.355) would create a permanent, 15-member commission to make recommendations on how to best save both programs and force Congress to act within a fixed period of time.
   "I believe that the government must actively and practically solve for entitlement reform," said Domenici. "The legislation that Senator Feinstein and I have introduced is especially relevant in light of today's report. I hope that it will help my fellow lawmakers understand the necessity of this legislation."
   The commission created as a result of the legislation would make agreed-to recommendations one year from the law's date of enactment and every five years thereafter, which would then force congressional action on such recommendations within a specified time frame.
   The legislation has since been referred to the Senate Committee on Finance where it awaits approval before moving to the full Senate for consideration.
 
 