SEN. DOMENICI: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD LEAD WAY ON ENERGY EFFICIENCY
  Sen. Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today sad that as lawmakers seek to address our energy challenges, the federal government should set a good example by making its own facilities as efficient as possible. 
   Domenici's comments came as the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee began work on the Energy Efficiency Promotion Act (S.1115), introduced last week by Domenici, Chairman Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), and a bipartisan group of Senators, including five other members of the committee. If fully implemented, the bill is projected to save consumers more than $12 billion annually.
   Albuquerque Mayor Martin Ch?vez was among the witnesses testifying at the hearing.
   Domenici said that the legislation builds on provisions in the landmark Energy Policy Act of 2005, which implemented new efficiency standards for fifteen large commercial and residential appliances and provided tax incentives to consumers and appliance manufactures to promote the use of efficient products. The new standards are expected to save 50,000 megawatts of energy by 2020.
   "We did a great deal in the Energy Policy Act to promote energy conservation, including provisions that are directly saving energy by making the products we use in our homes every day more efficient. Still, there is no doubt that more can be done. In my view, the federal government should lead the way. The bill we've introduced requires the federal government to increase its use of renewable electricity and reduce its overall energy consumption in federal buildings, both new and old. We can't expect consumers to embrace energy efficient technology if their government does not do the same," Domenici said.
   The Senator noted that he considers the legislation a work in progress, since those who will be tasked with implementing the new law must be given an opportunity to make their views heard, starting with today's hearing.
   "I'm pleased that the committee is receiving testimony on this bill today, a week after it was introduced. It is important that we hear from the affected stakeholders. My interest is in putting together the best bill possible, even if that means making changes to ensure good policy down the road. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the Administration to accomplish this goal," Domenici said.
   Among the bill's highlights are provisions that: enact new DOE efficiency standards for household appliances; set aggressive goals for reducing gasoline usage in vehicles; authorize $2.3 billion for research related to automotive batteries; authorize $60 million for DOE to research and develop light-weight materials for vehicle construction; authorize $15 million for advanced lighting technology, and reauthorize the Weatherization Assistance Program at $750 million.
 
 