SEN. DOMENICI URGES IMMEDIATE ACTION TO INCREASE AMERICA'S BRAINPOWER TO KEEP NATION COMPETITIVE
  Sen. Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today said that action is needed now if the U.S. is to avoid ceding global leadership when it comes to developing and implementing new technology.
   Domenici spoke on the Senate floor in favor of the America COMPETES Act (S.761), which he introduced along with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and others. A major portion of the bill utilizing the Department of Energy is virtually identical to legislation passed by then-Chairman Domenici and Bingaman during the 109th Congress. 
   "Just as scientists at Los Alamos National Laboratory ushered in a new era over sixty years ago, now, we must do the same. Today, the Senate has begun the process of rising above the gathering storm. Those words-Rising Above the Gathering Storm-are part of the title of the National Academy of Science report in 2005 on America's future competitiveness and standard of living. That report, authored by former Lockheed CEO Norman Augustine, sheds light on just how great the challenge before us is. If we do not act, we're going to lose the war some of us don't even know we're fighting-the war for brainpower," Domenici said.
   Domenici noted that in 2001, U.S. industry spent more money on tort litigation than in research and development. He also said that of the 1.1 million high school seniors who took the college entrance exam in 2002, less than 6 percent had plans to study engineering, a 33 percent decrease over the last ten years. Meanwhile, more than 50 percent of the current U.S. science and engineering workforce is approaching retirement.
   "These statistics show that the challenge to our nation's standard of living is before us, and the Senate must act. The Augustine report stressed the importance of increasing our national commitment to basic research in physical sciences. The America COMPETES Act responds by putting the Department of Energy Office of Science on a path to double its funding over the next decade. The bill also leverages the tremendous talent and technological investments of our national laboratory system. These new provisions will build on education and outreach work the labs have undertaken for many years," Domenici continued.
   The America COMPETES Act calls on DOE's national labs to: provide opportunities for high school students from across the nation to gain hands on experience in science and engineering fields; assist states in establishing specialty schools in math and science to benefit high-need districts; strengthen the skills of thousands of math and science teachers by establishing training and education programs at summer institutes hosted at the national labs; and establish partnerships between national laboratories and local high schools to build centers of excellence in math and science education.
   "I have spoken quite a bit recently about the importance of engaging China on the challenge of energy security and global climate change. It should be clear to all of us that our energy, environment, and education challenges cannot be considered in a bubble. Rather, they must be considered in light of the global competitiveness challenge that faces us. This bill will help us meet those challenges over the long term," Domenici said.
   The Senate will continue consideration of S.761 this week, with votes expected on amendments tomorrow. A vote on final passage of the bill is expected this week.
 
 