SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS FALL 2007 INTERNS
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that his Washington D.C. office is accepting applications for its Fall 2007 internship program and encouraged all interested college-age students to apply. 
   The Fall 2007 internship session will run from August through December. Participants will have the opportunity to take part in the various facets of Domenici's office by working in each of the office's areas including those related to constituent services, legislation, and communications. Students who are either New Mexico residents or attending school in the state are eligible to apply. Applications must be postmarked by June 1.
   "My internship program has helped many students learn first-hand about the political and legislative process. No matter their current area of study, most find that the internship enhances their educational experience and expands the opportunities available to them after college graduation," said Domenici. "I encourage everyone to apply because I think it provides an exceptional opportunity for personal and educational growth and development."
   Applications are available on Domenici's website and can be accessed at http://www.domenici.senate.gov in the "Student's Corner" section. For more information about the program and intern responsibilities, email internships@domenici.senate.gov or call (202)224-6621.
   Eligible applicants must have completed at least one year of study at a higher learning institution. New Mexico residents and/or students will receive priority in the selection process. Students from all majors, including those outside of history/political science, are encouraged to apply.
   Participants in previous Domenici internship programs have come from a wide variety of schools and backgrounds including universities, community colleges, and vocational schools both inside and outside of New Mexico. Domenici's Spring 2007 group of interns, for example, come from schools including the University of New Mexico, Eastern New Mexico University, and Notre Dame University.
   Domenici is New Mexico's longest serving U.S. Senator. He is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and holds senior membership positions on the Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee. He is also a member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and the Indian Affairs Committee.
 
 