SEN. DOMENICI SUGGESTS SHIFTING HIGH ENERGY LASER TEST FACILITY FROM ARMY TO MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today suggested that the Defense Department consider shifting administration of an important high energy laser facility at White Sands Missile Range that has faced mothballed status under successive Army budgets. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that today conducted a hearing on the FY2009 budget requests for the DOD Missile Defense Agency (MDA). Witnesses included Air Force Lt. Gen. Henry Obering III, director of the Missile Defense Agency, and Army Lt. Gen. Kevin T. Campbell, commander of the Army Space and Missile Defense Command.
   Based on past and current Army budget requests and the MDA's needs, Domenici suggested that the Missile Defense Agency assume responsibility for the High Energy Laser Test Facility (HELSTF) at the White Sands Missile Range facility.
   "I understand that the Army's budget concerns are driving the force to mothball HELSTF, but at the same time I am repeatedly told by the MDA that HELSTF's capabilities are critical to development of the Airborne Laser program and other laser weapons systems," Domenici said. "I think it is worthwhile for everyone to seriously consider transferring HELSTF to the Missile Defense Agency, which has a vested interest in this program."
   In his prepared testimony, Campbell said HELSTF "is serving as a key lethality test bed for MDA's Airborne Laser Program," and asked the subcommittee for continued support for it and other testing ranges. Campbell called HELSTF an "important national facility." But he told Domenici the Army, while still looking to shut down HELSTF for budget reasons, wanted to retain the facility's capabilities for future use.
   The FY2009 budget recommends $2.83 million for HELSTF, which is well below the $8.8 million Domenici helped secure to operate the facility in FY2008. The Army budget suggested a similar $2.8 budget level last year and the outlook for FY2010 is similar.
   Rather than embracing Domenici's suggestion, Obering stated the ongoing need for HELSTF capabilities. He also indicated that the MDA has, and will continue, to try to shift funding to HELSTF to support ongoing work at WSMR for the Airborne Laser, Mid-Infrared Advanced Chemical Laser (MIRACL) and other projects.
   As the debate over FY2009 HELSTF funding progresses, Domenici noted his defense authorization and appropriations request for an additional $15 million in FY2009 for the facility. The Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee is expected to begin crafting its 2009 spending bill later this spring.
   "The Army's FY2009 budget proposes reducing funding and mothballing the MIRACL laser system despite the Missile Defense Agency's assertions that that system might be needed through at least FY2010. I have requested the additional $15.0 million to continue this program and retain its current capabilities," Domenici said.
   HELSTF, a Defense Department Major Range and Test Base Facility, is used by all branches of the armed services, including the Air Force and Navy. It is the nation's center of excellence for developing and demonstrating high energy laser weapon programs.
 
 