SEN. DOMENICI: LAUNCH OF NANOTECHNOLOGY CENTER SOLIDIFIES SANDIA AS TECHNOLOGY LEADER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said that the opening of a new nanotechnology research facility at Sandia National Laboratories will solidify Sandia and New Mexico as a worldwide leader in cutting edge technology. 
   Domenici and lab officials dedicated the $57 million Center for Integrated Nanotechnology (CINT) core research facility on Wednesday. As chairman of the Senate's Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici funded the center, along with an $18.3 million gateway facility at Los Alamos National Laboratory that the Senator helped open on Monday.
   "Nanotechnology could hold the key to advances in numerous areas. It truly is a cutting edge technology. The opening of this new CINT, along with the success of the Sandia Science and Technology Park, solidifies the lab and the region as a worldwide leader in cutting edge technology," Domenici said. 
   "The work being done at CINT is extremely valuable. Perhaps just as important, this endeavor will allow the lab to work with other researchers and universities from around the nation. Developing this kind of technology at our national labs provides a solid foundation for private enterprise, which is exactly what we need to keep America competitive in the global marketplace," he continued.
   The 96,000 square foot CINT facility at the Sandia Science and Technology Park is the only permanent research facility in Albuquerque not located on Kirtland Air Force Base. Researchers from the University of New Mexico Cancer Research Institute, the University of New Mexico, New Mexico Tech, and around the world will work at the center.
   Domenici was instrumental in establishing laboratory technology transfers. The Senator authored legislation in 1989 setting up technology transfer policies, and has been a supporter of the Sandia Science and Technology Park. 
   Nanotechnology is the study of extremely small molecules. According to the National Research Council, nanotechnology will lead to new materials and new systems with applications to virtually every sector of our economy, including medicine, telecommunications, and computers. It will also bring important advancements to areas of national interest such as homeland security.
   With a nanometer equaling just 1/billionith of a meter, nanotechnology already has had a significant impact in the development of light weight materials, paints, superconducting wire, computer chips and electric lighting.
   Domenici is the author of the Protecting America's Competitive Edge Act (PACE), which invests heavily in math and science to make America more competitive with the rest of the world. The bill contains $25 million for national laboratories to train teachers and students in key disciplines.
 
 