SEN. DOMENICI QUESTIONS DENIAL OF ROSWELL BID TO GET DALLAS, HOUSTON AIR SERVICE LINK
  Sen. Pete Domenici has asked the Department of Transportation to detail its reasons for denying the city of Roswell's request for federal assistance to expand air service to Dallas and Houston.  
   Domenici has written to Acting Secretary of Transportation Maria Cino for information related to Roswell's application for federal grant funding through the Small Community Air Service Grant Program. The city's bid for $1.5 million in FY2006 funding was not accepted when the agency released grants earlier this month. 
   "I respectfully request information detailing the basis for the denial of Roswell's application and would like detailed information regarding the evaluation process," Domenici wrote Cino. "Roswell's proposal to expand air service to Dallas and Houston is exceptionally important. Such a new air program will allow Southeast New Mexico to improve the economic climate needed for current and future business activity in the region." 
   Domenici is seeking information behind the denial, as well as information on other programs or funding options Roswell might pursue to expand passenger air service to Dallas and Houston. Domenici has continuously supported the city of Roswell's efforts to establish consistent and stable air service to hubs like the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds U.S. Transportation Department programs, pointed out that current air service to Roswell "is time consuming, lacks connectivity to other airlines, and has no transfer of checked luggage. The high price of airfares puts southeast New Mexico at an economic disadvantage compared with other parts of New Mexico and the surrounding states." 
   Earlier this month, the city of Gallup did receive a $600,000 Small Community Air Service Development Program grant, which will be combined with $400,000 in city funding to try to restore air service between that McKinley County community and Phoenix. The service was suspended in 2002, when Gallup's Essential Air Service hub designation was changed from Phoenix to Albuquerque. 
   The Small Community Air Service Development Program was created in 2000. The core objective of the program is to secure enhancements to improve community's air transportation needs and provide benefits that can be expected to continue after the initial expenditure of federal funds.
 
 