SEN. DOMENICI: CONGRESS WILL ADDRESS BUDGET CONCERNS
  In response to concerns expressed about funding levels for key programs in President Bush's FY2007 budget proposal, Sen. Pete Domenici today offered assurances that Congress will draft a budget that is likely to support major priorities for New Mexicans.  
   Domenici is a senior member and former chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, which crafts its own budget proposal. The Presidential budget proposal serves a blueprint for Congressional activity, but does not represent the final numbers that actually will be included in the budget. 
   "It is important for New Mexicans to understand that we are only in the beginning of the budget process. I understand that there are concerns about proposed funding reductions to important programs. The President's budget has attempted to reduce spending while funding priorities, but there are still reductions that I'm confident will not be acceptable to Congress. As a member of the Budget Committee, I'll be working to put together a budget that takes care of the needs of our citizens," Domenici said. 
   Domenici pointed to proposed reductions to certain grants, such as the Community Services Block Grant and the Safe and Drug Free Schools state grants as examples of programs he believe will not see significant reductions despite the budget request. 
   The Senator also indicated his support for maintaining funding levels for the programs like the Carl Perkins Vocational program, the Mental Health Integration in Schools program, and Urban Indian Health programs. All those initiatives would see redirections or cuts in the proposed budget. 
   "Virtually every year, regardless of which party controls the White House, we see various complaints and outcries about the President's budget proposals. I would urge everyone to stay calm and understand that Congress has not yet even weighed in on these proposals, and we will likely come up different funding levels," Domenici said. 
   Congress has already begun hearings on various areas of the budget, but has not yet begun drafting a budget resolution. Domenici also serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee, which actually funds government programs.
 
 