SEN. DOMENICI OPTIMISIC ABOUT MEXICAN TRUCK SAFETY INSPECTION CHANGES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he is optimistic about an agreement announced by the U.S. Department of Transportation today to conduct on-site safety audits of trucking companies in Mexico.  
   As part of a new program to improve safety on much-traveled U.S.-Mexico trucking routes, inspectors working for the U.S. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration will now be able to conduct extensive inspections of Mexican trucking companies. The safety audits will include verification that Mexican trucks and truckers meet the same insurance and licensing requirements as Americans. 
   "Every day, 2.4 billion dollars in trade is conducted between the U.S., Mexico and Canada. Over three quarters of that is carried by trucks. This process is currently time-consuming and inefficient, because Mexican trucks can only operate in a limited area along the border. This agreement will give U.S. officials the confidence to proceed with plans to expand access," said Domenici, a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee. 
   "Expanding the current system makes sense and would bring benefits to both the U.S. and Mexican economies, as long as safety concerns are addressed. This announcement brings us a step closer to more timely, efficient, and safe shipping between our two nations," he continued. 
   The agreement was announced by Transportation Secretary Mary Peters, who noted that the safety agreement is necessary before the United States can allow trucks from Mexico to operate beyond the existing 25-mile border commercial zones that include San Diego and El Paso. 
   Under current law, Mexican trucks can only operate with in the commercial zone. Cargo destined beyond that zone must be off-loaded and transferred, which results in higher costs for consumers. 
   The inspection teams will evaluate all aspects of operations in Mexico, including truck maintenance and driver testing for compliance with U.S. requirements. The teams will review driver histories and verify that every truck destined for the U.S. meets American standards.
 
 