SEN. DOMENICI SAYS NONPROLIFERATION PROGRESS MUST OUTPACE GROWING GLOBAL THREATS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asserted that both the United States and the Russian federation need to have a serious "gut check" in terms of assessing progress and growing challenges in curbing the proliferation of materials that can be used in weapons of mass destruction. 
   Domenici delivered his assessment of the U.S.-Russian nonproliferation activities in a speech at the "Reducing Nuclear Threats: Nonproliferation Today and Tomorrow" workshop hosted by Los Alamos National Laboratory and the Los Alamos Committee on Arms Control and International Security.  
   "I salute the progress we as a nation have made to try to control the proliferation of materials that can be used in weapons of mass production. We've dedicated our best minds and billions of dollars to this challenge. I believe scientists in New Mexico, like Dr. Sig Hecker, are helping us make progress in the realm of nonproliferation," Domenici said. 
   "But with growing evidence that nuclear weapons are being developed around the world, I believe we need a gut check to see that we have the fortitude to make sure nonproliferation progress outpaces these growing threats," he said. 
   Domenici said he hopes President Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin will resolve to push for greater cooperation and progress on nonproliferation matters when the two leaders meet Thursday in Slovakia. 
   Domenici credited Bush for requesting increased nonproliferation funding in FY2006 in the face of an overall tight federal budget plan. The budget recommends $1.637 billion for the DOE Office of Nonproliferation, a 15 percent increase over FY2005. This includes $635 million for the plutonium disposition program that has been stalled over a liability indemnification issue. 
   "Russia continues to pose a challenge. While they are engaged with us on these matters, there are many remaining proliferation risks. We must insist that Russia conduct a full inventory of its nuclear material. Our work with Russia is not finished, but our efforts so far do validate that engagement among nations is working," Domenici said. 
   "Clearly, we need the Russians as a leading partner to confront new proliferation threats," Domenici continued. "There are different players in the nuclear business, and not all of them are nations, as demonstrated by A.Q. Khan's proliferation network. It seems less likely that nuclear material will be exchanged on the nose cone of a rocket, but rather by the kilogram on the nuclear black market. The bottom line is that to minimize the threat here and abroad, we must focus on stopping the trade of plutonium, highly enriched uranium and scientific knowledge." 
   Congress last year enacted two major Domenici-authored provisions to expand and accelerate U.S. nonproliferation programs. The first authorizes an extensive array of programs - all with a global reach - to accelerate the removal or improve the security of fissile materials, radiological materials, and equipment. 
   The second allows DOE to accept international payments and apply them directly toward the U.S.-led effort to shutdown Russia's remaining plutonium reactors in Seversk and Zheleznogorsk. Without the Domenici proposal, international contributions would go into a general fund without any assurances they would be put toward decommissioning costs, which have escalated from $460 million to $1.1 billion. 
   In the FY2006 budget, Bush is asking Congress to provide $272 million (a 21.5 percent increase) for nonproliferation research and development; $132 million (a 200 percent increase) for a program to decommission and dismantle Russian plutonium reactors; and a $59 million increase for the Megaports project to place radiation detectors in seaports around the world. 
   The DOE national labs in New Mexico - LANL and Sandia National Laboratories - are involved in U.S. nonproliferation programs. The proposed increase in nonproliferation R&D would provide an additional $45 million for LANL to develop detection equipment with greater sensitivity. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds DOE and its national laboratories, also critiqued U.S. nonproliferation efforts, calling on DOE to be more aggressive in carrying out the U.S.-Russian pact on repatriating tons of highly enriched uranium (HEU). 
   Domenici also said federal agencies-DOE, the Defense Department, the State Department, the Homeland Security Department, and the National Security Council - must improve their coordination on nonproliferation issues. 
   "We must improve coordination among our federal agencies to be more effective in addressing the proliferation threat. DOE and the Defense Department are improving their coordination and have been effective in their mission within the former Soviet Union," Domenici said. "I will continue to press for a comprehensive plan that integrates our agencies and missions. President Bush is doing the right thing to expand our capability to combat the proliferation threat." 
   "Reducing Nuclear Threats: Nonproliferation Today and Tomorrow" Workshop 
   Los Alamos National Laboratory 
   Feb. 23, 2005 
   Prepared Remarks - U.S. Senator Pete V. Domenici 
   Ladies and Gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be here to share with you my concerns regarding the proliferation of nuclear material. 
   Many of you have devoted your careers to keeping weapons of mass destruction out of the hands of terrorist-and for that we are grateful. 
   Like you, I have invested considerable time and energy toward this matter and am pleased with the progress we have made so far. But I also recognize how much more we need to accomplish before we can declare victory. 
   For past decade, I have devoted my efforts to realizing the goal of the Atoms for Peace Initiative put forward by President Eisenhower when he spoke before the United Nations over 50 years ago. 
   I've championed this effort and have drafted or supported several nonproliferation initiatives including: 
   * Nunn-Lugar; 
   * the Cooperative Threat Reduction; 
   * the Material Protection Control and Accounting Program; 
   * the Russian HEU Agreement; and 
   * the Plutonium Disposition Program. 
   Last year, I authored legislation that was signed by the President providing the Department of Energy full authority to collect and dispose of all forms of special nuclear material and any other radioactive material that may be used to create a dirty bomb. 
   I am also pleased to report that the U.S. and Russia are now working out a solution to solve the liability issue that has delayed the progress of the Plutonium Disposition program for the past year. 
   As many of you know, back in 1998, I secured the first $200 million to initiate this program that will remove 34 tons of weapons grade plutonium from the U.S. and Russian stockpiles. This is enough material to produce 8,000 nuclear weapons. 
   I remain optimistic that we can move forward on construction of these two facilities in 2006. 
   However, in order to fully realize success we must put a stop to the continued production of new plutonium stockpiles. 
   Russia currently operates three plutonium reactors and the President's budget makes the closure of these reactors a priority by providing a 200 percent increase for this effort. 
   Russia continues to pose a challenge, and I believe that Russian leaders are in denial of the proliferation risks within their country. 
   There is ample evidence that there is enough nuclear material unaccounted that "those with know-how" could construct a nuclear weapon. This is a frightening thought. 
   We must urge the Russians to conduct a full inventory of its nuclear material. 
   Clearly our work with Russia is not finished, but our efforts so far do validate that engagement among nations is working. 
   I want to personally thank Dr. Sig Hecker for his work over the last decade to open up the Russian labs and facilities through engagement and cooperation. 
   I believe that engagement has led to cooperation and cooperation eventually leads to trust. 
   Sig's efforts to improve the dialogue and trust among nations should be the model and manner in which the U.S. deals with other countries as well. 
   Since 1992, Congress has committed $7 billion toward the Former Soviet Union for threat reduction activities ranging from: 
   * Removing weapons from Ukraine and Belarus; 
   * Securing weapons material through the MPC&A program; and 
   * Engaging with Russian scientist on peaceful research in order to diversify their economy. 
   Now there are different players in the nuclear business - and not all of them are nations - as demonstrated by A.Q. Khan's proliferation network. 
   It seems less likely that nuclear material will to be exchanged on the nose cone of a rocket, but rather by the kilogram in the nuclear black market. 
   We must focus on putting a stop to the trade of plutonium, HEU and scientific know-how in order to minimize the threat. 
   I am encouraged by the recent news that North Korea seems willing to return to the six party talks. I remain hopeful that North Korea will put a stop their weapons ambitions, and will also give up their plutonium stockpiles, which poses a serious threat on the black market. 
   One area, which I believe the U.S can do a better job, is securing the vast amount of Highly Enriched Uranium still located in dozens of countries. HEU is a significant threat because of the potential to produce a crude nuclear weapon. 
   I am disappointed in the slow progress we are making in repatriating highly enriched uranium used in research reactors back to the U.S. and Russia. 
   There are there are 40 countries that still possess U.S. or Russian HEU fuel in research facilities. 
   The Department of Energy appears to be taking the position of waiting until countries are finished with the material as opposed to targeting the highest-risk facilities for immediate removal. 
   I believe the U.S. government should move more aggressively and I will explore new opportunities to accelerate the return of this fuel. 
   Let me turn to an issue that I have addressed in the past, but is still relevant. We need to improve the coordination of our federal agencies to be more effective in addressing this critical threat. 
   A recent GAO report looked at the coordination of the Department of Energy, Department of Defense, State Department, Homeland Security and the National Security Council. 
   The report found there no overall strategy that integrates all of these plans with other agencies. 
   The President is doing the right thing by expanding our capability to combat the proliferation threat. However, it is vital that we undertake this global effort in an effective manner and not waste scarce resources. 
   I will continue to press for a comprehensive plan that integrates our federal agencies and their missions. 
   Finally, let me address the FY2006 budget request. In a year of fiscal discipline and reductions, the President has requested a 15 percent increase for the Office of Nuclear Nonproliferation. 
   Included in this request is a 21 percent increase in funding for research and development activities. This will provide Los Alamos with an additional $45 million this year to develop detection equipment with greater sensitivity. 
   Over the last decade R&D funding has been level and as a result, we are using detection equipment developed in the 1980s. If we are to be effective in preventing nuclear material from entering our borders we must improve our ability to identify and characterize this material. 
   Clearly we have much more to do to adapt to the evolving nuclear proliferation threat. 
   I am committed to defeating this threat and I Iook forward to working with President Bush and with all of you to create a safer world. 
   Thank you.
 
 