SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES CITY-ENVIRO PACT ON MINNOW, SAN JUAN-CHAMA WATER CHALLENGES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the settlement agreement signed by the city of Albuquerque and environmental groups regarding the endangered silvery minnow and the city's use of San Juan-Chama water resources.  
   Domenici, who as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, has directed millions in federal funding toward sustaining the minnow while sustaining water rights on the Rio Grande. 
   "The agreement signed today is very good news and an indication that seemingly divergent parties can reach a mutually acceptable and beneficial agreement outside the courts," Domenici said. 
   "I hope the agreement augers well for future cooperative efforts to support the minnow without crippling water rights holders on the middle Rio Grande," he said. 
   Domenici credited legislative language he wrote regarding the silvery minnow and San Juan-Chama water as being critical to getting the parties to the table to reach this agreement. As part of today's agreement, all parties agreed to abide by and not argue with the Domenici minnow language. 
   Included in the FY2004 and FY2005 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bills, the permanent Domenici language protects San Juan-Chama water users by permanently prohibiting the Interior Secretary from redirecting San-Juan Chama water to meet the Endangered Species Act requirements in the Rio Grande. 
   As part of the agreement reached today, litigants in Silvery Minnow v. Keys agreed to drop any claim on the San Juan-Chama water for minnow purposes, as well as end their protest to Albuquerque's drinking water project and diversion of San Juan Chama water from the Rio Grande. Among other things, the city agreed to provide 30,000 acre feet of storage at Abiquiu reservoir for minnow and conservation purposes. 
   For FY2005, Domenici has made available $6.15 million for minnow recovery, $2 million will be used for habitat restoration and another $2 million is set aside for water acquisition. Another $500,000 is allotted for science and monitoring aspects, $275,000 for water and minnow management improvement, $750,000 for biological monitoring, and $625,000 for the management of the program.
 
 