SEN. DOMENICI SUPPORTS END TO JAPANESE BAN ON U.S. BEEF
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that he has joined other members of Congress in signing a letter to the Ambassador of Japan which calls for a prompt end to that nation's ban on importation of American beef products.  
   The message cited U.S. implementation of appropriate safeguards using internationally recognized science to ensure food safety and restore consumer confidence. Initiated by Senator Wayne Allard (R-Colo.), the letter to Ambassador Ryozo Kato raises the prospect of reciprocal economic action by the U.S. Congress if importation is not allowed to resume immediately. 
   "The American government and beef industry have gone to great lengths to meet the valid concerns of Japan and other foreign markets regarding the BSE issue. Though I understand the need to verify the safety of food products being allowed into their country, I believe that the time has come for Japan to reopen its doors to U.S. beef," Domenici said. 
   The Japanese government first blocked American beef products from entering the country's markets upon the discovery of a single U.S. case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in December 2003. Following the imposition of the ban, the U.S. government and U.S. beef industry worked to improve standards and meet concerns presented by Japan. 
   The U.S. Department of Agriculture agreed to Japanese demands on age verification requirements for animals under the age of 20 months, made requested changes to the Bovine Export Verification program, and implemented new requirements for the A40 maturity grade system. 
   "Our government has acted in good faith with Japanese officials to implement appropriate safeguards using internationally recognized science. Regrettably, these attempts have been repeatedly rejected by some in your government who are intent on stopping any resolution of this issue by using unrealistic requirements and dubious science," the letter to the Ambassador said. 
   "In light of this situation, if the Japanese government fails to lift the ban expeditiously, we are afraid that the U.S. Congress may pursue equitable, retaliatory economic actions against Japan. Our preference is to avoid this course of action, but our livestock producers, our industry workforce and our communities cannot wait a moment longer," the letter concluded. 
   Commonly known as "mad cow disease", BSE is a chronic degenerative disease that affects the central nervous system of cattle.
 
 