SEN. DOMENICI SAYS ALBUQUERQUE ON RIGHT TRACK TOWARD SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said that Albuquerque is on the right track toward reliance on clean, sustainable energy, and pointed to continuing advances in renewable energy technologies as evidence of progress to come. 
   Domenici, the chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, delivered the keynote address at the Town Hall on Albuquerque's Energy Future sponsored by the New Mexico First Foundation. The Senator was invited to speak by Albuquerque Mayor Martin Chavez.  
   "Albuquerque has taken some remarkable steps toward sustainable energy. The city has taken steps to move its fleet of city buses, cars and trucks to clean fuels. Albuquerque now operates in part on wind energy and has implemented improved efficiency standards for buildings. Both the city and PNM, which is a national leader in the promotion of new renewable technology, deserve credit for their vision," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that PNM has entered into a 25-year contract to purchase energy produced by the New Mexico Wind Center and offers its customers the opportunity to receive 90 percent of their power from win for just $10 extra a month. 
   "The National Energy Policy Act we passed last year has been instrumental in creating opportunities for renewable energy like wind and solar power across the country through substantial incentives contained in the bill. Our bill also is working to reduce dependence on foreign oil by requiring refineries to include more homegrown ethanol in their fuel and making the largest investment in nuclear energy in our nation's history. Conservation and increased production of all types of domestic energy is what it will take to solve our energy crisis," Domenici said. 
   The energy bill, which was pushed through Congress by Domenici, has spurred the development of 2,500 megawatts of new wind power--equivalent to the amount of emissions produced by 500,000 SUVs--this year alone. It has also led to plans by nine U.S. utilities and consortiums to build up to 19 new nuclear power plants, which could produce between 20,000 and 25,000 megawatts of safe, clean energy. 
   Among the other provisions in the energy bill that will lead to reduced energy consumption is the "Building America" program through the Department of Energy, which provides a $2,000 tax incentive for builders to build homes that are 50 percent more efficient than the national standard. These homes can become even more efficient--and reap financial rewards for the buyers--with the installation of solar energy. Homeowners earn up to a $2,000 tax credit for installing solar electricity or water heating, which provides power to the local electricity grid during the day and only draws on it during nighttime, making it "zero-energy." 
   "I will continue to work toward a future of diversified energy in ways that protect our environment and support the New Mexico economy. I also know that the future of America depends on innovation and creativity, and that's why I've introduced legislation to regain America's competitive edge. The PACE Act invests in science and technology education in order to ensure that we will have the brainpower to develop new technology," Domenici said. 
   Domenici, along with Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) have garnered over 60 co-sponsors for their Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Acts. 
   In the coming weeks, Domenici will begin congressional work on President Bush's Advanced Energy Initiative, which aims to reduce dependence on traditional energy sources, including foreign oil, and make investments in renewable and clean energy.
 
 