SEN. DOMENICI APPLAUDS EFFORTS TO IMPROVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed an effort to focus homeowners on common sense steps they can take to improve energy efficiency--and lower bills--in their own homes.  
   Domenici praised the "Power Is in Your Hands" campaign, sponsored by the Alliance to Save Energy and a group of more than 30 corporations. The campaign makes a stop in Albuquerque today to "makeover" a home in Northeast Heights. A representative from Domenici's office will be in attendance. 
   "The Power Is in Your Hands campaign focuses attention on the impact that a single individual can have in improving energy efficiency. With just a few easy, common sense steps, homeowners can help reduce energy demands and save money in the process. Everyone has a role in energy security," said Domenici, who serves as the Ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources committee. 
   "It is fitting that the Alliance for Energy has made a stop in New Mexico to 'makeover' a home. Many in our state have already taken advantage of weatherization programs that allow families to install more energy efficient heating and cooling systems in their homes. Energy efficiency was a major focus when we put together the Energy Policy Act of 2005, and I look forward to revisiting this issue in the future," he continued. 
   Domenici's Energy Policy Act of 2005 authorized funds for weatherization programs, and created an Energy Efficiency Pilot Program for States. 
   The bill also encourages homeowners to make their homes more energy efficient by giving them a 10 percent personal tax credit (up to $500) for energy efficient improvements, as well as a tax credit for home builders who build new homes that meet a 30 percent energy reduction standard through the end of this year. 
   The Alliance to Save Energy has launched the 6? of Energy Efficiency Challenge, which challenges consumers to take at least one energy efficiency action and encourage others to do the same to create a multiplier effect. Consumers can learn more at www.sixdegreechallenge.org.
 
 