SEN. DOMENICI REACTS TO 2007 STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Pete Domenici Tuesday evening assessed President Bush's 2007 State of the Union address and welcomed the challenge to reduce U.S. gasoline consumption by 20 percent in the next 10 years.  
   Domenici, ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, took particular interest in the President's policy proposals to build on the success of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, particularly proposals to increase the use of alternative energy sources. 
   "President Bush obviously had to deliver this speech under difficult circumstances. I want to learn more about some of the proposals he rolled out tonight, including his plans for the military and health care. 
   "I appreciate the President's leadership in seeking to reduce our use of gasoline over the next decade. 
   "I agree with the President's challenge to sharply expand the ethanol standard we included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. He has raised the bar on our commitment to renewable fuels and given us a goal worthy of our best efforts. He has proposed improving the CAFE standards and I'm optimistic that increased fuel efficiency coupled with expanded alternative fuel production can help us reduce gasoline consumption. 
   "However, in other areas, I am very disappointed. I had hoped the President would give greater attention to the tremendous promise nuclear power holds for us. Nuclear power is a carbon-free energy source and expanding it use is the single most significant thing we can do to confront climate change. 
   "I have been troubled by the Administration's tepid commitment to loan guarantee programs that will provide the support needed to deploy biomass, solar, clean coal, and nuclear energy. All of these energy sources can help reduce our dependence on foreign energy. It is more important than ever to continue aggressively pursuing the nuclear and clean energy options before us to make us more energy independent and help the environment. 
   "Overall, the President has given the Congress a lot to work with and I look forward to working with the administration and my colleagues to do what's right for the nation."
   For an Audio Clip please visit http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
 
 