SEN. DOMENICI ENCOURAGES NEW MEXICO HISPANIC COLLEGE STUDENTS TO APPLY FOR HISPANIC CAUCUS SCHOLARSHIPS
  Sen. Pete Domenici encouraged Hispanic college students from New Mexico to apply for scholarships and fellowships offered by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Inc. (CHCI) in Washington.  
   The CHCI is now accepting applications for its 2006 scholarships and fellowship placements program in Washington. 
   "The CHCI's multiple programs extend opportunities for Hispanic youth to further their education in a variety of stimulating and challenging environments. I hope a wide variety of New Mexico students will take advantage of these opportunities," Domenici said. 
   Applications can be accessed online at the CHCI website: www.chciyouth.org or by contacting the Institute at 1-800-EXCEL-DC or (202) 543-1771. 
   ** CHCI 2006 Scholarship Awards: These scholarships are offered to Hispanic students "who have a history of performing public and/or community service activities." The scholarships are not based on GPA, and all are awarded to full-time community college, undergraduate, and graduate students of all majors. The CHCI awards a one-time $1,000 scholarship to selected community college applicants, or a $2,500 scholarship to applicants attending a four-year university, or a $5,000 scholarship to applicants attending graduate-level academic institution. Applications must be postmarked by March 1, 2006. 
   ** 2006-2007 Public Policy Fellowship Program (Aug. 28, 2006-May 25, 2007): Offered to 20 recent college graduates or currently-enrolled graduate students. Selected CHCI fellows are placed in offices in Washington based on their interests. The nine-month fellowship gives participants the opportunity to work in such areas as international affairs, economic development, education policy, housing, or local government. CHCI fellows are provided with transportation to and from Washington, a monthly stipend, and health insurance. Applications must be postmarked by March 1, 2006. 
   CHCI is a non-profit, nonpartisan Hispanic education organization, established in 1978, based in Washington. The board of Directors is comprised of Hispanic members of Congress, non-profit leaders, and corporate executives.
 
 