SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES JORNADA RANGE TRANSFER ACT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reintroduced a bill to permanently transfer up to 1,000 acres of federal land in Do?a Ana County to the Chihuahuan Desert Nature Park, a nonprofit science education organization that teaches thousands of New Mexico youth every year about the unique Southwest desert ecology.  
   Domenici, the ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, introduced the Jornada Experimental Range Transfer Act Tuesday. The bill would permanently allot up to 1,000 acres of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Agriculture Research Service (USDA-ARS) property north of Las Cruces to the Chihuahuan Desert Nature Park. The bill matches legislation introduced last session by Domenici, which passed the Senate but was not acted on by the House. 
   In 1998, the Nature Park was granted a temporary easement to the federal property, which rests on the southern border of 193,000 acre block of land controlled by the USDA-ARS. The Domenici bill would permanently set aside the property for the Nature Park. The transfer is supported by the USDA-ARS. 
   "This land transfer makes sense for all parties involved. The Desert Nature Park needs a permanent location for it to thrive as an educational outpost for New Mexico students. The land on the Jornada Range is available and ideal for this purpose. Last session, we were able to gain Senate passage for this bill. I hope that this year we can get the House on board also so that students can understand the unique ecology in our backyard," Domenici said. 
   The bill will be referred to the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. 
   The Chihuahuan Desert Nature Park provides hands-on science education to as many as 11,000 K-12 students, 600 teachers and 2,000 other adults annually. It provides classroom presentations, field trips, schoolyard ecology projects and teacher workshops. 
   For more information on the Nature Park, visit: http://www.zianet.com/cdnp2/
 
 