NEW MEXICO LAWMAKERS PRAISE NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION LICENSING PROGRESS ON LEA URANIUM ENRICHMENT FACILITY
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman and Rep. Steve Pearce today praised the issuance of a license for the proposed uranium enrichment plant in Lea County. 
   The New Mexico lawmakers were today informed that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has approved a license to Louisiana Energy Services (LES) for construction and operation of the National Enrichment Facility (NEF) near Eunice, N.M. The Atomic Licensing Safety Board on Friday recommended licensing approval to the NRC.
   "This is a very significant and positive step. Gaining this license is important, not only for construction, but for what this facility will mean for the renaissance of nuclear energy in this country. It will be one of the largest construction projects we've ever seen in this corner of New Mexico, and a new pillar for economic development," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   "This will be one of the largest construction projects our state has ever seen. And the economic impact in southeastern New Mexico will be tremendous," Bingaman said.
   "Today's announcement marks a major milestone in our efforts to cement our state's leadership role in the development of alternative energy," Pearce said. "New Mexicans possess the expertise, commitment, and natural resources to help America meet one of its greatest challenges in the 21st century: the imperative of energy independence. LES will not just create hundreds of jobs and generate millions of dollars for Lea County and Southeastern New Mexico; it holds the seeds of a cleaner environment and a more prosperous future for our nation."
   The LES now has a short period of time to review the license, after which the NRC is expected to give its final approval. Licensing is necessary for the project, expected to cost $1.4 billion to construct, to move forward. With final approval, construction could begin this August, with the facility expected to be fully operational in 2013.
   The New Mexico facility will allow the U.S. to have a domestic source of enriched uranium for the country's commercial nuclear power plants.
   Following discussions with Domenici last month, Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman took action to advance the project by using a so-called Part 810 Waiver to allow LES and Urenco in Europe confer on materials and data needed to license and design the NEF. The Part 810 Waiver was necessary to negate a U.S. prohibition against LES contacting URENCO about material, data and technology it transferred to LES on the New Mexico project.
   The NEF project is expected to create more than 1,000 construction jobs and between 200-300 permanent jobs. With construction expected to be completed in 2013, NEF will use the world's most advanced, energy-efficient and cost effective uranium enrichment technology.
 
 