SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEDICAID PROGRAM WILL REIMBURSE N.M. HOSPITALS FOR TREATING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today encouraged New Mexicans to comment on a proposal for carrying out a Medicaid program that will bring more than $20 million over the next four years to the state to defray the costs incurred by New Mexico hospitals and caregivers who provide emergency care to undocumented immigrants. 
   Domenici Friday praised the Bush administration for moving forward to implement a four-year $1.0 billion ($250 million a year, FY2005-2008) reimbursement program approved last year as part of the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003. Domenici voted to enact this law. 
   "When the prescription drug card law passed last year, we insisted that room be made in the bill to aid rural health care. This reimbursement program is part of that successful effort, and it will help our hospitals meet the challenge of treating undocumented immigrants and the poor," Domenici said. 
   "I'm very glad the administration and HHS is moving this program forward. This money is specifically to reimburse for emergency health services furnished to undocumented immigrants," he said. "The cost of this care only adds to the financial constraints felt by many of our towns and counties, many of which do not have the tax base to pay for this care. These HHS funds are intended to help ease that burden." 
   Hospitals are required by federal law to provide medical assistance to undocumented immigrants and other patients regardless of their citizenship status or ability to pay. 
   Domenici encouraged emergency care providers in New Mexico to review the administrative plan offered by the HHS Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The plan can be reviewed at http://www.cms.hhs.gov/providers/mma1011.pdf. Public comments will be accepted through Aug. 16. 
   CMS intends to have the implementation plan in place by Sept. 1. 
   Though this plan, CMS will release $250 million annually nationwide to reimburse local governments and emergency medical providers for providing emergency medical care to undocumented immigrants. 
   For New Mexico, primarily in southern counties, the reimbursements will mean an estimated $5.1 million annually through FY2008. Hidalgo, Luna and Do?a Ana counties are among the 24 American counties bordering Mexico that face a disproportionate burden to provide federally-mandated emergency health care to undocumented immigrants. 
   Under the CMS plan, eligible states-including New Mexico-will receive funding based on the formula established in the law. Payments will be made directly to hospitals, physicians, and ambulance providers, including Indian Health Service facilities and tribes, as long as they did not receive payment from any other source such as the person treated or an insurance company. 
   The U.S./Mexico Border Counties Coalition issued a report in 2002 showing that in 2000 border hospitals spent more than $200 million to provide emergency health care to undocumented immigrants, including $6 million in New Mexico.
 
 