SENATE SENDS BUSH INTERSTATE ADOPTION BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the Senate has given final approval to legislation that will improve the protection for foster care children and move states toward more timely placements of children across state lines. 
   The Safe and Timely Interstate Placement of Foster Children Act (HR.5403) was approved by unanimous consent by the Senate Friday. Domenici was an original cosponsor to the Senate companion bill (S.2999) to the House bill that now goes to the President to be signed into law.
   "There is no question that finding a safe and loving home for children is best," Domenici said. "This bill will speed the placement of foster children by making interstate placement easier, particularly with extended family. Many of these children are in unsafe situations and this bill will cut through the red tape that now hinders placements that might be across state lines," Domenici said. "This bill will improve and streamline the process, and give states incentives to process these cases."
   The legislation would improve the Interstate Compact on the Placement of Children (ICPC) that sets the procedures for interstate placement of children and set responsibilities for those involved in placing the children. Over the years, the process has become bogged down, making it more difficult to place children in homes across state lines.
   The bill will ensure informed placement decisions, including a full exchange of information between sending and receiving states, and will set and enforce specific timelines for the permanent placement of children.
   In addition to improving record keeping and setting strict deadlines, the bill will also strengthen federal protections for the safety of all children in foster care by requiring states to check child abuse registries before placing a child into the home. 
  The two primary reasons for an abused or neglected child to move to another state are adoption or foster care placement, typically in the care of relatives.
   It is estimated that some 20,000 children need to go to another state to find a home. While the ICPC lays out procedures for these transfers, the median time spent in the foster care system by children awaiting an out-of-state placement is 43 months, two full years longer than the average time spent by an in-state placed child.
 
 