COMMITTEE PASSES SEN. DOMENICI'S NEW MEXICO AQUIVER STUDY, PROMPTS CALLS TO DELAY FEDERAL ENERGY MOVES AT OTERO MESA
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today approved legislation authorizing a broad study of groundwater resources in New Mexico, which prompted Sen. Pete Domenici to ask that the Bureau of Land Management delay federal oil and gas activities on the Otero Mesa until a water assessment in that region is completed.  
   The New Mexico Aquifer Assessment Act (S.324), introduced in January by Domenici and cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, is now ready for full Senate consideration. The measure instructs the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), in collaboration with the state of New Mexico, to undertake a groundwater resources study that will shed light on what the nature and extent of water resources are in New Mexico. 
   The bill designates the study area to include the Estancia Basin, Tularosa Basin, Hueco Basin, Middle Rio Grande Basin and the Salt Basin aquifer in the southern New Mexico region that includes Otero Mesa. 
   "Our water is a most precious resource, and I have always believed it must be thoughtfully studied and protected. This bill will give us new insights into our existing resources and allow us to help make decisions on their future use," Domenici said. 
   "Ninety percent of New Mexicans rely on groundwater for their drinking water supply. Increasing demands on this limited resource means it's critical for us to fully understand our aquifers, and this bill will help us do that," Bingaman said. 
   With today's approval, Domenici announced that he has asked the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) acting Director Jim Hughes to postpone its oil and gas program on the Otero Mesa until the study authorized by S.324 is completed. Bingaman made a similar request to Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne in an April letter. 
   "We identify the Salt Basin as a priority aquifer to study, including an investigation of the susceptibility of the water to contamination. This sort of review would provide us with critical information on the possible effect of oil and gas development in the Otero Mesa on the Salt Basin aquifer," Domenici said. 
   "At my urging, the U.S. Geological Survey and the New Mexico Interstate Stream Commission has joined forces to study the Salt Basin Aquifer. This bill will build on that effort," Bingaman said. "Until we have a much better understanding of the Salt Basin Aquifer, I believe the BLM should suspend any leasing at Otero Mesa." 
   The overall study authorized by S.324 will provide an analysis of the aquifers statewide, the availability of groundwater, salinity of resources, interaction between groundwater and surface water, and will include a characterization of surface and bedrock geology. 
   A 2006 USGS study estimated that the Salt Basin may contain as much as 57 million acre feet of water, including 15 million that is potable. The last USGS Study, completed in 2001 in the Middle Rio Grande Basin, indicated that the state had fewer resources than previously thought, which resulted in a water planning adjustments.
 
 