SEN. DOMENICI DEEMS FY08 BUDGET PLAN AS INCOMPLETE, BAD FOR MIDDLE CLASS TAXPAYERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted in opposition to the FY2008 Budget Resolution produced by the new Democratic majority, deeming it an incomplete effort that will unfairly raise taxes on middle class taxpayers.  
   Domenici, a former chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, addressed the shortcomings in the FY2008 Budget Resolution (S.Con.Res.21) in a speech to the Senate Thursday night. The plan will serve as a budgetary blueprint for FY2008 authorization, tax and appropriations bills later this year. The Senate resolution, passed 52-47, will next have to be reconciled with a similar measure which has not yet been passed by the House of Representatives. 
   "I cannot support this budget in its current form because it will increase taxes on the middle class. It does not offer any meaningful solution for entitlement spending and it offers an incomplete energy policy," Domenici said. 
   "This budget plan does take the right steps to extend the 10-percent tax bracket for low-income workers, to keep the child care credit and to continue marriage penalty relief. But it simply fails the hard-working middle class by ensuring they get a tax increase. If enacted, this budget would allow other tax breaks we gave the middle class in 2001 and 2003 to expire. Not extending these tax cuts will cause an enormous tax burden on these Americans," he said. 
   The FY2008 Budget Resolution presumes to generate more than $700 billion in new tax revenue from American families and businesses presumably by allowing much of the tax relief provisions passed in 2001 and 2003 to expire. This action would, for instance, increase tax rates on capital gains and dividends and end the college education tuition deduction. 
   According to the U.S. Treasury Department, 93,000 investors in New Mexico, including seniors, benefit from the capital gains and dividend tax relief. Under the Senate budget plan they would experience a tax increase. 
   While supportive of increases for renewable energy development, Domenici said the resolution falls short of providing incentives to develop other energy sources. 
   Domenici, who coauthored a bill to address entitlement reform, also criticized the budget plan's lack of instruction to begin dealing with the escalating growth of Social Security and Medicare spending.
 
 