SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES $6.15 MILLION FOR MIDDLE RIO GRANDE MINNOW RECOVERY IN 2005
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the FY2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill passed late Saturday contains a major funding commitment for the recovery of the silvery minnow in the Middle Rio Grande.  
   The provisions were contained in the FY2005 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill, which was crafted by Domenici. In all, $6.15 million has been appropriated through the Bureau of Reclamation for silvery minnow-related activities. In addition, $5 million has been provided for the repair of levees on the Middle Rio Grande. Overall, the Middle Rio Grande project is receiving $29.15 million, $13.3 million for resources management and $15.8 million for facilities. 
   "The omnibus bill contains good news on many fronts for New Mexico, including the Middle Rio Grande. The funds provided will allow for significant work to be done to restore the habitat, acquire water and improve the management and monitoring of the minnow. It also makes a big investment to continue to repair Middle Rio Grande levees. 
   "This has been a difficult year for appropriations, with intense demand and competition for water funds. However, we accomplished our goal of sustaining the minnow project and we will continue to be diligent and innovative as we meet the needs of New Mexicans and the fish," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also made permanent FY04 language that protects San Juan-Chama water users by permanently prohibiting the Interior Secretary from redirecting San-Juan Chama water to meet the Endangered Species Act requirements in the Rio Grande. 
   "I'm very pleased that we were able to make permanent important language that will protect San Juan-Chama water users from the prospect that this water will be claimed by the federal government for the minnow," Domenici said. 
   Of the $6.15 million allocated for minnow recovery, $2 million will be used for habitat restoration and another $2 million is set aside for water acquisition. $500,000 is allotted for science and monitoring aspects, $275,000 for water and minnow management improvement, $750,000 for biological monitoring, and $625,000 for the management of the program. 
   The Middle Rio Grande levee repair project, which was first funded in FY2003, will receive $5 million to continue work. 
   The Energy and Water bill is among nine bills being rolled into a massive $388 billion omnibus appropriations package that the Senate passed late Saturday night by 65-30. 
   All funding within the omnibus package is subject to a 0.8 percent across the board reduction. The omnibus package completes the FY2005 appropriations process.
 
 