DURING CHARACTER COUNTS WEEK, SENATE APPROVES SEN. DOMENICI-REQUESTED FUNDS FOR N.M. CHARACTER EDUCATION LEADERSHIP PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined the full Senate in passing a broad spending measure which includes $50,000 to support the Character Counts summer leadership camp hosted by New Mexico Military Institute in Roswell.  
   The Senate on Tuesday approved the FY2008 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education (Labor-HHS) Appropriations Bill, which includes Domenici's request to support the leadership camp as well as level funding for a national federal character education program. 
   With Senate passage, the bill will now go to a conference committee to reconcile differences with similar House-passed legislation. Domenici is a long-serving member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and has been appointed to the conference committee that will finalize this bill. 
   Last week the Senate approved a bipartisan resolution, introduced by Domenici and Sen. Chris Dodd (D-Conn.), that designates 2007 Character Counts Week as Oct. 21-27. 
   "Many New Mexico school children have benefitted from the positive message embodied in Character Counts and the NMMI leadership camp reinforces this. I believe Character Counts has made a tremendous impact on youngsters in our state and I will continue to work through the appropriations process to help fund it," Domenici said. 
   The $50,000 for the Character Counts summer leadership program would be provided through the U.S. Department of Education's Fund for the Improvement of Education account. The Labor-HHS bill also includes $25 million for the national character education program through the Safe Schools and Citizenship Education account. 
   "I continue to believe that the Character Counts program is making a significant difference in the lives of our children as they seek to become citizens embodying the six pillars of character - caring, civic virtue and citizenship, justice and fairness, respect, responsibility, and trustworthiness," Domenici said. 
   The NMMI-based program involves a four-day character development program for student leaders and educators to learn more about incorporating character education into classroom instruction and school activities. The program, which has also been supported with state grant funding, would be used to provide scholarships for students and educators to attend. 
   Domenici and former Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) first introduced a bipartisan congressional resolution calling for National Character Counts Week in 1994. Since then, New Mexico's program has grown from an idea at an Albuquerque elementary school to a statewide effort that incorporates character education into public, private and parochial classrooms.
 
 