SEN. DOMENICI ASSESSES IRAQI PRIME MINISTER'S ADDRESS TO CONGRESS, WELCOMES PROGRESS REPORT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today attended a historic joint address to Congress by Iraqi Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, and applauded the steps being taken to make his nation safer.  
   Allawi thanked the United States for its commitment to liberating Iraq and gave a status report on events in his country. He outlined the challenges the country is currently facing along with military strategy and plans to stabilize Iraq. 
   "Over the past few days, some have suggested that the world would be better off if Saddam Hussein was still in power. Today's appearance by Prime Minister Allawi shows what a ridiculous notion that is. I appreciated hearing his views of the overall situation in Iraq and the progress being made to stabilize his nation. There is more going on in Iraq than the insurgent attacks that dominate news accounts," Domenici said. 
   "We've come a long way in the past few years. Obviously, much more work needs to be done, but in both Iraq and Afghanistan, so much progress has been made. It would have been hard to imagine that these two cauldrons of terrorism would ever be democracies, but they are well on that path. I remain optimistic that in the long run, freedom will prevail," he said. 
   Domenici pointed to Allawi's plans to continue building and maintaining Iraqi security forces as evidence that the country was continuing on the right path to stability. Allawi said that the Iraqi government now controls almost 50,000 armed and combat-ready Iraqis, which will be tripled by January. 
   "The Prime Minister seems to clearly understand that when it comes down to it, the Iraqi people must take responsibility for their own safety. He has embarked on an ambitious plan to train and utilize Iraqi troops, with American and coalition help. I believe that giving the Iraqi people a stake in their own safety will have a measured effect on reducing terrorism," Domenici said. 
   Allawi also said that Iraq is on track to hold elections for the first time in January. Already, a national council has been elected, and an electoral commission is at work with the United Nations to establish voting procedures. He vowed that the elections will not be disrupted by terrorism and will be free and fair. 
   Allawi thanked the American people for their sacrifices in Iraq, particularly because of the high stakes involved in the war in Iraq. 
   "...The struggle in Iraq today is not about the future of Iraq only. It's about the worldwide war between those who want to live in peace and freedom, and terrorists. Terrorists strike indiscriminately at soldiers, at civilians, as they did so tragically on 9/11 in America, and as they did in Spain and Indonesia, Saudia Arabia, Turkey, Russia and my country and so many others," Allawi said.
 
 