SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO EXTEND FAMILY-FRIENDLY TAX CUTS, PREVENT TAX HIKE
  Sen. Pete Domenici early today joined the Senate to extend three expiring provisions of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 until they expire in 2010.  
   Unless Congress had acted to extend a number of key provisions, tens of millions of Americans would have faced an unwarranted tax increase next year. 
   Among the provisions extended by the Senate were the $1,000 child tax credit, the expanded 10 percent tax bracket, marriage penalty tax relief, child tax credit eligibility for more military personnel, and provisions to protect middle class families from the alternative minimum tax. 
   "This is simply not the time to be raising taxes on the American people. I am convinced that the tax relief passed by Congress and signed into law by President Bush has been instrumental in our surging economy. I want to keep that momentum going, which is why I voted to extend these key tax relief provisions," Domenici said. 
   "Households across New Mexico benefit from this tax relief. Parents will continue to be able to claim a child tax credit of $1,000. Married couples will continue to receive relief from a tax code that penalizes them. And more people will continue to qualify for lower tax brackets to give them a hand," he said. 
   More than 180,000 married couples in New Mexico have benefited from marriage penalty relief, and over 160,000 families have received an increase in the child tax credit. 
   In the bill passed by Congress, the upper limit of the 10-percent tax bracket will be extended to $14,000 for joint filers. The marriage penalty in the 15-percent tax bracket is completely eliminated, as was the marriage penalty in the standard deduction. 
   The bill, H.R. 1308, passed the House of Representatives Thursday and now goes to President Bush to be signed into law. 
   In addition, Congress extended the exemption from the individual alternative minimum tax, and included a provision that will allow members of the military to include combat pay as earned income, which makes it easier for them to qualify for the child tax credit.
 
 