SEN. DOMENICI ENDORSES $1.27 BILLION TO HELP POOR AFFORD WINTER HEATING BILLS
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced Friday that he has endorsed an effort to provide $1.27 billion in emergency funding to bolster a federal program that helps low-income families afford winter heating bills.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said the nation was already facing stingy heating oil and natural gas supplies this winter. However, damage to energy production and refining capabilities by two massive hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico will mean even more profoundly diminished supplies and very high winter heating costs. 
   "Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have exacerbated an already tenuous energy situation. The pain caused by these storms will be felt in our pocket books well after the winds and flooding abate. The hurt will be felt more profoundly by the poor, and we need to be ready to do what we can to help those most in need," Domenici said. 
   Domenici is part of a bipartisan group of Senators who are asking the leadership of the Senate Appropriations Committee to include $1.27 billion in emergency Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funds in a new supplemental appropriations package. Congress and the White House could take up a third supplemental funding bill related to Hurricane Katrina in October. 
   "Indeed, there is an imminent emergency confronting millions of low-income Americans unable to afford the cost of rising energy prices," said the letter signed by Domenici and others to Appropriations chairman Thad Cochran and ranking member Robert C. Byrd. "This situation warrants the provision of emergency LIHEAP funding in the comprehensive supplemental request." 
   "Many more Americans will need LIHEAP assistance than the 5 million households that received aid during FY2005. State LIHEAP programs are expecting a major increase in applications due to the rapid increase in home energy prices and this additional funding will allow them to address the need for assistance," the letter said. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee that has approved more than $2.0 billion for the LIHEAP program in FY2006. The Senate will next take up this funding issue when it debates the FY2006 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill. The $1.27 billion in emergency funding would be in addition to the final LIHEAP funding level to be agreed to by the House and Senate later this year. 
   In New Mexico, more than 55,600 LIHEAP payments were paid to households throughout the state this year. The Public Service Company of New Mexico has projected that average residential natural gas bills for its customers this winter (November to March) will be $152 per month, an increase of 54 percent from the average $99 bill last winter. 
   Administered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, LIHEAP is a federally-funded program to help eligible low income households meet their home heating needs.
 
 