SEN. DOMENICI OFFERS ABQ INDIAN SCHOOL LAND TRANSFER BILL TO AID N.M. PUEBLOS
  Nineteen pueblos in New Mexico would benefit under legislation introduced by Sen. Pete Domenici today to place another 18.3 acres of the old Albuquerque Indian School property in Albuquerque into trust for future development. 
   The Albuquerque Indian Schools Act of 2007 would consolidate two parcels of federal property south of I-40 on 12th Street, and put it into trust for the pueblos. It would build on a similar land transfer authorized in 1984. The bill, cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, will be referred to the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. Domenici, who serves on the committee, authored similar legislation in the last Congress.
   "This legislation will give the pueblos another opportunity to use property as a means to improve education and economic development for their people," Domenici said. "The 1984 land transfer was used successfully and has benefited each of the pueblos. We can build on that success with enactment of this bill."
   "The land transfer is obviously good for the pueblos, but it's also beneficial to the surrounding community because several deteriorating structures will be renewed and new jobs brought in," Bingaman said.
   The two parcels-12.38 acres and 5.92 acres-would be taken into trust by the Interior Department for the pueblos. The property would be available for "the educational, health, cultural, business or economic development purposes of the 19 pueblos." The bill also prohibits gaming on the property. The 19 pueblos first requested the conveyance in 2003. The parcels outlined in the 2007 bill are situated between downtown and Old Town and could form a natural tie to both areas for tourism, conferences, and tribal business activities.
   The new bill would authorize the second such property transfer from the old Albuquerque Indian School. After a 1981 request, Congress in 1984 put 44 acres of Indian School property into trust for the pueblos. This real estate, north of I-40, has been developed by the pueblos to include two major Interior Department office buildings to house the BIA Southwest Regional Office, the National BIA Training Center and the BIA Data Center.
   The 19 New Mexico pueblos that will benefit from this bill include: Acoma, Cochiti, Isleta, Jemez, Laguna, Nambe, Ohkay Owingeh, Picuris, Pojoaque, San Felipe, San Ildefonso, Sandia, Santa Ana, Santa Clara, Santo Domingo, Taos, Tesuque, Zia and Zuni.
 
 