SEN. DOMENICI DEFENDS INVESTMENT IN AMERICAN COMPETITIVENESS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today strongly defended the planned investment written into a sweeping bill to ensure the United States remains competitive, saying the nation can ill afford not to put resources into increasing American brainpower.  
  The Senate entered its first full-day of debate Tuesday on the America COMPETES Act (S.761) with attention paid to the nearly $60 billion authorized in the measure to invest in education, engineering and other technologies deemed crucial to American competitiveness in the future. Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman are primary cosponsors of the bill, which is based on a 2005 National Academies of Science report titled "Rising Above the Gathering Storm."
   Addressing the Senate today, Domenici challenged arguments against the bill related to the five-year (FY2008-FY2011) authorized funding levels it contains.
   "I agree with those who are worried about the budget and the fate of programs like Social Security. But I believe we have an opportunity now to pass a bipartisan bill that will certainly be looked at as one of the most significant pieces of legislation ever passed to add to the brainpower of the American people. In particular, it will add to the brainpower of the young people coming along who are going to try to keep us the most productive nation on earth by getting educated properly," Domenici said.
   Domenici, ranking member on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee and former Budget Committee chairman, said Congress would have to set priorities to actually fund the programs authorized by the bill. These programs are expected to involve the DOE national laboratories in New Mexico, as well as various math, science and technology education programs in the state.
   S.761 focuses on three primary areas of importance to maintaining and improving American competitiveness: 1) research investment; 2) educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics from elementary through graduate school; and 3) innovation infrastructure development.
   The Senate will continue consideration of S.761 this week, with votes expected on amendments tomorrow. A vote on final passage of the bill is expected this week.
 
 