N.M. LAWMAKERS REQUEST 'PROMPT & FULL' INVESTIGATION INTO NATIONAL GUARD RACISM CHARGES
  A united New Mexico congressional delegation today formally asked the U.S. Army for a "prompt and full" investigation into allegations made by members of the New Mexico National Guard that they were subjected to race-based discrimination while on duty in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom last year. 
   The investigation was requested of Acting Army Secretary Pete Geren by U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall and Steve Pearce. The delegation issued the request in a letter and included a copy of the Albuquerque Journal article that outlined the racism charges.
   Members of the New Mexico Guard say they were subjected to intrusive physical searches in Kuwait last year. Allegations have been made that racism within the Army may have played a role in the searches which were reportedly conducted to determine whether gang members were in the New Mexico Guard unit.
   "We write to bring to your attention serious allegations made by members of the New Mexico National Guard that cause us grave concern, and to ask that you immediately and fully investigate those claims and apprise us of any steps already taken to address this matter," the delegation wrote to Geren.
   "Allegations that some of these men, who left their families, homes, and jobs to serve their country overseas, were subjected to a race-based investigation cause us grave concern. We understand there has been an initial investigation regarding Army Criminal Investigation Command agent Paul McGuire's conduct in this matter, and we would appreciate details of that review. However, we also believe the Army must begin a prompt and full investigation into these allegations and the facts surrounding the claim of racism, including who ordered the inspection of New Mexico National Guardsmen," the letter said.
   To signal why the allegations are of even more concern to the state, the letter pointed to 2005 U.S. Census Bureau estimates showing that 43.4 percent of all New Mexicans are persons of Hispanic or Latino origin.
 
 