SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, April 24, 2006. 
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * John McBreen, KYVA Gallup 
   * Mike Jackson, KSVP Artesia 
   * Jim Williams, KUNM Albuquerque  
   REVIEW: 
   00:00 - Domenici says he expects a working group to begin a new effort to craft a bipartisan immigration and border security package that could be offered for Senate debate in the next few weeks. He says there is enough public pressure for action to warrant the Senate taking up legislation again. 
   01:22 - Domenici discusses the possible reasoning behind Democratic Minority Leader Harry Reid obstructing Senate debate and votes on immigration reform amendments. He predicts that any truly objectionable amendments to a border security and immigration reform package would ultimately be rejected and that Reid should allow votes during any new debate. 
   02:45 - Domenici attributes the recent sharp increases in gasoline prices to uncertainty about Iran and its nuclear program. He says current prices are too high and likely to fall some. He says sustained higher crude oil prices will mean that energy production in New Mexico will remain vigorous as the United States attempts to produce more of its own energy. 
   04:22 - Domenici says that despite spiraling oil prices, the international community must continue to try to force Iran to abandon its nuclear ambitions. 
   06:04 - Domenici notes that civil and political turmoil in Nigeria is a major driving force behind the huge increases in oil prices. He says uncertainty about Nigerian oil supplies are having a larger affect on energy prices than the controversy with Iran. 
   07:24 - Domenici says he is hopeful that the selection of a new Iraqi prime minister will bring more stability to Iraq. He says he understands the new prime minister is a natural leader, and credits the Iraqis for at last moving forward in forming a unified government. 
   09:17 - Domenici says the United States is trying to produce as much domestic energy as possible, and the government is attempting to speed up the permitting process for energy development on federal lands. However, he says there is simply not enough oil and natural gas in the United States to meet consumer demand. He says the prospect of recovering new natural gas sources in New Mexico is exciting. 
   11:24 - Domenici says he cannot speculate on what will get Iran to meet international demands that it change course on its nuclear ambitions, whether it be diplomacy or sanctions, but he says something will eventually work. He says he does not believe there will be war with Iran or that the matter will be settled with "a big take down with air strikes." 
   12:52 - Domenici says new consultations between the administration and congressional committees on domestic terrorist surveillance seem to have quieted the issue over the legality of this program. He says no one is clamoring for an end to the program. 
   14:42 - Domenici says Senator Russell Feingold's proposal to censure President Bush over the domestic terrorism surveillance program is "somewhere in the wastebasket" and "headed for the dump." 
   15:15 - Domenici says Senate Energy and Natural Resources field hearing in Albuquerque last Wednesday on drought and water crises clearly defined the ramifications of a drought disaster. He says the federal government must provide as much aid as possible, while fully recognizing that those hurt by the drought cannot be made whole.
 
 