COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. DOMENICI'S ABQ INDIAN SCHOOL LAND TRANSFER BILL
  A key committee today approved legislation authored by U.S. Senator Pete Domenici that would place the remaining 18 acres of the old Albuquerque Indian School property into trust for future economic development by 19 New Mexico pueblos. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee that today approved the Albuquerque Indian Schools Act (S.1193) which was introduced by Domenici and cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman. It would place two parcels of federal land south of I-40 along 12th Street into trust to benefit 19 New Mexico pueblos. The bill is now available for consideration by the full Senate.
   "These pieces of land represent an important opportunity for these pueblos to build on their long-term economic sustainability. I authored this legislation to help protect their access to this resource. I am encouraged with the committee's action and will now push for Senate consideration," said Domenici, who is a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee.
   "This land transfer would open up good economic development, cultural and education opportunities for the pueblos, and I'm very glad the Indian Affairs Committee is considering this important legislation," said Bingaman.
   Transfer of the two parcels-12.38 acres and 5.92 acres-would result in the second such transfer from the old Albuquerque Indian School, which was requested by the pueblos in 2003. Under the bill's provisions, the land would be taken into trust by the Interior Department and available for the "educational, health, cultural, business or economic development purposes of the 19 pueblos." The bill also prohibits gaming on the land, which is situated near downtown and Old Town and could serve purposes related to tourism, conferences and tribal business for both areas.
   Following a 1981 request, Congress originally placed 44 acres of Indian School property, located north of I-40, into trust for the pueblos. Since then, the acreage has been developed by the pueblos and is home to two prominent Interior Department office buildings that house the BIA Southwest Regional Ofice, the National BIA Training Center and the BIA Data Center.
   The 19 New Mexico pueblos that will benefit from this bill include: Acoma, Cochiti, Isleta, Jemez, Laguna, Nambe, Ohkay Owingeh, Picuris, Pojoaque, San Felipe, San Ildefonso, Sandia, Santa Ana, Santa Clara, Santo Domingo, Taos, Tesuque, Zia and Zuni.
 
 