SEN. DOMENICI VOTES FOR SENATE PASSAGE OF GENETIC NONDISCRIMINATION BILL
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, who after more than 20 years of working to promote research on the human genome, today voted for passage of new legislation to protect individuals from employment or health insurance discrimination based on their own genetic information. 
   The Senate approved (95-0) the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2007 (HR.493, as amended), a measure designed to prohibit the use of genetic information for discriminatory purposes with respect to employment and health insurance coverage. The House has passed similar measure, and it is expect that this legislation will become law this year.
   "I am happy that all the markers are aligned this year to finally protect people from those who would use genetic information to deny employment or health insurance," Domenici said. "We've long understood that the wonders of understanding the human genome to advance wellness could also be countered by the risks associated with misuse of this data."
   Domenici is largely credited for spurring rapid research on the human genome after orchestrating federal investment in the human genome project through the Department of Energy and the National Institutes of Health starting in 1986.
   After about a decade of research, Domenici shifted his focus to "the close intertwined relationship" between medical records and genetic confidentiality. In 1997, he authored the Genetic Confidentiality and Nondiscrimination Act. But that bill and other subsequent genetic nondiscrimination measures were never enacted though they enjoyed broad support.
   "The bill we could enact this year begins to meet the strong need we now have to ensure that individuals are not discriminated against because of potential future health problems gleaned from their genetic information," Domenici said.
   "This bill should make people more comfortable with using genetic services, knowing that there are federal safeguards to prevent their personal information being used against them," he said.
   The Senate-passed bill would prevent insurers from basing eligibility or premium determinations on genetic information. Employers, labor organizations, employment agencies and joint labor-management committees would also be restricted from using genetic information to discriminate against an individual through hiring, firing, or other employment decisions.
   The bill also prohibits individuals from being required to take a genetic test by group, individual and Medicare supplemental insurance providers. It also establishes civil monetary penalties for genetic discrimination.
 
 