SEN. DOMENICI HOPEFUL FOR FED FLOOD RECOVERY AID, DESPITE FEMA DENIAL OF HELP FOR OTERO COUNTY FLOOD VICTIMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he will support New Mexico's appeal of the federal government rejection of an application for disaster assistance related to flash flooding in Otero County in June.  
   Domenici said he remains hopeful that New Mexico will gain some level of flood-related disaster aid despite his disappointment that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) denied the state's bid for a federal disaster designation for areas of Alamogordo and Otero County damaged by flash floods on June 22. 
   "I'm disappointed that the request was denied, and I will support the appeal. The late June floods in Alamogordo ended up being a harbinger of a season of serious flooding all over the state this summer. Help is needed. There have been later floods in Otero County and we have all seen Hatch and other areas get swamped," Domenici said. 
   "The Governor's newest request keeps the option open for FEMA aid to come to Hatch and other severely damaged areas. I've endorsed the new disaster designation request, and I'll continue to strenuously press the White House and Homeland Security Department to approve this request, while the appeal of the first application goes forward," he said. 
   Domenici said subsequent flooding in Otero County and other areas throughout the state may qualify residents, businesses and local governments for federal recovery assistance through FEMA and other government sources. 
   Domenici learned today that FEMA had denied Governor Bill Richardson's request for Individual Assistance for Otero County and Hazard Mitigation statewide for damages from a June 22 flash flood. FEMA determined that the flood damage in Otero County in June was not of such severity and magnitude as to be beyond the capabilities of the state and affected local governments. The state has 30 days to appeal the decision. 
   Domenici, who serves on the funding and oversight committees for the Department, of Homeland Security, this week endorsed Richardson's new request for federal disaster aid, which more broadly encompasses flood damage in the state since late July. 
   In addition, Domenici has prompted the Army Corps on Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation to work with flood-prone communities to shore up or repair flood damaged water infrastructure. The Corps, for example, has provided emergency response to seven communities in Bernalillo, Sandoval, Valencia, Do?a Ana, and Socorro counties, as well as at the Laguna Pueblo. 
   As chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Bureau and the Corps, Domenici has provided $19 million in FY2006 for flood control projects throughout the state.
 
 