SEN. DOMENICI APPLAUDS SEARCH FOR LONG-TERM MIDDLE RIO GRANDE WATER MANAGEMENT IDEAS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he expects to receive a review of long-term water management strategies for the middle Rio Grande, and hopes recommendations to be formulated by an endangered species collaborative program are innovative.  
   Domenici deployed members of his Washington and New Mexico field office staff to take part in a recently completed workshop hosted by the Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Act Collaborative Program. The workshop brought together a wide varied of parties interested in water management in the middle Rio Grande valley. 
   Domenici helped form this group and has supplied federal appropriations to support it as it tried to meet 2003 Biological Opinion requirements related to the endangered species and maintain the water needs of communities, farmers and other users on the Rio Grande. 
   "Once rain falls, it is sometimes hard to remember that we live in a desert. We cannot forget that long-term water supply conflicts are not resolved by even one great monsoon season," Domenici said. 
   "I am grateful that there was so much interest in this workshop, and I'm pleased this group has taken the effort to seek innovative ways to balance water demands on the Rio Grande for next year and beyond." he said. "The ideas discussed at the workshop will be studied in terms of feasibility. I look forward to getting a review that can help guide me in working to ensure federal participation in working through out water challenges on the Rio Grande." 
   The Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Collaborative Program is led by the Bureau of Reclamation, Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. There are 22 signatories to the group including state agencies, local governments and tribal groups. 
   As chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriation Subcommittee, Domenici has secured $39.5 million in the Senate's FY2007 bill for the Bureau's Middle Rio Grande Project. The $24 million appropriation for the Middle Rio Grande Collaborative Program is a substantial increase over the FY2006 funding level. 
   Included within the Collaborative Program funding is $2.0 million to continue development of the off-channel sanctuaries for the endangered silvery minnow. The bill provides $4 million in Army Corps funding to continue restoration of the middle Rio Grande bosque. 
   www.fws.gov/mrgesacp
 
 