CAPITAN IS FIFTH N.M. COMMUNITY TO GET EMERGENCY WATER WELL THROUGH SEN. DOMENICI-FUNDED DROUGHT AID PROGRAM
  The village of Capitan will become the third Lincoln County community, and the fifth in New Mexico, to gain a new water well this summer through a federal emergency drought assistance program funded by Sen. Pete Domenici.  
   The Bureau of Reclamation has issued a contract with K.D. Huey Co. of Capitan to help the community overcome water shortages related to the long-term drought experienced in the region. The well will be located about three miles east of Capitan, south of Highway 380 on Bureau of Land Management land. Work is expected to begin the week of September 11. 
   "Lincoln County was especially hit hard by the water shortages caused by years of extreme drought. I'm pleased Capitan has tapped into this program and will now have a new and reliable source of water for residents," Domenici said. "The water pouring over this region because of the summer monsoons will not fully restore the damage caused by the drought, so this well will be put to good use by the village." 
   The Huey firm has been contracted to drill an exploratory 17 1/2-inch diameter borehole to a maximum of 650 feet. The complete production well is expected to have a 12 1/4-inch diameter borehole. The contract also stipulates installation of a test pump to a depth of 500 feet, capable of producing at least 600 gallons per minute (gpm) from a depth of 460 feet. 
   Armed with $9.0 million in emergency funding secured by Domenici in June for the Bureau of Reclamation Drought Emergency Assistance Program, the Bureau this summer has issued contracts to drill new water wells for Ruidoso and Ruidoso Downs in Lincoln County, and earlier this month announced a new well for Cloudcroft in Otero County. Las Vegas is also getting a new well under this federal program. 
   In addition to gaining the funding, Domenici secured congressional approval to reauthorize the Drought Emergency Assistance Program for another five years. As is being demonstrated in New Mexico, this program allows the Bureau to assist in well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, water banking, and conservation. The program helps states, tribes and some nonprofit organizations find ways to minimize the losses and damages associated with severe drought situations. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee which has funding jurisdiction over the Bureau of Reclamation.
 
 