SEN. DOMENICI EXPECTS MORE JOBS WILL RESULT FROM INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL LABS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today oversaw the signing of an intellectual property agreement to improve technology transfer from the Energy Department's nuclear weapons laboratories, a pact the Senator believes should accelerate the creation of more high-tech jobs in New Mexico.  
   Domenici, who wrote the initial federal technology transfer law enacted in 1989, praised Technology Ventures Corp. (TVC) in Albuquerque for developing the intellectual bundling agreement that allow private sector business to negotiate and contract with a single laboratory that has bundled intellectual property owned by all four DOE National Nuclear Security Administration laboratories--Los Alamos, Sandia, Lawrence Livermore and the Nevada Test Site. "This TVC-DOE agreement is great. It should exponentially accelerate current successes in transferring technological innovations developed by our labs to the private sector. Bundling intellectual property rights for ideas generated by multiple labs will make them more readily available for development into the products and services. That will ultimately create jobs and strengthen our economic base," Domenici said. 
   As either ranking member or chairman of the Senate subcommittee that funds the national labs and their technology transfer programs, Domenici has secured more than $11 million to support TVC's goal of facilitating technology transfer from the national laboratories by attracting investors and other business support. In the Senate, Domenici has secured another $2.0 million in FY2008 DOE funding for TVC. 
   The collaboration between TVC and NNSA has led to more than $550 million directed toward the formation of 44 companies and more than 3,600 jobs. 
   "I am proud of what TVC has been able to do with a little investment from the federal government. Based on TVC's record of success, the earmarks I've secured work out to be over a 40-to-1 return on our investment," Domenici noted. 
   As the agreement was penned by TVC, DOE officials and lab directors today, Domenici also challenged the Bush administration to provide greater funding for basic and applied research at the nation's nuclear weapons laboratories. He says such funding should be similar to that now offered to DOE Office of Science laboratories. "Our nuclear labs are already technology incubators and it is vital for the NNSA to continue to invest in our national security labs and provide the funding necessary to support solid research and development program," Domenici said.
 
 