SEN. DOMENICI SAYS N.M. LABS' NANOTECHNOLOGY CAN HELP NIH RESEARCH CATASTROPHIC ILLNESSES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today advocated a more concerted partnership between the Energy Department's national laboratories and the National Institutes of Health to apply nanotechnology to the goal of finding cures to catastrophic illnesses like cancer.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate subcommittee that provides appropriations for the national laboratories, today addressed a symposium on collaborative partnerships on cancer research. Participants included officials from Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, the University of New Mexico Cancer Research and Treatment Center, as well as the National Cancer Institute (NCI). 
   Domenici, who has been instrumental in the funding and founding of the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies (CINT) in Albuquerque, discussed his belief that nanotechnology advances made by scientists at the New Mexico-based national laboratories can, and should, be applied to cancer research. 
   "The DOE laboratories, including Sandia and Los Alamos, are world-class research institutions which possess unique skills, people and capabilities to advance our ability to diagnose and treat cancer," Domenici said. 
   "CINT will be a state of the art research center that will serve as a gateway to specific scientific research capabilities within the labs," he said. "I believe it can be a gateway for the National Institutes of Health to team with the labs to advance cancer research and testing. It seems obvious the labs and NIH owe it to the country to see how they can profit from each other's talents and goals." 
   CINT, a joint Sandia-Los Alamos venture, would provide a gateway to Sandia's MESA lab, compound semiconductor research lab, and supercomputing capabilities. It would also provide avenues to LANL's bioscience research, neutron science center, and high magnetic field laboratory. 
   Domenici said a stronger DOE-NIH collaboration on cancer research could mimic the DOE-NIH partnership on the human genome that he fostered in the mid-1980s. The genome project led to the profound progress made by American scientists in unlocking secrets of the human genome. He said that project "kicked off a revolution in the use of technology in understanding molecular biology." 
   "Today, the labs are developing incredibly small scale nanodevices that present an opportunity to fabricate systems that can operate at a molecular level. We must now draw on the labs' experience in biology, chemistry and physics if we hope to integrate nanomachines into the human body for the purpose of advancing medical cures," Domenici said. 
   Domenici expressed his hope to have the UNM Cancer Center benefit from the DOE labs' expertise in nanotechnology, microengineering, advanced science and imaging, and supercomputing. He said added collaboration among the UNM Cancer Center and the labs could boost the center's bid to be designated a National Cancer Center by the NCI, which is a division of the National Institutes of Health. 
   Domenici has also endorsed the UNM Cancer Center bid to gain the NCI designation, which would enable UNM to participate in sustained broad-based interdisciplinary programs in cancer research run through NCI.
   Contact:  
 
 