SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL TO HELP SMALL COMMUNITIES SURVIVE NEW ARSENIC REGULATIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today became an original cosponsor to legislation that would open the door to exempting small communities and rural water systems from stricter arsenic drinking water standards that go into effect Jan. 1, 2006.  
   Domenici today joined Senator Ben Nelson (D-Neb.) to reintroduce the Rural Community Arsenic Relief Act (RCARA) which would exempt nonprofit small public water systems from certain drinking water standards related to naturally occurring contaminants like arsenic, radon or radium. 
   "I have been increasingly concerned with the ability of our more rural areas to adjust to the tougher arsenic standards that will soon go into effect. It is dire that we allow New Mexicans with every availability to have clean, safe water but we cannot demand what it is financially and economically impossible for them to achieve. This bill addresses that problem by sparing water systems that would economically suffer from meeting the requirements," Domenici said. 
   Eligible systems would be those who serve 10,000 or fewer individuals and petition for the exemption based on economic infeasibility, adverse impact on low-income families, diminished access to affordable technologies, and lack of unreasonable health risks. 
   Starting Jan.1, 2006, the EPA will impose its new 10 parts per billion (ppb) arsenic water standards, a level sharply lower than the current 50 ppb standard. Communities granted an exemption would be required, on a graduated scale, to meet the new arsenic standard by 2016. 
   In New Mexico, implementing the new standards will cost between $370 and $440 million in capital outlays plus $18 million per year in operating costs. Albuquerque and an estimated 100 smaller communities and water systems in New Mexico have arsenic levels that would be required to be lowered to meet the new EPA standard. 
   The New Mexico Bureau of Geology and Mineral Resources estimates that meeting the 10 ppb arsenic level could increase the cost of water for the average New Mexican by $50 to $90 a month. 
   Within the Nelson bill, the University of New Mexico is listed as one of six schools that would comprise a university-based arsenic research consortium. The Environmental Protection Agency is directed to establish the consortium to conduct reviews, analyses, and health effects studies related to the low levels of arsenic commonly found in the United States. The consortium would be required to make recommendations on which levels of arsenic in drinking water constitute unreasonable risks to public health. 
   Domenici plans on reintroducing his Community Drinking Water Assistance Act, which would create a six-year, $1.9 billion grant program to assist disadvantaged communities, tribes and water associations in meeting the new arsenic drinking water standards set by the EPA.
 
 