SEN. DOMENICI ADDRESSES GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE, BUSH'S NEW FEDERAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY ORDER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said President Bush's issuance of an Executive Order to promote greater energy efficiency within federal agencies is good step toward promoting conservation and energy efficiency nationwide.  
   The Executive Order was issued Wednesday following President Bush's State of the Union address in which he called for a 20 percent reduction in gasoline use in the United States in 10 years. The order outlines new efficiency requirements for federal agencies, including increasing the purchase of flex-fuel vehicles and the consumption of alternative fuels. 
   "Today's Executive Order affirms the Bush Administration's growing commitment to energy efficiency, conservation and the environment. I am pleased by the strength of these measures. They build nicely on the efficiency accomplishments in the Energy Policy Act of 2005," Domenici said. 
   "I believe there is more we can do in Congress to facilitate greater energy conservation in the private sector. I look forward to working with the Bush Administration and Senator Bingaman in that endeavor. I also anticipate an increased effort by the Department of Energy to work through its backlog of efficiency standards previously mandated but not yet implemented," he said. 
   Domenici today also addressed global climate change issues at a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing. PNM Chairman Jeff Sterba testified at this hearing at which the Energy Information Administration provided an analysis of energy market and economic impacts proposed "cap and trade" system to reduce greenhouse gases. 
   "We have had a very productive bipartisan discussion on climate, and we have learned a lot so far. I am aware that many in the scientific community are warning us that something needs to be done. We still have a lot of questions before us, though," Domenici said. "We are continuing a search for answers that are meaningful, economically feasible and that will produce real reductions in greenhouse gas emissions." 
   "It is clear to me that developing a system of mandatory controls on carbon emissions could be a daunting task. Controls must be effective. They must produce significant emission reductions to be meaningful. The cost of such controls should have the least possible overall negative effect on our economy and any burdens must be as equitable as they can possibly be. And we must be sure that we do not impose costs on our industry that will drive them to relocate in countries such as India and China that do not have similar controls on carbon," he said. 
   Domenici and Bingaman last April hosted a day-long Climate Change Conference to discuss how Congress might go about creating a program to better control U.S. greenhouse emissions. That conference followed the issuance by the New Mexico Senators of a White Paper on climate change. 
   "I believe an essential part of any response to climate change is to double--maybe triple--our commitment to developing new energy technologies. Research and development funding, both public and private, is vital to addressing many of our nation's energy challenges, and the climate change issue is no exception," Domenici said. 
   The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will host a day-long conference on bioenergy fuels on Thursday, Feb. 1. The conference is scheduled to begin at 9:30 a.m., in Dirksen G-50.
 
 