SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEXICO 'RAIL RUNNER' MUST CLEAR HURDLES BEFORE RECEIVING FEDERAL FUNDING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today wrote to Gov. Bill Richardson to ensure that the state of New Mexico is aware of the numerous requirements it must meet before federal funding is provided for the "Rail Runner" commuter train project.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the U.S. Department of Transportation. He wrote Richardson following a briefing on the New Mexico project as it fits within the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2005. Under this federal transportation law, Domenici gained authorization for up to $75 million for the central New Mexico commuter rail. 
   Domenici wrote to stress that while the federal money has been approved there are certain steps the state must meet before it may access the $75 million, including certifying that operation and maintenance costs will not drawn from federal transportation funding. In addition, the New Mexico project must still compete with "small start" projects in other states. 
   The following is the text of Domenici's letter on the Rail Runner funding situation: 
   Dear Governor Richardson, 
   I would like to take this opportunity to provide you an update on the status of the federal process for the New Mexico commuter rail project. As you know, the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act (SAFETEA-LU) authorizes the project as a $75 million New Start and I wanted to let you know what steps the State of New Mexico must soon undertake to receive the funding. 
   SAFETEA-LU included a provision that allows a "new start" project which has a federal share of $75 million or less (referred to as a "small start") to be eligible for a streamlined process to get a grant agreement to federally fund the construction of a transit project. The commuter rail project will fit into that category and the Department of Transportation (DOT) is expected to publish the regulations which guide the process of receiving federal funding for small starts in the Federal Register shortly. I want to make sure you are aware that while authorization in SAFETEA-LU is an important step in the process, it does not automatically obligate DOT to provide federal funds. 
   Among the many statutory requirements that New Mexico will have to meet in order to be eligible to take advantage of the authorization in SAFETEA-LU is a requirement that New Mexico produce a minimum of 20% cost share agreement to match the federal funds. The project must also compete with other small start projects in terms of project worthiness and DOT is required to evaluate the project against other states' projects in terms of ridership levels and benefits produced. Additionally, the project sponsors must provide certification with supplementary documentation that the state has the ability to provide funds for on-going maintenance and operational expenses which DOT does not provide. Once the state of New Mexico has complied with all of the small start requirements and submitted that material to DOT for evaluation, the project becomes eligible to compete for limited new starts funds and get a full funding grant agreement with DOT. This agreement will lay out a multi-year payment schedule that the House and Senate Appropriators will use as a guide to make year-by-year funding decisions. 
   I would like to congratulate you on your State of the State speech. It is evident that we both share a deep commitment for the welfare of New Mexico, and I look forward to continuing this relationship as we work to ensure a brighter future for New Mexico. 
   In closing, I wanted to take this opportunity to clarify the obligations of the State of New Mexico in light of certain statements that have appeared in the media. 
   Sincerely, 
   Pete V. Domenici 
   United States Senator
 
 