SEN. DOMENICI SETS PRIORITIES FOR HARDROCK MINING REFORM
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today laid out his priorities for reforming the Mining Law of 1872, and again advocated the Senate starting from a clean slate to produce a bipartisan measure that can be signed into law.  
   The reform effort was the focus of an Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing Thursday. The House of Representatives passed legislation last year to change the Mining Law. 
   "In September of last year, I began reaching out to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to start the process of reforming our mining laws, which have not been altered for 135 years. Clearly, this is a complex issue that will require compromise and a great deal of hard work. Nevertheless, I am optimistic that we will be able to find a more balanced approach that will provide a fair return to taxpayers for the use of federal resources while ensuring that America has a robust mining industry," Domenici said. 
   Domenici outlined three major objectives that will dictate his approach to reforming the mining law, including: 
   * Replacing patenting with a more modern form of secure tenure; 
   * Imposing prospective and profits-based royalty; and 
   * Establishing an abandoned locatable mine reclamation fund to clean up sites that threaten the environment and public safety. 
   "It is important to remember that while the Mining Law itself has not been updated, there have been numerous new environmental laws that still are applicable to mining. For that reason, and in light of the fact that America increasingly relies on foreign countries for minerals, I believe that the scope of our efforts should be limited to patenting, royalty, and abandoned mine issues. Striking the right balance will be key to our efforts, and Senator Bingaman and I should move forward with drafting legislation as quickly as possible," Domenici said. 
   Hardrock mining in New Mexico primarily involves copper and molybdenum production, with mining claims mostly in Cibola, Grant, McKinley, Rio Arriba, Sierra and Taos counties. Phelps Dodge, which has the largest hardrock mining operation in the state, last fall reported employing 1,260 people in Grant County and generating $96 million in revenues for state and local governments in 2006. 
   At Thursday's hearing, Domenici also noted that China, Russia and other foreign countries continue to lock down long-term mineral supply arrangements through state mining company investments abroad. 
   Domenici said he believes that this trend exposes the United States to potentially harmful supply disruptions that could have a disastrous impact on national economic security. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, Americans spent almost $177 billion on foreign materials in 2006, an increase of nearly 28 percent in a year. 
   "Minerals represent the basic building blocks of infrastructure, technology, defense and industry. The policies we put in place must encourage self reliance," Domenici said. "It is for this reason that reform efforts must promote responsible development of our domestic resources to avoid a significant economic and competitive disadvantage over the long term."
 
 