SEN. DOMENICI URGES COMMUNITY SUPPORT FOR NEW MEXICO TRAINING RANGE INITIATIVE AT CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
  In light of a favorable, new draft Environmental Impact Statement released by the Air Force, Sen. Pete Domenici today issued the following statement renewing his call for community support for the New Mexico Training Range Initiative at Cannon Air Force Base in Clovis.  
   The initiative seeks expanded airspace at the base to allow jets to fly lower and faster. Granting the airspace would give Cannon a unique site for realistic Air Force training. The Air Force is holding public hearings in Roswell (today, Jan. 24,) Santa Rosa (Jan. 25), Fort Sumner (Jan. 27) and Clovis (Jan. 28) to allow public comment on the draft EIS. 
   "The New Mexico Training Range Initiative (NMTRI) is good for New Mexico and good for our nation's security. The recent Draft Environmental Impact Statement released by the Air Force is a sign of good progress in making this proposal a reality. 
   "The 27th Fighter Wing currently enjoys the qualitative training advantage of a first-rate bombing range located only 25 miles from Cannon Air Force Base. This efficiency, combined with consistently good weather, make Cannon a very cost-effective base for training pilots. The expanded airspace proposed by the NMTRI will significantly enhance these existing advantages. 
   "NMTRI will allow pilots to fly lower at higher speeds, giving them a much more realistic simulation of flight tactics employed in actual combat. Such an advantage would lend real 'military value' to Cannon AFB by providing the U.S. Air Force a unique inland training range capable of accommodating supersonic flight. Not incidentally, 'military value' is the predominant criterion to be considered during the 2005 BRAC round. 
   "Necessarily, pilots with access to more rigorous training are likely to perform better in live combat operations. This is important for two reasons. First, we owe the very best training available to our service personnel who are putting their lives at risk more often in the Global War on Terrorism. Second, realistic flight training gives our defense planners great confidence that U.S. forces will continue to enjoy air superiority into the future. 
   "The minimal environmental impact of the NMTRI, as detailed by the Draft EIS, is good news for New Mexico and the nation's security. It moves us closer to making this valuable training asset a critical part of New Mexico's military value. It also points to a future in which America's air dominance endures." 
   The draft EIS found that expansion would have "some airspace and noise consequences and no noticeable effects on other environmental resources." While sonic booms may increase, they will not be strong enough to cause any damage to human or animal health, according to the EIS. 
   Domenici has been a longtime supporter of expanding the airspace and serves on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that funds Cannon.
 
 