SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW - QUESTIONS & ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, Jan. 24, 2005. 
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Alex Cuellar, KKOB Albuquerque  
   * John McBreen, KYVA Gallup 
   * Michael Olson, KRWG Las Cruces 
   TOPICS: 
   * Roe v. Wade Anniversary;  Assessing Bush's Inauguration Address;  Outlook for State of the Union Address;  Social Security Reform;  Navajo Water Settlement, Aamodt Settlement Influence;  Immigration Reform;  New Mexico Training Range Initiative. 
   REVIEW: 
   00:00 - Domenici says he has not seen any of the protests related to the anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision on the legalization of abortion. He says what he has gleaned from new reports is that there seems to be a "higher level of discussion" among the parties this year. He says he has always been pro-life but has always been able to listen to friends and constituents who represent opposing views on the abortion issue. 
   01:49 - Domenici says he is troubled by the critical assessments of President Bush's inaugural address, which he considered a traditional "conceptual speech, an idea speech." He says the President's theme of freedom and liberty was important in that it linked American safety to the spread of freedom around the globe. He says tyrannical governments often foster terrorism that could then affect U.S. national security. 
   05:15 - Domenici says he expects the President's State of the Union speech next week will be more "programmatic" with an emphasis on issues like Social Security reform, the national debt, education and nonproliferation. 
   05:44 - Domenici says the President is likely to stress Social Security reform, and that he will probably not do it with such specificity that it would kill an honest debate in Congress on reforming the program. 
   07:01 - Domenici says he is not surprised there are so many divergent views on whether the Social Security program should be reformed. He notes that former President Clinton advocated reform while he was in office. He says he is hopeful Congress can make some progress on the issue without becoming so polarized that nothing gets done. 
   09:55 - Domenici says he remains hopeful about progress on a Navajo water settlement, but notes that a recent Department of Justice decision on the Aamodt water suit could cast a pall on all other settlements in New Mexico. He says he has asked the Bush administration to become more involved and realistic in determining federal liability levels in the Aamodt, Navajo and other settlement cases. 
   11:25 - Domenici discusses the Winters doctrine in light of the Navajo water settlement talks. He says he wants a settlement reached, and notes that there may be a question of committee jurisdiction once a settlement is translated into federal legislation. 
   14:25 - Domenici says immigration reform faces a difficult ride in Congress with this issue being one of the most contentious in the wake of the 9/11 attacks. He says he appreciates President Bush putting forth a temporary worker plan, but says such a proposal could be stymied by over demagoguery about issues like amnesty. 
   18:25 - Domenici encourages New Mexicans to attend public hearings being hosted by the U.S. Air Force in Roswell, Santa Rosa, Fort Sumner and Clovis to discuss a draft environmental impact statement on the planned New Mexico Training Range Initiative. He says the plan has the potential to be very important to Cannon Air Force Base.
 
 