SEN. DOMENICI SAYS NATURAL GAS CRISIS WILL ONLY WORSEN WITHOUT PRODUCTION INCREASE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he is hopeful Congress can develop a bipartisan solution to the short and long-term problems surrounding the supply and demand for natural gas in the United States.  
   Domenici as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today joined with Senator Jeff Bingaman, the ranking Democrat on the panel, in hosting a major conference on natural gas. The conference featured a wide variety of panelists to discuss a broad array of issues related to natural gas production and use in the United States. 
   "Natural gas is clean, abundant and was, until recently, affordable. There is strong support for this energy that crosses party lines and regional differences. We all agree that we must proactively address the looming gap between supply and demand," Domenici said. 
   "Today's conference was the ideal way to begin bipartisan discussion about energy legislation for the 109th Congress," he said. "I will follow this conference with a series of bipartisan discussions with my committee colleagues about the surest way to incorporate the best of today's proposals into energy legislation for consideration by the committee and full Senate." 
   Domenici opened the conference by outlining what he believes is a "natural gas" crisis for the United States as consumption will vastly outstrip production in the next 20 years. 
   "The natural gas crisis is already affecting residential, commercial and industrial consumers. It has cost American consumers billions of dollars," Domenici said. 
   The bipartisan conference focused on increasing natural gas supplies, expanding access to liquefied natural gas, improving natural gas infrastructure, environmental concerns, diversification and conservation, and regulatory hurdles. 
   Among the lower 48 states, New Mexico is the second largest natural gas producer and fifth largest producer of crude oil. The state has the second largest known reserves of natural gas and fourth largest known reserves of crude oil. Everyday, New Mexico produces approximately 10 percent of the natural gas consumed in the United States on a daily basis. More than 60 percent on the natural gas produced in the state comes from federal lands. 
   "New Mexico's natural gas production and its reserves are significant. They represent an important resource as we address the growing demand for natural gas. But the truth is that all our natural gas will not solve the long-term demand for this fuel. We must produce as much American natural gas as possible as part of a more diversified energy production model that also builds on other fuels like clean coal, renewable and nuclear energy," Domenici said. 
   Among the panelists at today's conference was Bob Gallagher, president of the New Mexico Oil and Gas Association, who focused on improving access to federal lands. 
   "'Access' means a reasonable process that assures that the minerals can be developed and produced in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. If our industry does not have access, as defined above, to federal lands and waters, our country does not have affordable natural gas. I believe it is that simple," Gallagher submitted in his testimony to the committee.
 
 