SEN. DOMENICI ADDRESSES BRAC COMMISSION AT REGIONAL HEARING IN NEW MEXICO
  The following is the text of prepared remarks used by Sen. Pete Domenici in his address to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission at this regional hearing on BRAC impacts in New Mexico.  
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Committee, is the most senior member of the New Mexico congressional delegation. 
   "The Air Force and Department of Defense are making a mistake in recommending Cannon for closure. I am asking the BRAC commissioners to remove Cannon from the closure list. 
   "This is an ideal training environment and it is getting better with the New Mexico Training Range Initiative. It is simply irreplaceable. Looking to the future, I cannot envision Cannon not being a key military installation. The nation cannot afford to just discard Cannon Air Force Base. 
   "I understand that the commission is reviewing many situations affecting many people all over the country. But let's be clear about our situation here. Closing Cannon would impoverish this region that has had no regrets about living the Air Force model for more than 50 years. 
   "We've embraced the military with open arms, listened to their needs and given them everything they asked for. In the past six years alone, we have provided over $50 million in military construction to improve Cannon. 
   "However, our proud relationship with Cannon is about much more than money. Rather, it is about people and the relationships we have built. Over and over, servicemen and women who serve at Cannon come back here to become part of this community's fabric. Year after year, we take care of our airmen and their families because we want them here-a claim not all communities can make. 
   "In the end, our defense of Cannon Air Force Base is far from an emotional appeal. Rather, it is based on facts - 
   * Facts about data that inaccurately reflect Cannon's military value; 
   * Facts about costs and savings that do not exist; 
   * Facts about airspace this nation needs for its security-both today and in the future; and 
   * Facts about adverse economic impacts that would eviscerate a community. 
   "Based on these facts, we very respectfully ask that the Commission reverse a mistaken recommendation. We are counting on your vote."
   Contact: Chris Gallegos, 202/224-7082.
 
 