SEN. DOMENICI: SENATE UNANIMOUSLY PASSES HIGHER EDUCATION ACT
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined the Senate in unanimously passing a bipartisan compromise bill that will ease financial burden on university students and improve access to higher education for students in New Mexico and across the nation. 
   The Senate passed (95-0) S.1642, Higher Education Amendments of 2007, a measure to amend and reauthorize for five years the long-standing Higher Education Act. With Senate passage, the bill will be sent to a conference committee to reconcile differences with a similar House-passed measure.  
   "The costs of post-secondary education are rising exponentially, but federal aid programs must do better to keep up. Access to a college education should not become an opportunity available only to the 'haves,' while the 'have nots' struggle under mountains of debt or choose not to pursue a higher education at all," said Domenici. 
   "I am encouraged by the passage of this important legislation. It is long overdue. It will help place higher education and the opportunities a college education affords within the reach of even more New Mexicans. The Senate bill, with increased Pell grant eligibility and other provisions, will help remove some of the impediments that stand between students and an education to help them succeed personally and contribute to the growth and prosperity of our nation," he said. 
   Passage of the bill will also fully extend a Domenici-sponsored measure to help New Mexico schools with high percentages of Hispanic students--the so-called Hispanic Serving Institutions --qualify for and retain federal aid granted to help more Hispanic students get post-secondary education degrees and certificates. The measure was initially passed in September as a continuing resolution, temporarily extending the provisions pending reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. 
   "I am pleased that this bill also includes provisions that will incentivize graduate programs at Hispanic-serving institutions, which will impact thousands of college students at most New Mexico colleges and universities," Domenici said. 
   The legislation includes an amendment written into the bill by Domenici and Senator Bingaman to guarantee that students of St. John's College in Santa Fe are not prevented from tapping into a federally-funded needs-based scholarship program, called the National Science and Mathematics Access to Retain Talent Grant (SMART Grant). Under current law, only financially-eligible students who major in math or science can receive SMART Grant funds. But St. John's College, a four year liberal arts institution, does not have majors or departments. 
   Under the bill, a measure cosponsored by Domenici and introduced by Senator Durbin (D-Ill.) will create a student loan repayment program for law school graduates who commit to serve as criminal prosecutors or public defenders. Under the amendment, eligible attorneys could receive loan debt repayments of up to $10,000 a year, with a maximum reimbursement amount of $60,000. 
   The bill also raises the maximum Pell grant from $4,050 for the 2007-2008 academic year to $5,400 for 2008-2009; to $5,700 for 2009-2010; to $6,000 for 2010-2011; and $6,300 for 2011-2012. 
   Higher Education and Amendments of 2007 builds upon the Higher Education Reconciliation bill that was passed last week. That bill aims to improve students' access to higher education by better informing students and parents about education finances, simplifying financial aid applications and procedures, and establishing a Code of Conduct to govern relationships between learning institutions and lenders. The measure would increase student aid by nearly $177 million in New Mexico, allowing a college education to be more readily accessible and cost-effective for students in the state.
 
 