SEN. DOMENICI SAYS JOINT NATIONAL SECURITY STATEMENT SUPPORTS PUSH FOR 'SMALLER, MORE SECURE & LOWER COST' U.S. NUCLEAR DETERRENT
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today issued the following comments regarding "Maintaining Deterrence in the 21st Century," a joint statement issued on U.S. national security and nuclear weapons.  
   The policy paper was submitted Friday to Congress by Defense Secretary Robert Gates, Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman, and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
   "The multi-agency unity shown with this statement should answer concerns in Congress that the Bush administration is not looking at this issue and the future of our nuclear weapons stockpile. To the contrary, the statement is evidence that the administration continues to be very focused on reducing the stockpile--beginning with the Nuclear Posture Review 2001, the successful negotiation and now implementation of the Washington-Moscow Treaty. That treaty will reduce the number of deployed warheads to the lowest level since the Eisenhower Administration. 
   "I do not believe the United States should continue efforts maintain a Cold War arsenal in an ever-changing world. But it is clear from the actions taken by the North Koreans in October to detonate a nuclear warhead and the efforts by Iran to conceal its nuclear ambition that the United States cannot remain idle. Existing and future threats clearly warrant a smaller, but viable deterrent to protect not only the United States, but our allies and interests as well. 
   "Let me be clear, a smaller deterrent still requires an investment in our national security laboratories to support the current stockpile and provide the President the annual certification that the deterrent is safe and reliable. 
   "I remain hopeful that Congress will fund the feasibility study of the Reliable Replacement Warhead, because it offers the best opportunity to transition from the large and highly-specialized Cold War stockpile to a smaller, more secure and lower cost deterrent in the future." 
   Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, earlier this year issued letters to Gates, Rice and National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley urging them to be more active in supporting the Reliable Replacement Warhead (RRW) program and to answer the concerns raised about this proposed weapons system. 
   The FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill awaiting full Senate debate recommends a $22.7 million cut to the RRW program, but makes $66 million available to carry out a feasibility study on the project. 
   The joint Gates-Bodman-Rice statement is available at: 
  http://www.nnsa.doe.gov/docs/factsheets/2007/NA-07-FS-04.pdf
 
 