SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO NEWS SESSION, JULY 24
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Tuesday, July 24, 2007.  
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Gillian Sutton - KRSN Los Alamos 
   * Bill Dupuy - KSFR Santa Fe 
   TOPICS: 
   House-passed FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill 
   Higher Education Act 
   Executive Order on Iraq 
   Outlook on Senate Passage of Energy and Water Appropriations Bill 
   Presidential Directive on Continuance of Government 
   REVIEW: 
   00:00 - Domenici calls the House-passed FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill a disaster for Los Alamos National Laboratories, as well as harmful to Sandia National Laboratory. He says the goal now is to continue to fight for a fairer bill, and highlights the Senate's version of the funding measure. He says years of work to build up LANL could be undone with the House bill. 
   03:26 - Domenici says an amendment the Senate is considering to legislation to reauthorize the Higher Education Act is a compromise measure that will address how universities and colleges can use funds to lobby Congress. 
   04:12 - Domenici says a recent executive order issued by President Bush is intended to deal with those in the United States who pose significant risk to U.S. policies to stabilize Iraq. He says there are protections built into the executive order to protect individual rights. He says he will review the proposed regulations that will be eventually drafted to carry out the executive order. 
   08:14 - Domenici says there is a push in the Senate to have the FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill considered. He notes that Senate passage would set the stage for a House-Senate conference committee to reconcile differences in the two bills--the most significant of which is fact that the Senate bill has $700 million more than the House bill. He says he is unsure the House leadership will be willing to allocate more funding to the House version of the lab-funding bill. 
   10:56 - Domenici says the Presidential Directive issued in May is intended to clarify the rules to ensure the continuation of the federal government in the event of a catastrophic disaster. He says the directive defines such major disasters. He again says he will review the directive to ensure it does not impinge on checks and balances between the three branches of government or personal rights.
 
 