SEN. DOMENICI TO LEAD SALUTE TO VOLUNTEERS DURING 'CHARACTER COUNTS NIGHT AT ISOTOPES PARK'
  With the first pitch at an Albuquerque Isotopes match-up Tuesday, Sen. Pete Domenici will salute volunteers who have made the Character Counts education movement a 10-year success story in New Mexico.  
   The Character Counts Night at Isotopes Park salute will be the feature of the Isotopes baseball game at 7:10 p.m., Tuesday, May 25, against the Tucson Sidewinders. 
   Domenici, who pitched for the University of New Mexico and the Albuquerque Dukes, will lead the first pitch ceremony as he, Technology Ventures Corporation (TVC) and Lockheed Martin Corp. host 200 New Mexicans who have help build the character education initiative. 
   "So many moms and dads and community leaders have been devoted to helping our kids learn to live by the pillars of Respect, Responsibility, Trustworthiness, Citizenship, Fairness and Caring," Domenici said. "The Isotopes game will be a big public party to thank these folks for their dedication to our educational and ethical future. We have a lot to celebrate during this 10th anniversary of Character Counts in New Mexico." 
   Character Counts Night at Isotopes Park starts with a 5:30 p.m. barbecue, with the first pitch ceremony following at 7:10 p.m. One highlight of the game will come during the seventh inning stretch when TVC president Sherman McCorkle and "Syd Masters and The Swing Riders" will lead the fans in singing "Take Me Out to the Ballgame." 
   Character Counts is a national character education initiative. In 1994, Domenici and Mayor Martin Ch?vez helped start the program in Albuquerque. Domenici then launched the initiative in other key cities of New Mexico, and Character Counts is now used in almost every public school and in many private classrooms across the state. Domenici is also a national spokesperson for Character Counts. 
   For more information on Character Counts Night at Isotopes Park, contact Lisa Breeden at 346-6771 or lisa_breeden@domenici.senate.gov.
 
 