SEN. DOMENICI SUPPORTS VOTER ID AMENDMENT AS PART OF IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted for an amendment that would implement a recommendation of the bipartisan Carter-Baker Commission on Federal Election Reform to require voters to show photo identification at the voting booth. 
   Domenici voted not to table the amendment, which was offered to the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act (S.2611). The amendment survived on a narrow 49-48 vote; however, it is not expected to be included in the final bill because of Senate legislative rules. On Thursday, Domenici also voted to move the bill toward final passage later this week.
   The voter id amendment, sponsored by Senator Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), was offered to ensure that only U.S. citizens cast ballots in federal elections, requiring voters show a government-issued photo id at the voting booth.
   "This amendment is fair and builds on existing federal law intended to fight fraud in our election process. Every fraudulently cast vote is an affront to the American democratic process. Photo ids are a reality in our modern-day life since you must show identification to cash a check or rent a video. Requiring them at the polls does not in my view constitute a hardship for eligible voters," Domenici said.
   "I regret that this amendment won't survive to be in the final bill, but it puts us on record as wanting to positively act on the voter fraud," he said.
   The McConnell amendment would also add to the REAL ID Act a requirement that REAL ID cards show whether the holder is a U.S. citizen. It adds a section to the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002 to assist in funding the production of free identification cards for voters.
   Currently, federal law does not require any form of photo identification before an individual may register to vote or cast a ballot. HAVA now only requires new voters to provide non-photographic identity-related documentation sometime before they first vote.
   The photo id recommendation was spelled out by the Commission on Federal Election Reform, co-chaired by former President Jimmy Carter and former U.S. Secretary of State James A. Baker. Its report with 87 recommendations was issued in September 2005. It can be accessed at: http://www.american.edu/ia/cfer/.
 
 