AS GAS PRICES SKYROCKET, SEN. DOMENICI TELLS OIL EXECUTIVE U.S. NEEDS ALL REFINERIES ONLINE
  Sen. Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today asked the top executive at BP America to explain why two of the oil giant's biggest American refineries continue to operate at half-capacity-one aspect contributing to the rising gasoline prices across the nation.  
   Domenici has repeatedly expressed his concern about rapidly rising gas prices, which have set new record highs in many parts of the country. According to AAA, the average price of gasoline nationwide is $3.23 a gallon, which is less than the record-setting $3.41 a gallon average being paid by New Mexicans. 
   Most analysts point to the lack of U.S. oil refining capacity as a major reason for the surge, since supply has not been able to keep up with increased demands over the last month. 
   Among the problems contributing to the refining crunch are closures at two major refineries operated by BP. The company's Texas City Refinery-their largest oil refinery in the United States-is currently operating at approximately half its capacity, according to analysts. BP's refinery in Whiting, Ind., is also running at only half its capacity. 
   "As the summer driving season arrives, Americans are increasingly concerned about the recent sharp increases in the retail price of gasoline. In the short term, there are several factors that are currently impacting gasoline prices. Among those are tight crude oil and refining markets and geopolitical instability in oil producing regions. While global political instability is beyond its control, BP is capable of and should address the present refinery issues within the company," Domenici said in the letter. 
   "Texas City and Whiting, Indiana, are two of the five largest refineries in the United States, and the American people rely upon the gasoline from these facilities. To ensure that our nation's energy security is strong and that American consumers are protected, it is essential that our nation's refineries are fully functional and operate in a safe and effective manner," he said. 
   Domenici noted that more than two years have passed since a fire destroyed parts of the Texas City Refinery. A subsequent investigation into the tragedy-which killed 15 and injured 170 others-identified problems with the working environment at the refinery, leading to an independent safety review panel led by former Secretary of State James Baker. The panel issued a series of safety recommendations to BP in January. 
   In an Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing on May 15, Paul Sankey, managing director of Deutsche Bank, identified the two BP refineries in Texas and Indiana as running at less than half their operational capacities. In addition, Sankey characterized the recovery process at Texas City as taking a "very unusually long period of time." 
   In the letter, Domenici formally requested an update on the status of the two BP refineries, and also inquired whether BP had adopted the Baker Report's safety recommendations. The Senator also said that everything possible should be done to bring refineries to full capacity as soon as possible.
 
 