SEN. DOMENICI EXPRESSES RELIEF THAT NEW FUNDS WILL SOON BE AVAILABLE TO SUPPORT TROOPS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed his relief that Congressional Democratic leadership has finally delivered a supplemental bill that will provide $119.98 billion in discretionary funding, much of which will support and provide needed resources to U.S. troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007 (HR.2206), provides the emergency funding sought by U.S. military leaders that was requested nearly 110 days ago to continue combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Senate gave final approval to the bill (80-14), making it ready for the President's consideration. 
   "Members of Congress have an obligation to fund combat operations and military efforts. Today we are fulfilling that obligation. What's most important is that now our troops will receive the resources they need to do the job they have committed to do," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "It's also very important that the Iraqi government demonstrate its progress in taking responsibility for the country's security, economy, and future. It is my hope that, by achieving and reporting on benchmarks, the Iraqis will help determine the best course for its future," he said. 
   The resolution does not constrain the administration's ability to direct combat operations and does not mandate an Iraq withdrawal date. But the War Supplemental does condition U.S. strategy and economic aid to Iraq on the Iraqi government meeting certain benchmarks and requires regular reports to allow Congress to gauge the Iraqi government's efforts on behalf of its country. 
   In addition to authorizing the war supplemental funds, the bill includes $17 billion for unrequested items including SCHIP, Wildlands Fire Management, Secure Rural Schools, and additional Hurricane Katrina funds. A provision was also inserted raise the minimum wage over 26 months to $7.25 an hour.
 
 