SEN. DOMENICI CALLS STATE'S ARSENIC REG IMPLEMENTATION 'ONEROUS AND EXCESSIVE' ON COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he continues to believe the state of New Mexico is imposing "onerous and excessive" requirements on communities and water systems trying to meet new federal arsenic drinking water standards. 
   Domenici today sent Governor Bill Richardson a letter expressing his continued belief that the New Mexico Environment Department (NMED) is not using Environmental Protection Agency guidance to make implementation of the arsenic standard as easy as possible on the state. The EPA in January began imposing a 10 parts per billion (ppb) standard for arsenic in drinking water, but has outlined how states can issue compliance extensions to affected communities.
   "The NMED compliance and extension requirements are onerous and excessive, and I continue to believe more must be done to help our small communities and water systems in New Mexico," Domenici wrote Richardson.
   The letter is the latest communication Domenici has initiated with Richardson this month addressing the arsenic standard implementation and its impact on small communities and water systems. In all, about 80 such communities must meet the new 10 ppb standard, a process whose costs could exceed an estimated $500 million overall.
   Domenici began approaching Richardson about the NMED compliance process after hearing from affected communities and after learning that other states are using EPA-suggested guidelines to lessen compliance hardships.
   "I believe it would be beneficial if NMED reviewed with my staff all extension applications to determine which communities and systems were rejected and why, in an attempt to determine if these communities should reapply using the minimal paperwork suggested by the EPA," Domenici said.
   Domenici also indicated that he is prepared to hold a public meeting with the EPA, the state of New Mexico, agencies from other states implementing similar standards, and the small communities and water systems in New Mexico that cannot meet the standard in a timely manner.
   By the time the new EPA rule became effective in January, the NMED had approved seven exemptions from about 30 applications filed from among the 80 affected New Mexico water systems. Exemptions have been approved for Bernalillo, Rio Rancho, Albuquerque, La Mesa Water Coop (Placitas), Los Lunas, Espa?ola, and the Desert Sands MDWCA (Berino, Do?a Ana County). Approval for additional exemption applications are reportedly pending.
   Domenici has been working with the DOE Arsenic Water Technology Partnership to make affected New Mexico systems aware of the additional time to file for exemptions. The partnership involves Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, WERC, New Mexico Rural Water, Rural Community Assistance Corp., and American Water Resources Research Foundation (http://www.arsenicpartners.org/).
 
 