SEN. DOMENICI URGES VETS COMMITTEE TO APPROVE EXPANDING MENTAL HEALTH CARE ACCESS FOR WOUNDED WARRIORS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today encouraged expedient committee passage of his legislation to improve access to help for veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan who struggle with combat-related mental health disorders. 
   The Senate Veterans Committee today considered the Veterans' Mental Health Outreach and Access Act (S.38), a bipartisan measure introduced by Domenici and Senator Barack Obama (D-Ill.) in May. The bill would authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to develop and implement a comprehensive national program to increase the availability of mental health support so that veterans affected by combat-related mental health problems do not go without the care they need.  
   While the VA presented testimony opposing S.38 as "unnecessary and duplicative," Domenici said the legislation is needed to prompt the agency to more boldly address traumatic brain injuries and other mental health needs of veterans. 
   "The blunt truth is that the VA is not getting job done for our veterans with combat-related mental health and brain injuries. The VA claims to have the authority to do this, but they are not doing it. Any progress in this area has been slow and certainly insufficient in scope and consistency to meet the needs in rural states like New Mexico. My bill will mandate action," Domenici said. 
   "I will work with the committee to move legislation forward. The VA must have a service program in place that offers these veterans the best care and treatment possible," he said. 
   The Domenici-Obama bill places an emphasis on National Guardsmen and Reserve veterans serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. These "civilian soldiers" often return from combat duty and immediately resume civilian life and may not have adequate access to readjustment services. The measure has provisions to extend counseling services to veterans' families, who may also experience issues with readjustment after their loved-ones have returned from deployment. 
   The Department of Defense reports that, since 2005, 50 percent of Army National Guardsmen and 44 percent of Marine Reservists who served in Iraq have reported mental health concerns in post-deployment assessments. 
   "Left untreated, the immediate and long-term aftereffects of intense combat situations can be ruinous for some who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan. Readjusting to life back in the states can be hard for these men and women and their families," Domenici said. 
   "This legislation is intended to fill in the gaps in service, particularly for the thousands of Guardsmen and Reservists who served and returned home to areas that may lack sufficient mental health care options," he said. 
   In any remote areas of the country in which the VA determines there is inadequate access to a VA medical center, the bill directs the Secretary of the VA to contract with community mental health centers to provide treatment and support services and readjustment counseling. 
   Recognizing the seriousness and prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health problems among veterans, the bill requires the VA Secretary to develop a national program to train returning service members as peer outreach workers and support specialists. 
   S.38 has been cosponsored by Senators Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Jon Tester (D-Mont.). 
   A similar bill, (HR.2689) was introduced in the House by Congressman Ciro Rodr?guez and cosponsored by Congressman Steve Pearce of New Mexico. 
   For more information on VA mental health care services, visit: http://www1.va.gov/OPA/fact/returning_vets.asp.
 
 