SEN. DOMENICI, REP. PEARCE ASK SECRETARY OF STATE TO FOLLOW LAW
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Rep. Steve Pearce today sent a letter to New Mexico Secretary of State Rebecca Vigil-Giron asking her and the state's county clerks to follow the clearly written law mandating voter identification requirements for certain voters.  
   The Secretary of State's office is refusing to require first time voters who have not registered themselves in person to present identification when they vote. New Mexico law requires all newly registered voters that do not register at the County Clerk's office to present a current and valid photo identification, utility bill, bank statement, government check, paycheck, or other government document when they vote. 
   Although the Secretary of State had issued one interpretation, Domenici and Pearce wish to make certain that each of the 33 county clerks are familiar with the plain language of the law. 
   "Citizens are not disenfranchised by being required to show identification at the bank, the movie store, airline ticket counters, or when purchasing alcohol and tobacco products. Yet, your office is opposing the most common sense application of the laws of New Mexico by arguing its inconvenience. We do not agree that protecting a citizen's right to vote is an inconvenience," said Domenici and Pearce. 
   "As the Secretary of State, we trust you understand the critical differences between preventing fraudulent voter registrations, and therefore fraudulent votes, from the inherent right of law abiding citizens to vote...our efforts should focus on encouraging participation in the process by reassuring the voting public that their vote counts, not by fostering doubt and insecurity," the pair continued. 
   Domenici and Pearce asked Vigil-Giron to follow the lead of the Chaves County clerk, who will follow the law by requiring identification from first time voters that were registered by a third party. They cited concerns about disenfranchising those who were legally eligible to vote by allowing counterfeit votes to be cast. 
   Numerous third parties have been registering voters in New Mexico, many of which are so-called 527 committees. Some 527's pay workers by the number of voters they have been able to register, and many are not from New Mexico and thus unaware of local election laws. 
   Reports have surfaced about certain voters being registered two or more times at multiple addresses under multiple names, and individuals who are underage being registered to vote. 
   Earlier this week, Domenici introduced legislation to amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 by extending the existing federal identification requirements to individuals who have not registered in person with their authorized government entity. S.2818 would also double federal penalties-either fines or jail time-for anyone convicted of fraudulently registering 10 or more voters. Domenici is pushing for the legislation to be adopted before the November election. 
   The exact wording of the New Mexico law being ignored by the Secretary of State is: "(a) If the form is not submitted in person by the applicant and the applicant is registering for the first time in New Mexico, the applicant must submit with the form a copy of a current and valid photo identification, utility bill, bank statement, government check, paycheck or other government document that shows the name and address of the applicant;..."
 
 