SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND WILDFIRES
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today issued the following statement at today's committee hearing regarding the impact of global climate change on wildfire activity in the United States:  
   "It seems to me we have always had years of drought, warm summers, early runoff of the snow-pack, and when we have the right weather conditions, we experience spectacular fires. And I have no doubt that we will see the convergence of these events again in the future. 
   "At least three cataclysmic fires come to mind, and they all occurred during times of periodic changing climate conditions. They are: 
   "The afternoon of October 8, 1871, the town of Peshtigo and parts of Green Bay, Wisconsin, were destroyed. A prolonged and widespread drought and high temperatures, capped off by a cyclonic storm, resulted in a fire covering about 2,400 square miles in Wisconsin and Upper Michigan. Between 1,200 and 2,400 lives were lost that afternoon, but it didn't get much press because that was also the day the City of Chicago burned. 
   "On Saturday, September 1, 1894, a great firestorm destroyed Hinckley, Minnesota, and five other nearby communities. The fire covered 400 square miles, consuming nearly everything in its path. It is estimated that between 420 and 800 people died. Thankfully, over 500 people were evacuated from Hinckley on two trains that happened to be in the area at the time. 
   "And finally, on August 20th and 21st, the 1910 fires rage across three million acres in Northern Idaho and Western Montana (and area the size of Connecticut). The fires went on runs of more than 50,000 acres (78 square miles), and threw fire brands 10 miles in front of the main fire. The winds blew at up to 80 miles per hour. In this event, 86 people are known to have perished. 
   "I expect our witnesses today are all going to tell us that we are in for more warming and therefore more fires. They are likely to tell us that when these fires occur they will be very damaging, and, yes, that these fires will result in more carbon dioxide being released into the atmosphere which will impact our environment. Some of the impact may be beneficial and some may be damaging. 
   "I think we all understand that, but what we are struggling with is whether anything can be down about changes to our forests, and; if so, how much the remedial actions may cost. 
   "In the short run, there are only two variables that we can influence, those being hazardous fuel removals from federal lands and private development in and around our federal forests. I hope that this Congress will address these two issues. I'm sure today's witnesses will have more suggestions. 
   "In closing, I very much appreciate this hearing and these witnesses coming to testify."
 
 