SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES HISPANIC-SERVING INSTITUTION GRANTS FOR SCHOOLS IN ROSWELL, CLOVIS AND LAS VEGAS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici announced today that New Mexico Hispanic Serving Institutions-including Clovis Community College, Eastern New Mexico University-Roswell and the Luna Community College-will benefit from over $1.7 million in funds from the Department of Education (DoED).  
   Clovis Community College received $574,446 in HIS funds for its program to address low student achievement, limited access for rural students, and a decline in enrollment revenue by improving its online/distance education and supplemental education resources, developing the learning and teaching skills of its faculty, and strengthening its endowment to promote long term fiscal stability. 
   Domenici also announced DoED funding for the following New Mexico HSIs: 
   * Eastern New Mexico University-Roswell - $573,553 for its "Cultivating Access and Success in Math/Science Based Programs in Rural New Mexico" initiative which will address the school's shortfalls in math and science, English as a Second Language, and nursing program resources. The school's student body is composed of 3,800 students which is 40 percent Hispanic. 
   * Luna Community College in Las Vegas - $574,445 to improve distance and internet education for students living in its outlying areas. In the next five years, the school expects to offer a general studies associate degree and high demand nursing courses to the area's rural, low-income, time and place-bound residents using online learning technology. 
   "New Mexico's Hispanic Serving Institutions play a pivotal role in educating some of our brightest minds and greatest talent," said Domenici. "These funds from the Department of Education will help these New Mexico schools as they improve the educational outlook for a greater number of area students and establishes its own long term sustainability." 
   Funds were awarded as part of the Strengthening Institutions--Hispanic Serving Institutions Program, which provides grants to assist Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs) in expanding educational opportunities and attainment for Hispanic students. According to DoED, HSIs are non-profit institutions with a minimum Hispanic enrollment of 25 percent. 
   Domenici is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which plays a large role in determining annual funding for federal programs. In June, the Senate Appropriations Committee approved $94.9 million as part of the FY2008 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill to assist HSIs in strengthening their academic programs. 
   Last month, the President signed the America Competes Act, legislation which Domenici co-authored, which will direct a greater portion of government attention and resources toward developing the quality of math, science and technology education across the country.
 
 