SEN. DOMENICI BACKS VETERAN EYE CARE MEASURE AS AMENDMENT TO DEFENSE POLICY BILL
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said he is pushing for Senate approval of a proposal to focus greater resources on treating complex brain and vision injuries sustained by U.S. military personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   Domenici is cosponsoring an amendment to the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill, which the Senate may complete as early as this week. The amendment closely follows the Neuro-Optometric Center of Excellence Bill (S.1999), which was introduced in August by Senator John Kerry (D-Mass.), with Senators Domenici, Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and Barak Obama (D-Ill.) as original cosponsors. 
   The amendment would direct greater federal resources toward addressing the traumatic brain injuries and acquired brain injuries suffered by military personnel often as a result of the improvised explosive devices (IEDs) used by enemies in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "Our amendment would authorize a dedicated source of funding to improve the diagnosis and treatment of eye injuries caused by IEDs. These weapons cause brain and vision damage that isn't always easy to identify because they do not involve outward signs. However, they can cause long-term health complications for our men and women in uniform," Domenici said. 
   The amendment would expand and enhance the capabilities of existing Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense medical centers and optometry clinics to better manage the complex cases of direct blast injuries to veterans' eyes and traumatic brain injuries. Over a five year period, the amendment would authorize approximately $5.7 million needed to enhance diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation practices related to these complex injuries. 
   Prevalent use of IEDs and roadside bombs has caused a spike in vision-related combat injuries. Traumatic brain injury, which isn't always evident in cuts or contusions to the eye, can cause lasting brain and vision damage. Direct blast injuries to the eye can also adversely affect long-term sight. 
   The Blind Veterans Association (BVA), an organization to promote the welfare of blinded veterans, has endorsed the Neuro-Optometric Center of Excellence Bill, as has the American Optometric Association.
 
 