SEN. DOMENICI, REP. PEARCE PRAISE ARMY CONTRACT FOR NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Congressman Steve Pearce praised today New Mexico State University (NMSU), in conjunction with a consortium of fellow universities and technological research groups, on being awarded a $215 million cooperative agreement by the Army Research Laboratory to manage the Army's High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC). 
   The contract was awarded to the consortium following a competitive application process. The Both Senator Domenici and Congressman Pearce previously sent letters to the Secretary of the Army indicating their support for the agreement which includes NMSU and its consortium led by Stanford University and including Morgan State University, the University of Texas at El Paso, High Performance Technologies, Inc., and NASA Ames Research Center.
   "I previously expressed my support for the consortium that includes NMSU because I felt it offered the Army what it was looking for. I am confident that this consortium will exceed the Army's expectations in its management of the AHPCRC and I look forward to hearing good things as its diverse members mesh their expertise and research together to support the Army's transformation, research, and development," said Domenici.
   "I am thrilled to see NMSU has been awarded the resources to compete at the cutting edge of High Performance Computing. Working alongside such fantastic universities and having the support of the Army will help advance the possibilities within in the land warfare combat system industry. I am very excited to see what is developed through their work and reiterate that New Mexico is a leader in many cutting edge technology industries which is why NMSU has been chosen to participate in this excellent consortium," said Pearce.
   The program agreement consists of a five-year period with an additional five-year option. Specifically, it will focus on improving the Army's operational readiness by focusing on four main areas: lightweight combat systems survivability; computational nanotechnologies and bio-sciences; computational battlefield network and information sciences; and HPC enabling technologies and advanced algorithmic development.
   The AHPCRC conducts research in computational science and high performance scientific computing. As a program, its objectives include the creation and implementation of high performance computing technologies that support the Army; increased utilization of physics-based modeling and simulation by the science and engineering communities; and research exchange and collaboration between leading education institutions and minority institutions.
   The application process took into account overall value to the Department of Defense, as well as an academic lead organization, participation by a minority institution, and the presence of professionals active within the high performance computing industry.
 
 