SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN, REP. PEARCE APPLAUD BRAC COMMISSION FOR KEEPING WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE INTACT
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman and Rep. Steve Pearce today applauded that the Base Realignment and Closure Commission's decision to keep the Army Research Laboratory intact at White Sands Missile Range (WSMR) rather than move it to Maryland.  
   The Commission today rejected the Pentagon's recommendation to move all but the minimum detachments required to maintain the Test and Evaluation functions of ARL to the Aberdeen Proving Grounds in Maryland, after members of the delegation successfully argued that much of the research done by the lab could only be done at White Sands because of the missile range. 
   "The BRAC Commission made an excellent decision today by rejecting the Pentagon's recommendation to move most of the Army Research Laboratory currently at White Sands. The work done at the lab depends heavily on testing and evaluation conducted at the missile range. It simply would not have made any sense to move it to another facility. I congratulate Governor Carruthers and the rest of the team for a job well done," Domenici said. 
   "I am pleased the BRAC commission made the right decision by rejecting the Department of Defense's proposal to move the Army Research Laboratory from Southern New Mexico. By keeping the lab at White Sands Missile Range it can continue to provide valuable support to our country's national defense and research capabilities," Bingaman said. 
   "I commend the BRAC Commission for recognizing the logic of keeping the Army Research Laboratory at White Sands, where it will remain an integral part of a world class testing and evaluation facility," Rep. Pearce said. "All New Mexicans owe Governor Carruthers and his delegation our gratitude for their succinct, effective presentation, which played an essential role in producing this terrific news." 
   The delegation argued that the Pentagon had failed to evaluate the specific testing and evaluation mission of the ARL at White Sands, especially in contrast with Aberdeen Proving Grounds, which lacks the ability to test missiles. 
   In addition, WSMR boasts a low cost of living, leading to questions about whether moving the ARL to Maryland would actually save the Army money. The departure of the Army Research Laboratory at WSMR would have resulted in the loss of 178 personnel (13 military, 165 civilian). 
   The Commission decision on WSMR came during the first day of its deliberations on the 2005 BRAC process. The panel will address Air Force recommendations-including the bid to close Cannon Air Force Base-Friday. 
   The Commission must send its closure and realignment recommendations to President Bush by Sept. 8, which will set in motion a series of decision within the White House and Congress to approve or disapprove the decisions on an "all or nothing" basis. 
   Separately, the BRAC Commission also decided to mothball the Gravitational Centrifuge and move the Physiological Training units from Holloman Air Force Base in Alamogordo to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio, resulting in the loss of 17 jobs for Holloman.
 
 