SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES MAJOR HEALTHY FOREST PROJECT IN NEW MEXICO'S MANZANO MOUNTAINS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the first action to protect forests under the Healthy Forests Restoration Act with a project to improve about 17,000 acres in the Manzano Mountains.  
   U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman today announced the start of the Tajique Watershed Restoration Project, an area in the Monzano Mountains about 45 miles southeast of Albuquerque. The project will treat approximately 17,000 acres of overgrown forest. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, was a chief Senate sponsor of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act, which became law in 2003 and contains initiatives aimed at making it easier to reduce the threat of forest fires. 
   "President Bush and the Forest Service are moving to get this long overdue work underway," Domenici said. "This is common sense work that will protect forests and people. More and more, people are moving to the Eastern Mountain region. Yet with overgrown trees and dangerous conditions, the forests in this area are essentially tinderboxes at high risk for catastrophic fires. Today's announcement that the first restoration project in the Southwest is beginning represents a major achievement in the fight to thin forests and make them safer." 
   Decades of tree growth and fire suppression have created stand conditions that make the Cibola National Forest highly susceptible to catastrophic wildfire. The Tajique Watershed Project will use the streamlined procedures provided under the Healthy Forests Restoration Act to expedite plans for thinning treatments near land grant communities. 
   An added benefit of the program is the addition of an estimated 100 local jobs over the next five to seven years. At risk communities include the historic land grant villages of Abo, Manzano, Punta de Agua, Tajique and Torreon, as well as the Pueblo of Isleta. 
   The Healthy Forests Restoration Act gives federal land managers more funding and power to carry out projects to decrease fuel loads, and control insects and disease in 20 million acres of national forest.
 
 