SEN. DOMENICI: TREASURY DEPT. FUNDS TO BOOST SMALL BIZ DEVELOPMENT IN NEW MEXICO
  Visiting an Old Town bakery that benefited from start-up funding assistance, Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the delivery of a $585,000 federal grant to ACCION New Mexico, an organization that provides small business and community development assistance throughout the state. 
   Domenici today joined Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund Director Art Garcia at the Golden Crown Panaderia to announce the significant award to ACCION New Mexico. The award will allow ACCION New Mexico to expand its outreach throughout the state. Golden Crown is a recipient of CDFI funds through ACCION.
   Administered by the U.S. Treasury Department, the CDFI fund is used to promote economic development, affordable housing and community development financial services including basic banking services to underserved communities, as well as financial literacy training.
   "I cannot think of a better place to announce this grant than a successful small business such as Golden Crown Bakery. ACCION has a great track record of helping small businesses get the financial boost they need to become sustainable. Many of these small businesses are minority and women-owned," Domenici said.
   "Small businesses are the backbone of our state economy, and these micro-loans and technical assistance allow more people who have an entrepreneurial spirit a true chance of making a small business work and grow," he said. 
   ACCION, a non-profit organization, offers loans and training to self-employed individuals who have limited access to traditional building credit. It provides micro-loans of $200 to $50,000. Earlier this year, ACCION New Mexico was recognized as one of the best micro-entrepreneurial and small business development organizations in the nation.
   ACCION has lending partnerships in Alamogordo, Anthony-Chaparral, Artesia, Belen, Clovis, Dexter, Edgewood-Moriarty, Espa?ola, Farmington, Gallup-Zuni, Grants, Hatch, Hobbs, Las Cruces, Las Vegas, Los Alamos, Los Lunas, Raton, Roswell, Santa Fe, Santa Teresa, Silver City, Springer and Taos.
   CDFI is releasing $26.4 million nationwide to organizations, like ACCION, which were selected through a competitive review process. The funds will also be utilized for economic development, affordable housing and community development financial services including basic banking services to underserved communities and financial literacy training.
   As a long-time member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici worked to secured $55 million for the CDFI program in the FY2007 Senate Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary and Housing and Urban Development (TTHUD) Appropriations Bill. This funding level is well above the $6.8 million sought by the administration in its FY2007 budget request.
   http://www.cdfifund.gov/ 
   http://www.accionnm.org/
 
 