SEN. DOMENICI: TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH COLLABORATIVE INTER-INSTITUTIONAL AGREEMENT CAN LEAD TO MORE HIGH-TECH JOBS IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed an unprecedented agreement between the national laboratories and New Mexico research institutions for the pooling of intellectual property to accelerate commercialization of technological breakthroughs.  
   The agreement, which was signed on the 25th anniversary of the Bayh-Dole Act, will facilitate the commercialization of intellectual property owned by Technology Research Collaborative (TRC) member institutions. The expedited process will now allow a licensee to deal with a single member institution, alleviating the strain of working with multiple organizations to gain property rights. 
   "This new inter-institutional agreement is going to have great benefits for our research institutions in New Mexico. It will allow private entities to capitalize on the wonderful technologies that are being produced by TRC member research organizations throughout New Mexico. This then can lead to creating more high-tech jobs in New Mexico," Domenici said. 
   Seen as key to the success of today's agreement signing, Domenici also endorsed bills pending in the state Legislature to create six Advanced Technology Centers to promote research and its commercial application potentials. The University of New Mexico, New Mexico Tech, and New Mexico State University would host these centers*. 
   "I believe the next step we need to take in these commercialization efforts is the creation and funding of these Advanced Technology Centers. Real collaboration between these centers and the private sector will propel research and help create new jobs for New Mexicans. The Advanced Technology Centers plan would also include an education component to help train students," Domenici said. 
   The Patent and Trademark Law Amendments Act, otherwise known as the Bayh-Dole Act, was enacted in 1980 in an attempt to ensure that government-sponsored technologies can be used by institutions for commercial purposes. Domenici in 1989 led the effort to enact the National Competitiveness Technology Transfer Act that extended Bayh-Dole authorization to the DOE national laboratories. Since then, Domenici has consistently worked with the congressional delegation, state and federal governments to advance technology transfer with the DOE national laboratories. 
   Formed in May 2003, the TRC has 11 member research institutions, including the: Air Force Research Laboratory, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Sandia National Laboratories, White Sands Missile Range, MIND Institute, National Center for Genome Resources, University of New Mexico, UNM Health Sciences Center, New Mexico State University, New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology, Technology Ventures Corporation, Regional Development Corporation, the state of New Mexico, and the National Nuclear Security Administration. 
   * The six proposed Advanced Technology Centers (http://nm-trc.org/)include: 
   1. Art, Research, Technology and Science Laboratory (UNM, lead host institution); 
   2. New Mexico Center for Isotopes in Medicine (UNM Health Sciences Center); 
   3. Center for Sustainable Natural Resources in the Southwest (NMSU); 
   4. Hydrogen, Fuel Cells, and End-User Technologies (New Mexico Tech); 
   5. Center for Technology Translation, Integration of Security Technologies and Decision Support (NMSU); and, 
   6. New Mexico Center for Optics (New Mexico Tech).
 
 