SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES CANCER PATIENTS, CAREGIVERS, ADVOCATES DOE-NIH RESEARCH LINK
  Sen. Pete Domenici today saluted New Mexicans stricken by cancer who agree to take part in clinical trials that might help lead to better treatments and a possible cure to this disease that claims tens of thousands of lives every year.  
   Domenici on Friday addressed a breakfast scheduled to honor the patients, families, researchers and physicians associated with the clinical trial program through the University of New Mexico Cancer Research and Treatment Center. 
   "Cancer is a terrible disease, and there is probably not anyone in the country who has not had a family member or friend touched by it. But there is reason for hope, now more than ever. There have been remarkable advances in research and treatment in recent years, and some of this progress is attributable to the courage and bravery of people who enter clinical trial programs," Domenici said. 
   "Clinical trial patients, and the families who support them, deserve credit for helping bring humankind closer to a cure than ever before," he said. 
   Domenici, who in the mid-1980s gave the DOE nuclear laboratories like Sandia and Los Alamos leading roles in unlocking the human genome, advocated the use of laboratory expertise to advance cancer research, including that led by the National Cancer Institute. 
   "Through the human genome project, which I believe could be our ultimate wellness tool, we have already gained a superior understanding of how cancer works and spreads. As we continue with this type of genetic research, we should soon be able to diagnose and treat human afflictions such as cancer with an incredible degree of precision," Domenici said. 
   Officials from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) attended the breakfast. Domenici has also endorsed the UNM Cancer Center bid to gain a National Cancer Center designation from the NCI. Obtaining the designation will enable UNM to participate in sustained broad-based interdisciplinary programs in cancer research run through NCI. 
   "UNM's Cancer Center serves all parts of our state with state-of-the-art care and leading edge technology. UNM should be teamed with the National Cancer Institute to tap into broader avenues for cancer research that could save lives and advance science," Domenici said. 
   On Thursday, Domenici took part in a UNM-Sandia National Laboratories symposium to consider how burgeoning nanotechnology research might be applied to cancer research and treatment. Domenici has been a leading force behind the joint Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories effort to establish the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies in Albuquerque.
 
 