SEN. DOMENICI: DIVERSITY KEY TO STRONG U.S. ENERGY POLICY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said a long-standing moratorium on energy production on the Outer Continental Shelf does not jibe with oft-repeated calls for the United States to increase its energy independence from foreign oil supplies.  
   Domenici is ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that today held a hearing on oil and gas resources on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) and areas available for leasing in the Gulf of Mexico. Domenici reiterated his belief that Congress and the nation must move on a number of fronts to improve U.S. energy security. 
   "We will not strengthen our energy security by locking up our nation's energy resources," Domenici said. "A strong energy policy means utilizing a diverse supply that encompasses a spectrum of energy sources and technologies. And, it also means meeting our responsibility to deploy these resources in a smart, efficient and environmentally sound way. It is unacceptable to speak of energy independence on the one hand, while supporting a moratorium that locks up 85 percent of the OCS acreage on the other." 
   "The task of energy security calls for us to be bold. We must rethink long-standing policies like the OCS moratorium and stagnant CAFE standards. And we must do more than that. It will require us to do things that Democrats don't like, and it will require us to do things that Republicans don't like. It requires us to think differently," he said. 
   Domenici last year led congressional passage of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act (S.3711) as part of a larger package extending several popular tax relief programs. That bipartisan compromise measure opened up areas of the Gulf of Mexico to that are expected to yield 1.26 billion barrels of oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in the near future. The tax package extended tax credits for such things as clean energy development, energy efficient homes and commercial buildings. 
   Under the OCS plan enacted late last year, royalties from oil and natural gas produced from Lease Area 181 of the Gulf of Mexico would be dedicated to Gulf-producing states (37.5 percent) and the stateside Land and Water Conservation Fund (12.5 percent). The other 50 percent would go to the federal treasury.
 
 