SEN. DOMENICI BILL ADDS 11 FED JUDGES TO SOUTHWEST DISTRICTS-TWO IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today continued his ongoing quest to fortify the federal courts in the Southwest with new judges, introducing legislation to create 11 new judgeships for U.S. District courts in New Mexico, Texas, Arizona and California.  
   Domenici's Southwest border judgeship legislation would authorize 11 new permanent and temporary judgeships--all for districts that are experiencing immigration caseloads that total more than 50 percent of their total criminal filings. The bill is cosponsored by Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn, both R-Texas, and Arizona Senator Jon Kyl. 
   Under the bill, New Mexico would be allocated one permanent and one temporary position. The Southern District of Arizona would get the largest allotment with four permanent and one temporary position, while the Western District of Texas would gain three permanent judgeships. The Southern District of California would get one permanent judgeship. 
   "Congress has needed to create new judgeships for the Southwest border region for years. The overloaded dockets in these courts are not diminishing and this is putting unacceptable pressure on the federal judiciary in this region," Domenici said. 
   "We must act to ensure there are enough judges to handle the federal criminal immigration and drug cases that make up the bulk of cases in these federal districts," he said. 
   The District Court for New Mexico had 1,502 immigration filings in FY2004, which was more than 60 percent of the total 2,407 criminal case filings. The FY2004 immigration caseload for the Southern District of Texas totaled 3,668 filings, representing more than 65 percent of the court's 5,599 criminal filings. Similar rates were recorded in the Southern District of California (64 percent) and in Arizona (59 percent). 
   The Domenici legislation follows the recommendations of the 2005 Judicial Conference for U.S. District Courts. (http://www.uscourts.gov/judgesrecommendation2005.htm) 
   New Mexico District Chief Judge Martha Vazquez endorsed similar Domenici legislation last year. 
   "Many New Mexico judges have come to me about their overwhelming caseloads. This month I heard first-hand about this problem from a federal judge in New Mexico. He told me he travels almost 200 miles to hear cases in southern New Mexico. Many of the situations he sees involve mass arraignments because there are so many defendants in the system. He is not alone in this arrangement. Other federal judges drive almost 300 miles to hear cases in Las Cruces. This is a dire situation that must be addressed," Domenici said. 
   For Audio Clip please visit http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
 
 