SEN. DOMENICI ENGAGES IN LOBBYING REFORM DEBATE, CITES NEED TO LINK LOBBYING-FUNDRAISING CHANGES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said lobbying reforms being considered by Congress must also be linked to further fundraising reforms.  
   On Wednesday, the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee (HSGAC) conducted its first hearing on lobbying reform proposals, many crafted after several high-profile convictions related to lobbying practices. 
   Domenici, who serves on the committee, said he expects to introduce a reform bill and that he will be involved in the panel's consideration and development of reform proposals this year. In addition, he expressed a hope that the debate would not succumb to partisan squabbling. 
   "Reform will be very difficult because there is no easy answer. It won't be as easy as adding more rules or eliminating earmarks. I am concerned that despite hopes that this will be a bipartisan effort, our work could become so politically polarized that we end up with no change at all," Domenici said. 
   "I've been here long enough to have seen many lobbying reform proposals, so I have some ideas as to what a lobbying reform effort should look like. I believe there are two aspects that must be considered as part of any reform we consider this year, namely, fundraising reform and lobbying reform. Both are undeniably linked," Domenici said. 
   At today's hearing, Domenici highlighted reforms he advocates including: eliminating or severely limiting out-of-state contributions to campaigns; eliminating or severely limiting the so-called 527 entities created after the last campaign finance reform law was enacted. 
   In terms of lobbying reforms, Domenici said reforms should include better enforcement mechanisms, improved disclosure mandates, and new travel restrictions. 
   "We now have rules about what lobbyists, members of Congress and their staffs can and cannot do. If those rules were followed all the time by everyone, we would be in a much better position than we find ourselves today. The rules must be enforced, and that means having the personnel and resources to get the job done," Domenici said. 
   The HSGAC is expected to conduct additional hearings on lobbying reform as the year proceeds.
 
 