SEN. DOMENICI VOTES FOR CHILD CUSTODY PROTECTION ACT
  Sen. Pete Domenici last night joined the Senate to approve a measure that will prohibit transporting a minor across state lines to obtain an abortion without the consent of a parent or guardian. 
   The Child Custody Protection Act (S.403) passed the Senate Tuesday night on a 65-34 vote. The House of Representatives has passed a similar bill, setting up a Senate-House conference committee to resolve differences.
   The bill would apply in the 37 states that have enacted statues requiring parental notification or consent (with judicial bypass) before getting an abortion. New Mexico's parental consent law is currently not in effect due to an order by the state Attorney General.
   Currently, if a minor lives in a state that has a notification law, she may go to another state and receive an abortion without her parent's knowledge.
   "Parents have a right to be involved in major medical decisions involving their children. Unfortunately, there have been numerous instances when state laws requiring consent or notice have been thwarted," Domenici said.
   "Minors in this most difficult situation have been coerced by boyfriends or others into making a life-changing decision without any input from their own families. I'm pleased that the Senate has passed this bill to ensure that existing state laws are respected," he continued.
   Domenici noted that the Child Custody Protection Act would be particularly beneficial in cases when statutory rape has occurred, since in many cases the crime is being committed without knowledge of the minor's parents.
   Last week, Domenici also joined the Senate to pass the Adam Walsh Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (H.R.4472), which creates a National Sex Offender Registry. The registry will have uniform standards for the registration of sex offenders, including a lifetime registration requirement for the most serious offenders.
   Child Protective Services officials in all 50 states will have access to the database and be able to share information in order to more effectively investigate child abuse cases.
 
 