SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW, JUNE 25: QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, June 25, 2007. 
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Nick Layman - KUNM Albuquerque
   * Mike Jaxson - KSVP Artesia
   * Bob Parmalee - KSFR Santa Fe
   TOPICS:
   Fate of Border Security and Immigration Reform Legislation
   Seven Rivers Water Pipeline in Eddy County
   Reluctance to Embrace Nuclear Energy
   Revised CAFE Standards
   Opposition to Global Nuclear Energy Partnership
   Prediction on FY2008 Lab Funding in Senate
   REVIEW:
   00:05 - Domenici says the fate of the Senate's border security and immigration reform legislation will "rise or fall" on whether lawmakers and the public believe that $4.4 billion in mandatory spending will be used to secure U.S. borders before any immigration reforms are implemented. Domenici says he will not support the bill without the guaranteed border security funding included in the bill.
   02:35 - Domenici says the start of a water pipeline in the Seven Rivers area of Eddy County is a good thing that will help New Mexico meet its obligations to Texas under the Pecos River Settlement of 1956. He notes that he secured funding for the project.
   04:48 - Domenici says more work needs to be done to convince lawmakers and the public that nuclear energy is a "green" energy. He notes his work over the past 10 years to revive nuclear power prospects in the United States, and discusses how other nations more fully embrace nuclear energy as a means for addressing global climate change.
   08:35 - Domenici says the CAFE standards included in the just-passed Senate renewable energy bill is probably the most significant reform in the bill. He says it will be interesting to see how the House drafts its own bill since there could be significant opposition to new CAFE standards there.
   10:51 - Domenici discusses the future of the DOE Global Nuclear Energy Partnership (GNEP) program, the success of which will be determined by whether Congress provides sufficient funding for it. He says groups opposed to two southeast New Mexico groups vying for a GNEP reprocessing project--Energy Solutions Inc. in Roswell and the Eddy/Lea Energy Alliance in Carlsbad--are probably opposed nuclear energy in general.
   13:45 - Domenici says nuclear waste reprocessing could yield a lot of fuel for nuclear power plants and reduce overall waste associated with nuclear energy. He says other nations are already successfully reprocessing waste.
   15:54 - Domenici reviews the outlook for the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee markup of the FY2008 funding bill for the DOE national laboratories. He says he cannot imagine the Senate taking the position of the House of Representatives. He says the House cuts would ruin the labs, and predicts that the Senate bill will offer some "real relief."
 
 