SEN. DOMENICI PAYS TRIBUTE TO CHIMAYO WEAVER, NEA HERITAGE FELLOWSHIP HONOREE TRUJILLO
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today took time to recognize the talents of Chimayo weaver Irvin Trujillo, who this year was named the recipient of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) National Heritage Fellowship.  
   Domenici paid tribute to Trujillo and the burgeoning art community in New Mexico in a statement entered into the Congressional Record. Trujillo is one of 11 NEA National Heritage Fellowship recipients named for 2007. NEA Chairman Dana Gioia is slated to honor Trujillo during this weekend's 56th annual Spanish Market, the Santa Fe event featuring Spanish colonial art. 
   "Irvin Trujillo has dedicated his life to keeping traditional weaving alive as an art and as a practical skill. He is an accomplished artist whose work certainly merits national attention," Domenici said. "I'm pleased he has been honored and I hope this award will make more people aware of the traditional and masterful weaving techniques that Mr. Trujillo's work beautifully exemplifies." 
   Trujillo is a seventh-generation weaver who learned the art of weaving during his childhood. His work has earned various awards and is included in numerous museum collections. He and his wife Lisa founded the Centinela Traditional Arts studio in Chimayo. The NEA fellowship award gained Trujillo a one-time stipend to help advance his art. 
   In his Record statement, Domenici also saluted the contributions artists made to the overall culture of New Mexico. 
   "Mr. Trujillo is part of the ever growing population of talented artists that reside in New Mexico," Domenici said. "Art is such a big part of the New Mexican way of life. Artists from all over the world dream of showcasing their art in one of the many New Mexico Art galleries. Art is a great outlet of creativity and emotion for those who experience its beauty and wonder." 
   For more information: 
   http://www.nea.gov/honors/heritage/fellows/fellow.php?id=2007_11 
   http://www.nea.gov/news/news07/Heritage2007.html 
   http://www.spanishmarket.org/
 
 