SEN. DOMENICI: GULF OF MEXICO ENERGY BILL, WITH REVENUE-SHARING PLAN, GOOD FOR U.S., NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today addressed the need for the United States to open areas far out in the Gulf of Mexico to tap vast amounts of natural gas and oil reserves. 
   The Senate on Wednesday will vote on whether to proceed to debate the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (S.3711), a measure that will open up areas of Lease Area 181 and 181 South. Domenici has worked months to gain a bipartisan support for the measure which could provide nearly 6 trillion cubic feet of federally-owned natural gas and 1.26 billion barrels of oil to the American public.
   "This is the best thing we can do this year to help American families and businesses. We are a nation too dependent on natural gas, and this bill has the wherewithal to provide enough natural gas to heat millions of homes for years and years to come," Domenici said. "I think it's also important to realize that without this bill, no one will see any benefit or relief from the energy crunch."
   The bill, setting perimeters for production well of the Florida coast, would move forward with a revenue-sharing plan allowing Gulf producing states (Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama) to receive 37.5 percent of royalties from energy production on Lease Hold 181, and direct another 12.5 percent of royalties to the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). The remaining 50 percent would go to the U.S. Treasury.
   The LWCF, created in 1964 and funded with royalties from Outer Continental Shelf energy production, has resulted in an estimated $40 million being invested across New Mexico to support setting aside property for conservation and recreation.
   This fund, for example, has been used to expand such projects as the Sugarite Canyon State Park near Raton, Mesilla Valley Bosque Park in Las Cruces, and the Living Desert State Park in Carlsbad. (http://www.nps.gov/lwcf/)
   Audio clip available at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309.)
 
 