NEW MEXICO DELEGATION APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF JERRY MURPHY BILL, ALBUQUERQUE VA HOSPITAL TO BEAR HIS NAME
  A delegation of New Mexico lawmakers, including Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman and Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall, and Steve Pearce, today applauded House passage of a bill to designate the Albuquerque Veterans Affairs Hospital the "Raymond G. Murphy Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center" in honor of the decorated New Mexico war hero who passed away in April.
   The House voted to pass the bill (S.229) to name New Mexico's VA Hospital after Mr. Murphy on Monday evening. The bill, which now goes to President Bush to be signed into law, was introduced by Domenici and cosponsored by Bingaman. A companion bill was also introduced in the House by Wilson, and cosponsored by Udall and Pearce. 
   The Senate approved S.229 by unanimous consent in April. The measure is supported by the VA Department as well as the New Mexico Department of Veterans' Services.
   Mr. Murphy, who fought in the Korean War and earned the Congressional Medal of Honor, retired in 1997 from a distinguished 23-year career as director of Veterans Services in the Albuquerque VA Regional Office, and became a volunteer at the VA afterward.
   "Today we solidify our tribute to Jerry Murphy, whose life and sacrifice represents the very best of our nation and the brave men and women who serve in our distinguished military," said Domenici. "Most importantly, Mr. Murphy's legacy will live on in the lives he touched through his courageous military service and selfless civilian volunteerism in his later years."
   "Jerry Murphy gave much to our country and to his fellow veterans. It is fitting that this building be named for him. Now, for years to come, Jerry Murphy will be remembered as the hero he was," Bingaman said.
   "Jerry Murphy was a hero in Korea, but the way he chose to spend the rest of his life is what makes him so special to New Mexico's veterans," Wilson said. "I'm pleased the U.S. Congress is honoring his memory in this way."
   "I believe this naming will go far to honor a veteran who gave so much of his personal life and professional career to his nation," said Udall. "This naming will ensure that future generations of New Mexicans will learn of the selfless work of Mr. Murphy and hopefully many more will emulate him in devoting their lives to public service. Mr. Murphy personified duty, and I am pleased that this legislation has passed the House today."
   "Many of us believe, too often, that heroism and valor can only be displayed when under fire or in extreme circumstances. But I would say that Jerry Murphy showed more courage to live the life of service he chose to live after his heroic exploits in battle," said Pearce.
   Murphy is one of fewer than 3,500 Americans who have ever been awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. He was given the honor following his heroic actions Korea in February 1953, when as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps he organized and led--against orders--a daring mission to rescue wounded Marines pinned down by enemy fire on Ungok Hill. He was wounded himself, but refused treatment until all his fellow Marines were accounted for and treated. In addition to the Medal of Honor, Murphy also earned a Silver Star for bravery in 1952.
 
 