NEW MEXICO SENATORS SEEK $110 MILLION TO MOVE EL PASO RAIL YARD TO SANTA TERESA
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today revealed their joint request for $110 million in federal transportation funding to facilitate the relocation of the rail yard in downtown El Paso to Santa Teresa, N.M.  
   The Senators made their request to the lead Senate negotiators working to finalize a new federal highway and transportation bill-Senators Jim Inhofe and Jim Jeffords, the chairman and ranking member, for the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. The House and Senate hope to agree on a final version of the $286 billion bill before the August congressional recess. 
   The funding sought by the Senators would derive from "Projects of Regional and National Significance" funding in the federal highway bill. 
   With planning well underway to facilitate the relocation of the existing El Paso rail yard to southern Do?a Ana County, Domenici and Bingaman expressed their belief that the project would not only improve public safety and traffic congestion problems in downtown El Paso, but would also boost interstate and international commerce at the relatively-new Santa Teresa port of entry. 
   "Shifting the rail yard from the center of a metropolitan city to a nearby region with wide open spaces makes sense. The completion of this project would ease rail traffic congestion in region and increase the overall efficiency of cargo transportation. For Santa Teresa, the move would be yet another welcome mat for industry to see that this region of the border is well suited for safely handling cargo," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee which funds the U.S. Department of Transportation. 
   "Santa Teresa is rapidly becoming a regional center for commerce and transportation. It would be a perfect home to the rail yard," Bingaman said. "Moving the rail yard to Santa Teresa would not only reduce traffic problems in El Paso, it would open up new economic development opportunities in our state." 
   The relocation project is supported by the city of El Paso, as well as Representatives Steve Pearce and Silvestre Reyes, who represent the region. 
   "The city of El Paso, Texas, has been working to relocate its rail yard outside of the city to mitigate growing traffic concerns that are exacerbated by increased rail shipping," the New Mexico Senator said in their letter of request. 
   "Santa Teresa is a prime location for this project because it has existing rail facilities and a large amount of unused land. By relocating the rail yard to this location, we remove the severe traffic congestion that is plaguing El Paso and we increase the efficiency at which the southern tier rail corridor moves our nation's intermodal cargo," the Senators wrote. "We understand this request is sizeable, however, we would urge the conferees to provide at least a substantial portion of the total amount. New Mexico is a very rural state and badly in need of quality economic development projects. This project would provide desperately needed jobs and significant economic development to a very depressed area."
 
 