SEN. DOMENICI: DOE SECRETARY BODMAN SIGNS WAIVER KEY TO MOVING LEA COUNTY URANIUM PROJECT FORWARD
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the Department of Energy has agreed to his request that a waiver be issued to allow American and European interests share technological information needed to advance the design of a planned uranium enrichment facility in Lea County. 
   Domenici said Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman on Wednesday signed a so-called Part 810 Waiver to allow Louisiana Energy Services (LES) in New Mexico and Urenco in Europe confer on materials and data needed to license and design the National Enrichment Facility (NEF) near Eunice, N.M.
   Earlier this week, Domenici discussed the Part 810 Waiver for the transfer of dual use information with Bodman and outlined the negative ramifications further delay could have on licensing and design work on the LES facility.
   "I am grateful to Secretary Bodman for acting to keep this project moving forward. Approval of the waiver, which makes sense in this case, has stalled even though the State Department and DOE legal counsel had approved it," Domenici said.
   "With this waiver those in New Mexico and Europe with interests in this project will be able to confer as the Nuclear Regulatory Commission carries out the necessary licensing process," he said.
   The Part 810 Waiver was necessary to negate a U.S. prohibition against LES contacting Urenco about material, data and technology it transferred to LES on the New Mexico project.
   "The American prohibition is intended to prevent dissemination of dual use nuclear technology. However, in this instance, it was preventing the New Mexico team from speaking with the European team, from which the data was originally provided. This was beginning to hamper design efforts and could have delayed the project once NRC issues a license," Domenici said.
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, had been an advocate for the $1.4 billion project, which is expected to create an estimated 400 construction jobs and more than 200 permanent jobs. With construction expected to be completed in 2013, NEF will use the world's most advanced, energy-efficient and cost effective uranium enrichment technology.
   The New Mexico facility will allow the U.S. to have a domestic source of enriched uranium for the country's commercial nuclear power plants.
 
 