SEN. DOMENICI: KIRTLAND, WSMR EXPANSION NEEDS AUTHORIZED, BUT SENATE PLAN LEAVES CANNON, HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASES WANTING
  Sen. Pete Domenici said that the Senate Armed Services Committee has agreed to his request to authorize construction of a new pararescue facility at Kirtland Air Force Base, but expressed disappointment that more military construction funding was not approved for needs at Cannon Air Force Base or Holloman Air Force Base. 
   The Senate Armed Services Committee has approved its FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill, which sets policies and spending levels for Department of Defense projects. The bill is used as a guide by the Senate appropriations subcommittees as they develop the FY2008 Defense Appropriations Bill and the FY2008 Military Construction Appropriations Bill.  
   "This policy bill reflects the tight fiscal constraints faced by a war-time Pentagon. While I'm pleased with renewed support for the Pararescue and Combat Rescue Officer training school at Kirtland, we still face significant challenges in finding the resources that should be in place for the Cannon transition and to ready Holloman for the F-22s. We still have a lot of work to do in those areas," Domenici said. 
   At Domenici's request, the bill renews authorization for $11.4 million to construct a new facility for the Pararescue/Combat Rescue Officer (PJ/CRO) School at Kirtland. Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Committee, won authorization and military construction funds for the project last year, but they never became law after the FY2007 appropriations process collapsed. The new school will accommodate increased enrollment. 
   The Senate plan also authorizes the expenditure of $42.7 million in BRAC-related funding to facilitate the move of a space vehicles facility from Hanscom AFB to Kirtland where it will join the Air Force Research Laboratory's space vehicles directorate. The bill also authorizes $1.8 million for a fuel unload facility at Kirtland, and continues FY2004 authority for $2.535 million to support a New Mexico National Guard readiness center in Albuquerque. 
   For White Sands Missile Range, the bill authorizes $71 million in Grow the Army (GTA) funding to support facilities needed to support the new Engineer Battalion moving into WSMR in mid-June 2008. The move would increase the Army military population initially by approximately 245, with more expected later. 
   "The GTA will mean good things for WSMR, and I'm glad to see this funding authorized. It will make White Sands an even better research and test facility for the Army and other services," Domenici said. 
   In regard to Cannon, Domenici and others in the congressional delegation have requested authorization for an additional $68 million in military construction funds to meet "unfunded requirements" to support the Air Force Special Operations Command takeover of the base in October. The Armed Services Committee, however, strictly adhered to the administration's request for $7.5 million to construct an MC-130 Flight Simulator Facility, and $1.7 million to alter an existing hangar to accommodate C-130s--both related to the AFSOC mission at Cannon. 
   "I will continue to push for funding for the Special Operations mission at Cannon. It would have been helpful for the committee to address these needs initially, but this is just one step on the long road toward the final FY2008 defense bills becoming law," Domenici said. "Secretary Gates and General Wooley have committed to this new mission and these two authorizations are an indication that there is administration and congressional support for the new mission." 
   The Armed Services Committee plan does not include the $19.5 million authorization sought by Domenici to support the transition of F-22 aircraft at Holloman Air Force Base at Alamogordo. The Senator had sought $14.9 million to alter a hangar to create a F-22 Hangar Bay for Low Observation (LO)/Composite Repair Facility to support the base transition to F-22 aircraft; and $4.6 million for a F-22 Aerospace Ground Equipment Facility to meet aircraft inspection, maintenance and storage requirements. 
   "While Holloman is on track to receive F-22s in a timely manner to replace F-117s, authorizing additional military construction funds for the beddown of F-22s would ensure as seamless a transition as possible," Domenici said.
 
 