SEN. DOMENICI VOTES FOR SENATE BORDER SECURITY AND IMMIGRATION REFORM PACKAGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted for the Senate's plan to improve border security and reform American immigration laws, despite his deep disappointment that the legislation does not address the critical need for new federal judgeships in Southwest Border states.
   The Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act (S.2611)-passed 62-36-does include Domenici authored provisions dealing with major border infrastructure upgrades, requirements for more U.S.-Mexico cooperation on combating the flow of illegal immigrants into the United States, and authorizing the hiring of new U.S. Marshal Service deputies. 
   "This has been a great bipartisan effort. There are many good things in this bill, and it has some provisions that aren't so good that will have to be scrutinized. I believe Senate passage is significant after so many years of not enough being done to control our borders. The bill still faces significant hurdles, but I am glad for the national attention that has been placed on border security and immigration reform," Domenici said.
   Prior to the start of the Senate debate this month, Domenici had introduced his own border security and immigration reform bills, S.2049 and S.2326.
   The Senate bill will now be referred to a joint House-Senate conference committee where negotiators will attempt to reconcile vastly different approaches to border security and immigration reform.
   MEXICAN COOPERATION
   Just prior to the final vote, the Senate accepted a manager's package of amendments that included the Domenici-authored measure intended to make Mexico become more of a partner in improving Southwest Border security.
   The amendment calls for the U.S. Secretary of State to outline cooperative measures that could be taken to improve border security, reduce border crime, and educate Mexican citizens of the legal means to enter the United States. The amendment was cosponsored by Senator Chris Dodd (D-Conn.).
   "As many as 85 percent of apprehended illegal immigrants are from Mexico. The illegal immigration challenge needs to be met not just by the United States, but by Mexico, too," Domenici said. "We are forced to tighten our borders not because we are a callous nation, but because the economy to the south of us is driving millions to our country's economy. I believe my amendment will provide for more cooperation between the United States and Mexico. As a result, I believe our border could be more secure."
   FEDERAL JUDGES
   Bill managers refused to consider a Domenici amendment to create new judgeships based on recommendations made by the 2005 Judicial Conference for U.S. District Courts. That latest report recommended one additional full-time judgeship and one temporary position to serve New Mexico, as well as new positions in all Southwest Border states.
   "Clearly, there is already a crisis regarding our Southwest Border district courts' immigration caseload. I am disheartened that the Senate did not act on my amendment," Domenici said.
   "I am dismayed that this body is turning a blind eye towards the need of our U.S. District Courts. As a result of such action, my state, and other states on the southwest border, will not be able to enforce the border security and immigration enforcement provisions in the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act because we will not have the necessary resources to prosecute immigration cases," he said.
   Four District Courts on the Southwest border have immigration caseloads that total more than 50 percent of their total criminal filings.
   The District Court for New Mexico had 1,502 immigration filings in FY2004, which was more than 60 percent of the 2,407 criminal case filings. The FY2004 immigration caseload for the Southern District of Texas totaled 3,668 filings, representing more than 65 percent of the court's 5,599 criminal filings. Similar rates were recorded in the Southern District of California (64 percent) and in Arizona (59 percent).
   "I was told that this amendment, with an annual cost of $11 million, was too expensive. But this bill authorizes billions of new spending for homeland security and judiciary resources. I was informed that every state needs new judges. But not every state has thousands of immigration cases filed each year," said Domenici, whose amendment was cosponsored by Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, and Texas Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn.
   BORDER INFRASTRUCTURE
   The Senate bill includes a Domenici authored section authorizing $100 million annually for port of entry improvements at border crossings on the Southwest and Canadian borders.
   The border blueprint, based on recommendations from the General Services Administration (GSA), represents the first major border improvement package accepted by the Senate since the $357 million Domenici-DeConcini plan enacted in 1986.
   "Securing and controlling our borders is going to take a major and sustained investment. My new border infrastructure plan set the stage for getting that done," Domenici said.
   In 2001, the GSA completed a comprehensive assessment of the infrastructure needs on the Southwest and Canadian borders, and estimated then that at least $784 million was needed to make necessary improvements.
   The Domenici plan would, among other things, identify port of entry infrastructure and technology improvement projects that would enhance homeland security, and prioritize and implement these projects based on need. This amendment is based on Domenici's S.2049.
   DETERRENCE AND ENFORCEMENT
   The Senate accepted a Domenici amendment authorizing the U.S. Marshals Service to hire 50 new deputies per year for five years to meet added responsibilities associated with immigration enforcement. Senator Jeff Bingaman cosponsored this amendment.
   Domenici also voted to provide funding to support President Bush's plan to deploy 6,000 National Guard troops to the Southwest Border to support the Border Patrol.
   "Allowing the National Guard to augment the work that Border Patrol agents do will free up manpower to apprehend and deport illegal immigrants and crack down on drug smuggling and other crime along the border," Domenici said.
   Domenici supported an amendment authorizing the construction of at least 370 miles of triple-layered fencing and 500 miles of vehicle barriers on the Southwest Border in areas most often used by illegal immigrants and smugglers. The decision on where to erect the fencing would be left to the discretion of the Secretary of Homeland Security.
   Domenici also voted for an amendment that closes a loophole in S.2611 that would allow criminal illegal immigrants to obtain legal status. As offered to the Senate, the bill would allow illegal immigrants who have ignored a deportation order-a felony under current law-to obtain a green card. The amendment clarifies that any illegal immigrant who is ineligible for a visa, or who has been convicted of a felony or three misdemeanors, or was the subject of a final order of removal, or constitutes a danger to the United States, is ineligible for a green card.
 
 