SEN. DOMENICI GETS FOREST SERVICE ASSURANCES OF AERIAL FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT FOR PEPPIN FIRE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he has been given assurances that the U.S. Forest Service will make additional equipment-including large slurry tankers - available to fight the raging Peppin Fire in the Capitan Mountains.  
   Domenici has been in contact with the Forest Service Chief Dale Bosworth and Under Secretary of Agriculture Mark Rey, who have given assurances that every available aircraft will be assigned to fight the wildfires now burning in Lincoln County. However, the heavy-duty equipment cannot currently be effectively used in the region because of high winds. 
   "The Forest Service is imminently aware of the very dangerous situation existing in Lincoln County. I have stressed to them the dire need for the slurry tankers to fight these fires. The Peppin Fire is basically out of control right now. There are aircraft available and ready, and I have been assured that they will be there once the weather cooperates," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that oversees the Forest Service. 
   Winds in Lincoln County were reported to be as high as 60 miles an hour, which make it too dangerous for C-130 slurry tankers or other smaller aerial firefighting equipment to be used. There are currently six helicopters and 16 hand crews now assigned to the area. 
   Domenici has pressed the Forest Service and Federal Aviation Administration to come up with a viable plan to clear grounded slurry tankers for use this summer in what is expected to be a very difficult fire season in the West. 
   Earlier today, Domenici announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has declared the Peppin Fire a "Major Disaster," which will make the area eligible for federal aid in fighting and controlling the fire. The declaration means that the state of New Mexico may recover up to 75 percent of the costs associated with equipment and supplies, emergency work, the operation of an emergency center, temporary repair of damage, fire mitigation and management, personal safety and comfort items for firefighters, and other costs.
 
 