SEN. DOMENICI: NANOTECHNOLOGY CENTER IS 'GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY' FOR N.M., LABS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today broke ground on a $76 million facility at Sandia National Laboratories whose nanotechnology focus on the minuscule could eventually lead to big scientific and economic benefits for New Mexico.  
   Domenici and Ray Orbach, director of the Energy Department's Office of Science, were among the dignitaries Tuesday who launched construction of the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies (CINT), an initiative the will involve both Sandia and Los Alamos National Laboratory as one of five DOE research centers for nanotechnology. 
   "Mastering the nanotechnology and finding exciting uses for that science will open up new worlds of opportunity. Nanotechnology, like micro-engineering, offers so many potential applications-from national security and health care to energy and the environment-that one cannot help but be excited," Domenici said. 
   "Sandia and Los Alamos labs have led the nation in major scientific initiatives, from high performance computing to the human genome project. Nanoscience provides another golden opportunity for our labs to again lead the way into an important new area," he said. 
   Domenici, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, secured the initial $30 million to launch CINT construction and has pledged to fully fund the Bush administration's FY2005 request for $30.9 million to keep the project on schedule. The project will cost $76 million to complete, involving a 96,000 square foot core facility outside Kirtland Air Force Base and gateway facilities at Sandia and Los Alamos. Ground was broken for the Los Alamos gateway on Monday. 
   Domenici heralded the fact that CINT will allow researchers outside the labs to collaborate with scientists at Sandia and Los Alamos, providing opportunities for New Mexico's universities and high-tech industries to advance the development of nanosciences. 
   "New Mexico is well positioned to be a national leader in the realms of nanotechnology and microengineering technologies. The spin-offs from this work should be immense," Domenici said. 
   Domenici has consistently worked to gain DOE and lab funding increases to advance the nanotechnology and micro-engineering initiatives. Last August, Domenici helped break ground for the Microsystems and Engineering Sciences Applications Complex (MESA) at Sandia. The $462 million project is the largest construction project ever in New Mexico. 
   Nanotechnology involves manipulation of atoms to create new systems and products. Microtechnologies involve dimensions somewhat less than the human hair. Both technologies-in which there is no sharp break between micro- and nanotechnologies, just a continuum-will not only have national security applications but also may be used, for example, in medical procedures.
 
 