SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES 2007 MEMORIAL DAY STATEMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today issued a statement to commemorate Memorial Day 2007, calling attention not only to New Mexicans who have lost their lives in previous conflicts but also to the men and women lost in combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   Domenici is scheduled to speak at the United Veterans Council of New Mexico Memorial Day ceremony in Albuquerque on Memorial Day. 
   "New Mexico has a strong tradition of supporting the Armed Forces, with scores of our family members and friends giving their lives in the defense of our nation. These brave men and women have served honorably and have made us proud as we remember their service in the World Wars, Korea, Vietnam, the Persian Gulf and in other conflicts around the globe," Domenici said. 
   "It is with particular poignancy that this Memorial Day, we reflect on the sacrifice so many New Mexicans have made while serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. I hope New Mexicans will think of these individuals and their families on this Memorial Day," he said. 
   In a statement issued for the Congressional Record, Domenici shared the story of Marine Corps Lance Corp. Christopher S. Adlesperger, 20, of Albuquerque, who lost his life in 2004 in Iraq and was posthumously awarded the Navy Cross for valor. 
   "Lance Corp. Adlesperger's story is just one of many stories of heroism, many of which go untold," Domenici said. "On Memorial Day 2007, we should join all New Mexicans in expressing our deepest gratitude and sincere prayers for those who are serving in Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom and the Global War on Terror, as well as their families, so we can all live our lives in freedom and without fear." 
   In late 2004, Lance Corporal Adlesperger and his unit were involved in fierce fighting in Fallujah. On one particular mission, Adlesperger and his squad were ordered to storm an insurgent-occupied building. While moving forward Adlesperger's squad began to receive heavy insurgent fire. Several members of his squad were wounded and the rest were pinned down. Adlesperger took action and secured a path for the injured Marines to be evacuated. Despite the fact that he was also wounded, Adlesperger continued the assault on the building. Adlesperger is credited with eliminating several insurgents and playing a pivotal role in the successful assault. 
   Monday's United Veterans Council ceremony is sponsored by the city of Albuquerque Cultural Services Department, Kirtland Air Force Base, and New Mexico National Guard and Reserve components from the Albuquerque area.
 
 