SEN. DOMENICI, REP. WILSON CREDIT NEW MEXICO SMALL BUSINESS FOR INNOVATIVE NUCLEAR DETECTION SYSTEMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Rep. Heather Wilson today said the unveiling of a radiological detection device developed by a minority women-owned small business underscores the private-public cooperation needed to successfully implement homeland security. 
   Domenici and Wilson today joined public leaders and MCT Technologies officials at their manufacturing center to review the firm's Integrated Detection and Monitoring System (IDMS), their new stationary or mobile radiation detection systems.
   IDMS has already been deployed at New Mexico's ports of entry and at major thoroughfares within the state. It has been used to monitor safe shipments to the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in Eddy County.
   "Radiation detection is an area of chief concern for our country, and I am proud New Mexico businesses like MCT Technologies are playing a large role in developing cutting edge technologies. MCT was ahead of the curve in developing radiological detection systems and it was well on its way before homeland security became a national priority," Domenici said.
   "Through research and development, New Mexico has a growing role in keeping us safe," said Wilson, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Technical and Tactical Intelligence. "MCT Industries is a family-owned New Mexico business that is helping secure our country and build our economy through innovations like the Integrated Detection and Monitoring System."
   The state of New Mexico has tapped into the federal Justice Department's Office of Domestic Preparedness (precursor to Homeland Security Department/DHS) grants to implement the system on I-25 and I-40, as well as at the ports of entry in southern New Mexico.
   "The public demands assurances for its safety. Governments need the hardware to get that done, and it is important to have innovative firms like MCT developing these systems that can be used to protect the people. There is a necessary level of cooperation to make our homeland security efforts successful, and we're seeing it work with the IDMS," Domenici said.
   Wilson and Domenici, who serves on the Senate committees with oversight and funding jurisdiction over the Department of Homeland Security, are scheduled to address the New Mexico Homeland Security Conference Thursday. (Wilson speaks at 7:30 a.m., and Domenici at 10:15 a.m.; Grand Ballroom, Marriott Pyramid, 5151 San Francisco Road NE, Albuquerque)
   The two New Mexico lawmakers have worked to promote advances in radiological detection through the DOE national laboratories, including Sandia and Los Alamos. Domenici funds the U.S. Megaports Initiative as chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. This program allows the National Nuclear Security Administration to work with foreign countries to screen materials before they ever reach U.S. shores.
   Both Domenici and Wilson supported enactment of the new Port Security Act, which includes provisions to ensure Department of Homeland Security and DOE cooperation in implementing and improving radiological cargo screening of shipments to the United States.
 
 