SEN. DOMENICI, LOOKING TOWARD HIGH WINTER HEATING COSTS, ENCOURAGES BLM TO EXPEDITE PERMIT OFFICE PILOT PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) is best situated to push increased domestic energy production, and encouraged the agency to expedite its work to establish "one-stop" permitting offices across the West.  
   Domenici made the request during an Interior Appropriations Subcommittee hearing Tuesday related to the Interior Department's action to increase energy production on federal lands. 
   Domenici was a primary author of the National Energy Policy Act that mandated a BLM Federal Permit Streamlining Pilot Project to accelerate and simplify the permitting process for energy production on federal lands. The law mandates pilot centers in seven locations, including Carlsbad and Farmington, and allows BLM to use receipts it collects from lease rental fees to fund implementation of the program. 
   "Of all the agencies assigned new work by the Energy Policy Act, none of them can do more to actually increase energy production than the BLM. It has a very big responsibility, particularly since I believe the American people will want to know that their government is doing everything it can to have the fuel it needs to keep homes warm and the country moving this winter," Domenici said. 
   "I understand the frustration over our inability to make progress in tapping known reserves because the permitting process drags on and on. This is a problem we need to overcome and these pilot centers might show us the way to do that," he said. "I would encourage BLM to get these offices up and running as quickly as possible." 
   BLM Director Kathleen Clarke testified that her agency expected to have the pilot program fully operational by early 2006. The centers are supposed to bring federal and state regulatory and permitting officials under one roof in order to expedite the processing of Applications for Permits to Drill (APD). They are being placed in New Mexico, Colorado, Wyoming, Utah and Montana. 
   Testimony presented by Logan Magruder, president of the Independent Petroleum Association of Mountain States indicated that there is as much as 100 billion cubic feet of untapped natural gas supplies linked to at least 3,000 backlog pending APDs. Under questioning from Domenici, Magruder indicated that the industry has rigs available to produce this gas pending APD approval. 
   In July, Domenici approved of the BLM bid to dedicate additional funding to expedite the APD processing. The agency was then facing, for instance, an eight-month backlog of APD requests needing to be processed in New Mexico's San Juan Basin alone. 
   Delays in processing applications are costing the federal government an estimated $11 million a year in royalties. Onshore federal royalties generated by oil and gas from the wells being permitted totaled more than $1.6 billion in 2004. 
   Domenici also asked Clarke to report on whether the BLM could take actions, in light of winter drilling restrictions, to encourage new energy production this winter. 
   Domenici on Thursday will chair a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing with DOE Secretary Samuel Bodman and Interior Secretary Gale Norton to review energy-related hurricane recovery efforts. (10 a.m., Thursday, Dirksen Room 366)
 
 