SEN. DOMENICI ACCEPTING 2006 SPRING INTERNSHIP APPLICATIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that he is now accepting applications for paid spring internship positions in his Washington D.C. office. The deadline to apply is Nov. 15.  
   Domenici's 2006 spring semester intern program will run from mid-January to mid-May. Depending on the student's schedule, the start and end dates are flexible. Students who are either New Mexico residents or attending a two or four-year school in the state are eligible to apply. 
   "The internship I offer through my office is a great way for students to be involved in the political process and learn first-hand the ins and outs of the democratic process they study in school. Along with the opportunity to experience living in our nation's capital, this program is a unique occasion for New Mexicans to work daily with press, legislative, energy and constituent services staff," Domenici said. 
   Applicants must have completed as least one year of study at an institution of higher learning. New Mexico residents and/or students will receive priority in the selection process. Students participating in the program during past years have come from a wide variety of backgrounds and schools, including universities, community colleges, and vocational schools from inside and outside New Mexico. 
   Applications are available on Domenici's website, which may be accessed at http://domenici.senate.gov. 
   For more information about the program and intern responsibilities, contact Lynden Armstrong at internships@domenici.senate.gov or 202-224-6621. 
   In addition to the application, candidates must submit a cover letter, resume, and two letters of recommendation. This information should be mailed to: U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, c/o Lynden Armstrong, 201 Third Street NW Suite 710, Albuquerque, NM 87102 or faxed to (202) 228-3261. 
   Applications must be postmarked by Nov. 15, 2005. Interviews will take place in November and selections will be finalized by Dec. 5. 
   Domenici, a Republican, is New Mexico's senior Senator and serves as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. He also has senior memberships on the Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee, and is a member of the Indian Affairs Committee and the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee.
 
 