NEW MEXICO DELEGATION ASSURED OF FUTURE MILITARY COMMANDER AT WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE
  Members of the New Mexico congressional delegation today received assurances that the Army intends to assign a flag officer to command White Sands Missile Range as soon as it can make up for its current shortfall of General Officers.  
   Following a letter of inquiry written by the delegation, representatives from the offices of U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman and Representative Steve Pearce today met with Army officials to discuss the assignment of a civilian to lead WSMR, and were told that the move was temporary and was caused by a shortage of officers eligible for new assignments. 
   Domenici, Bingaman, and Pearce, with New Mexico Representatives Heather Wilson and Tom Udall, and Representative Silvestre Reyes of El Paso, Texas, have argued that having a flag officer at WSMR is essential to work with counterparts at Fort Bliss and Holloman Air Force Base as major Army components return from overseas and transform WSMR's relationship to these military installations. 
   The Army has appointed Senior Executive Service (SES) Tom Berard, a civilian, to lead White Sands in the interim. The Secretary of the Army has asked for additional authorizations for General Officers, which would bring more on board. It is also expected that General Officers currently serving overseas in the Global War on Terror will be withdrawn and available for reassignment. 
   The lawmakers want to maintain active duty flag officer leadership at WSMR after the retirement of General Bob Reese on Nov. 30. They argue that naming a leader with extensive operational military experience is critical, particularly as the Pentagon transforms military operations to encompass the range, Holloman Air Force Base and Fort Bliss. 
   "The next few years will be particularly important for the future of White Sands Missile Range. Its relationship with its neighbors, Fort Bliss and Holloman, will likely be redefined as units return from fighting the war on terror and Fort Bliss benefits from realignment. It is essential that a flag officer command WSMR. I understand why the Army has assigned a civilian in the interim, and pledge to do everything possible to support Tom Berard. However, I hope the Pentagon can address its shortage of General Officers as fast as possible so that White Sands and other installations can benefit from their leadership," Domenici said. 
   "Our nation has been served well by having generals in charge of WSMR. Given the nature of mission at the testing range - and WSMR's growing importance - the Pentagon should want a high-ranking representative there. It's true that our military is currently stretched quite thin, and that we have more high-level openings than officers who can fill them. But it's my hope that this 'temporary' situation is indeed short-lived," Bingaman said. 
   "Having recently returned from a fact-finding mission to Iraq, I understand more than ever the demands that the War on Terror has placed upon our military's command structure," Pearce said. "Yet, as the nation's largest military installation, White Sands Missile Range desperately needs a flag officer as its leader. Thus, I urge the Army to replace General Reese as soon as possible." 
   "I don't question Tom Berard's dedication or commitment; however, I also don't question the need for a uniformed commander at WSMR," said Reyes. "This is a temporary situation, and I will continue to work with the Army to ensure that WSMR has the leadership in place to continue and expand its important mission and relationship with Fort Bliss and Holloman."
 
 