SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO STOP AMTRAK CUTS IN THEIR TRACKS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today voted to defeat an amendment that would have cut federal funding for long-distance Amtrak routes, including the two lines that serve New Mexico.  
   The Senate voted 28-66 to stop an amendment that would have effectively eliminated federal subsidies for long-distance Amtrak passenger routes, including the Sunset Limited and the Southwest Chief that run through New Mexico. 
   The amendment was offered to the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2007 (S.294), a bill to reauthorize $11.4 billion over the next six years for Amtrak operating costs, capital projects to maintain current operations, and infrastructure. 
   "Amtrak authorization needs to finally get done, but not by ripping the rails out from under the long-distance routes that serve the West. The Amtrak routes through New Mexico are assets that we should not lose. This bill is not perfect, but it should add pressure on Amtrak to make the changes it needs to be more economical and improve its service," Domenici said. 
   Defeat of the amendment, offered by Senator John Sununu (R-N.H.), preserved federal support for long-distance carrier routes. The bill, however, does include provisions directing Amtrak to evaluate and rank each route, and develop and implement plans to improve performance. It requires the Federal Railroad Administration to develop a program that could allow rail carriers that own routes used by Amtrak to become passenger rail carriers on those routes in lieu of Amtrak service. 
   The Senate could complete work on S.294, this week. If signed into law, it would be the first measure to reauthorize the Amtrak program since its last authorization expired in 2002. 
   Since 2002, Congress has provided $1.3 billion annually for Amtrak. Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds Amtrak, supported an FY2008 appropriation of $1.37 billion for the rail service. This Senate-passed level is $570 million above the administration's request and $76.5 million above FY2007 funding. The House-passed version included $1.4 billion for Amtrak.
 
 