IN LOS ALAMOS, SEN. DOMENICI EXPRESSES OPTIMISM ABOUT LANL, BACKS CONTINUED WEAPONS R&D
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today visited Los Alamos National Laboratory to meet with lab leaders and address LANL employees.
   After assuring employees that the competition to manage Los Alamos will be open and fair, Domenici emphasized the importance of LANL in the post 9/11 era, calling on continued research and development of weapons systems to deal with global threats. He also offered an update on the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, and provisions relating to Los Alamos that were included in the defense authorization bill recently signed by President Bush. 
   Below are Senator Domenici's prepared remarks at Los Alamos:
   Ladies and Gentlemen, it is a pleasure to return to Los Alamos to discuss with you the future of the lab. I think everyone will agree that is has been a difficult summer and I hope we can close the chapter on the security and safety issues.
   I believe we are at a turning point which will define both the future of the lab and the quality of the science in the years to come.
   With the upcoming competition for the management contract, it is vital for the lab to showcase its strengths and demonstrate that it has overcome its weaknesses.
   As the Department finalizes its contract priorities, I will seek input from the lab. It is vital that the Department protect your jobs and retirement benefits and I have received an ironclad assurance from the Administration that this will happen.
   Since my election to the Senate in 1972, I have traveled to the lab numerous times. Each time I have looked forward to speaking with the best and brightest scientists in the world as they wrestle with some of the greatest questions of our age.
   Like you, I hold a deep belief that mankind has been given the intellectual capabilities to answer scientific questions and use science to improve our quality of life. In testimony before my Senate Energy Committee, Nobel Prize winner Dr. Richard Smalley noted his support for this sentiment and described himself as a "technology optimist."
   As a self-proclaimed 'technology optimist', I have proudly represented the New Mexico labs and championed your interests in Washington to improve the funding for science and improve the facilities here in New Mexico. It has been my experience that most in the Congress respect the work of the labs, even if some don't agree with the overall mandate of the weapons laboratory.
   We have come to expect the best in terms of research and development from the lab. The lab's reputation was built, in large part, based on its 60 year relationship with the University of California. The longevity of this relationship has created an environment that fostered world-class scientific research - including winning the Cold War.
   While some may argue that 60 years with UC is to long, I am in no hurry to break up a team with a superb scientific record. I assure you that UC has an absolutely level playing field in the contract competition. If UC puts together the winning team, I will be very happy.
   Now is the time for lab managers, scientists and the rest of the lab community to commit themselves to building on the lab's sterling reputation as a world-leading scientific institution.
   Whether it is before the Los Alamos County Council, a Congressional hearing or the President of the United States, when a lab employee speaks, that individual carries with them the credibility and reputation of the entire laboratory. It is imperative that everyone understands that Los Alamos represents the best scientific research as well as the highest standards in safety and security.
   There are three individuals, who have been recognized for their scientific leadership and are a good example of what I am talking about. Bette Korber, Fred Mortensen and Gregory Swift were recently awarded the E.O. Lawrence Award.
   Never in the history of this distinguished award have three scientists from one institution received this award in a single year.
   Bette Korber was recognized for her work in identifying the genetic characteristics and evolution of HIV virus. We would not be where we are today in our fight against HIV without the Los Alamos HIV database overseen by Bette Korber.
   Fred Mortensen has been recognized for his work in on the design and certification of nuclear weapons. Ever since the U.S. adopted a no testing policy, scientists like Fred have had to adapt to certify the safety and reliability of weapons without underground testing. This was no small undertaking and his experience is vital in training new scientists.
   Greg Swift has been recognized for his work on the theory and application of thermo-acoustic engines. Using sound to power engines without any moving parts will have tremendous applications and may yield significant energy savings.
   Congratulations to these award winners and I wish them the best of luck in the future.
   As for the future, I had the opportunity to have lunch with Dr. Bowles, the new Chief Science Officer, and several scientists who represent the future of the lab. I challenged Dr. Bowles and the scientists--just as I challenge all of you-to work with Dr. Nanos and myself to develop a "scientific vision" for the lab.
   Some would have you believe that the scientists here at the lab only work on weapons and not on other science. I know that isn't true and you know that isn't true. In fact, two of the three Lawrence Award winners were recognized for their work on non-weapons related research.
   Also, LANL won five of R&D Magazines top 100 awards this year. Over the past 17 years Los Alamos has won 83 awards. Los Alamos tied Lawrence Livermore, for the most awards to a DOE laboratory. R&D Magazine picks 100 of the best innovations that show commercial potential.
   Based on these awards, you are clearly doing more than weapons research.
   The UC/Los Alamos team has contributed to a wide range of sciences. I've sought every opportunity to expand your research capability including superconductivity, nanotechnology, the genome project, waste transmutation, hydrogen storage research-to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and, of course, the leading role you already play in non proliferation. You can also play an important role in developing water technologies, like desalination, to conserve this precious resource.
   We can't stop here. I am interested in what you think the lab can be in the future and what we can do to improve the science and technical capabilities.
   We must work to develop new scientific capabilities around which the lab can grow and attract new scientists.
   However, you must not lose sight of your central role as the nation's weapons laboratory. Expanding the lab's capabilities must not be incompatible with maintaining our stewardship obligations. I will continue to fight those in Congress who propose restricting your ability to explore advanced concepts. I want weapons designers and scientists to discover new ideas to meet the evolving global threats. Anyone who tells our weapons scientists to stop thinking of new ideas is not a true friend of science and is undermining our national security.
   Before I close, I would like to provide you with an update on the status of the Energy and Water bill.
   Due to a significant difference of option over the future for Yucca Mountain - our nation's high level waste repository, I have decided to wait until after the election before pursuing negotiations.
   I am hopeful that we will find an acceptable solution after the election, but there is a very real possibility that a continuing resolution will be in place for the entire year.
   Even without a new appropriations bill, I am pleased to report that several of the amendments I offered that impact Los Alamos were included in the Defense Authorization bill recently signed into law by the President.
   * Global Cleanout - I included language giving the President full authority to go after all radioactive sources and special nuclear material here and abroad that pose a security threat. Los Alamos plays a leading role in the existing cleanout work and I look forward to a bigger role with these added authorities.
   * LANL Schools. The Defense Authorization bill includes a provision to protect the $8 million allocated to Los Alamos Schools. The language requires that the new lab management contract provide $8 million to the schools. This will remove the uncertainty associated with an annual appropriation.
   * Land Transfer. - This legislation also transfers two parcels of land to the Los Alamos Schools to be used to provide them with additional financial security and to encourage community economic development.
   In closing let me leave you with two thoughts:
   This a crucial time for the Lab and all eyes are on Los Alamos.
   This is also a good opportunity to explore a broader vision for the lab. Let's work together to prepare for a successful and productive future in cutting edge science.
   Thank you.
 
 