SEN. DOMENICI LAUDS APPLICATON TO BUILD FIRST NUCLEAR POWER PLANT IN U.S. IN NEARLY 30 YEARS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and a leading proponent of nuclear power in America, today applauded news that for the first time, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has received an application for a Combined Construction and Operating License (COL).  
   NRG, along with South Texas Project Nuclear Operating Company, has filed an application to build and operate two new nuclear reactor units at the South Texas Project (STP) nuclear power station site. The application is the first for a new nuclear power plant in 29 years. 
   After playing a major role in the creation of the COL process in the 1992 energy bill, Domenici spearheaded further provisions in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 designed to make nuclear power commercially viable in America. 
   "Nuclear energy is a clean, efficient power source that America will need if it is to meet expected energy demands over the next several decades. I believe that any serious effort to address climate change must include nuclear power, which is why I'm so pleased to see the first application to build a plant in 29 years filed with the NRC," Domenici said. 
   "We've come a long way since Congress first created the Combined Operating License process in 1992. While establishing the new process was important, it was clear that more had to be done to make nuclear commercially viable. So in the 2005 Energy Bill, we took the next step by reauthorizing Price Anderson, providing risk insurance, and creating a robust loan guarantee program. It is gratifying to see results so quickly, and I'm hopeful that this application will be the first of many," he continued. 
   The South Texas Project nuclear facility is located in Matagorda County, Texas, and provides power to the cities of Houston, Austin, San Antonio, Corpus Christi, and surrounding areas. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission will announce whether it will accept the application in the coming months. 
   Domenici is considered to be the foremost advocate of nuclear power in Congress and is the author of "A Brighter Tomorrow: Fulfilling the Promise of Nuclear Energy," which was published in 2004.
 
 