N.M. SENATORS: INTERIM MEASURE TO MAINTAIN FY07 FUNDING LEVEL FOR DOE NUKE WEAPONS COMPLEX, N.M. LABS
  U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced an interim funding measure that offers Los Alamos and Sandia national laboratories a short-term reprieve from automatic and steep budget cuts as Congress continues to finalize FY2008 appropriations legislation, including the bill to fund the nation's nuclear weapons complex.  
   The lawmakers stated a continuing resolution (CR) was filed Tuesday and will be considered by both chambers of Congress prior to Sept. 30, when FY2007 budgets expire. As sought by the New Mexico lawmakers, the joint resolution will continue federal operations at the FY2007 funding levels through Nov. 16, allowing Congress to work through the remaining appropriations bills. 
   The Senators have been working against efforts that might have resulted in the DOE nuclear weapons complex, including LANL and Sandia, having to automatically enact budget cuts approved by the House in its FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bills. 
   "With this CR in the works, we have averted a worst-case scenario at Los Alamos and Sandia laboratories for the next six weeks. This buys us the time to redouble our efforts to put together a FY2008 funding bill that will allow our nation's nuclear complex to continue critical nuclear deterrent efforts, and to minimize the layoffs at LANL and Sandia contemplated under the House-passed bill," said Domenici. 
   "This is as good as we could have hoped for in the near term. It maintains the status quo while we fight to ensure that our labs are funded as close as possible to President Bush's budget request," Bingaman said. 
   The CR mandates that interim funding levels will match what was appropriated for the 2007 federal fiscal year. The House-passed FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill slashed funding for the Department of Energy's (DOE) nuclear weapons complex, causing the DOE National Nuclear Security Administration to initiate a workforce restructuring process based on the possibility of adhering to these cuts under a CR. 
   In a letter sent to Majority Leader Harry Reid last week, the New Mexico lawmakers formally asked that an interim funding measure be put into place that maintains FY2007 funding levels after the Oct. 1 start of the 2008 federal fiscal year. While the House has passed all 12 annual appropriations bills, the Senate continues to work on eight unfinished FY2008 appropriations bills. 
   "I am grateful to House and Senate leadership for heeding our request and keeping the budget at the 2007 level while the details of these bills are sorted out," said Domenici. 
   "If we were following recent history, Congress would be considering a CR that would have called for deep cuts to the labs. I applaud Senator Reid for breaking with recent tradition and instead putting forth a proposal that makes sense for the country," Bingaman said. 
   Domenici, as ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, and Bingaman have both had discussions with Reid and subcommittee chairman Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.) about the funding problems facing the nuclear weapons complex under the FY2008 appropriations scenario being played out in Congress this fall.
 
 