SEN. DOMENICI TAKES SPIN IN TESLA ELECTRIC SPORTS CAR ON CAPITOL HILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today positively assessed the assets of a model Tesla Motors electric sports car after a spin around Capitol Hill. 
   Domenici, with Senator Jeff Bingaman, is currently pushing an energy efficiency bill through Congress that includes provisions to accelerate the development of better battery technologies to run automobiles like those that will be produced in Albuquerque by Tesla. The auto manufacturer had a prototype roadster on Capitol Hill Thursday to demonstrate advances in electric cars. Domenici was briefed on the vehicle by Diarmuid O'Connell, Strategic Affairs, Tesla Motors.
   "It is exciting to see how far we've come in developing fuel efficient vehicles already. This Tesla car had some real zip, but it had no noise, no pollution and no gasoline. I'm pleased that the company will manufacture fuel-efficient vehicles in New Mexico," Domenici said.
   "The federal government needs to do more to spur development of fuel efficient vehicles, which is why Senator Bingaman and I are moving a bill that will provide incentives for major research and development of advanced technology vehicles. Without a doubt, more fuel-efficient cars and trucks are an important part of our strategy to use less energy," he said.
   The Energy Efficiency Promotion Act (S.1115), which could be passed by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee next week, authorizes a major R&D program for fuel efficient vehicles, and provides for research on advanced battery development for vehicles. It also, among other things, authorizes awards to manufactures to reimburse them for up to 30 percent of their costs to expand or establish facilities that produce advanced technology vehicles.
   Earlier this year, Telsa Motors announced plans to build an all-electric, four-door, five passenger sedan in Albuquerque. The company has already launched the electric Tesla Roadster, which Domenici rode today. The Roadster is a two-seat sports coupe that travels from 0-60 mph in under four seconds and has an equivalent of mileage of 135 miles per gallon. Tesla expects to produce at least 10,000 cars a year at its Albuquerque plant, which will employ around 400 people.
 
 