SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS TO CLARIFY NEW MEXICO NATIONAL GUARD ROLE WITH HOLLOMAN RAPTOR MISSION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today pressed top National Guard officials to clarify the role of New Mexico's National Guard units, specifically asking what role they will play when the new F-22A Raptor is delivered to Holloman Air Force Base. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, attended a subcommittee hearing today to discuss the FY2007 National Guard budget featuring Lt. Gen. Steven Blum, Chief of the National Guard Bureau, and Lt. Gen. John Bradley, Chief of the Air Force Reserve.
   Domenici pointed out that in Virginia, Air National Guard pilots have begun flying newly delivered F-22A Raptors, and that a similar plan may be necessary at Holloman Air Force Base, which is slated to receive an F-22 squadron as soon as 2008. Guard officials responded that the National Guard wishes to find a way to recruit and retain members at Holloman, and is currently talking to the New Mexico National Guard about increasing personnel at the base.
   "The arrival of the new F-22A Raptor at Holloman is exciting news for so many reasons. One of them is that the new aircraft could mean an opportunity for the New Mexico National Guard to train and fly the F-22A, which would give our Guard members the opportunity to fly the latest and best technology in our arsenal. I look forward to working with the National Guard to make sure that our New Mexico Guard units have an increased role at Holloman and a continued presence at Kirtland Air Force Base," Domenici said.
   Domenici also submitted written questions for Guard officials. The Senator is seeking to obtain a long-range plan for National Guard F-16 squadrons, like the New Mexico unit based at Kirtland Air Force Base.
   Domenici also advocated an increased role for the Guard in securing our nation's border. He is the author of the Border Security and Modernization Act (S.2049), which, among other provisions, would expand the ability of states to use the National Guard for additional border efforts, including building roads, participating in search and rescue operations, and monitoring the border. Domenici noted that the Guard already participates in counter-drug initiatives along the international border.
   "I also want to find out if Guard officials agree with me that utilizing the National Guard on the border could save lives and increase effectiveness. I am not advocating turning the Guard into a law enforcement branch, but I do think that the Guard could assist the Department of Homeland Security with infrastructure and support missions," Domenici said.
 
 