SEN. DOMENICI STATEMENT ON IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL VOTE, WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today again voted against an attempt by Congress to set arbitrary deadlines for withdrawing American forces from Iraq. 
   The Senate took a final congressional vote Thursday (51-46) on the $124 billion FY2007 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill and readied it to be sent to President Bush, who has vowed to veto it. The package contains language that could force the withdrawal of American forces from Iraq as soon as July and no later than October.
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, attended a classified briefing Wednesday presented by General David Petraeus, commander of Multi National Forces-Iraq, and other defense and national security officials.
   "It is irresponsible for Congress to operate this way. With the provisions in this bill, Congress is deserting our commitments to our military leaders and telling them that none of it matters, the war is over and your mission is done. Congress, with this bill, is reneging on the war and sending our men and women in uniform a demoralizing message. I am committed to giving our military, led by General Petraeus, time and resources to try to calm Baghdad.
   "I understand the deep national unrest over the course of the war. I do not support an open-ended commitment in Iraq. The Iraqi government must do more. But effectively abandoning our military effort at this time poses a treacherous threat to the United States and the region. We should do right by our troops, give them the resources they need and work with the Iraqis toward solutions that will bring our Armed Forces home at an appropriate time," Domenici said.
   It is unlikely that there are enough votes in Congress to override a presidential veto of the $124 billion emergency supplemental bill, which would then force the House and Senate to rework the measure.
   During Defense Appropriations Committee hearings this spring, military officials have testified that additional FY2007 defense funding would be needed by the end of April. Without the funding, pressure would be put on the Pentagon to draw funding from other areas to meet the needs of U.S. military personnel stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 
 