SENS. CONTINUE FIGHT FOR COUNTY PAYMENTS-PILT INITIATIVE, FUNDING FOR SOUTHERN N.M. LEVEES
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today said they will continue to fight for congressional passage of a proposal that would send millions of dollars to New Mexico counties, and to fix levees in southern New Mexico.
   The New Mexico lawmakers strongly supported an initiative incorporated as part of the Senate's version of the Supplemental Appropriations Bill that fully funds the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, and expands and improves the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act so that New Mexico would receive about $20 million annually. 
   While the measure was stripped from the final version of the bill, which will soon be sent to the president, Bingaman and Domenici said they look forward to pressing for its passage in the coming weeks.
   "There is very strong support for this proposal, which would send millions of dollars each year to New Mexico counties. We will have another opportunity in the coming weeks to pass this important initiative and get it to the president," Bingaman said.
   "The Senate has already demonstrated broad support for improving the county payments formula, and I will continue to work toward finding a way to redistribute these payments in a manner that is more equitable to New Mexico and other recipient counties. I also hope we can find more support for the PILT provisions that would ensure greater benefits to our counties," Domenici said.
   The Senators said if the president vetoes the Supplemental Appropriations Bill, as he has said he will, they will work to include the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act and PILT initiative in the new version of the bill that will be negotiated.
   Domenici and Bingaman also pledged to renew their request for $20.56 million to allow the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) to improve and repair the levee system and undertake sediment removal in association with the Rio Grande Canalization Project in southern New Mexico. The current bill does not include any funding to carry out this work in New Mexico, and $10 million included by the House of Representatives for similar work in the El Paso area was taken out of the bill.
   "A veto will reopen negotiations. It will not be easy to get this funding put into a new bill, but we will again try to make the case that this funding is needed. We are still recovering from last year's floods and it work that must be done-the sooner the better," Domenici said.
   "Improving the levee systems has become a critical issue in southern New Mexico and we need to get this work done as soon as possible," Bingaman said.
   The Senators also said they will support the including peanut storage and handling funding in a revised supplemental bill. The conference agreement passed today does not include $74 million proposed for this program, which is used by peanut producers in eastern New Mexico. The lack of peanut storage and handling money in the supplemental will mean the lack of a funding baseline for supporting such a program in the upcoming 2007 Farm Bill reauthorization.
   Domenici indicated that he will work retain $25 million in Energy and Water Appropriations funding in the current bill to address drought conditions in the West and Great Plains. This funding included $18.0 million for Bureau of Reclamation and $7.0 million for the Army Corps of Engineer. These resources can be used to support emergency water well drilling, water hauling and other activities. Domenici is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the BOR and Army Corps.
 
 