NEW MEXICO DELEGATION ACCEPTS BRAC DECISION TO CREATE AN 'ENCLAVE' AT CANNON AIR FORCE BASE, SEEK NEW MISSION
  Members of New Mexico's congressional delegation today accepted the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) decision to put Cannon Air Force Base at Clovis into an "enclave status" so new missions might be found for the Curry County base. 
   U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Representatives Tom Udall, Heather Wilson and Steve Pearce, were all part of the concerted federal, state and local effort to overturn the Department of Defense decision to put Cannon on the 2005 BRAC list.  
   By giving Cannon an "enclave" status, the Commission accepted the Pentagon's decision to move all F-16 aircraft now at Cannon to other bases, but directed the Secretary of Defense to study the base and find possible new missions for the base by 2009. It is not likely that the F-16s will be redeployed to the other bases prior to 2008 because the movement will cost an estimated $90.1 million in military construction and personnel needed to support F-16s. 
   During this time, the delegation will work to identify new missions for the base in order to minimize the time during which the base would be in enclave status. 
   "I think the Commission was just plain wrong not to simply take Cannon off the list. I am profoundly disappointed, and think the decision not to keep Cannon as an active base is wrongheaded. I am particularly displeased with the recusals that kept the Commission from just keeping the base open," Domenici said. "On the bright side, we still have opportunities. We are not starting from scratch. There are already active talks on possible missions that could use the airspace and other assets at Cannon. I pledge, as a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, to forcefully pressure the Administration and the Secretary of Defense to find new missions for Cannon as quickly as possible." 
   "It's clear that the BRAC Commission wasn't persuaded by the Pentagon's arguments that Cannon should be closed. This decision gives us time to regroup as a delegation and work even harder at convincing the Pentagon that Cannon Air Force Base is much too valuable to lose, and that it is well suited for future missions," Bingaman said. 
   "This is a day of conflicting emotions," Udall said. "We all would have preferred a clear and decisive vote from the commission to keep Cannon open. It is, however, a victory that the Pentagon was not able to convince the commission to close Cannon. Our work is not done. We will now turn to convincing the Secretary of Defense that Cannon has important missions to perform for a long time to come." 
   "Today is a partial victory," said Wilson. "We had the votes to keep Cannon open permanently if two people hadn't recused themselves. Our job now is to begin to identify new missions, working with all the services and other government agencies. The people of Clovis and Portales did a fantastic job supporting Cannon. They convinced a majority of commissioners to keep it open permanently, and they deserve our thanks." 
   "While I am disappointed that we fell one vote short of an unqualified victory, I am pleased that the BRAC Commission provided us with a fighting chance to prove that Cannon Air Force Base remains a vital component of America's military preparedness," Pearce said. "The Commission's decision enables Cannon to compete for the military's next generation of aircraft, as well as for numerous other possible missions. By continuing to highlight Cannon's unparalleled attributes, I strongly believe that we can develop a vibrant new mission and a secure future for this vital component of our state's social and economic fabric." 
   The delegation noted that during deliberations Thursday, Gen. Lloyd W. Newton (USAF, Retired), said Cannon would be an "ideal" location for the future operational F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF). 
   The delegation noted its work to gain congressional authorization of the New Mexico Training Range Initiative to provide supersonic flight training has been promoted in anticipation for JFS requirements. With today's BRAC decision, the delegation can, among other things, work to convince the Air Force that the first JSF operational wing should be located at Cannon. 
   During the 2005 BRAC process, the delegation had also advocated moving Airborne Laser testing activities to Cannon AFB. Growing unmanned vehicle missions could also be effectively established at the base. 
   The Commission must now send its closure and realignment recommendations to President Bush by Sept. 8, which will set in motion a series of decision within the White House and Congress to approve or disapprove the decisions on an "all or nothing" basis. Congress has yet to reject any final recommendations made for previous BRAC exercises.
 
 