SEN. DOMENICI VOTES WITH SENATE TO PASS INDIAN HEALTH BILL WITH PROVISIONS FOR MESCALERO APACHES, NAVAJO NATION
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today voted with the Senate to approve a major Indian health care bill that includes provisions he supported to authorize a health care delivery demonstration project at the Mescalero Apache Reservation and a study to address Medicaid benefit delivery on the Navajo Nation.  
   As a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, Domenici was an original cosponsor to the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) (S.1200), which was approved Tuesday by the Senate (83-10). This bill will reauthorize for the next 10 years the federal programs for health care delivery to American Indian people across the country. 
   "Passage of this bill will provide American Indians with best the possible health care, allowing them to determine their own priorities and goals. Although there is surely more to be done, the Senate has taken a big step in addressing unmet healthcare needs among America's Indian population," Domenici said. 
   "The bill calls for a demonstration program on the Mescalero Apache Reservation that looks to improve health care delivery and service. I hope it will help residents access cutting edge health care," he continued. 
   The bill authorizes several demonstration projects around the country, but identifies five priority service units, including the Mescaleros in southern New Mexico. The "convenient care service" projects would focus primary health care services, including urgent care services, nonemergency care services, and prevention services and screening. 
   In addition, the Senate-passed bill authorizes a study to determine the feasibility of treating the Navajo Nation as a state for the purposes of Medicaid delivery services (Title XIX of the Social Security Act.) This study would determine whether the Navajo Nation could be given the same authority and function as a single-state Medicaid agency. 
   "Although health care services are currently provided by state governments, it could be more feasible for the Navajo Nation, which encompasses a large area in several states, to administer the Medicaid program to its members. This provision would allow us to better assess the situation to determine if this is the best course of action," Domenici said. 
   Finally, S.1200 includes several Indian diabetes provisions that will complement the Special Diabetes Program established through Domenici's efforts starting in 1997. The bill authorizes the Interior Secretary to: continue existing model diabetes projects; provide dialysis programs; purchase dialysis equipment; and provide necessary staffing. 
   The bill also requires the Secretary to screen each individual who receives services from the Indian Health Service for diabetes and related conditions that indicate high-risk diabetic. 
   "We must charge on in our quest to control the diabetes epidemic among the Indian people. This bill helps with that challenge," Domenici said. 
   Enacted in 1991, the IHCIA has not been reauthorized since. The bill passed by the Senate would, among other things: give tribes more authority in health care delivery options; create incentives for recruiting and retaining health care professionals for Indian health programs, and consolidate mental health, substance abuse and social service programs.
 
 