SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE & U.S. OIL INDUSTRY
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today made the following statement regarding U.S. oil inventory policy at an Energy Committee oversight hearing: 
   "Welcome. I want to thank our panel of witnesses for taking time out of their busy schedules to join us today. Your testimony will be invaluable as we look into the United States' oil inventory policy, specifically the policy related to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR).  
   "In the last year, oil prices have increased nearly 60 percent because of geopolitical instability, a lack of additional refining capacity, and the tightness of the global market. Despite the increase in oil and petroleum costs, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) in its 2008 Energy Out look expects world oil consumption to rise .6 percent and the total U.S. petroleum consumption to increase 1.0 percent in 2008. 
   "Recently, there has been concern surrounding SPR fill activity because of high oil prices. However, the fill rate of the SPR is 70,000 barrels a day, which is less than one tenth of one percent of U.S. daily consumption and between one sixteenth and one ninth of one percent of world oil consumption, which is reaching approximately 90 million barrels per day. Therefore, the fill activity is having a minimal impact on the market and has done little to increase world oil prices. 
   "Almost everyone agrees that we should have a SPR, but there has been controversy since the 1980's surrounding the purpose of the SPR and how the reserve should be used and managed. The U.S. established the SPR as a result of the Arab Oil Embargo by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which reduced crude oil production and caused economic disruption to the U.S. The original intent of the SPR was to discourage the use of oil as a political weapon and to be used during temporary oil supply disruptions. 
   "Our nation's future energy security is tenuous because the U.S. continues to increase petroleum consumption while our domestic production is leveling off. The result is a greater dependence on foreign oil year after year. Additionally, there is an increase in political instabilities within oil producing countries like Nigeria and Venezuela, and the presence of terrorist activities in the Middle East increases the potential risk to OPEC production. Not to mention acts of nature such as hurricanes. 
   "The SPR's current capacity is 727 million barrels, it has an inventory of 698 million barrels and a drawdown ability of 4.4 million barrels a day for the first 90 days; and thereafter the rate would begin to decline. Therefore, filling and expanding the reserve is necessary to strengthen the long-term energy security of the United States. The SPR is not intended to affect oil prices. It is a national security asset. 
   "Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your willingness to hold this hearing and examine the SPR inventory policies. But this is also an opportunity to recognize the fact that we should focus on expanding access to new domestic sources of oil. As you know I would like to see development increase on the outer continental shelf. And I am hopeful that we will not revise the wise policies of advancing research and development and commercial production of oil shale. As prices continue to rise and we ship nearly $400 billion annually overseas to import oil- it is essential that we re-exam our domestic production policies. 
   "I look forward to hearing from today's witnesses, and, going forward, to working with the members of this Committee on this serious matter. Thank you."
 
 