SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS EXPEDITED HEARING & APPROVAL ON WINTER STORM AID BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that he is requesting an expedited Senate hearing on legislation he cosponsored to aid farmers and ranchers who have been impacted by the severe winter storms in New Mexico and the region. 
   Domenici cosponsored the Livestock Assistance Act of 2007 (S.165) with Senators Wayne Allard (R-Colo.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and James Inhofe (R-Okla.). The four Senators have written Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) seeking a hearing and markup on S.165. 
   S.165 would reauthorize the Livestock Compensation Program and authorize the Agriculture to make livestock indemnity payments to qualifying producers in New Mexico, Colorado, Oklahoma, Kansas and Nebraska. Funding for the program would be allocated from the Commodity Credit Corp. to help producers that have suffered losses from recent record-setting blizzards and winter storms. 
   "The winter storms that have affected New Mexico livestock producers, particularly in the central and northeast region, pose ongoing hardships. Even as the storms yield, these hard working farmers and ranchers must deal with rising feed costs. I believe the Senate should act expeditiously on our legislation to try to bring some relief to these producers, who regularly maintain their operations on a marginal budget," Domenici said. 
   In their letter to Harkin, the Senators wrote: "The full impact of these storms will reverberate long after the visible signs of damage have passed. The effected areas continue to suffer through additional winter storms and the costs to producers increase with each passing day. For these reasons we are hopeful that the committee will be able to swiftly hold a hearing and markup of this important piece of legislation." 
   Earlier this month, Domenici and Representatives Heather Wilson and Steve Pearce asked Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns and President George W. Bush to approve any request from New Mexico for emergency aid for New Mexico farmers. 
   The USDA Farm Serve Agency announced Friday that livestock producers in 20 New Mexico counties can qualify for low-interest emergency loans. (www.fsa.usda.gov/nm)
 
 