SEN. DOMENICI SUPPORTS GEN. PETRAEUS CONFIRMATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, today voted to confirm Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus as the new commander for American and allied forces in Iraq. Petraeus was confirmed on an 81-0 vote.  
   Domenici, who met with Petraeus Jan. 11 to discuss his nomination and the U.S. military situation in Iraq, endorsed the general as well-suited intellectually and experience-wise to take command in Iraq at this point. 
   "General Petraeus is an excellent choice. He is clearly aware of the difficult challenges that he will face," Domenici said. "In our meeting, General Petraeus outlined what is at stake in Iraq and has convinced me that he is the best man to command Multinational Forces Iraq at a most challenging time for the United States and the Iraqi government." 
   "I have made clear to General Petraeus that I will support him, his efforts, and our troops in every way, but my support for the President's new strategy for Iraq is conditioned on seeing measurable progress by Iraqis in securing and reconstructing their country," he said. 
   Domenici has repeatedly said support for the President's new military plan in Iraq should be strongly contingent on the Iraqi government meeting major benchmarks in the near future, including: 
   * The timely formation and active participation of new Iraqi army brigades within Baghdad; 
   * Fulfillment of the Iraqi government's commitment to provide $10 billion for its reconstruction and stabilization effort; and, 
   * An aggressive effort to stop all Sunni and Shia insurgents, including, if necessary, military action in Sadr City. 
   "I have confidence in General Petraeus' pledge to me and the Armed Services Committee that he will openly and honestly tell Congress the situation on the ground as it unfolds and provide forthright advice regarding the new strategy in Iraq," Domenici said. "Clearly, we will need close scrutiny and evaluation of our situation in Iraq." 
   The Senate next week could begin debate on nonbinding resolutions regarding the President's new military strategy to help stabilize Iraq.
 
 