SEN. DOMENICI TUSSLES WITH OMB NOMINEE NUSSLE OVER ENERGY LOAN GUARNTEE PROGRAM
  In a pointed exchange with Representative Jim Nussle, President Bush's pick to lead the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), U.S. Senator Pete Domenici expressed his frustration with the way that the Administration has handled the Department of Energy's (DOE) loan guarantee program and demanded corrective action.  
   Domenici, the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee who as chairman authored the title in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 that created the program, said that OMB and DOE have severely hampered the law's effectiveness by failing to properly implement it and by underfunding it. The Senator noted that if OMB had followed Congressional intent, billions of dollars would already be invested in projects that would lead to a diversified, safe and clean energy supply for our nation. The exchange took place at a Budget Committee confirmation hearing for Nussle. Domenici formerly chaired the committee. 
   The loan guarantee program was created to allow for federal guarantees of loans in order to spur development of innovative technologies and new energy sources, ranging from nuclear energy facilities to renewable energy systems and carbon sequestration technology. 
   "Our bill intended to make sure that loan guarantees were going to be available to the public from DOE for clean energy development. It is very clear that this is a self financing program. But OMB has been dragging their feet. I can tell you, Mr. Nussle, that this is one of the most important provisions in the entire Energy Act. It should have already been done and there should already be $25-30 billion in the loan guarantee fund. It still hasn't been done and the recommended amount by OMB is only $9 billion. That won't fly," Domenici said. 
   "I know that somebody in government and maybe OMB doesn't think this is the way we ought to do things. But you know, that's too bad. When you write the law, the President signs the bill, and you read it and re-read it, it is clear that it can't come out any other way than what Congress intended. This issue is going to require some serious declarations on your point if you are going to be confirmed," he continued. 
   Nussle indicated that he understood Domenici's concerns, and would relay them to the current OMB Director, Rob Portman. In addition, at Domenici's request, Nussle will provide his own views in writing to the Senator about loan guarantees and pledged to work with Domenici and other members to resolve their concerns. 
   Among Domenici's specific concerns with DOE's implementation of loan guarantees is the arbitrary $9 billion limit on the total face amount of loans that can be guaranteed, which is significantly below what most experts believe is needed to be effective. 
   In addition, while the law authorized an amount equal to 80 percent of the total project cost be eligible for a guarantee, DOE's draft regulations guarantee 90 percent of the loan amount, which, depending on the size of the loan, renders the loan guarantee program toothless.
 
 