SEN. DOMENICI WANTS OMB NOMINEE COMMITMENT ON NEW MEXICO INDIAN WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today sought a commitment from the nominee to next lead the White House budget operations that he will be more assertive in support of funding needed to pay the federal share of three Indian water rights settlements in New Mexico.  
   Domenici today took part in a Senate Budget Committee confirmation hearing for former Iowa Representative Jim Nussle, who has been nominated to head the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB). 
   Domenici has been increasingly critical of the lack of OMB interest in agreeing to a realistic funding level for the federal share of the ongoing Navajo, Aamodt or Abeyta water settlements in New Mexico. Previous OMB suggestions have been far below the more than $1.0 billion estimate it will take to support the settlements. 
   "I have spoken with the nominee about the Indian water rights settlements in New Mexico. A lot of hard work has gone into these claims and the time for OMB to act is long overdue," Domenici said. "Before he is confirmed, I want Jim Nussle to assure me that OMB will be more receptive to resolving these water settlements." 
   In questions submitted to Nussle at today's hearing, Domenici also sought a commitment that Nussle, as OMB director, would provide an official administration position on the Abeyta settlement for northern New Mexico, particularly on the federal contribution for the Mutual Benefit Projects and the Pueblo Water Development Fund contemplated by the pending settlement. 
   "Although I asked for that information by June 1, I have yet to get an answer. This settlement has reached a critical juncture and must proceed without delay. However, in order to proceed, we need to know the Administration's position," Domenici said. 
   In June, Domenici introduced the Reclamation Water Settlements Fund Act of 2007 (S.1643), which would authorize a 10-year funding source to fulfill the three pending New Mexico Indian water rights settlements. The plan would generate an estimated $1.37 billion that could be used to pay for the Aamodt? Abeyta, and Navajo Indian water rights settlements after the parties resolve outstanding issues and the settlements are signed into law. This fund would be used for planning, designing, or construction activities of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation associated with the New Mexico Indian water rights settlements.
 
 