SENATE PASSES SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN BILL TO STOP 'PROSECUTION-FREE ZONES' IN NEW MEXICO
  The Senate today approved a bill authored by Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman that would eliminate so-called "prosecution-free zones" in New Mexico and clarify federal and state authority to try cases linked to crimes committed on private lands within pueblo boundaries.  
   Having been released by the Indian Affairs Committee, the Domenici and Bingaman legislation (S.279) was approved by unanimous consent by the Senate on Tuesday. The measure still requires the approval of the House of Representatives. 
   "We must get rid of areas that amount to an illicit free-for-all for criminals. It is not right, particularly for those families whose loved ones have been victimized in these areas where prosecution is now virtually nonexistent," said Domenici, who serves on the Indian Affairs Committee. "I'm very pleased with the Senate action, and I hope we can see expedient work in the House to move this legislation forward." 
   "This bill clarifies ambiguity in the law that has prevented justice from being served in small pockets of our state," Bingaman said. "I'm glad we have the Senate's endorsement. I hope we can get this bill to the president in the coming weeks." 
   Current federal and state case law currently holds that neither the federal government or state of New Mexico have jurisdiction to prosecute crimes that occur on thousands of acres of privately-owned land within pueblo boundaries. As a result, in recent years there have been stabbings, sexual assaults, and aggravated battery charges that have gone un-prosecuted because of jurisdictional questions. 
   S.279 would amend the Indian Pueblo Land Act of 1924 as it pertains to serious criminal acts within the exterior boundaries of a pueblo. It clarifies when a crime should be prosecuted in federal, tribal or state court. Recent federal and state criminal cases have left open the question of who prosecutes serious crimes committed on private lands within Indian Country. 
   Representatives Tom Udall, Heather Wilson and Steve Pearce have introduced companion legislation (HR.600) in the House of Representatives.
 
 