SEN. DOMENICI WELCOMES PLAN TO REINTRODUCE NORTHERN APLOMADO FALCON IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the public will have an important role helping the northern aplomado falcon reestablish itself in its native Chihuahuan desert grasslands home in New Mexico and Arizona. 
   Domenici has been advised by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) of plans to begin reintroducing the aplomado falcon in southern New Mexico. The FWS could begin releasing falcons, raised in captivity, in early August in New Mexico on both private and public lands. Over time, they are expected to spread within the state and into Arizona.
   Domenici encouraged the public to learn more about falcon recovery efforts. The FWS will begin releasing the falcon in groups of five to seven nestlings as part of a "non-essential experimental population" under a special provision of the Endangered Species Act. As such, the release will not affect land uses such as agriculture or grazing, according to the FWS.
   "It has been almost 50 years since the aplomado falcons nested in our state, and I am excited that we are at a point where they can be reintroduced in New Mexico. The Fish and Wildlife plan has been well developed, but the public should also be aware of how it can ensure that man-made hazards do not impede the successful reintroduction of this species in our state," Domenici said.
   "Our ultimate goal is to have the falcon thrive in the Southwest. It is certainly my hope that we will look back in five years and be able to say that the aplomado falcon is flourishing because of this cooperative effort," he said.
   Domenici, as a member of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee that funds FWS, has supported funding for aplomado falcon recovery work by the Peregrine Fund for more than a decade. Within the Senate's FY2007 Interior Appropriations Bill, Domenici secured $150,000 to support Peregrine Fund falcon recovery efforts.
   The New Mexico reintroduction initiative builds on the FWS release of more than 1,000 falcon in national wildlife refuges and private lands in Texas. The northern aplomado falcon has been on the endangered species list since 1986.
   http://www.fws.gov/ifw2es/NewMexico/
   http://www.peregrinefund.org/default.asp
 
 