SEN. DOMENICI: COMMITTEE SHOULD RESTORE CRITICAL FUNDS TO NEW MEXICO PEANUT INDUSTRY
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today urged the Senate Agriculture Committee to restore a peanut storage and handling payments program in its draft of the new 2007 Farm Bill, a measure that is critical to peanut producers in New Mexico.  
   In a letter to Senators Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Domenici commended their efforts in drafting a new Farm Bill, but brought to their attention the pressing need to protect the peanut industry by reauthorizing a funding provision that peanut farmers have grown to rely upon. The storage and handling payments go toward a key peanut program and allow for competition and productivity in New Mexico's expansive peanut industry. 
   "I was extremely disappointed that peanut storage and payments for the 2007 peanut crop were excluded from the FY2007 Supplemental Appropriations conference agreement. The loss of this key peanut program feature will cost peanut growers up to an additional $50 to $60 per ton, which represents at least $74 million to peanut producers," wrote Domenici, who serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   "These costs pose a challenge to the productivity of New Mexico's peanut growers, who are the nation's primary source of Valencia peanuts," he said. 
   In New Mexico, peanut production is a $50 million cash crop and a major agricultural industry in counties such as Roosevelt, Curry, and Lea. 
   The 2002 Farm Bill included a new provision that replaced peanut growers' quota program with a marketing loan program that had long benefited other major crop producers. As part of the move away from the restrictive quota program to a more competitive peanut program, Congress acknowledged that peanut storage and handling payments would provide the resources to make the program operational. 
   "While I am disappointed with the failure of Congress to follow through with the necessary funding to make this program functional, I am optimistic that we can find a solution that can address this need in the farm bill," Domenici said in the letter. 
   Earlier this year, Domenici met with New Mexico Peanut Growers Association members to discuss reauthorization of the Farm Bill and its importance to New Mexico's peanut industry. During their Capitol Hill meeting, Domenici and peanut industry representatives discussed the outlook for these critical peanut provisions in the Farm Bill.
 
 