SENATE PRODUCES STRAIGHT-FORWARD BILL TO FUND DOE LABS, NUCLEAR DETERRENT MISSION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the Senate's plan for the Department of Energy (DOE) nuclear weapons laboratories protects funding for the nation's nuclear deterrent by fully funding the ongoing science-based stockpile stewardship and life extension activities. 
   Domenici is ranking member on the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that Tuesday approved the FY2008 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill. The $32.27 billion bill--which funds DOE, Bureau of Reclamation, Army Corps of Engineers and related agencies like the National Nuclear Security Administration--will be considered by the full Senate Appropriations Committee on Thursday. 
   While fully funding nuclear weapons programs, the bill also withholds support for an ongoing complex-wide transformation program until a decision is made to move forward with a reliable replacement warhead (RRW) system.  
   "I believe we fashioned a straight-forward bill that sustains the DOE mission to deliver and secure a reliable deterrent for the United States and its allies. The NNSA mission, supported by the national labs, is protected, including the life extension program and the experimental science based campaigns. This is important to meet future challenges," Domenici said. 
   "I believe this bill takes us in the right direction, pulling back where needed and moving forward in a manner that does not put our nuclear deterrent or the future of any single laboratory in jeopardy," he said. 
   "We still have work to do to ensure our laboratories remain viable and vital partners in U.S. nuclear security and scientific research. In the end I believe fairness and what is right for the country will prevail. I appreciate working with Chairman Dorgan on this bill and I will continue to work closely with him throughout the FY2008 appropriations process." 
   The measure provides $25.8 billion for the Department of Energy (a $1.13 billion increase over the president's budget request), $5.4 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers ($577 million increase), $1.1billion for the Bureau of Reclamation ($142 million increase), and $300 million for independent agencies ($48 million increase). 
   Among the program changes approved in the Senate bill, the subcommittee cut $22.7 million from the RRW feasibility study, providing $66 million for the project. The bill puts a halt to complex transformation activities included in the Complex 2030 initiative. As such, there is no funding for the Consolidated Pit Center (-$25 million) or the Office of Transformation (-$14 million). Existing stockpile and experimental campaigns, however, are fully funded. 
   "While we await completion of the RRW feasibility study, which will answer many questions regarding the future stockpile, our bill directs the NNSA not to undertake transformational activities and instead focus on improving the security and focus on the scientific future of the laboratories," Domenici said. 
   Under the Senate plan, the bill has $9.56 billion for NNSA, of which $6.49 billion is outlined for weapons activities (down $22 million from budget request, but $231 million over FY2007), $1.87 billion for nonproliferation activities ($200 million over the request), and $808 million for Naval Reactors. 
   In the report, the Committee also instructs the NNSA to put less focus on restructuring the complex infrastructure and refocus on sustaining the science capability at the laboratory. Among new initiatives included in the bill, Domenici provided $19 million to the NNSA to restore a research and development capability in high performance computing. The Committee has included report language directing the Office of Science and the NNSA to work together to support this new activity. 
   "The NNSA laboratories have established the leading high performance computing architecture that has enabled the NNSA to successfully support the stockpile stewardship activities using computer simulations as a means to avoid underground testing. The high speed computation has also supported research in biomedical, climate and energy research. It would be a mistake to waste this capability," Domenici said. 
   The bill provides $1.7 billion to support renewable energy research including biomass, solar, wind energy as well as increases for vehicle and building efficiency. These programs, along with the loan guarantee effort will encourage the deployment of a diversified energy portfolio. Within this amount the Committee has provided $244 million to support cellulosic biomass research an increase of $44 million and provides $100 million to support hybrid electric car R&D, a $20 million increase. 
   Within the Office Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability that Committee has added $54 million to provide $169.4 million to find technology solutions to improve the reliability of our aging electricity transmission infrastructure. To further encourage the deployment of renewable energy resources, the Committee provides $21.8 million, a $15 million increase, to support energy storage research. Development of massive storage capacity has the potential to solve the intermittent nature of wind and solar powered generation. The Committee also added $12 million to increase funding for high temperature superconductivity R&D. This research is being supported by Los Alamos National Laboratory. 
   The Committee fully funds the High Energy Density Plasma research. The bill provides $24.6 million from the Office of Science and the NNSA to expand access to the National Ignition Facility in California, Z Machine at Sandia National Laboratories, and the Omega Laser in New York. 
   The bill provides $242 million for the Global Nuclear Energy Partnership (GNEP). Although this is $75 million over current funding, it is $153 million below the budget request. The bill directs DOE to focus less on commercial deployment of the advanced reactors and spent fuel recycling facilities, and to put more effort in demonstrating the technical feasibility as well as a proven safety record. The bill also directs the Department to stop work on a new Advanced Fuel Cycle Facility and use the funding to invest it into the existing laboratory capabilities. Within the available funds, $23 million has been directed to upgrade the hot cells at Los Alamos. 
   "Although I share the President's desire to address our spent fuel inventories by recycling and reducing this material, I recognize that the new Congressional leadership is seeking a more modest program that can more fully demonstrate the technical and commercial feasibility of closing the nuclear fuel cycle as other countries have done." 
   The Committee mark also provides $24 million to support two research initiatives focused on the relationship between Water/Climate and Water/Energy. Within the Office of Science $12 million has been included to support a study to evaluate the impacts climate change has on water supply in the Southwest and consider technology options. Within the Office of Fossil Energy $12 million is provided to study technology solution to utilize water more efficiently in power production. In FY2007, the Department of Energy delivered to Congress a report on the interdependency of water and energy systems. 
   "I have long understood this connection, but the true depth of the relationship and the threat that inadequate or poorly managed water supplies poses to our energy independence is staggering. We can no longer ignore this connection." Domenici said. 
   The Committee continues to make global nuclear nonproliferation a top priority. This Committee mark will provide $1.8 billion toward this effort, an increase of $200 million over the request and $54 million over current year levels. 
   The bill provides $390.8 million to support construction of the U.S. MOX facility, which his set to begin on Aug. 1, 2007, as part of the FY2007 Joint Resolution. 
   The committee bill expresses its continued frustration that the Russian government has failed to fulfill the terms of the bilateral Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement. The bill rescinds $57 million in previously appropriated funding for the Russian disposal effort. These funds will be used to accelerate the construction of the U.S. MOX facility. The Committee remains supportive of the Russian effort, noting that $151 million remains available to support the bilateral initiative. 
   "I am deeply disappointed in the lack of progress on the part of the Russian government to advance the MOX agreement. I still have hope that this worthwhile nonproliferation project will eventually get back on track. But until that happens, I believe we should put our resources toward meeting our end of the bargain," Domenici said. "MOX is fully funded to encourage DOE to proceed with our own U.S. plant without waiting for Russia." 
   The bill also provides $50 million to initiate creation of an international uranium fuel bank within the International Atomic Energy Agency. This funding will be used to create a fuel reserve that the IAEA can use to encourage countries to forego a domestic uranium enrichment capability. This reserve would give countries the confidence that there is a secure and available supply of uranium that can be used if uranium supplies are disrupted in the future. 
   Under the nonproliferation account, the bill redirects $29 million proposed for the Elimination of Weapons Grade Plutonium Production (EWGPP). The funding reduction is enabled as a result of foreign contributions to the program from six other nations. 
   Finally, the bill provides $20 million within the Engineering Campaign for the NNSA to work with other nuclear weapons states to share basic surety controls to defeat unauthorized use of all nuclear weapons.
 
 