SENATE PASSES SEN. DOMENICI BILL ON VALLES CALDERA MINERAL RIGHTS
  The Senate has approved legislation authored by Sen. Pete Domenici to acquire the remaining mineral rights at the Valles Caldera National Preserve and Trust in north central New Mexico.  
   The Senate approved the Valles Caldera Preservation Act of 2005 (S.212) by unanimous consent Tuesday. The bill is cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman. 
   The legislation directs the Agriculture Secretary to negotiate a price for buying the remaining geothermal interests at the Preserve. If negotiations are unsuccessful, the matter would be directed to federal court for resolution. The Department of Agriculture would use available funds to acquire the mineral interests, unless the court sets a higher price, in which case the difference would be paid from the judgment fund. 
   "It is important that we finally resolve the mineral rights issues remaining in the Valles Caldera. This bill lays out a course for doing just that in a fair manner. This legislation, which I hope will be well received in the House, gives all parties a chance to constructively work at resolving the long-standing dispute over mineral rights ownership on the ranch," Domenici said. 
   "This legislation sets out a fair and timely process for resolving outstanding mineral rights ownership issues, protecting the Valles Caldera National Preserve from future development," Bingaman said. 
   Among other things, the bill also clarifies the Valles Caldera National Preservation & Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act of 1999 (S.1892) in terms of employment classifications, and resource management and funding authority. 
   In 2000, Congress passed S.1892 authorizing the federal purchase of the 95,000-acre Baca Ranch and provided $101 million to buy the property. 
   Domenici is chairman and Bingaman is the ranking Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that approved S.212 in early February. 
   The FY2006 Interior Appropriations Committee-now pending final House and Senate approval before heading to the White House to become law-includes $5.15 million through the Forest Service for administration, research and inventory activities, and infrastructure at the Valles Caldera National Preserve, an increase of $1.5 million above FY2005. At Domenici's request, the funding for the first time will be split between two accounts: $3.65 million for operating funding and $1.5 million for infrastructure (capital) improvements. 
   The Interior Appropriations Bill also includes Domenici language authorizing the Forest Service to pay for any firefighting expenses incurred to fight wildfires on the Valles Caldera National Preserve. Currently there is no one specific entity responsible for fire suppression on the Valles Caldera.
 
 