SEN. DOMENICI PRESSES GRIM TO ADDRESS INDIAN HEALTH CARE NEEDS IN NEW MEXICO
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said a concerted effort is needed to eliminate a $3.0 billion backlog in Indian heath care facility construction and renovation, and pressed the head of the Indian Health Service (IHS) to demand more resources for this work.  
   Domenici addressed Indian health issues at an Indian Affairs Committee confirmation hearing for Dr. Charles Grim, who has been re-nominated to lead IHS. In addition to asking Grim for information on facilities construction and the reauthorization of a diabetes research and treatment program for the Indian people, Domenici also asked Grim for commitments to address debt problems at the Acoma-Ca?oncito-Laguna Hospital and physician retention programs at the Cochiti Pueblo clinic. 
   "I believe Dr. Grim is a good leader, but he cannot lead well without the resources he needs to advance Indian health issues. Congress and the administration must do better, and Dr. Grim should speak out more loudly about the needs in Indian country," Domenici said. "Truth be told, many of these facilities are so outdated and debilitated that they are virtually unsuitable for delivering health care." 
   Domenici suggested that the federal government, with Grim's aid, should embark on a multi-year effort to reduce the Indian health facilities backlog much like the Indian school construction backlog has been cut since the start of the Bush administration. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee that has approved $374 million for IHS facilities in FY2008, a $21.5 million increase over FY2007 and $35.2 million over the president's budget request. The budget request only sought $12.6 million for IHS facilities construction in FY2008. The Senate bill recommends $22 million. 
   Domenici sought Grim's active support in pushing for enactment of new legislation to reauthorize and expand two Indian diabetes programs that Domenici helped create with the 1997 Balanced Budget Act. S.1494 would reauthorize the Special Diabetes Program for Indians and the Special Funding Program for Type I Diabetes Research, and provide an additional $500 million over the next five years for both programs. 
   "Federally supported treatment and prevention programs are showing real results in the Native American populations. However, more clearly needs to be done. This disease is one of the most serious and devastating health problems of our time and is responsible for a major portion of the resources spent on health care of Indian people," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also asked Grim to answer questions related to IHS willingness to work with administrators at the Acoma-Ca?oncito-Laguna Hospital to overcome a persistent debt. 
   "I want Dr. Grim to commit to working with this hospital to resolve its debt problems in an adequate manner so that services are not reduced or closed. Earlier proposals recommended closing the emergency room and curtailing other services. That was obviously unacceptable," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also asked Grim to provide proposals for overcoming staff shortages at Indian health care clinics, citing physician shortages to serve the clinic at Cochiti Pueblo. 
   "Cochiti leaders report that their clinic is now served by a single doctor who splits his time between three other clinics. It's a real problem that needs to be addressed," Domenici said.
 
 