SEN. DOMENICI: ADD SANDOVAL, VALENCIA, TORRANCE COUNTIES TO SOUTHWEST BORDER HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREA
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that he has introduced legislation to add three central New Mexico counties to a program that will bring more federal law enforcement resources into the Albuquerque region to combat methamphetamine production and other illegal drug activities. 
   The Domenici legislation (S.3565) would add Sandoval, Valencia and Torrance counties to the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). The measure would greatly expand HIDTA presence in the Albuquerque-Bernalillo County metropolitan area. Currently Bernalillo County is one of 13 New Mexico counties included in the Southwest Border HIDTA.
   "New Mexico has many serious drug problems. Our proximity to Mexico makes it a convenient corridor for traffickers who smuggle narcotics into the United States. All too often, evidence of that illegal trafficking is showing up in and around Albuquerque," Domenici said.
   "The Southwest Border HIDTA tells me that in the Albuquerque area, investigative links between narcotic trafficking groups are established frequently, often between Bernalillo County and surrounding counties that are not part of the Southwest Border HIDTA and therefore don't have access to HIDTA tools and resources," he said.
   "My bill recognizes that fact, and would allow local law enforcement in Valencia, Sandoval and Torrance counties to coordinate with federal law enforcement to beat back this threat," he said.
   The Southwest Border HIDTA is part of a larger national HIDTA network that has proven to be an effective tool in combating illegal drug activities that stem from Mexico.
   The legislation represents Domenici's second attempt to expand the HIDTA program in New Mexico. In 1999, he successfully added San Juan, Rio Arriba and Santa Fe counties to the program, largely in response to a Mexican black tar heroin and methamphetamine epidemic.
   Besides Bernalillo County, other counties enrolled in the HIDTA include: Chaves, Do?a Ana, Eddy, Grant, Hidalgo, Lea, Lincoln, Luna, Otero, Rio Arriba, San Juan and Santa Fe.
   Participating counties in New Mexico work with the Southwest Border HIDTA, with the missions of reducing drug availability through task forces aimed at disrupting or dismantling international and domestic drug trafficking organizations and helping coordinate drug trafficking investigative efforts among federal, state and local law enforcement agencies.
   Domenici serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the national HIDTA program, and is supporting at least level funding for the program in FY2007. While Congress provided $228.3 million for HIDTA in 2006, the administration's budget request seeks a $20 million reduction for the U.S. Treasury Department program. The Senate Appropriations Committee will consider the HIDTA funding bill in July.
   "The illegal drug situation in New Mexico is not decreasing and by expanding the Southwest Border HIDTA around the Albuquerque region, I would argue that we need to sustain or increase federal funding for the cooperative law enforcement initiative," Domenici said.
   * Drug-related crime: http://www.whitehousedrugpolicy.gov/statelocal/nm/nm.pdf
   * Southwest Border HIDTA: http://www.whitehousedrugpolicy.gov/hidta/southwest.html
 
 