SENATE CONFIRMS PETER LYONS TO EXTENDED TERM ON NRC
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised Senate confirmation of Dr. Peter B. Lyons, his former aide and a Los Alamos National Laboratory physicist, to serve on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission through June 2009. 
   The Senate on Friday approved the Lyons nomination by unanimous consent. President Bush initially appointed Lyons to the NRC in January 2005. The President subsequently nominated Lyons for a full term on the five-member commission. With today's Senate confirmation, Lyons will serve on the NRC through June 30, 2009. (http://www.nrc.gov/)
   "Pete is my former advisor on nuclear issues, a great friend and an impressive commissioner since his appointment by President Bush last year. I think this confirmation strengthens the NRC's expertise in nuclear science and government policy. Pete's background in these areas is unrivaled," Domenici said.
   Starting in 1997, Lyons worked in Domenici's personal office focusing on military and civilian uses of nuclear technologies and national science policy. In 2002, he became a nuclear policy advisor on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which Domenici chairs.
   Prior to his assignment in Washington, Lyons worked at the Los Alamos National Laboratory for 28 years, including serving the last three years of that tenure as director of the LANL Industrial Partnership Office. In previous laboratory assignments, he was Deputy Associate Director for Energy and Environment, Deputy Associate Director for Defense Research and Applications, and Program Director for Nuclear Defense Research.
   Before joining LANL, Lyons received his doctorate degree in nuclear physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1969 and his B.S. degree in physics/math from the University of Arizona in 1964.
   While in Los Alamos, he was elected to serve for a total of 16 years on the Los Alamos School Board and six years on the University of New Mexico-Los Alamos Branch Advisory Board. He also served as chairman of the NATO Nuclear Effects Task Group.
 
 