SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO CONFIRM KEMPTHORNE AS NEXT U.S. INTERIOR SECRETARY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted to confirm Idaho Gov. Dirk Kempthorne as the next Secretary of the Interior and said he looks forward to working with the former Senator on New Mexico public lands and water issues. 
   Kempthorne was confirmed by voice vote following an 85-8 vote to prevent any attempt at a filibuster of his nomination. Kempthorne takes the post which was vacated by Gale Norton earlier this year. Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that favorably reported Kempthorne's nomination to the Senate for confirmation.
   "Governor Kempthorne will make an excellent Secretary of the Interior. Today's vote reflects the high regard the U.S. Senate has for his abilities and impressive record. He assumes the Interior helm at a critical time. We are grappling with the increasingly complex management of resources vital to America's commerce and prosperity, including energy and water. I look forward to the leadership and ingenuity I am confident Dirk will bring to these issues," Domenici said. "Secretary Kempthorne has a full plate, to say the least."
   "For New Mexico, I believe Secretary Kempthorne will prove to be a positive force. For instance, he has acknowledged the importance of the Indian water settlements we are trying to resolve and has agreed to make them a priority," he said.
   Following his confirmation hearing earlier this month, Domenici received assurances from Kempthorne that the Department of the Interior would work with the Office of Management and Budget to become more involved in several Indian water rights settlements that are nearing completion in New Mexico, including the Aamodt, Abeyta and Navajo settlements.
   Domenici has repeatedly said all parties in the New Mexico settlements must work out realistic contributions, saying that currently the settlement proposals would have the federal government pay more than $1.0 billion-a difficult proposition in existing budget conditions.
   A bipartisan group of 40 sitting governors from both parties issued a letter endorsing the Kempthorne nomination.
 
 