NEW MEXICO SENATORS WIN COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF BIPARTISAN NATIONAL ENERGY BILL
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today won overwhelming bipartisan support for their comprehensive national energy policy bill, setting the stage for the full Senate to take up the far-reaching measure in June.  
   For almost five months, the New Mexico Senators-Domenici chairs the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, while Bingaman is the ranking Democrat-have worked jointly on a bipartisan measure that was approved Thursday on a 21-1 vote. Serious negotiations on the bill began in January and concluded with five days of mark-up that finished today. 
   "I am proud of this energy bill. It's been a long five months but we are sending a bill to the floor that does more for conservation, diversification, technology and efficiency than Congress has done before," Domenici said. "This committee found a path to compromise on tough issues, and there will be more difficult decisions to make when we get to the Senate debate. But this is a very good start, and I truly expect the productive and cordial debate we had in this committee to extend to the Senate floor." 
   "What the Energy Committee has done is a real achievement, and a very good example of what can be accomplished with bipartisan cooperation. I compliment Senator Domenici for the way the bill was put together," Bingaman said. "On the supply side, this legislation supports the development of clean energy technologies. It also contains some strong energy efficiency provisions. I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Domenici, so that we have the same thoughtful, bipartisan approach to energy on the Senate floor." 
   The bill's unprecedented conservation and efficiency measures will save 1.1 trillion cubic feet of natural gas by 2020-equivalent to the current annual consumption of New York State, according to the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy (ACEE). 
   The bill also reduces peak electric demand by 2020 by 50,000 megawatts (MW)-equivalent to the capacity of 170 300-MW power plants, according to an analysis released by ACEE yesterday. The bill also reduces United States oil consumption by 1 million barrels of oil per day by 2015. 
   In addition, the legislation modernizes and expands the nation's electricity grid, and encourages the design and deployment of advanced nuclear technologies, clean coal technologies and hydrogen technologies aimed at moving America away from its dependence on foreign oil. 
   The bill also includes a bipartisan Indian energy title that will empower tribes to develop individual, long-term energy resource development plans to facilitate the production of energy resources. The title would enhance Indian self-determination, increase the supply of electricity to homes and businesses on Indian land, and provide energy to surrounding regions, thereby creating jobs. 
   Visit http://energy.senate.gov for additional details.
 
 