SEN. DOMENICI OFFERS MEMORIAL DAY TRIBUTE; SENATE PASSES DISABLED VETERANS COIN BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asked New Mexicans to pause with family and friends this Memorial Day weekend to remember the sacrifices made by America's soldiers and honor the lives lost in the pursuit of freedom-particularly those from New Mexico who have lost their lives in Operation Iraqi Freedom and the Global War on Terror. 
   Domenici issued a Congressional Record statement honoring all New Mexico servicemen and women who have lost their lives in the service of their country.
   "On Memorial Day 2006, we are right to remember those New Mexicans of the military-active duty, guard and reserve-who have lost their lives to make the world safer for freedom and to protect our homeland. They, like Americans of generations past, answered the call to defend this great nation from those who would do it harm. It is owing to such individuals that America is and will forever remain the land of the free and the home of the brave," Domenici said.
   "We do mourn with those New Mexico families who have suffered losses in the war on terror since 9/11. They have the support of a grateful nation as they go through these hard times," he said.
   "We should all take a moment this Memorial Day to remember and honor the brave who have fallen in our defense. I ask that New Mexicans think of them and their families, and give thanks that we are blessed with such heroic men and women," he said.
   In his tribute, Domenici recounted the military service history of New Mexicans, from the Spanish American War to the Global War on Terror. In addition, he lauded those from New Mexico who today continue to serve their nation.
   "New Mexicans have a long and notable history of military service," Domenici said. "I thank all the men and women who have returned from previous deployments overseas. Not only have they made their families and state proud, they have made their country proud."
   To further salute servicemen and women, the Senate late Thursday approved American Veterans Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act (S.633).
   Domenici cosponsored this bill that directs the U.S. Treasury Secretary to mint 500 silver coins in commemoration of disabled American veterans. The proceeds from the coins would be directed toward the Disabled Veterans LIFE Memorial Foundation, which has been authorized by Congress to establish a memorial in Washington to honor disabled veterans.
   S.633, which has broad bipartisan support, would require that all sales of the commemorative coin include a $10 surcharge to be put toward the construction of an American Veterans Disabled for Life Memorial. (http://www.avdlm.com/)
   Congress in 2004 authorized the memorial, which will be located near the U.S. Capitol and is expected to cost an estimated $65 million from private resources. By federal law, the entire cost of the construction, in addition to 10 percent of the memorial's perpetual maintenance, must be raised before construction may begin.
   Domenici's offices in Washington D.C., Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Las Cruces and Roswell will be closed on Monday, May 29, in honor of the national holiday.
   Audio clip at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309.)
 
 