SEN. DOMENICI HONORS POE CORN'S CHARACTER EDUCATION WORK
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici joined in dedicating a bronze plaque in honor of his late long-time aide Poe Corn and his work to promote the Character Counts program throughout southeast New Mexico.  
   Domenici joined members of Character Counts of Chaves County at the Spring River Park and Zoo to dedicate the plaque which honors Corn, who actively promoted the character education program in southeast New Mexico before his death in early January of this year after a lengthy illness. 
   "Poe was a dedicated and hardworking staffer to me for almost 30 years, and Character Counts was one project he took on wholeheartedly," Domenici said. "From the moment I agreed to advocate character education in New Mexico, Poe enthusiastically embraced the idea and hustled all over southeast New Mexico to convince our schools, mayors and businesses to promote the six pillars of good character: Trustworthiness, Respect, Responsibility, Fairness, Caring and Citizenship." 
   "I believe Poe's bedrock optimism and goodness made him a natural for this work. Today we can credit Poe for helping make 'Character Counts of Chaves County' one of the strongest programs in our state and nation," he said. 
   Character Counts of Chaves County erected two plaques in Roswell--at the zoo and at the Cielo Grande soccer fields--to honor Corn's "unending commitment to Character Counts in Chaves County since its formation in 1994." It was in 1994 that Domenici began his work on a statewide and national basis to push the Character Counts message. 
   Domenici indicated that he will continue to push for an FY2008 earmark he secured to support a statewide Character Counts leadership camp at New Mexico Military Institute. The $50,000 in federal education funding was included in the FY2008 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Bill, which was recently vetoed by President Bush. That measure also included $24.2 million to support the national character education grant program. 
   "The appropriations process is a mess right now, and we will have to change the 2008 Labor-HHS bill to get the president to sign the bill. I will work to keep the NMMI funding in the bill, and hope we can get those funds enacted into law," Domenici said.
 
 