SEN. DOMENICI HELPS OPEN EXPANDED ROSWELL CANCER CENTER, NEW TECHNOLOGY TO AID PATIENTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today praised local efforts in Roswell to expand a cancer treatment center for southern New Mexico, saying new treatment technology being utilized there will give people greater options for attacking the disease.  
   Domenici attended the grand opening for an expansion to the Cancer Treatment Center which was established in 2001 at the Eastern New Mexico Medical Center in Roswell. The expansion creates the first facility in New Mexico to offer Image Guided Radiation Therapy (IGRT). Today's ceremony also involved the opening of a resource center for patients and families. 
   "The healthcare and civic leaders in Roswell deserve to be praised for being dynamic and boldly working to expand the cancer treatment center in this region. The fact that it also offers some of the most cutting-edge tumor treatment capabilities shows that this facility is serious about the care it offers to those with cancer," Domenici said. 
   "The Cancer Resource Center will also give patients, their families and friends, a better understanding of cancer and how it can best be treated, as well as access to necessary support systems," he said. "I hope those associated with this center will continue to chase after the best possible treatment practices, particularly as greater research strides are made to improve the prevention and effective treatment of cancers." 
   IGRT uses multiple imaging and motion management techniques to more accurately deliver radiation treatments to cancerous tumors without damaging surrounding healthy tissue. The Roswell center is the only cancer treatment facility offering this technology. Since its creation, the facility has treated more than 1,400 patients from southern New Mexico. 
   Domenici has long supported greater federal funding into research aimed at improving cancer research and treatments. As former Budget Committee chairman, he oversaw significant funding increases for the National Institutes of Health to carry out this work, as well as strongly advocating the human genome project for its potential to usher in "the greatest wellness project in mankind's history." 
   As a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici has also pushed for Defense Health Program funding to continue funding biomedical research programs through the Department of Defense Breast Cancer Research Program. The Department of Defense breast cancer research program funds innovative research, meets unmet research needs and brings new investigators into the field of breast cancer research. 
   Earlier this year, Domenici also cosponsored the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act (S.579) to support the search for a breast cancer cure. The bill would also institute a national strategy to investigate any correlation between breast cancer and the environment.
 
 