SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES PECOS VALLEY BIOMASS COOP PROJECT
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today commended the Pecos Valley Biomass Coooperative, Inc (PVBC) in Roswell on its efforts to promote the use of alternative fuels in southeastern New Mexico.  
   Domenici, who is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, visited Nature's Dairy Bottling Plant in Roswell earlier today where the coop was presented with a $50,000 check from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). During the ceremony, he praised the coop's recent efforts to build an integrated dairy biomass gasification system in the Pecos Valley. 
   "This Pecos Valley project is a good example of the innovative thinking we need in order to diversify our nation's fuel supply and reduce our dependence on foreign oil," said Domenici. "I applaud the Pecos Valley Biomass Coop and New Mexico's dairy farmers for their creative thinking which continues to propel our state's successful agriculture industry." 
   PVBC, established in 2005, is made up of 15 Pecos Valley dairy farmers who represent 20 dairies in the region. 
   The cooperative received the USDA funds in the form of a planning grant to help conduct a feasibility study to determine the equipment needs associated with the establishment of its planned dairy biomass process center. The study is also expected to determine the business and operational demands of such a facility. 
   The completed facility would utilize biomass from 39 local dairies to produce thermal energy, which would then be distributed to an ethanol facility for use in ethanol production. 
   Domenici has consistently advocated for increased federal funding and attention for alternative fuel sources. He recently cosponsored legislation and also offered a similar amendment to the Farm Bill that would create a Renewable Fuel Standard (RPS) by mandating 36 billion gallons of ethanol in the United States' fuel supply by 2022. 
   Earlier this year, Domenici joined with Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) to introduce the Agricultural Protection and Prosperity Act of 2007 (S.807). The legislation would clarify that the pollutant standard under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) is not applied to livestock operations. Livestock emissions--already regulated by the EPA--would be exempt from classification as an industrial pollutant. 
   New Mexico ranks seventh in the nation for milk production and eighth in cheese production. Dairies in 12 New Mexico counties (Chaves, Roosevelt, Curry, Do?a Ana, Lea, Eddy, Valencia, Socorro, Sierra, Bernalillo, Torrance and Luna) have an estimated $1.15 billion annual impact on the state's economy and generate about 17,000 dairy-related jobs in the state. 
   http://spectre.nmsu.edu/dept/docs/DAIR/NM_Dairy.pdf)
 
 