SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES CANNON AFB CONTRIBUTIONS, REVIEWS IMPENDING BRAC PROCESS WITH COMMUNITY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the contributions of Cannon Air Force Base for its efforts to keep America safe, and recommended steps the community can take to continue its strong support of the base. 
   In a meeting with the Clovis Committee of 50 and the Portales Military Affairs Committee, Domenici said that New Mexico's bases are in a favorable position headed into the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, and outlined steps taken over the years to keep the base modern and effective.
   "I know that BRAC is on the mind of the Cannon community, but I believe that the BRAC criteria are favorable to New Mexico. With good weather and the close proximity of the Melrose bombing range, Cannon is very cost-effective. It also offers up to date facilities, ample land and good airspace," Domenici said.
   Domenici thanked the community for its support of Cannon and its mission, and urged them to continue to be strong advocates for the base and take steps to ensure its well being.
   "I can recommend three things for local and business leaders to help support Cannon Air Force Base: avoid encroachment by safeguarding the land owned by the base, demonstrate community commitment to reducing Cannon's cost of operations by communicating support for expanded missions and facilities, and promote a good quality of life for military members and their families in the Clovis-Portales area," Domenici said.
   As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici has worked to secure a number of major upgrades for Cannon over the years. In the last four years, for instance, he secured $9.5 million for a new Airmen's Center, $7.8 million for a new Aerospace Ground Equipment Complex, $1 million for Approach Lights on Runway 13, $4.7 million for a Security Forces Operations Facility, and $9.4 million for a new Fire-Rescue station.
   Domenici is promoting the New Mexico Training Range Initiative, which would give pilots the ability to fly supersonic in an overland environment, allowing them to realistically test flight and munitions delivery techniques. He pointed to the development of the F-22 Raptor and F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, which are both set to join the Air Force fleet in the next few years, as an opportunity for Cannon to garner new missions if the airspace was modified.
   "The Air Force must train the way it will fight, but realistic combat training at Cannon requires expanded and modified airspace. The New Mexico Training Range Initiative would make Cannon an attractive site for future missions and improve survivability for U.S. aircraft.
   Cannon AFB has sent a request to Air Combat Command (ACC) for expanded airspace. ACC is currently conducting an Environmental Impact Study, a draft of which is scheduled to be completed in December.
 
 