SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS 3-YEAR MORATORIUM ON MEDICARE HOSPICE REPAYMENTS, SAYS PENALTIES COULD SINK N.M. PROGRAMS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today warned that some New Mexico hospice programs that serve eligible non-cancer patients face financial ruin if they are forced to repay millions of dollars in Medicare payments.  
   Domenici has formally asked the leadership of the Senate Finance Committee to impose a three-year moratorium on Aggregate Hospice Cap (Cap) repayment notices being issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the agency that administers Medicare programs. Domenici asked that a moratorium--covering fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007--be written into Medicare legislation now being developed by the Finance Committee. 
   "There are a number of local, independent hospice programs in New Mexico that are right to be somewhat panicked at repayments being demanded by CMS. These demands are unfair and threaten the viability of these programs that care for terminally-ill seniors," Domenici said. "I believe Congress should put a hold on the repayment notices and find a solution that does not threaten the ability of the sick to access hospice care in rural and inner-city areas." 
   Since 1982, Congress and Medicare have expanded hospice benefits. As part of the 1997 Balanced Budget Act, Congress expanded coverage to allow seniors unlimited days of hospice care. At that time, Medicare also developed clinical eligibility standards for non-cancer illnesses. However, Congress and Medicare neglected to change the 1982 Hospice Aggregate Cap, which now penalizes hospices that serve Medicare eligible patients with non-cancer diagnosis. 
   In New Mexico, CMS is demanding 2005 Cap repayments that exceed $3.0 million. The demand letters have been sent to almost 30 percent of the hospice programs in the state. In addition, CMS is preparing 2006 Cap penalty letters. On a national level, at least 180 hospice programs have received CMS notices demanding they repay $160 million to Medicare. 
   "A three-year moratorium on Cap penalties would allow independent, family and community-owned hospices to serve our terminally-ill seniors, while Congress develops a long-term solution," Domenici wrote Senators Max Baucus (D-Mont.) and Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee. 
   "The Hospice Aggregate Cap is devastating small family and community-owned hospices that serve terminally ill seniors in both rural and inner-city areas," Domenici wrote. "I believe this is an issue of patient access, especially in rural communities and inner-city areas. Relief for those that need it most would ensure that hospice providers can continue to provide care in a dignified manner." 
   In 2005, New Mexico hospices provided almost 685,000 days of hospice care to about 6,700 terminally-ill Medicare beneficiaries, for which they received $76 million in Medicare reimbursements. At the same time, less than half of New Mexico's hospice-eligible seniors received hospice care, according to the National Alliance for Hospice Access (NAHA). 
   NAHA members in New Mexico include: Ambercare Hospice, Hospice of the Sandias, and Zia Hospice, all of Albuquerque; Golden Services Hospice, Lakeview Christian Hospice Care, and Landsun Hospice, all of Carlsbad; Ruidoso Home Care and Hospice; and Sierra Homecare and Hospice in Truth or Consequences.
 
 