SEN. DOMENICI SAYS NEW MEXICO PLAYS KEY ROLE IN SECURING AMERICA'S HOMELAND
  Sen. Pete Domenici today told an audience of law enforcement, first responders and government officials that he expects New Mexico to continue to play an essential role in national homeland security efforts, including border security.
   Domenici's address to the 2006 New Mexico Homeland Security Conference in Albuquerque came shortly after President Bush signed into law the Secure Fence Act (HR.6061), which authorizes 700 miles of double-layered fencing, barriers and other monitoring technologies at specified locations along the almost 2,000-mile Southwest Border-including fencing five miles west of Columbus to 10 miles east of El Paso. Domenici supported this bill. 
   "The American public right now is rightly focused on securing our borders, and barriers and fences are part of that equation. But they are only one facet of what we must do to protect us from threats and prepare us to act in times of natural and other disasters," Domenici said.
   "In the five years since the shocking attacks on September 11, we have not stood still. We have dramatically improved our efforts to make America safe, and I'm proud to say that New Mexico has been at the forefront of this effort. From our labs, to the state of the art First Responder training by New Mexico Tech, to FLETC in Artesia, New Mexico has been a true leader in developing and implementing the tools we need to keep our country safe," he said.
   Domenici serves on Senate committees with oversight and funding jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and has actively sought to utilize New Mexico's installations for homeland security purposes. For instance, Domenici and Congresswoman Heather Wilson championed development of the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC) at Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories even before the 9/11 attacks. They recently hosted DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff at NISAC in Albuquerque.
   Domenici has led the effort to expand the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia, where all Border Patrol agents are now trained. In addition, he has successfully worked to build funding and support for the first responder training programs carried out by New Mexico Tech, including its training center at Playas, N.M.
   Domenici noted that border security is an essential part of the overall homeland security effort, and also of critical interest to New Mexicans because of its proximity to the border.
   "New Mexicans know first hand the problems caused by lax border security. While we welcome trade and tourism with Mexico, we know that borders that are too open also bring illegal drugs and criminal activities into our neighborhoods," Domenici said.
   "The good news is that things are rapidly changing. We've provided millions to hire new Border Patrol and Customs agents. In fact, we're on the path to soon having nearly 15,000 Border Patrol agents manning our borders. We're investing over $1 billion to build fencing, improve infrastructure, and add new technology. There is more work to be done, but we are well on our way to a more secure border," Domenici said.
   Overall, Domenici has helped provide $1.19 billion for integrated border security and technology improvements, $143.4 million for new detention beds for illegal immigrants, $7.5 million for vehicle barriers in Deming, and $20 million to support an unmanned aerial vehicle program along the border.
   Domenici also pointed to a recent effort he undertook to authorize the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, which will work with New Mexico's national labs and DHS to counter nuclear terrorism. The Senator sponsored an amendment regarding DOE-DHS cooperation on nuclear detection work that was included in the Port Security Bill, which was signed into law last week.
   In addition, Domenici said innovative companies in New Mexico can aid in homeland security matters. On Thursday, he attended an event to unveil the new radiological detection device created by MCT Technologies Inc. in Albuquerque. The Integrated Detection and Monitoring System, already deployed at spots in New Mexico, could be the basis for a nationwide monitoring system.
   The New Mexico Homeland Security Conference is organized to bring together local and federal officials to educate them about relevant issues affecting homeland security. In the years following 9/11 interagency cooperation has been a top priority for law enforcement as they learn how to respond to terrorist threats.
   The conference is sponsored by Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, New Mexico Tech, New Mexico Public Safety Department, University of New Mexico and TRC Security.
 
 