SEN. DOMENICI: 8-YEAR OLD ALBUQUERQUE GIRL DESIGNS 2005 CHARACTER COUNTS BALLOON FIESTA PIN
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that an 8-year-old Albuquerque girl's art work will debut as the Wells Fargo/Character Counts Balloon fiesta pin next week during the 2005 Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta.  
   Samantha Rael's balloon fiesta art originated this summer through her participation in a poster contest at the Heights Boys and Girls Club. Her work was chosen by a panel of educators and community leaders, and Wells Fargo paid to produce the pins. 
   Rael, a third grade student at Collet Park Elementary School, will be saluted as part of the Albuquerque Aloft presentation at the Balloon Discovery Center, Balloon Fiesta Park. This is set for October 7 at 10:30 a.m. (The discovery center is near the main stage at Balloon Fiesta Park.) 
   "The art contest is a creative way for our kids to learn about wonderful events such as the Balloon Fiesta," Domenici said. "Samantha will be rewarded with a very special field trip, and of course, she can always brag that her drawing was the inspiration for this collector's item." 
   Domenici is one of the founders of Character Counts, both locally and nationally. The character education initiative is used in most New Mexico classrooms, with lessons based on the six pillars of good character: Responsibility, Respect, Trustworthiness, Citizenship, Fairness, and Caring. 
   Samantha Rael and other Character Counts students from Boys and Girls Club and the Albuquerque YMCA will also be treated to tethered rides in the Northrop Grumman balloon "Cricket's Dream" around 11 a.m., Oct. 6 and 7--weather permitting. The children are also hosted for lunch by the Albuquerque Balloon Fiesta, and the food is provided at no charge by Meals on Wheels. 
   "This is a once in a life time opportunity for a lot of these youngsters," Domenici said. "The Balloon Fiesta is a great way for our kids to meet ethical, caring business leaders with Wells Fargo ad Northrop Grumman--and have fun doing it."
 
 