SEN. DOMENICI MOVES TO ENSURE VIABILITY OF DOE SUPERCOMPUTING CAPABILITIES
  The Senate has approved a plan authored by U.S. Senator Pete Domenici to require an independent review of the Department of Energy's advance computing programs, which he believes could lead to greater resources for the high-computing initiatives carried out by the national laboratories.  
   The Senate has passed an amendment authored by Domenici to the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill that would authorize an independent scientific advisory group assessment of the DOE's strategic plan for advanced computing. 
   Domenici crafted his amendment in light of DOE Complex 2030 recommendations to consolidate computing platforms at Los Alamos and Lawrence Livermore national laboratories and away from Sandia National Laboratories. 
   "My amendment is intended to give us the information we can use to ensure that the future of advance computing is on the right track and that our national laboratories are used in the best way to advance this science," Domenici said. 
   "I am concerned that we may be losing this focus and commitment to support long term research on advance computing architectures and continue the search for even greater simulation capabilities. The Department of Energy and NNSA appear not to have a coordinated strategy for advancing the state-of-the-art in computing and instead propose to actually reduce computing capacity within the laboratory system. I believe this is a mistake," he said. "I strongly believe DOE and NNSA must pool their resources and establish an advanced computing R&D program." 
   The Senate-passed amendment also builds on work Domenici is promoting within the FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill for the DOE National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) to partner with other DOE entities--Office of Science and Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy--to advance future supercomputing capabilities and its applications. 
   Within the Senate's FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, Domenici has proposed establishing a joint program office for high performance computing led by NNSA and the DOE Office of Science. This office would develop a high performance computing technology roadmap and acquisition strategy for the DOE. 
   "Abandoning underground weapons testing led to significant investments in computer modeling and simulation to ensure the safety and reliability of our weapons stockpile. This investment has paid enormous dividends. Every year, computing power increases at a pace set by America's national laboratories," he said. 
   "The applications go well beyond security and basic science. The laboratories have worked hard to transition these capabilities to academia and industry, simulating complex industrial processes and their environmental impact including global climate change," he said. "I want to make sure that future advancements are not jeopardized." 
   The world's current fasted supercomputer is Lawrence Livermore's "Blue Gene," which recently exceeded 280 "teraflops" or trillions of calculations per second. The Oak Ridge "Jaguar" system and Sandia's "Red Storm" are second and third, each exceeding 100 teraflops.
 
 