SEN. DOMENICI URGES RESOLUTION TO DISRUPTED BROADCASTS OF UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO ATHLETIC CONTESTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici is among a number of lawmakers asking network and satellite providers to overcome a dispute that is restricting broadcast of college athletic games offered by the Mountain West Sports Network--including University of New Mexico contests. 
   Domenici has signed a letter outlining concerns regarding an ongoing impasse that has prevented access to the Mountain West Sports Network through satellite services offered by DirecTV and DISH Network. The letter was authored by Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and signed by Senators Domenici, John Barrasso and Mike Enzi (both R-Wyo.), Robert Bennett (R-Utah), and Wayne Allard (R-Colo.).
   In their correspondence, the lawmakers refuted claims that satellite coverage of the sports network is technically unfeasible, and encouraged all parties to continue working toward an agreement that will allow constituents, especially rural residents, to access the network.
   "I believe this is a situation that can be remedied in a manner that best suits viewers. The UNM sports are popular and New Mexico consumers should have more of an opportunity to follow Lobo sports through this network," Domenici said.
   The NCAA Division I-A Mountain West Conference includes UNM, Air Force, Brigham Young University, Colorado State University, San Diego State, University of Nevada-Las Vegas, University of Utah and the University of Wyoming.
   "We strongly believe that, when it comes to programming conflicts, the interests of consumers should be the foremost concern. Toward that end, we urge all of the parties involved in this dispute to work together to ensure that Mountain West Conference games and events are broadcast to the widest possible audience," the Senators wrote.
   "Clearly, both cable and satellite providers have to make programming decisions with their business interests in mind. However, if all interested parties would be willing to make appropriate concessions, we believe that there are a number of readily available solutions to this conflict. As Senators from the states represented in the Mountain West Conference, we continue to be supportive of public policies that allow both cable and satellite vendors to maximize program content for their customers. That being the case, we believe each of the entities involved in this dispute share the responsibility to provide access to program content to as many consumers as possible," the letter said.
 
 