SENATE PASSES SEN. DOMENICI-COSPONSORED AMENDMENT TO IMPROVE MENTAL HEALTH CARE FOR TROOPS
  To begin improving mental health services for military personnel and their families, the Senate has approved legislation cosponsored by U.S. Senator Pete Domenici to increase mental health reimbursement rates as a means of ensuring greater access to mental health care.  
   Domenici is among the bipartisan sponsors of an amendment added to the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill, which is being debated by the Senate. The amendment was offered in response to reimbursement rate cuts for mental health professionals who treat military personnel. It gives the Secretary of Defense the flexibility to increase mental health reimbursement rates for TRICARE, the health care program for members of military and their families. 
   "We increasingly understand that mental health issues are growing in frequency and severity, particularly with so many serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The problem is that access to mental health services for our military personnel and their families is inadequate. Cutting reimbursement rates has only compounded the problem. This amendment takes an essential step to begin removing barriers to mental health care and treatment," Domenici said. 
   The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) earlier this year reduced its reimbursement rate for psychologists and social workers by 9 percent. Because the Defense Department bases its reimbursement rates for TRICARE providers on the rates designated by CMS, this rate reduction led to an equivalent decrease of 9 percent in rates for mental health providers who treat military personnel and their families. 
   Since psychologists and social workers provide almost all of the TRICARE psychotherapy and testing services, this cut in reimbursement rates has had the detrimental effect of limiting access to mental health care for soldiers and their families. Many psychologists and social workers have indicated they may have to reduce their caseloads or leave the TRICARE program altogether. 
   "These reimbursement rates are critical, especially in large rural states like New Mexico where it is often more difficult for people to access mental health professionals," said Domenici, a long-time mental health advocate who serves on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   The amendment, authored by Senator Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), was also cosponsored by Senators Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii). The Senate is attempting complete work on the FY2008 Defense Authorization Bill this week. 
   Last week, Domenici and Senator Ted Kennedy gained unanimous Senate approval of their Mental Health Parity Act of 2007 (S.558), which would require health insurance plans that offer mental health coverage to provide that coverage on par with financial and treatment coverage offered for other physical illnesses. It would improve coverage for about 113 million Americans, including an estimated 478,000 New Mexicans. 
   In May, Domenici and Senator Barack Obama (D-Ill.) introduced the Veterans' Mental Health Access and Delivery Act (S.38) to authorize the Veterans Affairs Secretary to develop and implement a comprehensive national program to increase the availability of mental health support so that veterans affected by combat-related mental health problems get care.
 
 