SEN. DOMENICI UNVEILS GAS PRICE RELIEF, REBATE PACKAGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today unveiled a gasoline price relief package that is intended to bring price relief to consumers, penalize price gougers, and accelerate domestic energy production within the United States. 
   Domenici is cosponsoring the package, which is being offered as an amendment to the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill that the Senate is currently debating.
   The eight-point plan, authored by a long-standing Senate Republican energy working group on which Domenici serves, was written to help to ease the burden on consumers from high oil and gas prices, continue the development and diversification of the U.S. domestic fuel supply, and reduces American dependence on foreign oil.
   "I think this package does everything possible in the short-term to east the burden on consumers and bring down the gasoline prices," Domenici said at a Capitol Hill news conference.
   "I am particularly pleased that we are easing the burden on American families by providing them with a $100 rebate to help offset the pain they are feeling at the pump," he said. "I hope this tax rebate will make a difference for hard-working American families."
   Domenici noted that the Energy Work Group has been meeting more for more than three months to begin developing new legislative initiatives to address the growing energy supply and gasoline price problems.
   The Senate is expected to continue debating the supplemental appropriations bill well into next week.
   The Gas Price Relief and Rebate Package includes:
   1. Gas Tax Holiday - Provides $100 gas tax holiday rebates to taxpayers to ease burden of increasing gasoline prices;
   2. Consumer Anti-Price Gouging Protection - Gives Federal Trade Commission, Justice Department and states attorneys general greater authority to enforce penalties against supplies who unlawfully manipulate fuel prices;
   3. Tax Incentives - Repeals tax incentives for oil companies while expanding tax incentives to promote the use of hybrid vehicles and increase refinery capacity;
   4. Fuel Economy Standards - Gives the U.S. Transportation Secretary more authority to issue a rule governing fuel economy standards (CAFE) for passenger vehicles;
   5. Advanced Energy Initiative - Encourages R&D into alternative fuels and advanced technology vehicles to diversify the domestic energy supply;
   6. Strategic Petroleum Reserve - Encourages Bush administration to suspend deposits into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for six months to make more oil available to consumers;
   7. Arctic National Wildlife Refuge - Authorizes the opening of a portion of the coastal plain of ANWR to environmentally-sensitive energy exploration; and,
   8. Refinery Capacity - Offers incentives to encourage additional refinery capacity to enhance energy infrastructure.
   "This package bill increases energy production, but I have always said that new production measures must be matched with new conservation efforts. We are giving the administration new authority to raise CAFE standards on passenger vehicles. We do that with this CAFE provision. I encourage the Secretary of Transportation to use this new authority to help stabilize gas prices over the long haul," Domenici said.
   "If we pass ANWR now, I think we will see an immediate drop in global oil prices. These prices are increasingly driven by long-range speculation and that kind of investing responds quickly and dramatically to anticipated changes in supply," he said.
 
 