N.M. DELEGATION: KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE WILL BE HOME TO NEW SPACE OFFICE
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici, along with Representative Heather Wilson, today applauded the Pentagon's decision to locate its "Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) Program Office" at Kirtland Air Force Base. 
   The decision to place the office at Kirtland is included in a Pentagon report, "Plan for Operationally Responsive Space: A Report to Congressional Defense Committees." In October 2006, the three lawmakers wrote to then-Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld urging that the new mission be located at Kirtland. The ORS Program Office will help develop low cost, rapid reaction payloads, buses, spacelift and launch control capabilities for joint military operations.
   In their letter, they pointed out that Kirtland was uniquely suited to be home to the ORS Program Office, as much of the work it will be responsible for is already being done there.
   "This announcement demonstrates once again how valuable Kirtland is, not just to the Air Force but to all the military branches. Kirtland already does important research that benefits our entire military, and this additional mission gives the base another opportunity to show its strengths," Bingaman said.
   "The ORS Office will add to the mission diversity at Kirtland and build on the high-technology projects being conducted there to support our national defense. I believe it will also make Albuquerque and New Mexico even more attractive to researchers and industry in the space field," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
   "Kirtland already is a top facility for space technology and research, so this mission makes sense here," Wilson said. "Threats to our space systems are growing - particularly from China and Russia. We are heavily dependent on space for communications, navigation and intelligence. We are changing the way we think about operating in space and Kirtland will be on the leading edge of this change. That means high wage, high-tech jobs and continued strong contributions to our nation's defense."
   Kirtland is already home to the Space Development Test Wing, which was activated Aug. 1, 2006. It performs development, test and evaluation of Air Force space systems; executes advanced space development and demonstration projects to exploit new concepts and technologies and rapidly migrates capabilities to the warfighter. The tactical satellites, or TACSAT, component of the Test Wing is a major underpinning for ORS and its research on quick-time responses for warfighter needs with small, inexpensive satellites targeted to specific missions.
 
 