SEN. DOMENICI REITERATES OPPOSITION TO DICTATING WAR TACTICS FROM CONGRESS, CITES IRAQI PROGRESS
  As the Senate debated legislation that would cut off funding for American troop activities in Iraq, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici addressed his colleagues to reiterate his opposition to congressional attempts to dictate war tactics.  
   In a speech to the Senate, Domenici noted recent and ongoing progress by American and Iraqi forces to bring stability to Iraq. The Senator also cited recent action by the Iraqi government to move forward on laws designed to unite the Iraqi people. 
   "I have voted for every dollar requested to fully fund our troops and against every effort to dictate the tactics of war from the halls of Congress. However, last year, I expressed grave concerns about the deteriorating conditions in Iraq and called on the Iraqi government to do more," Domenici said. "I am glad to say that since General Petraeus took charge in Iraq, conditions have improved." 
   The Senate has opened debate on S.2633, a measure introduced by Senator Russell Feingold to cut off funding for combat after 120 days. Feingold also has other pending legislation (S.2634) to mandate a report within 60 days for the White House's plans to conquer the Al Qaeda terrorist organization. 
   The following is the prepared text of the Domenici speech to the Senate: 
   "Madam President, I have always been in complete support of our troops who risk their lives every day to defend the United States. 
   "I have voted for every dollar requested to fully fund our troops and against every effort to dictate the tactics of war from the halls of Congress. 
   "However, last year, I expressed grave concerns about the deteriorating conditions in Iraq and called on the Iraqi government to do more. 
   "I am glad to say today that since General Petraeus took charge in Iraq, conditions have improved. 
   "Iraq's different sects are working together - there has been a renewed spirit of reconciliation among Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds. A de-Baathification law has been passed. 
   "Iraqis are taking an interest in their own safety and security, forming neighborhood watch groups and looking out for each other. 
   "Moreover, an Iraqi Army brigade recently deployed itself for operations against Al Qaeda. 
   "Partially because of these efforts, there is less violence in Iraq now than when the insurgency began. The Iraqi government has passed an amnesty law for the country's Sunnis. 
   "The government has further passed a $50 billion budget for 2008 that is a compromise between the Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds. Oil revenues are going to Iraq's provinces to fund reconstruction efforts. 
   "Even the New York Times has noted progress in Iraq, reporting the newly passed legislation in Iraq has "the potential to spur reconciliation between Sunnis and Shiites and set the country on the road to a more representative government, starting with new provincial elections. 
   "Madam President, I am proud to be here today to note the progress of the Iraqi government. 
   "They have made significant, notable progress in the past six months and are on the right path to a stable and secure Iraq. 
   "General Petraeus and our soldiers deserve our thanks and support for their efforts in Iraq and in the larger Global War on Terror."
 
 