SEN. DOMENICI TO OPPOSE NATIONAL GUARD CUTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, today joined a bipartisan effort to voice early opposition to National Guard personnel cuts that could be proposed in the FY2007 Pentagon budget.  
   Domenici has signed a letter to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that outlines bipartisan resistance to the National Guard personnel reductions likely to be included in the Feb. 6 roll out of the FY2007 federal budget, as indicated in briefings to congressional defense committees. Reports indicate that the Army could request a 17,000 troop reduction to end-strength personnel levels. 
   "The Defense Department must be cautious as it addresses budgetary concerns. I believe cuts to the National Guard at this point in time would be ill-advised, even if such reductions do not ultimately affect our units in New Mexico," said Domenici, who is also a senior member of the Senate Budget Committee. 
   "The men and women of the Army and Air Force National Guard have proven to be a vital asset at home and abroad. I suspect that they need more support now," he said. 
   The letter to Rumsfeld was authored by Senators Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), who lead the Senate National Guard Caucus. It argues that personnel cuts to the National Guard would dramatically hinder its ability to respond to domestic disasters and participate in overseas military actions. 
   "The proposed cuts are not cost effective and a simple cost benefit analysis of the value of a properly equipped National Guard will show that the Guard provides more for less. The National Guard brings a higher level of capability for each dollar of investment because the force leverages the special skills and expertise that Guard personnel maintain in their civilian professions," said the letter, which has been signed by about 40 Senators. 
   There are nearly 1,000 New Mexicans associated with the Air National Guard, including the TACOS Fighter Wing, based at Kirtland Air Force Base. There are almost 3,000 people assigned to the New Mexico Army National Guard, which has seen units from Alamogordo, Albuquerque, Belen, Clovis, Las Cruces, Las Vegas, Rio Rancho, Roswell, Santa Fe, Springer, and Taos deployed abroad since 2000. 
   As part of the FY2006 Defense Appropriations Bill, Domenici secured $2.8 million to support border and counter-drug activities carried out by the New Mexico National Guard.
 
 