BUSH SIGNS SEN. DOMENICI-BACKED 'CHILD PROTECTION ACT'
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that President Bush has signed into law legislation he supported that will create a national sex offender registry. 
   On Friday, Bush signed the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (H.R. 4472) into law, following Senate passage earlier this week. The bill is named after the slain son of television personality John Walsh, who is the host of America's Most Wanted.
   The bill will create a national sex offender registry, including an internet component, which will allow law enforcement agencies to communicate with each other to apprehend sex offenders.
   "I'm pleased that this valuable legislation has become law. Sex offenders know no boundaries. It is vitally important that every state in the union have access to a single, combined database so that law enforcement will have access to information that will allow them to track down those that pose a threat to our children," Domenici said.
   Under the new law, sex offenders are required to register prior to their release from prison. Thereafter, they must verify their information in person at regular intervals. Any sex offender that fails to do so will face up to 10 years in prison. If an offender commits an additional criminal act, they will receive a five-year mandatory prison sentence on top of any other sentence imposed. Included in the database will be individuals who have been found to have abused or neglected a child.
   The law requires the Department of Justice to create and distribute software to jurisdictions to establish and operate registries and internet sites. That software will allow different states to share information, and will also allow the public to find out if there are sex offenders in their neighborhoods.
   Also included in the new law is language authorizing a pilot program for the electronic monitoring of sex offenders, funding for the Big Brothers and Big Sisters program, and grants to allow parents to obtain fingerprint records for the children.
 
 