SENATE ACCEPTS SEN. DOMENICI PLAN TO RESOLVE RADIO 'DEAD SPOTS' ON BORDER
  Overcoming radio communications "dead spots" in remote regions of the Southwest border is the intent of a study proposed by U.S. Senator Pete Domenici and approved by the Senate as part of a Homeland Security funding bill.  
   The study was included in the FY2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill as an amendment authored by Domenici, who serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. The bill (HR.2638) passed the Senate late Thursday. 
   The Domenici "Radio Coverage on the Border" amendment requires DHS to determine areas along the border where radio communications are inadequate and develop a plan for enhancing radio communications capabilities in such areas. The study, which would have to be completed within six months after the bill is enacted, would also evaluate the cost of implementing broader radio coverage on the border. 
   The issue was brought to Domenici's attention by federal agents in New Mexico who work in the border region. 
   "On remote parts of the border, there are 'dead spots' where federal agents and local law enforcement do not have radio communications. The inability to communicate complicates coordination among the federal agencies working on the border, and that increases the potential for compromising the safety and missions of these agents on the ground," Domenici said. 
   "Eliminating these dead spots would also serve to support greater cross-agency cooperation on the federal, state and local levels, and allow them to better protect residents and communities on the border," he said. "I look forward to the completion of this study and the Homeland Security Secretary's plan to fix the problem." 
   The bill passed by the Senate includes a Domenici-cosponsored "Border Security First" amendment to make $3.0 billion emergency funding available to ensure that within two years: the Border Patrol has hired, trained and deployed to a total of 23,000 agents; 700 miles of border fencing has been constructed; at least 300 miles of border vehicle barriers exist; four unmanned aerial vehicles are deployed; 105 radar and camera towers are installed; and at least 45,000 beds are available to detain illegal immigrants. 
   Domenici, as a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, will now serve on the conference committee that will reconcile differences in the Senate bill and the version passed by House in June.
 
 