ONE-VOTE MARGIN BURNS CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT TO BAN U.S. FLAG DESECRATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted in favor of an amendment to the constitution that would prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States. 
   On a 66-34 vote, the constitutional amendment question--S.J. Res.12, The Flag Protection Amendment--failed to reach the 67-vote threshold which would have sent the matter to the states for possible ratification. The one vote margin stops this latest effort to try to gain support from two-thirds of the Senate to amend the Constitution to outlaw desecration of the American flag. The Senate last voted on such a measure in 2000.
   "Every American is free to denounce our nation and ideals for which the flag stands. I think it would be terribly misguided, but if that is what they want to say, they have the right to say it. There is a vast difference, however, between speaking one's mind and desecrating the symbol of our nation," said Domenici, who has consistently supported such a constitutional amendment.
   "I have the deepest reverence for the United States Constitution, and I do not believe it should be amended casually. However, in this case, I believe the American flag and all it represents deserves the protection of our laws. Therefore, I have decided to support a constitutional amendment that would require due respect for this great symbol of freedom," he said.
   Domenici noted that all 50 states have passed resolutions calling for Congress to pass a flag amendment.
   "The American flag is a unifying symbol of our nation, and is considered by many to be the physical embodiment of the founding principles of this country. The predominance our flag holds in the national psyche was reconfirmed after the September 11 attacks, when the vision of the red, white and blue galvanized our nation," Domenici said.
   The amendment read: "The Congress shall have power to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States."
 
 