SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO SEND 9/11 COMMISSION BILL TO PRESIDENT TO BE SIGNED INTO LAW
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, today said a bill going to President Bush that would further implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission contains provisions to enhance several programs in New Mexico, including the first responder training program offered by New Mexico Tech.  
   Domenici voted with the Senate late Thursday night to give final passage to HR.1/S.4, the Improving America's Security Act of 2007. The measure, passed 85-8, will now be sent to President Bush. 
   Beyond further implementing recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission, the bill formally authorizes the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium (NDPC), a training group that includes New Mexico Tech at Socorro. The bill also expands the responsibilities of the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC), the Albuquerque-based risk-assessment program run by Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories. 
   "I believe Congress is sending the White House a good bill to further improve efforts to protect the United States from attack," Domenici said. "The fact that we have formally authorized the first responder training consortium means we should be able to further build on the work being carried out at New Mexico Tech." 
   The bill authorizes the establishment of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium, which has been responsible for identifying, developing, testing and delivering training to State, local, and tribal emergency response providers. 
   Domenici, as a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, consistently supported funding for the NDPC, including the $145 million provided for the consortium in the FY2008 Homeland Security Bill also approved by the Senate late Thursday night. Under the appropriations bill, New Mexico Tech would receive $22 million as a member of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium. The consortium, headquartered at Fort McClellan, Ala., also includes Texas A&M, Louisiana State University and Nevada Test Site. 
   Related to NISAC, HR.1/S.4 authorizes this New Mexico-based program to conduct an analysis of release scenarios involving toxic-inhalation materials released from railroad cars. NISAC already works to help decision makers assess preparedness, consequence and risk analysis, policy analysis, investment and mitigation planning, education and training, and provides near real-time assistance to crisis-response organizations. 
   At Domenici's request, the FY2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill includes $25 million to support NISAC activities, which is an $8.98 million increase over the budget request. 
   Congress over the years has passed several bills, including the Intelligence Reform Act, that address recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission. Combined with administrative action take by the White House, the federal government had addressed all but two of the 9/11 Commission's Recommendations already. HR.1/S.4 was intended to implement the 9/11 recommendations that have not been implemented or fully implemented, and provide other important security enhancements.
 
 