SEN. DOMENICI: FAA ACTION BRINGS ECLIPSE AVIATION CLOSER TO AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the Federal Aviation Administration's approval of "provisional" certification for the Eclipse Aviation's jet aircraft brings the Albuquerque-based firm another step closer to full-fledged aircraft manufacturing in New Mexico. 
   Domenici, who used his position on the Senate Appropriations Committee to secure infrastructure improvement funds to support aircraft manufacturing in New Mexico, welcomed the FAA certification announcement as key to economic diversity in the greater Albuquerque area.
   The FAA today granted a Provisional Type Certificate to Eclipse for its Eclipse 500 twin engine, six-seat jet aircraft. Full or "Type Certification" is expected soon, according to FAA officials.
   "FAA approval is so important to Eclipse and to making New Mexico a small jet manufacturing center. I'm excited for Eclipse and the prospect of full certification soon. That will give our state a leg up on filling this new niche in the aviation industry," Domenici said.
   In January, Domenici helped break ground at the Albuquerque International Sunport for an Eclipse aviation manufacturing plant. The company announced then that it intends to hire 550 additional employees this year-doubling its workforce in Albuquerque. The plant, along with Eclipse's other Sunport facilities, will house the company as production ramps up.
   In the coming years, Eclipse will move to a new campus at the Double Eagle II Airport on the West Mesa. The construction of that campus was instrumental in keeping the company in Albuquerque.
   In preparation for the Eclipse move to the west side, Domenici in recent years has obtained $12 million to support rebuilding and expanding the I-40/Paseo del Volcan interchange to improve access to Double Eagle II, and $8 million to construct an access road between Paseo del Volcan and the airport. Eclipse Aviation will use the airport as its base for all aspects of its production, including manufacturing and customer delivery. In addition, Domenici has provided $1.8 million for a new air traffic control tower at Double Eagle II.
   Eclipse has obtained $20 million in backing from the state of New Mexico, and has a total of $402 million pledged from investors.
 
 