SEN. DOMENICI, AGRICULTURE SECRETARY MEET TO TALK FARM BILL, NEW MEXICO BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS SITUATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today took part in an informal breakfast meeting with Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns where the Farm Bill reauthorization and bovine tuberculosis (TB) screening in New Mexico were discussed.  
   Domenici was among a small group of Senators who met with Johanns, who provided an administration view on congressional work to craft the 2007 Farm Bill. Domenici also took the occasion to touch base with Johanns on the ongoing TB screening being carried out on dairy herds in New Mexico. 
   "This was an opportunity to again directly talk with Secretary Johanns about the course of farm policy in Congress, and how it could affect New Mexico agriculture and livestock production," Domenici said. 
   Related to TB, Johanns again gave assurances that Domenici would be consistently updated as preliminary testing on suspect herds continues. Since this spring, Domenici has encouraged Johanns to provide personnel, including a USDA area veterinarian-in-charge, and funding to address the TB threat in New Mexico. 
   "The Secretary was clear that no decision on the fate of New Mexico's TB-free status will be made until the preliminary testing is concluded. This is a serious issue and I believe he is giving it his personal attention," Domenici said. 
   Related to the 2007 Farm Bill, Domenici discussed his concerns about the overall cost of a new farm policy law and the affect that rising corn prices are already having on feed stock prices as the nation moves toward more ethanol fuel production. 
   "The House has already signaled a shift in direction in farm policies, and we need to be careful how we make changes under our current and long-term fiscal restrictions. We are already seeing how the push for more ethanol is affecting farm production and livestock operations," Domenici said. 
   Domenici has previously said he wants the 2007 Farm Bill to have policies that fairly treat New Mexico's dairy industry and specialty crops, such as chile, peanuts and pecans. 
   The Senate Agriculture Committee has not produced a draft of its version of the 2007 Farm Bill, but has conducted a series of hearings related to programs to be included in the measure, including conservation, farm and rural energy policies.
 
 