NEW MEXICO SENATORS: U.S. POSTAL SERVICE TAKES STEPS TO EASE MAIL SERVICE WOES IN SOUTHERN NEW MEXICO
  Sens. Pete V. Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today welcomed news that the United States Postal Service has committed an additional 13 full-time career employees to keep up with service needs in southern New Mexico and correct persistent mail delivery problems.  
   In a meeting with the New Mexico Senators Wednesday, USPS Southwest Area Vice President Ellis Burgoyne and Cliff Rucker, manager of operation support, pledged to add 13 new career employees at the El Paso Facility, which serves Las Cruces and southern New Mexico. 
   "I left the meeting with a real sense that the Postal Service is working hard to improve service in New Mexico. The commitment of new career postal employees demonstrates that the Postal Service is committed to correcting service deficiencies, permanently," said Domenici. "I will work with Senator Bingaman and the Postal Service to make sure efforts are being made to improve mail service across the state." 
   "I'm glad to hear about the USPS's commitment to service improvements, including the 13 new hires in El Paso," Bingaman said. "However, I believe we need to keep a close eye on postal operations across the state to see that progress is actually being made." 
   USPS officials also indicated the Postal Service is in the process of evaluating the need for new facilities in New Mexico. 
   USPS Southwest Area Vice President Ellis Burgoyne requested the meeting in response to the lawmakers' concerns over service delays in southern New Mexico and their call for permanent staffing solutions to address the delays. 
   In recent communications with USPS, the Senators highlighted consumer complaints about deficient mail delivery service in southern New Mexico. In response, the Postal Service announced its plans to add 15 new employees to allow the El Paso facility, which serves southern New Mexico, to operate on a 24-hour schedule. However, the announcement was followed by another report that the added workforce would be hired on a temporary basis, raising further concern that the service deficiencies would not be adequately addressed. 
   In a June letter, Domenici and Bingaman asked Postmaster General John E. Potter to clarify USPS hiring plans for the El Paso facility and urged him to take permanent steps to improve service in the region.
 
 