SEN. DOMENICI URGES NEW MEXICANS TO OBSERVE MOMENT OF REMEMBRANCE ON MEMORIAL DAY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asked New Mexicans to pause with family and friends this Memorial Day weekend to remember the sacrifices made by America's soldiers and honor the lives lost in the pursuit of freedom.  
   "Since the birth of our nation 229 years ago, millions of Americans have answered the call to serve. They left behind the comfort of home, family and friends, to protect the American way of life and ensure that our country would remain free and a land of opportunity for all. On this day, I would like to remember those who did not return. 
   "On this Memorial Day, I am reminded of the 200th and 515th Coastal Artillery units of the New Mexico National Guard, better known as the New Mexico Brigade. The New Mexico Brigade played a prominent and heroic role in the fierce fighting in the Philippines during those first dark days of the Second World War. For four months the men of the 200th and 515th helped hold off the Japanese only to be defeated by disease, starvation and a lack of ammunition. 
   "Tragically, survivors of the Battle of Bataan from the New Mexico Brigade were subjected to the horrors and atrocities of the 65 mile Death March and to years of hardship and forced labor in Japanese prisoner of war camps. Sadly, of the 1,800 men of the New Mexico Brigade more than 900 lost their lives in that far off place. This day belongs to them and all other Americans like them. 
   "I believe it is especially important not to forget that the men and women of America's Armed Forces have given their lives not only in defense of our nation, but to also preserve the freedom of others around the globe. This is almost unique in human history, and no praise can be too great for those individuals. 
   "Today, I would like to make special mention of those New Mexicans who have given their lives in Operation Iraqi Freedom and the global war on terror. I ask that New Mexicans on Memorial Day think of them and their families, and give thanks that we are blessed with such heroic men and women. 
   "At this moment in America's history, our men and women in uniform are again furthering the case of freedom around the world and ensuring the safety of the United States of America. They serve with the same courage and commitment shown by Americans of generations past and they deserve our thoughts and prayers on this Memorial Day. 
   "We must never forget the sacrifices of our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines. I encourage New Mexicans and all Americans on Memorial Day to take a moment to remember and honor the brave men and women who have fallen in our defense." 
   Domenici's offices in Washington D.C., Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Las Cruces and Roswell will be closed on Monday, May 31 in honor of the national holiday.
 
 