SEN. DOMENICI DISCUSSES FED SUPPORT FOR EASTERN N.M. WITH FEMA DIRECTOR, LOOKS TO USDA FOR HELP
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed his support for victims of last Friday's storms that affected eastern New Mexico and requested any federal recovery aid available.  
   Domenici on Tuesday contacted FEMA Director R. David Paulison to discuss the potential aid for Curry, Roosevelt, and Quay counties, which were hardest hit by Friday's storms. During the call, Domenici requested FEMA's full assistance, including trailers for the hundreds of families that have been displaced as a result of the storms. FEMA aid would be contingent on a formal federal disaster assistance request from Gov. Bill Richardson. 
   "This storm has sadly claimed a life and disrupted the lives of so many people. I expressed to Director Paulison the need to be ready to provide aid to communities affected by Friday's powerful storms. I specifically requested full cooperation from FEMA as we work to get Curry, Roosevelt, and Quay counties back on their feet," said Domenici. "I look forward to working with FEMA as action is taken to help eastern New Mexico through this disaster." 
   Last Friday's storms included 16 tornadoes that damaged homes, schools, businesses, roads, and power lines. One death has been attributed to the storm, and dozens have been injured. Despite initial reports, current information indicates that hundreds of dairy cattle were also lost during the storms. 
   Domenici was also briefed today in Washington on damage to the eastern New Mexico dairy industry by Dr. G. Robert Hagervoot of the NMSU Agriculture Experiment Station in Clovis as well as Sharon Lombardi of Dairy Producers of New Mexico. The Senator has sent staff to the region to assess the situation and determine the most beneficial course of action. 
   "First-hand accounts of the damage incurred by dairy farmers, and the reports I am getting from my field staff in the area, are useful in evaluating the needs on the ground. I hope that by speaking directly with Director Paulison, I can help firm up federal aid for eastern New Mexico communities impacted by the tornadoes," Domenici continued. 
   Domenici has also been informed that the U.S. Department of Agriculture can make rural housing repair and rehabilitation loans and grants available to residents in Curry, Roosevelt, and Quay counties. The funds are available to low-income households, as well as elderly individuals looking to modify their current place of residence for improvement, modernization, health, or disability purposes. 
   "These USDA funds will help those who cannot normally afford home repairs," said Domenici. "I encourage all eligible individuals to apply for this aid." 
   The funds are administered by USDA Rural Development. Loans of up to $20,000 are available to very low-income households meeting adjusted income levels between $19,550 and $19,600. Grants of up to $7,500 are available to individuals that are 62 years of age or older or unable to repay a repair loan. For more information, visit http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rhs/sfh/brief_repairgrant.htm.
 
 