SEN. DOMENICI VOTES AGAINST FORCED AMERICAN WITHDRAWAL FROM IRAQ, WILL SUPPORT PRESIDENTIAL VETO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted for an amendment to reject efforts to impose a timeline for withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq by March 2008, saying direct congressional efforts to manage the war would do more harm than good.  
   Domenici was among the 48 Senators who voted to strip a military withdrawal requirement from the FY2007 Supplemental Appropriations Bill now being debated by the Senate. However, the Senate voted 48-50 to retain the withdrawal language in the bill. 
   Democratic leaders included the March 2008 withdrawal deadline in the $121.6 billion package that will provide the Defense Department with funding to carry out military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. President Bush has promised to veto any bill with a mandated withdrawal date. 
   "This is a tragic error when we have 140,000 American men and women in harm's way. Pushing a forced withdrawal date as part of a nonbinding political exercise is one thing. Trying to micromanage war activities in a substantive bill is another, and one that is dangerous and wrong. If this misguided effort stays in the final bill sent to the president, I will support a Presidential veto of the legislation," Domenici said. 
   "The President and our military leaders have recommended a new military initiative for Iraq, one that includes benchmark incentives for the Iraqi government and security forces to assume greater responsibility for stabilizing the country. I think that strategy should move forward with congressional oversight, as opposed to attempts to manage the war from the halls of Congress," he said. 
   As part of the debate on the supplemental bill, Domenici is cosponsoring an amendment to provide an additional $1.0 billion in emergency funding for National Guard and Reserve equipment. The bill already includes $1.0 billion for this activity. In the short term, the Army National Guard is $2.0 billion short of essential dual-use gear needed for combat missions and emergency situations within the United States. In a recently released GAO report, New Mexico ranked last regarding the percentage of authorized dual-use equipment. 
   Overall, the package outlines $102.5 billion for the Global War on Terror, which is nearly $2.9 billion more than the White House initially requested.
 
 