NEW MEXICO SENATORS LOOK AHEAD TO NEW CANNON AIR FORCE BASE MISSION AS HOUSE FAILS TO SQUASH BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS
  With the rejection of a resolution in the House of Representatives that would have stalled the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) commission recommendations, Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today said that they are still optimistic that Cannon Air Force Base will have a bright future.  
   The U.S. House of Representatives today rejected a resolution of disapproval that would have rejected the BRAC Commission's recommendations. Since both chambers of Congress must approve the resolution, it will not be taken up for consideration in the Senate. Had the resolution reached the Senate, Domenici and Bingaman would have rejected the commission's BRAC recommendations. 
   The Senators have been working on two fronts to protect Cannon Air Force Base. In addition to studying and pursuing alternative missions for Cannon, Domenici and Bingaman have gained Senate approval of language that would prohibit the Pentagon from withdrawing any assets from Cannon until the Secretary of Defense certifies to Congress that he has sought a new mission for the eastern New Mexico base. 
   "I'm disappointed that the BRAC process is cleared for completion, but I am optimistic about the future of Cannon Air Force Base. We have taken concrete steps to ensure a bright future of the base. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am committed to ensuring that language requiring the Pentagon to find a new mission for Cannon is included in the final version of the bill. I look forward to working with the Defense Department to find a new mission that will make use of Cannon's outstanding facilities and support," said Domenici, who sits on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "Cannon is, and should remain, an integral part of our nation's military operations. Rather than relying on the unlikely event that Congress would overturn the BRAC report, Senator Domenici and I have focused our attention in the past few months on finding a new mission for Cannon. We will continue to fight until a new mission is found," Bingaman said. 
   In August, the BRAC Commission took the unprecedented step of placing Cannon into an "enclave status" and giving the Secretary of Defense until 2009 to try to find a suitable new mission for the base. If a new mission is not found by then, the base would close. In the meantime, the BRAC Commission approved the Pentagon's request to reassign all F-16 aircraft now at Cannon to other bases. 
   The language included by Domenici and Bingaman in the FY2006 Defense Appropriations Bill states: "None of the funds provided in this Act may be obligated to realign or relocate forces or operational assets from bases to be converted to enclave status until the Secretary of Defense certifies that he has sought new missions for these bases as mandated by the 2005 Base Closure and Realignment Commission: Provided, that the Secretary of Defense shall report his findings to the congressional defense committees not later than October 1, 2006." [HR.2863; Section 8067] 
   The bill will now be considered by a Senate-House conference committee, on which Domenici will serve, to reconcile differences between the Senate and House version of the bill. 
   Congress has never rejected BRAC Commission recommendations. They will officially become law on Nov. 9.
 
 