SEN. DOMENICI: STUDENT AID OVERHAUL NOW LAW, MEANS $177 MILLION MORE FOR NEW MEXICO
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today reported that legislation he supported to reform higher education laws and increase student aid by nearly $177 million in New Mexico has been signed into law.  
   The College Cost Reduction and Access Act will provide over $17 billion in student grant aid nationally over the next five years. The bill will also restructure the college aid program by cutting private lender subsidies by nearly $19 billion over five years and making the money directly available to students and universities. President Bush signed the bill into law Thursday. 
   "This new law should make a college education more accessible and affordable to more people in New Mexico. I believe this new higher education law will be seen as door of opportunity for students and their families," Domenici said. 
   "It cannot be stressed enough that broadening ones training and education beyond high school is important on so many levels. It increases individual earning potential, and that in turn benefits the quality of our workforce and our economic health," he said. 
   By increasing federal student grant aid, the new law will mean almost $177 million more in student aid for New Mexicans. More than 55,000 college students received some form of federal aid, much of which was awarded based on financial need. Federal student aid for the state totaled more than $324.8 million for the 2005/2006 school year. 
   The new law will make Pell Grants more available to a greater number of low-income students by easing the income eligibility requirements to receive the maximum grant. In addition, interest rates on need-based student loans would be reduced from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent over the next four years. 
   Overall, the new law increases funding for Pell Grants by $11.4 billion over the next five years and allow the maximum Pell award to increase from $4,310 in 2007 to $5,400 by 2012. From 2005 to 2006, over 40,000 students in New Mexico benefited from nearly $100,000 in Pell Grants. 
   Domenici also supported provisions in the law to help students with large college debts by imposing a cap on federal student loan payments of 15 percent of an individual's discretionary income. Relief is also extended forgiving student loan debts for 10 or more years of work in a public service-type career. 
   The measure restores funding for Upward Bound programs, which was cut in FY2007. It authorizes $57 million for the program, which is a college-based program used by New Mexico universities to provide academic instruction for low-income, disadvantaged high school students who are in the first generation of their families to consider going to college. 
   In May, Domenici announced that the Department of Education would award $2.22 million in Upward Bound grants to nearly 500 New Mexico students attending colleges and universities across the state.
 
 