SEN. DOMENICI: LOS ALAMOS-BASED LATA INCLUDED IN $235 MILLION DOE CONTRACT FOR WORK AT HANFORD
  Sen. Pete Domenici today congratulated Los Alamos Technical Associates Inc. (LATA) for being in the group of small businesses selected for a $235 million contract to close the Fast Flux Test Facility (FFTF) in Hanford, Wash.  
   The contract was issued by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to SEC Closure Alliance, LLC. This alliance consists of LATA and five other five other businesses. 
   "LATA has proven itself time and time again as a successful partner capable of undertaking substantial projects," Domenici said. "LATA has done great work since its inception almost 30 years ago and I know they will continue to do so with the rest of this alliance. I trust LATA to finish the deactivation work at Hanford in record time and under budget. My hat's off to them and their hard work." 
   FFTF is a 400-megawatt liquid-sodium cooled nuclear test reactor in various stages of deactivation since 1992. The project includes completing the deactivation and decontamination of FFTF and its ancillary facilities, completing removal and shipment of remaining fuel to storage, disposition of the bulk sodium, and completing environmental restoration of the area. 
   The existing plan for the FFTF closure was estimated to be completed in 2018 and cost more than $600 million. The Alliance will now complete the work by 2011 at a total price of under $235 million because of this new DOE contract. 
   LATA was founding in Los Alamos in 1976 and contracts with government and industry to provide engineering and technical services. This small business has expanded to support many DOE prime contractors in their efforts to deactivate, decontaminate and decommission reactor and nuclear materials processing facilities. 
   LATA also launched MIOX Corporation in 1994 and was recently presented Popular Science magazine's "Best of What's New" award by Domenici for their instrumental work in developing an innovative personal water purifier for troops overseas.
 
 