FUND TO SAVE AMERICA'S TREASURES AWARDED TO TWO NEW MEXICO PROJECTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that two New Mexico projects have been awarded Save America's Treasures (SAT) grants to preserve local museums in Santa Fe and Picuris Pueblo.  
   The funds were awarded through the National Park Service (NPS), a division of the Department of Interior and the SAT program. 
   "I am pleased both of these historic sites will receive funds to support their maintenance and upkeep. Projects like the museums in Santa Fe and Picuris Pueblo exemplify the importance of educating others in New Mexico's rich heritage and fostering pride in the local area," Domenici said. 
   The Museum of New Mexico Foundation will receive $358,000 to support the Palace of the Governors Collections in Santa Fe. Originally constructed in the early 17th century as Spain's seat of government, the Palace of the Governors chronicles the history of Santa Fe, as well as New Mexico and the region. The original adobe structure, now the state's history museum, was designated a Registered National Historic Landmark in 1960 and an American Treasure in 1999. 
   Picuris Pueblo will receive $295,000 for the Picuris Pueblo Museum and Visitor's Center. The pueblo has a population of only 270 now, but at one time it was one of the two largest pueblos with over 3,000 Indians. During a 1960's excavation project undertaken at the old village site near the current day town, a large array of artifacts were found. They are now on display at the museum. 
   Save America's Treasures is a national effort to protect threatened cultural treasures, including historic structures, collections, works of art, maps and journals that document and illuminate the history and culture of the United States. Established by Executive Order in February 1998, Save America's Treasures was originally founded as a public-private partnership that included the White House, the National Park Service and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. 
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that sets funding levels for the National Park Service and the Save America's Treasures program. 
   In recent years, Domenici secured $15 million to construct the new annex at the Palace of Governors to help house and preserve numerous centuries-old treasures and artifacts that have been left neglected in the existing outdated and crumbling facilities.
 
 