SEN. DOMENICI PROMOTES EXPANSION OF SCHIP, ARGUES BUSH VETO WOULD BE 'A MISTAKE'
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today argued that President Bush should sign a bipartisan bill to renew and expand a national children's health program that will help continue and expand health insurance coverage for uninsured children in New Mexico.  
   The Senate voted Thursday to give final congressional approval to the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), a program that expires Sept. 30. The bill (HR.976) will now be sent to President Bush, who has threatened to veto the package. In a floor speech, Domenici said that the President should sign the bill. 
   "New Mexico has a persistent problem with uninsured children. Nearly 25 percent of our state's children don't have insurance, and that is unacceptable. My commitment to children's health care remains as firm today as it was when I helped create SCHIP as part of the 1997 Balanced Budget Act," said Domenici, who was Senate Budget Committee chairman when SCHIP was first enacted. 
   "While the compromise SCHIP bill is not perfect, it accomplishes the critical objective of ensuring health insurance is more readily available to children in need. I believe it would be a mistake for the President to veto this compromise bill. The program has been a success. The number of children without health coverage has declined but the need for this program remains," he said. 
   There are more than 93,500 children in New Mexico without health insurance, which is about 25 percent of all youth in the state. The compromise bill would allow New Mexico to cover children from 133 percent to 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL). 
   The overall final bill, which closely follows the Senate-passed bill, represents a five-year SCHIP renewal that increases funding for the program to $60 billion which would extend coverage to 6.6 million children already enrolled in the program and expand it to cover an additional 3.3 million more children without health insurance. Most of these 3.3 million children are currently eligible or entitled to SCHIP coverage, while only 600,000 come from expanding coverage to higher income levels. 
   Domenici noted that the SCHIP bill being sent to the White House includes children's mental health parity provisions similar to those in S.1337, the Children's Mental Health Parity Act, that he cosponsored with Senator John Kerry (D-Mass.). Under these provisions, where state child health care plans provide both medical and mental health benefits, financial requirements for mental health and substance abuse benefits cannot be more restrictive than those for medical benefits. 
   Since its creation in 1997, Domenici has worked to improve SCHIP in order to keep New Mexico from having to return millions in unused funds. Through the creation of SCHIP, states were granted additional federal funding if they agreed to expand coverage to children who did not qualify for Medicaid but whose families still could not afford health insurance. Because New Mexico had already expanded coverage to those low-income kids when Congress enacted SCHIP, the state has had difficulties in making use of all the funding being made available to aid children.
 
 