SEVEN N.M. COALITIONS GAIN GRANTS TO CONTINUE BATTLE AGAINST DRUG USE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that New Mexico community-based organizations have been awarded federal funding to continue their ongoing battle to reduce drug and substance abuse.  
   In all, seven groups covering a wide region of the state are each slated to receive $100,000 from the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). 
   Awarded through the ONDCP Drug-Free Communities Support Program, these New Mexico anti-drug coalitions will use the funding for a variety of outreach and awareness activities aimed at cutting into substance abuse rates among youth and adults. 
   "For too long now, the dark clouds of black tar heroin and methamphetamines have cast a pall over too much of New Mexico. Drug and substance abuse is a social problem that hits every community. Families have been torn apart and communities have been seriously troubled by illegal drug use and activities," Domenici said. 
   "These federal grants are awarded to coalitions that have plans to actively work to keep children away from the lure of drugs and to help those who are now using them to kick the habit," he said. 
   The New Mexico Voices for Children/Santa Fe Community Partnership will focus its work on Santa Fe County with a program that strongly involves parental participation in keeping children from drugs. 
   North Central Community Based Services is working in northern Rio Arriba County with the Northern Rio Arriba Community Health Coalition to target youth in the Chama Valley, Mesa Vista and Jemez Mountain school districts. 
   Hands Across Cultures Corp./La Vision del Valle intends to implement a program to address youth substance abuse in southern Rio Arriba and northern Santa Fe counties. 
   The Carlsbad Community Drug Coalition plans to use its grant to improve its anti-substance abuse outreach and to launch a treatment program for high school students. 
   The Lea County DWI Advisory Council intends to focus on early prevention services for younger children who are considered at high risk for drug or substance abuse, as well as increasing overall knowledge and awareness of substance abuse and its risks. 
   The Torrance Health Council will focus its outreach to reduce drug and substance abuse throughout Torrance County, focusing getting youth to abstain from using tobacco, alcohol or illegal drugs. The program will involve a family support services component. 
   Finally, the South Central New Mexico Prevention Coalition, working with nine community resource centers, will focus a program that will energize and motivate youth to become active themselves in reducing illegal drug and substance abuse in their own communities. The Coalition program would also involve law enforcement and other organizations in the El Paso-Juarez region, which with Do?a Ana County comprises one of the largest metropolitan areas on the Southwest Border.
 
 