SEN. DOMENICI: NAVAJO TECH RECEIVES $2.8 MILLION IN FED FUNDS FOR ACADEMIC EXPANSION
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici announced today that the Department of Education (DoED) has released over $2.8 million in federal appropriation funds which he worked to secure to help Navajo Tech improve and expand its educational programs.  
   DoED also provided $503,191 to Coyote Canyon Rehabilitation Center in Brimhall, and $351,191 to Tohatchi Area of Opportunity & Services, Inc. (TAOS, Inc.). 
   Funding for Navajo Tech was provided through the Education Department's Tribally Controlled Postsecondary and Technical Institutions Program (TCPCTIP), which Domenici supports annually as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. Navajo Tech expects to improve its overall academic achievement, retention rates, and curriculum. Additionally, it will expand its culinary arts, automotive/diesel, legal advocate, veterinary technician, and information technology programs, and launch a computational science program. 
   "Navajo Tech provides a relevant and valuable education to Navajo students in the Four-Corners area," said Domenici. "I am pleased to see that the Department of Education has released funds to Navajo Tech to improve its academic program." 
   For FY2008, Domenici has secured committee-level approval of $2 million for operations at Navajo Tech through the BIA's education account as part of the Interior Appropriations Bill. He also supported $8 million in FY2008 funds--an increase of $634,000 over FY2007 funding levels--for DoED's Tribally Controlled Postsecondary and Technical Institutions Program. 
   The TCPCTIP program provides grants to tribally controlled postsecondary career and technical institutions to provide basic support for the education and training of Indian students in career and technical education programs. For more information, visit: http://www.ed.gov/programs/tcpvi/index.html. 
   Coyote Canyon Rehabilitation Center Inc. in Brimhall will use funds to provide career and technical education services to 300 Navajo adults over the next five years. 
   TAOS, Inc. in Tohatchi expects assist developmentally challenged individuals through training in areas such as agriculture/horticulture, culinary arts, and computer/office skills.
 
 