SEN. DOMENICI: MAJORITY SHOULD RULE ON FEDERAL JUDGES
  In a speech on the floor of the Senate, Sen. Pete Domenici said that the Senate should return to the custom of requiring a simple majority to confirm judicial nominees.  
   Domenici spoke about the unprecedented filibuster of 10 nominees for the Circuit Court of Appeals that have the support of more than 51 Senators. Before President Bush took office, the Senate had never filibustered a nominee that had majority support. 
   Senate Majority Leader Dr. Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) is considering action to enable nominees to receive up or down votes. 
   "We want judges who are nominated by the President to have an up or down vote. Some in this body may not like all these nominees. But it is our duty to provide advice and consent for judicial nominees. We can't do that if they are filibustered. The Constitution is quite clear when more than a simple majority of votes should be required, and confirming judges is not mentioned. Therefore, the principle of majority rules must prevail, just as it has for the entire history of the Senate. 
   "I have served in this institution a long time. I care about the rights of the minority-I have been in the minority for a great deal of my time here. I'm for the filibuster, but I don't think what I will be voting for amounts to a change. It would be a vote to continue what we have done in the Senate for the history of this body. We have not filibustered judicial nominees," Domenici said. 
   Domenici pointed out that in the past, Democrats have attempted to abolish the filibuster altogether, but he opposed those changes. He stressed that prohibiting filibusters on judicial nominations would not have any affect on the ability to filibuster legislation. 
   Recent reports have indicated that Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) has threatened to prohibit the Senate from conducting most business if Democrats are not permitted to filibuster judges. 
   "Senator Reid has made an extraordinary threat by saying that the Senate will shut down if judges are granted an up or down vote. I think that would be a terrible mistake. That would mean no appropriations bills to pay for important priorities like education, parks, and Indian schools. It would mean no energy bill, which we desperately need. It would mean no highway bill to take care of our roads. 
   "Have we really reached the point where the minority is saying we are going to insist on enforcing a nonexistant rule that denies an up or down vote on nominees, and if they don't get their way the government stops?" Domenici said. 
   In 2003 and 2004, the Senate attempted to stop debate and conduct an up or down vote on judicial nominees 20 times, and all of those attempts failed. In each case, the judicial nominee in question had the support of a majority of U.S. Senators, but did not receive the 60 votes required to invoke cloture to break the filibuster. 
   All of the nominees have been rated 'well-qualified' by the American Bar Association. Many have previous judicial experience. For instance, Judge Priscilla Owen, was nominated 1,450 days ago and still has not received an up or down vote, is a Justice on the Texas Supreme Court.
 
 