SEN. DOMENICI ENCOURAGES ROSWELL YOUTH CHALLENGE CADETS TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF PROGRAM TO IMPROVE FUTURES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today encouraged cadets enrolled in the National Guard's Youth ChalleNGe Academy in Roswell to use their experiences in the program to advance their education and careers. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, on Saturday met with the cadets to be briefed on the program, which is funded through the Department of Defense. The Senator also reviewed a community service project involving the Youth ChallenNGe cadets at the Roswell Boys and Girls Club.
   The Roswell Youth ChalleNGe Academy, recognized in 2003 as the "most progressive" in the nation, offers at-risk youth, ages 16-18, a controlled training and mentoring program. The students can earn 12 hours of college credit through Eastern New Mexico University-Roswell.
   "I've consistently supported this program because it offers youth who may have made some bad decisions a new opportunity to do well, get their education and go forward," Domenici said. "I appreciate everything being done with the Roswell program to actively help the cadets and to involve them in the community. It's good for the students and it is good for the city."
   Youth ChalleNGe is operated by the National Guard as a preventive program for youth at-risk youth. The program helps students complete their high school education while teaching citizenship, life-coping skills, community service and physical training. The program includes a five-month residential phase followed by a year-long mentoring relationship with a specially trained member from the student's community.
   The President has requested $71.6 million in FY2008 to support 34 Youth ChalleNGe programs in 26 states, in addition to start-up resources for new academies in Nevada and Indiana. Congress provided $84.6 million for the program in FY2007. The program receives 60 percent federal funding and 40 percent state funding. Cadets are not charged and there is no military obligation.
   "I will do what I can to ensure that we continue to provide the federal funding to keep this program strong in New Mexico. We face a hard budget year, but as the president's budget acknowledges this is a program worth keeping," Domenici said.
 
 