SEN. DOMENICI HERALDS LOCAL HIGH-TECH COMPANY GROWTH
  Sen. Pete Domenici heralded the expansion of a locally-owned business that produces high-tech components that support work at Sandia National Laboratories as further evidence that technology transfer is becoming a job-creating force in New Mexico.  
   Domenici, who chairs the Senate subcommittee that funds the national laboratories, today took part in a ribbon cutting ceremony of an expanded facility for Team Specialty Products (TSP) of Albuquerque. The firm constructed a new 13,600-square-foot facility at the Sandia Science and Technology Park to accommodate a growing workforce. 
   "We can celebrate TSP's growth as a signal that Albuquerque and New Mexico are doing the right things to foster high-tech companies. This firm is growing, which is a good sign that more private-sector jobs are being created because of the scientific prowess and technology transfer opportunities related to Sandia National labs," Domenici said. 
   "This dynamic is evidence that the technology transfer law I helped write 17 years ago is really bearing fruit in New Mexico," he said. "Teamwork and commitment have resulted in TSP doubling its employee roster in six years. So today we celebrate Bob and Danny Sachs and their employees, and the great success of this wonderful, vibrant business park."
   TSP is an engineering design and product development firm that manufactures electronic and mechanical devices for pulsed power and high voltage technology applications. Its products support development of the Z Machine at Sandia National Laboratories, a primary contractor with TSP. The firm currently has 70 employees.
   TSP, founded in 1985, was one of the initial tenants at SS&TP, which is located just outside Kirtland Air Force Base and Sandia. The park, now home to a growing number of high-tech firms, supports a workforce of more than 1,200 people. More than $185 million has been invested in SS&TP since its creation in 2000.
   Last Wednesday, Domenici helped dedicate the new 96,000-square-foot Center for Integrated Nanotechnology (CINT) core facility at the SS&TP. Domenici secured $57 million for the CINT facility in Albuquerque, and another $18.3 million for a CINT gateway facility at Los Alamos National Laboratory.
 
 