SEN. DOMENICI OUTLINES AMERICA'S ENERGY CHALLENGES IN FIRST OF TWO MAJOR POLICY SPEECHES
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today delivered the first of two comprehensive addresses on the Senate floor analyzing America's energy challenges, including a review of recent efforts to address the threats posed by a growing reliance on foreign oil. 
   On Friday, Domenici-ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee-will propose solutions for these challenges in part two of his address. 
   In today's address, Domenici warned of the long-term dire consequences facing the nation as it shoulders escalating costs and increased demand for energy. In reviewing the three major energy policy bills enacted in the last three years*, Domenici also noted the long lag time before the full benefits of new energy diversification efforts are realized. (* - Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006, and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007.)  
   "Despite this progress, the debate should, and must, continue. Today more than ever, policy makers are faced with a daunting task: how to meet America's growing energy needs efficiently, affordably, and responsibly. Congress' recent achievements have been years in the making. They are steps in the right direction. But in many ways, they are overshadowed by the enormity of the challenges that remain," Domenici said. 
   "Just as oil and gas wells bore into the surface of the earth, so too has the stable foundation of the American economy been penetrated by those who sell us the energy we cannot, or will not, produce for ourselves," he said. 
   "It is a testament to the strength of our economy that high oil prices alone have not already thrust our country into a recession," he said. "But the economy is certainly not immune to expensive crude and we cannot ignore historical precedent, which established a trend of economic downturn in the wake of high oil prices." 
   "The lesson here is the same: an economy so dependent on such a volatile commodity can only be so strong. As we continue to export capital in order to import oil, and as oil-exporting nations grow more competitive, it will be become increasingly difficult for our country's resilience to endure," he said. 
   The following are highlights of the first half of Domenici's energy analysis today, in which he outlines America's current situation, and progress that has been made so far. (The complete prepared text of his remarks from today is available from the Domenici press office). 
   * Nuclear Power 
   "In the decade since my address at Harvard, we have changed the face of the debate on nuclear energy. We did this by ensuring that it was framed in the context of how to advance nuclear energy, not whether we should... The clearest evidence of this shift in thinking came with the passage of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which included loan guarantees, tax incentives, risk insurance, and an extension of the Price-Anderson Act... Consider that today, there are 104 nuclear reactors in service around the nation. Together, they displace the same amount of carbon dioxide as is emitted by nearly every passenger car on the road in America. A future for nuclear power in this country will truly mean a brighter tomorrow." 
   * Energy Policy Act of 2005 
   "The Energy Policy Act of 2005 has already had a positive impact on the advancement of other energy resources as well. The federal government has now approved seven new Liquefied Natural Gas terminals, which could bring an additional 15.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas to the U.S. marketplace. As a result of that bill, enough wind-power has been brought on-line to power 2.5 million homes. Along with much-needed electricity capacity, this new wind production has generated $16 billion in economic activity, created new green jobs across the country, and displaced 16 billion tons of carbon dioxide." 
   * Increased Domestic Production in the Gulf of Mexico 
   "In the following year, 2006, Congress picked up where it left off and passed the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act. Staring down a more than two decades-old moratorium that prevented the discovery of our nation's deep sea resources - we acted. By lifting a ban in the Gulf of Mexico, we allowed for the production of American resources in an area that covers more than 8 million acres...An estimated 1.26 billion barrels of oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas were made available as a result of the decision to open this area. That is enough natural gas to heat and cool nearly six million homes for 15 years." 
   * Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 
   "With the enactment of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, we will see a 40 percent increase in fuel economy by 2020, a savings of several billion barrels of oil, and 36 billion gallons of biofuels introduced into our fuel mix by 2022. As a result of this new law, energy usage in federal buildings will be reduced by 30 percent, and six billion metric tons of carbon dioxide will be displaced by 2030." 
   * America's Reliance on Foreign Oil 
   "In 2005, the United States consumed roughly 7.6 billion barrels of oil. More than 60 percent of this supply came from abroad, and it came at a cost of $230 billion...It is too early to calculate how much money we will send overseas this year, but at our current pace, this number could surpass $400 billion. To put those numbers in perspective, it would cost less - $188 billion - to repair every structurally deficient bridge in America. $230 billion per year is more than enough to provide healthcare, not only for every American child, but for every American. It is 8 times more than the United States distributed in federal foreign aid in 2005, and enough to reduce that year's federal deficit by nearly three-quarters. In the wake of the devastation wrought by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, $230 billion would have been enough to completely rebuild the Gulf Coast. And, $230 billion is well beyond the cost of the economic growth package that the Congress just passed to get our nation's economy back on track. 
   * The Risk to Our National Security 
   "The consequences of dependence on imported oil are not limited to our own borders, because the money we export for oil flows directly into the economies of foreign nations around the world...much of the world's oil reserves are controlled by irrational, often unpredictable leaders. The simple truth is this: in a world without spare production capacity, every major production loss, no matter where or why it occurs, is capable of boosting oil prices - and even short-term increases heighten the long-term costs to our nation... Many foreign leaders have already realized oil's value as a diplomatic weapon, and have used their reserves to establish diplomatic ties with growing energy consumers. Such relationships legitimize the regimes in power and allow them to secure regional influence."
 
 