N.M. SENATORS GET $3.5 MILLION COMMITMENT TO FUND VALLES CALDERA IN FY07
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today gained a commitment that the U.S. Forest Service will make approximately $3.5 million available to operate the Valles Caldera Preserve and Trust through 2007, but they criticized the administration's FY2008 budget request as clearly inadequate.  
   Bingaman and Domenici addressed the Valles Caldera budget issues during a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing to review the FY2008 budget recommendation for the USFS. Questions surrounding the FY2007 funding for Valles Caldera arose following the botched appropriations process that eliminated earmarked funding. Federal funding issues are exacerbated by the $850,000 requested for the Preserve in the White House's FY2008 budget submission. 
   The USFS commitment to provide $3.5 million for FY2007 nearly matches the $3.65 million approved by the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee for the Valles Caldera. The commitment is also well above the $990,000 recommend by the administration for FY2007. 
   "Having the commitment for significant funding to support the Valles Caldera this year is good news, but clearly the FY2008 request is unacceptable. In my view, it is penny wise and pound foolish. It makes absolutely no sense to me that we would risk the success of the Valles Caldera program because we are unwilling to provide $4 million or more annually for several years to maintain operations," said Domenici. "People want to visit the Valles Caldera. But we must accept the fact that the Trust needs more federal money so they can offer the amenities to draw the people and make more revenue." 
   "I've very glad to hear that the Valles Caldera will get adequate funding this year. But I remain concerned about the Forest Service's lack of commitment to supporting the preserve. If the Valles Caldera is funded at just $850,000, as the White House has proposed, I'm afraid that the preserve would have to be closed for lack of resources," Bingaman said. 
   The status of a separate $1.4 million FY2007 federal transportation earmark gained by Domenici for Preserve infrastructure is still unknown. This Federal Highway Administration funding would support continued road improvement work to improve public access to the 95,000-acre Baca Ranch that was acquired for $100 million by the federal government in 2000. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittees that fund the Interior Department and the Transportation Department.
 
 