SEN. DOMENICI RECOGNIZES FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
  Recognizing the importance of the Department of Homeland Security in ongoing efforts to maintain national safety, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined Senate colleagues to support a resolution honoring its fifth anniversary.  
   The resolution, introduced by Senator Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.) was cosponsored by Domenici and Senators Susan Collins (R-Maine), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), John Warner (R-Va.), Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), George Voinovich (R-Ohio), and John Sununu (R-N.H.), and others and commends the local and national components that contribute to the effectiveness of DHS. 
   "The horrific 9/11 attacks opened our eyes to the need to better organize and protect ourselves at home. The Department of Homeland Security is now a constant presence in our efforts to maintain national safety and respond to emergency situations," said Domenici. "Although more must be done to coordinate our national security forces on the local and national level, I am impressed by the courage and professionalism displayed by so many, from local firefighters to federal law enforcement officers." 
   Domenici has been an ardent advocate for federal support and funding for New Mexico homeland security activities, including the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) campus in Artesia, which has helped improve the capability of Border Patrol, Federal Air Marshal, Federal Flight Deck Officer, and Bureau of Indian Affairs law enforcement programs. Since FY2006, Domenici has secured more than $70 million for infrastructure improvements at the campus. 
   "New Mexico plays a pivotal role in ensuring the security of our state and the rest of the country, and I've been pleased to secure federal funding for several important projects, including those located on the border. I am sure the state will continue to provide a first line of defense in providing national security," Domenici continued. 
   Domenici also noted the importance of several New Mexico programs aimed at improving the nation's ability to deal effectively with security situations, such as the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC) at Sandia and Los Alamos National Laboratories, the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium and Energetic Materials Research and Testing Center (EMRTC) at New Mexico Tech, and the Playas Training and Research Center in Hidalgo County. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, as well as the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee that oversees the Department of Homeland Security.
 
 