SEN. DOMENICI TOLD PENTAGON HAS NATIONAL GUARD EQUIPMENT FUNDING IN PIPELINE; CANNON, HOLLOMAN & WSMR NEEDS ADDRESSED
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he wants more specifics on how the Pentagon is making funding available to ensure that the New Mexico National Guard is better equipped. 
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that today received testimony from Deputy Defense Secretary Gordon England on the Pentagon's proposed $481.4 billion budget request. 
   At the hearing, Domenici addressed a General Accountability Office (GAO) report issued in January that showed that as of November 2006, non-deployed Army National Guard forces in New Mexico ranked last in the nation regarding equipment readiness, with only 33.8 percent of the total amount of dual-use equipment they are authorized to have for war-fighting missions. 
   Domenici asked England to explain how the Pentagon's request for $43 billion to recruit, train, and equip National Guard and Reserve forces would be used to address the serious equipment shortfalls needed in New Mexico and many other States.  
   "The Defense Department needs to give us information on how it can ensure that our National Guard forces are equipped to do their jobs at home and abroad," Domenici said. 
   England said funding is available from a FY2005-2013 plan to reconstitute Guard and Reserve forces, but said there is a 1-to-3 year lag in getting equipment to states. England said he would review the situation and provide specific New Mexico Guard information to Domenici. 
   England told Domenici that equipment is prioritized for Guard units being deployed into active duty, and that the supplemental funding requests are intended to ease equipment burden on units whether they are at home bases or deployed abroad. 
   Last week, the entire New Mexico congressional delegation wrote Francis J. Harvey, Secretary of the Army, requesting a briefing on the New Mexico National Guard equipment shortage and a plan to correct the situation. The delegation also expressed concern that the New Mexico National Guard currently uses UH-60A model helicopters despite demonstrating a need for the more suitable UH-60L. 
   The delegation complained that the New Mexico aircraft have not received critical upgrades from the Aviation and Missile Command. This is further complicated by repeated delays in funding needed for maintenance support, such as construction of the Army Aviation Support Facility originally slated for this year. 
   Domenici asked England to relate how the Defense Department ensures that Guard and Reserve units redeployed to Iraq and Afghanistan are "rested and ready" for service. 
   "Many New Mexico guardsmen have served overseas as part of the Global War on Terror and many may be redeployed in coming months," Domenici said. "I would hope efforts are being made to ensure these units are equipped and truly ready to serve in active duty before they ship out." 
   At today's hearing, Domenici also addressed the need for $72.5 million in unfunded military construction this year to allow AFSOC to establish a Western Base at Cannon by October 2007. AFSOC was assigned command of Cannon as part of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure process. 
   This $72.5 million deficit is well above the $9.2 million military construction recommendation included in the President's FY2008 budget for two Cannon projects--$7.5 million for an MC-130 Flight Simulator facility and $1.7 million to renovate Hangar 109 to accommodate C-130 aircraft. 
   "Cannon's transition from an F-16 fighter wing base to an AFSOC base will require significant military construction. I am concerned that there is more than $70 million in FY2008 unfunded military construction requirements for Cannon. Much of this construction is needed in order for AFSOC to implement its plan to move aircraft including MC-130s and unmanned aerial vehicles to Cannon in FY2008," Domenici said. 
   In response to questioning from Domenici, England assured the Senator that AFSOC will own and operate Cannon in October 2007, as planned. He also said that the Pentagon has programmed over $200 million through the Future Years Defense Plan for Cannon. However, the Secretary expressed surprise that there is $72 million in unfunded AFSOC requirements in the Defense Department's budget. 
   Domenici was not satisfied with the Secretary's answers and plans to continue to look for ways to address Cannon's needs this year. 
   The unfunded Cannon projects range from $4.0 million for planning and design requirements to $31.5 million for fuel cell/corrosion control facilities. 
   Related to Holloman Air Force Base, Domenici has requested that England to provide details on plans to facilitate the transition from Stealth Fighters to F-22A Raptors at Holloman Air Force Base, saying a smooth transition will be best for the base and the surrounding community. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that today received testimony from England in a review of the $481.4 billion budget sought for the Defense Department in FY2008. Domenici took the opportunity to question England in writing about the aircraft transition at Holloman. 
   The Bush Administrations' FY2008 budget recommends $3.7 billion to procure 20 F-22A aircraft, of which $585 million has already been paid through advance procurement. At the same time, the budget plan recommends reducing operation and maintenance funds for the F-117 Stealth Fighter to enable retirement of 42 aircraft. 
   "Holloman is supposed to be the next F-22A bed down site. I want assurances that the Defense Department plans to locate the 20 new F-22s at Holloman and will let us in Congress know what is needed to make this transition a reality in FY2009," Domenici said. 
   "I share community concerns that there not be significant gap between the time the Stealth Fighters fly into the sunset and when a fleet of new F-22s are bedded down at Holloman. I look forward to hearing back from Secretary England on this important issue," he said. 
   Air Force Chief of Staff General T. Michael Moseley is scheduled to meet with Domenici next week to discuss the F-117 and F-22 transition plan. 
   Domenici also asked England to explain why the Army budget recommends a $13.6 million cut for the High Energy Laser System Test Facility (HELSTF) at White Sands Missile Range. The budget proposes $2.8 million for RDT&E activities at HELSTF next year, a vast cut from the $16.4 million Congress provided for the program in FY2007. 
   "HELSTF has a host of valuable capabilities for the Department for directed energy testing and evaluation. I am concerned about the future of directed energy tests if HELSTF is under-funded and inoperable and would like to know the Department's plans for conducting such tests in the future," Domenici said. 
   Domenici pledged to work with the Army and White Sands Missile Range, which hosts HELSTF, to ensure that WSMR has the funds and capabilities it needs to best serve the Department of Defense and our nation. 
   Domenici also sought details on the $3.7 billion request for the Army's Future Combat Systems technology program, much of which will be tested at WSMR. The Senator indicated a desire for information on how Congress can best accommodate research, development, test and evaluation of FCS technologies. 
   Last week, Domenici took part in an event in Las Cruces to introduce New Mexico businesses to the contract possibilities associated with FCS.
 
 