SEN. DOMENICI HONORS N.M. PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recently commemorated National Peace Corps Week by thanking New Mexico's 59 current Peace Corps volunteers in a Congressional Record statement.  
   The Peace Corps will celebrate its 47th anniversary on March 1, as part of National Peace Corps Week, held Feb. 25 - March 3. The Corps currently employs 8,079 volunteers at 68 locations in 74 countries. 
   "Over the years, Peace Corps volunteers have made significant and lasting contributions around the world by educating people on basic health issues, performing youth outreach, developing businesses, and offering assistance to small farmers to increase food production," said Domenici. "The experience these individuals take back with them from their host countries help shape the course of their lives." 
   New Mexico volunteers now serve in Panama, Honduras, Mozambique, Ukraine, Ethiopia, Ghana, Armenia, Madagascar, Kazakhstan, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Senegal, Georgia, Belize, Mali, Samoa, Gambia, Niger, El Salvador, Eastern Caribbean, China, Togo, Zambia, Paraguay, Tonga, Suriname, South Africa, Jamaica, Guyana, Turkmenistan, Botswana, Panama, Morocco, Peru, Mauritania, and Mongolia. 
   The following remarks were published in the Congressional Record: 
   "Mr. President, I rise today to commemorate National Peace Corps Week and to honor more than 190,000 Peace Corps Volunteers from both my home state of New Mexico and across the nation. Each year these courageous men and women embark on a two-year journey to help develop the societies of 139 countries around the world. 
   "Almost 47 years ago, then Senator John F. Kennedy challenged students at the University of Michigan to serve their country by peaceably living and working to develop another country. Over the years, volunteers have made significant and lasting contributions around the world by educating people on basic health issues, performing youth outreach, developing businesses, and offering assistance to small farmers to increase food production. 
   "Today, over 8,000 volunteers are serving in the communities of 74 countries. Many Peace Corps volunteers from New Mexico are currently posted in Bolivia, Ecuador, and Honduras. Volunteers range in age from 25 to 80, with varying levels of education including individuals with undergraduate and graduate degrees. Additionally, the Peace Corps offers programs that support academic studies once a term of service has concluded, which allows many volunteers to further their education after their self-sacrificing service. 
   "The experience volunteers take back with them from their host countries helps shape the course of their lives. Lifelong connections and friendships span these gaps of distance, and volunteers have the satisfaction of not only a job well done, but also of the positive image they created for our nation. 
   "Throughout this week of celebration, I encourage Americans to ask themselves, 'What can I do for my country?' I ask unanimous consent that my statement be printed in the Record."
 
 