SEN. DOMENICI ENDORSES LEGISLATIVE EFFORT TO CAP STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FINES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded the New Mexico Legislature for moving forward on a new bill that would limit the ability of the state's primary environmental agency to unilaterally levy exorbitant civil penalties.  
   The State Senate is advancing legislation (S.221) authored by state Senator Stuart Ingle that would limit civil penalties imposed by the New Mexico Environment Department to $250,000 for violations of environmental statutes. The bill passed the Senate Corporations and Transportation Committee with bipartisan support, and next goes to the Senate Finance Committee. 
   Domenici has been concerned by recent NMED actions to impose multimillion-dollar fines on the Department of Energy and its facilities in New Mexico, including the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, and Los Alamos and Sandia national laboratories. 
   "I think this state legislation is a move in the right direction, particularly when the New Mexico Environment Secretary has repeatedly stated that the large fines he assesses against DOE amount to a 'drop in the bucket.' This cavalier attitude ignores the fact that these fines are paid by the American taxpayers and put further pressure on funding DOE accounts," Domenici said. 
   "States must be able to monitor environmental accountability and, when needed, to impose fines. But this power should not be used irresponsibly. The Ingle bill, it seems to me, is trying to build some responsibility into state's penalty process. I think that's good, and I hope it eventually becomes law," he said. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that has federal oversight jurisdiction over DOE and its facilities. In addition, he is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds DOE and its numerous activities and facilities in New Mexico. 
   The Ingle bill would only allow the NMED to levy fines for violations that occurred within the past two years. It would also require hearings for proposed penalties over the $250,000 threshold.
 
 