SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON 2008 STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  After listening to President Bush's final State of the Union address Monday night, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici credited President Bush for his undiminished commitment to leading the nation to meet the domestic and international problems facing it.  
   Domenici said the President outlined a number of good policy initiatives that Congress should act on this year. 
   "President Bush sent a very clear message that he intends to work up to the very end of his term pushing what he believes will make us a stronger nation. Despite this being his last year in office, the President is right to challenge Congress and the American people to work together to improve our economy, to protect the nation and tackle hard issues like the solvency of programs such as Social Security and Medicare," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted his support for President Bush's call to increase funding for programs like veterans' care and America's science education programs--both initiatives the Senator has supported legislatively. 
   Domenici also welcomed the President's energy policy initiatives. 
   "Just last month, President Bush signed into law a comprehensive, bipartisan bill that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Tonight, I'm pleased that the President has continued his commitment to expanding clean energy. I'm particularly thankful for the administration's strong support for nuclear power, which I believe will be an important part of the President's legacy," Domenici said. 
   "President Bush's call for a $2 billion clean energy technology fund sends a signal that the United States will do its part to address global climate change. However, as the President noted, we must receive significant contributions from every major economy if we truly wish to address this problem," he said. "As we continue to seek ways to meet the challenge of global climate change, it is essential that we avoid doing harm to our economy and that we include all major emitters. A pro-growth, global strategy is the best approach."
 
 