SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS & ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, Jan. 28, 2008. 
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Tim Keithly, KRUI Ruidoso 
   * John McBreen, KYVA Gallup  
   * Kevin Robbins, KSMX Portales 
   * Larry Moehlenbrink, KKOB Albuquerque 
   TOPICS: 
   State of the Union Outlook 
   Opposition to Economic Stimulus Package 
   GAO Report and Future of Cannon AFB 
   Negative Presidential Campaigns 
   Push for Bill to Pay Federal Portion of New Mexico Water Settlements 
   Farm Bill Stalemate 
   Expanding Economic Stimulus Package 
   REVIEW: 
   00:00 Domenici says the annual State of the Union is an exciting event in which the President can put his best foot forward as he addresses Congress and the American people. He predicts that President Bush's final State of the Union speech will be somewhat sober and emotional, and will likely focus on the U.S. economy and the war effort in Iraq and Afghanistan. He says believes Bush will address the economic stimulus package pending in Congress, and adds that he is not opposed to expanding the program if it doesn't delay or derail the stimulus plan. 
   03:24 Domenici explains that some Republican Senators may oppose the proposed $150 billion economic stimulus plan because they believe such legislative tools do not actually help the economy. He talks about what he believes should be in the plan which he believes should be enacted as soon as possible. 
   05:56 Domenici discusses his belief that a recent GAO report on the new Air Force Special Operations Command mission at Cannon AFB is actually a good report. He says he is interested in what military construction projects at Cannon will be included in the FY2009 budget that the Bush administration will release on Feb. 4. He says he will continue working with the Air Force and Cannon to get resources to the base. 
   07:41 Domenici says the negativity surfacing in the Republican presidential primary campaign stems from the close races unfolding in various states. He says he believes Senator John McCain of Arizona, whom he describes as "feisty," will eventually capture the Republican nomination. He also notes that the Republican races have not been as negative as the Democratic nominating contest. 
   09:46 Domenici says he has made it a priority for the Indian Affairs Committee to consider and approve his bill to pay for the federal portion of pending Indian water settlements in New Mexico, including the Navajo water settlement that would involve a water distribution pipeline for the Navajo Nation and the city of Gallup. He notes that the payments would derive from a portion of royalties collected in New Mexico. 
   11:20 Domenici says he will continue to work with Senator Bingaman, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, to gain his support for his bill, and says he is ready to fight the Bush administration on this issue. 
   12:27 Domenici says he is monitoring conference negotiations on the 2007 Farm Bill, but that he does not have specific insight into issues that are stalling completion of the bill. He says paying for the measure poses a big problem for negotiators, and suggests that this Congress may end up just reauthorizing the existing Farm Bill. 
   14:21 Domenici says Senate efforts to expand the $150 billion Economic Stimulus Package crafted by the Bush Administration and House leaders must be done carefully and quickly. He believes President Bush will ask the Senate to accept the House package, and warns changing the House-White House agreement could delay its enactment or force a veto.
 
 