SEN. DOMENICI ASKS HOMELAND SECURITY SEC. NOT TO RUSH BORDER DOCUMENT MANDATE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today urged the Department of Homeland Security to postpone implementation of a new policy that would require travelers at border crossings to present documented proof of citizenship to enter the United States--a policy set to go into effect Thursday, Jan. 31. 
   Domenici is among 19 Senators who have written Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff strongly encouraging him to delay the Department's plan to require anyone entering the United States at a port of entry to present documentary proof of citizenship, such as a birth certificate.  
   While recognizing the need for greater documentation of border travelers, the bipartisan group of Senators asked Chertoff to continue the current policy of accepting oral declarations of citizenship at U.S. border crossings until the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative is fully implemented. 
   "My colleagues and I would prefer that the Homeland Security Department take the time and diligence to do this job right," Domenici said. 
   "My concern is that the Department of Homeland Security has not adequately prepared for this change, both among its own border crossing personnel and the public. I believe pushing the new requirements now would only cause new hardships and longer delays at our ports of entry. I question whether birth certificates, which vary widely, are enough to accurately confirm citizenship status, and I fear that we will face a situation similar to last year, when DHS began to require passports at airports to fly to and from Mexico and Canada. The confusion and backlog was astounding, and we should make every effort to avoid such problems again," he said. 
   The letter to Chertoff points out that under the new regulation, Customs and Border Protection agents face a daunting task in verifying the authenticity of birth certificates since there are nearly 8,000 variations of birth certificates issued by various states, provinces, and localities in the United States and Canada. 
   "While we understand the department's desire for greater documentation of travelers coming through our nation's borders, we seriously question the timing of this dramatic policy change," the Senators wrote. 
   "We find it troubling that the DHS is trying to move forward in the interim with a plan to require proof of citizenship at the border prior to the successful implementation of a secure alternative to a passport. By trying to impose this requirement, the Administration will exacerbate the current confusion that the WHTI and the passport card are designed to avoid. Asking our CBP agents to implement this when an alternative and more secure passport card is not even available yet is unfair, and is likely to distract officers from other, more effective border inspection procedures. The new interim procedures are a recipe for long lines at our nation's border crossings and reduced flow of commerce with no clear increase in security," the letter to Chertoff said. 
   The letter to Chertoff was signed initiated by Senators Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.); Ted Stevens (R-Alaska); and Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.). Other Senators signing the letter included: Domenici, Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio); Norm Coleman (R-Minn.); Susan Collins (R-Maine); Larry Craig (R-Idaho); Mike Crapo (R-Idaho); Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.); Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.); Carl Levin (D-Mich.); Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska); Patty Murray (D-Wash.); Bernard Sanders (I-Vt.); Olympia Snowe (R-Maine); John Sununu (R-N.H.); George Voinovich (R-Ohio); and Chris Dodd (D-Conn.).
 
 