SEN. DOMENICI MARKS 60TH ANNIVERSARY MILESTONE OF ROSWELL UFO INCIDENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today marked the 60th anniversary of the sensational Roswell UFO Incident and highlighted the upcoming Roswell UFO Festival next week.  
   "Regardless of what was recovered 60 years ago, this notable event has become part of Roswell, and the history of our state," said Domenici in a Congressional Record statement. 
   "The people who converge on Roswell this year for the festival, July 5-8, are in for an exciting weekend, as it promises to be the best in the festival's history. Lectures, parades, concerts, hot air balloon rides and air shows are only a few of the items on this year's program," he said. 
   Domenici's full remarks, as follows, will be recorded in the Congressional Record: 
   Today, I would like to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Roswell UFO Incident. On July 8, 1947, the Roswell Army Air Field (RAFF) issued a statement announcing they had recovered a "flying disk" from a nearby ranch. This news release, concerning the landing of a mysterious object, was quickly changed. The next day, the RAFF issued a retraction and stated the mysterious object was in fact a downed weather balloon. Although Roswell Army Air Field officials had retracted their original statement within 24 hours, the controversy, which has endured for 60 years, had already begun. 
   The interest ignited by the original "flying disk" statement continues to spark debate for many, not just in the great state of New Mexico, but around the world. Supposed witnesses of the event and UFO theorists to this day claim that that the mysterious object was an actual alien aircraft. Others hold steadfast in the Air Force's latest classification of the object being a U.S. government spy balloon. Regardless of what was recovered 60 years ago, this notable event has become part of Roswell, and the history of our state. 
   For the past twelve years, the city of Roswell has celebrated this well-known event by holding the Roswell UFO Festival on the town's main street. Skeptics and alien-enthusiasts alike gather from around the globe to commemorate the incident by partaking in numerous activities and programs during a four-day festival. The people who converge on Roswell this year for the festival, July 5th - 8th, are in for an exciting weekend, as it promises to be the best in the festival's history. Lectures, parades, concerts, hot air balloon rides and air shows are only a few of the items on this year's program. 
   I have no doubt the controversy and debate surrounding the events of 60 years ago will continue. However, as long as we are able to enjoy and commemorate such events in our country's history, I look forward to many more festivals such as these that bring people together from across the globe.
 
 