NEW MEXICO GETS BRAC-RELATED JOB TRAINING FUNDS
  The New Mexico congressional delegation today supported the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) decision to award $1.0 million in job transition funding for the state as the delegation comes off an overwhelmingly optimistic regional hearing with BRAC Commissioners in Clovis. 
   The DOL issued almost $50 million to states that could be adversely affected the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process to begin planning for possible civilian job losses. The New Mexico Office of Workforce Training and Development has been awarded $1 million for potential job lossesat Cannon, Holloman, and Kirtland Air Force bases as well as White Sands Missile Range.  
   New Mexico workers, businesses and communities will still have access to the funds if delegation efforts are successful in saving Cannon from the final BRAC list and repeal recommendations to transfer jobs at WSMR and HAFB to other sites. 
   Last month, U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall and Steve Pearce encouraged the state to apply for the Labor Department funding because the deadline for application is well before the Sept. 8 deadline for the BRAC Commission to make a final decision on the Defense Department's BRAC recommendations for Cannon and other military installations in New Mexico. 
   "The state's support for Cannon could not have been more evident than it was in Clovis with the cheers and applause from thousands of New Mexicans. We presented a strong unified case and while the BRAC Commission deliberates its final list, this funding will be in place in New Mexico to apply toward job retraining and staff support," Domenici said. 
   "On Friday, the BRAC Commission heard very strong arguments for keeping Cannon Air Force Base open and we all hope they make the right decision. But we won't know the final outcome for some time, and it's good that our state in the meantime can access this $1 million grant," Bingaman said. 
   "We are continuing to make our case at every opportunity. We are working together to fight the closure of Cannon Air Force Base, and convince a majority of the BRAC commissioners that the Pentagon is mistaken in that recommendation," Wilson said. 
   "This federal funding is welcome news," Udall said. "But we should not view these funds as a sign of conceding the fight. We will continue to work together to see that Cannon is removed from the list, and at the very least to ensure that Cannon gets treated fairly throughout the remainder of the BRAC process." 
   "We are fighting hard to reverse the ill-considered decisions that the Department of Defense made regarding Cannon Air Force Base, Holloman Air Force Base, and White Sands-yet, we know that we face an uphill struggle, as the BRAC Commission has historically reversed just 15 percent of the DOD's recommendations. Thus, I am pleased that the Department of Labor has approved this critical assistance-which will help our communities plan for any contingency," Pearce said. 
   The NEG funding is the first phase of funding the Labor Department is expected to offer to states that could be affected by the BRAC process. Phase I funding is intended to allow states to begin formulating a comprehensive plan related to employment and training assistance. (http://www.doleta.gov/NEG/) 
   Closing Cannon would result in the direct loss of 2,824 jobs associated with the base (2,385 military, 384 civilian). On a larger scale, the Defense Department estimates that more than 20 percent of the Clovis-Portales economy would be hit hard by the closure. This estimate is more than double the expected impact of any of the other 2005 BRAC recommendations around the nation.
 
 