SEN. DOMENICI DETAILS WATER SUPPLY WORK FOR RUIDOSO, CLOUDCROFT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today detailed emergency water supply work to be carried out by the Bureau of Reclamation to drill a new water well for Ruidoso and support water hauling to Cloudcroft. 
   The Bureau today entered into agreements today for work to ensure water availability to the two south-central New Mexico villages. These projects, much like a previous water contracts for Ruidoso Downs and Las Vegas, will be carried out through a five-year renewal and $9 million in emergency funding secured by Domenici for the Bureau's Drought Emergency Assistance Program.
   "Snowpack above these two mountainous communities was practically nonexistent this year. The summer monsoon season is arriving in New Mexico, but this precipitation is not likely to be enough to offset the damage to long-term water supplies caused by an ongoing severe drought," Domenici said.
   "The new well for Ruidoso will give this community added access to water, and the water hauling agreement will ensure that Cloudcroft residents do not go without," he said.
   The Bureau is awarding an initial contract with the K.D. Huey Co. of Capitan to drill a 2,200-foot well approximately three miles west of Alto Reservoir on land owned by the village of Ruidoso. The project is to complete a replacement well within 100 feet of an existing well in the Eagle Creek area. Drilling work for the water well is expected to begin next week.
   In addition, the Bureau will issue a purchase order, not exceeding $55,000, to Cloudcroft to haul an estimated 2 million gallons of water to the village over the next six months.
   The Drought Emergency Assistance Program can be used by the Bureau for well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, water banking, and conservation. The program is intended to help states, tribes and some nonprofit organizations find ways to minimize the losses and damages associated with severe drought situations.
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee which has funding jurisdiction over the Bureau of Reclamation.
 
 