NEW MEXICO LAWMARKERS HERALD NRC LICENSE PRESENTATION FOR URANIUM ENRICHMENT PLANT IN LEA COUNTY
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman and Rep. Steve Pearce today heralded the formal presentation of a license to operate a new uranium enrichment facility in Lea County in Washington today. 
   With eastern New Mexico officials looking on, Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) chairman Nils Diaz presented an operating certificate to executives from Louisiana Energy Services (LES), which will construct and operate the plant near Eunice, N.M. Last Friday, the Atomic Licensing Safety Board recommended licensing approval to the NRC. Today's action is the final step in the approval process for the plant.
   "It was very gratifying to see NRC issue a license to construct a state of the art enrichment facility in eastern New Mexico. This plant is a sign of things to come in terms of the resurgence of nuclear power. It will also provide an economic engine for the regional economy that will sustain it for years to come. I am pleased to welcome the NRC Commissioner and interested parties to our Energy Committee hearing room for the presentation," said Domenici, who chairs the Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   "This is the one of the most significant decisions the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has made in two decades. When it's completed, this facility will supply about 25 percent of our nation's enrichment needs," said Bingaman. "This project will create well-paid short-term and long-term jobs, and will have an enormously positive economic impact on southeastern New Mexico."
   "This license marks the culmination of Lea County's two decade-long drive to free our economy from the fluctuation of oil and gas prices - as well as a major step forward in positioning our state on the cutting end of alternative energy development," said Pearce. "Community leaders from business, government, and both political parties have worked with their counterparts in Carlsbad and Eddy County to ensure that Southeastern New Mexico develops a diversified economy capable of providing the jobs and opportunity our people deserve."
   Licensing was necessary for the project, expected to cost $1.4 billion to construct, to move forward. With final approval, construction could begin this August, with the facility expected to be fully operational in 2013.
   The New Mexico facility will allow the U.S. to have a domestic source of enriched uranium for the country's commercial nuclear power plants.
   Following discussions with Domenici last month, Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman took action to advance the project by using a so-called Part 810 Waiver to allow LES and Urenco in Europe confer on materials and data needed to license and design the NEF. The Part 810 Waiver was necessary to negate a U.S. prohibition against LES contacting URENCO about material, data and technology it transferred to LES on the New Mexico project.
   The NEF project is expected to create more than 1,000 construction jobs and between 200-300 permanent jobs. With construction expected to be completed in 2013, NEF will use the world's most advanced, energy-efficient and cost effective uranium enrichment technology.
 
 