SEN. DOMENICI-COSPONSORED METH CONTROL ACT GAINS COMMITTEE APPROVAL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today indicated that methamphetamine producers in New Mexico may soon have a tougher time manufacturing and distributing the illegal drug once a bill moving in the Senate is enacted.  
   Domenici is a cosponsor of the Combat Meth Act of 2005 (S.103) that was approved Thursday by the Senate Judiciary Committee. The bill tightly regulates the sale of the primary ingredients used in meth production. The bill is now ready for consideration by the full Senate. 
   "This bill recognizes the rampant meth problem taking off in all parts of the country. New Mexico is no exception," Domenici said. "The number of homemade labs popping up has climbed all over the state. Law enforcement and border patrol have stepped up their efforts to dismantle such labs and prevent the distribution of this highly addictive drug, and this bill will help with those efforts. The Combat Meth Act aims to join the fray against meth production and use by making it more difficult to obtain the basic ingredients used in production of the drug." 
   The bill would tighten controls on the sale of pseudoephedrine and ephedrine-commonly found in many over-the-counter cold and sinus medicines, and create new law enforcement tools to apprehend and prosecute meth producers. 
   The rampant drug problem in New Mexico is attributed, in part, to the ease with which meth can be produced in home-made labs using common and accessible medicines and the transportation of Mexican cartel-produced methamphetamine contraband through the state. 
   "Other states have cut the number of meth labs by up to 50 percent by controlling the sale of certain medicines, setting an example of how this daunting problem can be approached with positive results. It is possible with the help of this bill for New Mexico to implement similar tactics to stymie the growing fluctuation of illegal drugs into our neighborhoods," Domenici said. 
   The bill, introduced by Senators Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Diane Feinstein (D-Calif.), would direct that pseudoephedrine and ephedrine be sold only by a pharmacist or pharmacy technician, with buyers limited to 9 grams of products containing this ingredient in a 30-day period. Provisions have been included to address rural areas without pharmacy access. 
   The bill would allow manufacturers an implementation period to produce alternatives for retailers and includes national uniformity preemption language, among other provisions. 
   In addition, the measure would authorize $33 million over two years to: * Train officers and prosecutors regarding meth laws and crimes ($15 million), and hire and train attorneys to prosecute federal and state meth offenses ($5 million for both FY2006 and FY07); * Create rapid response teams to help children affected by meth production ($2.5 million for both FY2006 and FY2007); and, * Treat meth abuse and establish centers to improve such treatments ($3 million for FY2006 and necessary sums for FY2007 and FY2008). 
   Domenici has been a strong proponent of federal cooperation with local law enforcement in addressing illegal drug problems, helping 13 New Mexico counties become involved in the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program to bring more focus on methamphetamine, heroin, and other illegal drugs in the area. With Domenici's support, $227 million has been included in the FY2006 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (TTHUD) Appropriations Bill. 
   According to the Drug Enforcement Agency, small clandestine meth labs are found throughout the state, with serious problems in the Albuquerque metro region, the Four Corners area, and areas nearer to the Mexican border. Hundreds of labs have been seized since 1999.
 
 