SEN. DOMENICI URGES PUBLIC CAUTION AS FIRE SEASON WARNINGS INTENSIFY IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today encouraged New Mexicans to be safe and take extra precautions as they enjoy the state's national forests and public lands, especially since these areas are under increasing wildfire risks.  
   Domenici issued his plea as the U.S. Forest Service today announced strict new fire restrictions for the Santa Fe National Forest in advance of the Fourth of July holiday weekend. Despite notable precipitation levels this winter and spring, much of New Mexico-including its forested regions-continues to suffer from the effects of a long-term severe drought. 
   "I encourage everyone to get out and enjoy our public lands, but to do so with the greatest precautions. We've already had some wildfire scares in New Mexico this year, and people should be careful and remember the restrictions that are in place to protect our forests" said Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds federal wildfire funds. 
   "As we head into the Independence Day weekend, hikers and campers must remember that drought conditions throughout the state have caused conditions highly susceptible to wildfires," he said. 
   Effective Wednesday, the Forest Service has issued stage one fire restrictions in the Santa Fe National Forest. These restrictions forbid the use of campfires, charcoal grills and stove fires, except in Forest Service developed camp and picnic grounds. Fireworks in the national forest are also forbidden. Individuals in violation of these restrictions could face a fine of up to $5,000 or 6 months jail time. (For more details, visit http://gacc.nifc.gov/swcc/) 
   These Santa Fe National Forest warnings come as the Senate is debating the FY2006 Interior Appropriations Bill, which funds the Forest Service and Interior Department's firefighting budgets. 
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee that crafted the Senate bill to include $2.5 billion for wildland fire management activities ($1.7 billion for the Forest Service, $766.6 million for BLM). The bill includes $492.2 million for hazardous fuels reduction, $10 million for Rural Fire Assistance, $66.68 million for State Fire Assistance and $13.9 million for Volunteer Fire Assistance. 
   "We can't protect our parks and wildlands without the help of the Forest Service, state firefighters, and volunteer organizations across the state," explained Domenici. "This bill would provide much needed funding for all of these groups, helping to ensure the safety of our parks and forests this summer."
 
 