SEN. DOMENICI-COSPONSORED BILL TO FIGHT SUICIDE AMONG VETERANS APPROVED BY SENATE VA COMMITTEE
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a founder of the Senate Mental Health Reform Caucus, today announced that the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee has approved legislation to develop federal programs to reduce the occurrence of suicide among veterans.  
   The Veterans Affairs Committee has approved the Joshua Omvig Veterans Suicide Prevention Act (S.479), introduced by Senator Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and cosponsored by Domenici. With the committee's approval, the bill is now ready for consideration by the full Senate. 
   "An often overlooked casualty of war is post-traumatic stress disorder, which can lead veterans to tragically end their own lives in suicide. It is absolutely critical that treatment and support measures are in place to allow returning veterans to live full and happy lives," said Domenici. 
   "With the Senate Veterans Affairs approval of this important legislation, we are one step closer to developing the programs needed to protect veterans' mental health care and prevent more returning solider from resorting to suicide," he said. 
   The bill would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop and implement a more comprehensive program to increase mental health awareness among veterans and VA employees. The legislation is named for Joshua Omvig, an Army veteran who was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) following his 11-month tour in Iraq and later committed suicide. 
   Recognizing that PSTD is a serious problem among veterans, S.479 directs the VA to develop a program that includes: a national mental health awareness campaign geared toward veterans; mandatory training on suicide and suicide prevention for VA employees and contractors; family education and peer support counseling; veterans' health assessments, counseling, and treatment programs; suicide prevention counselors; suicide prevention research; substance abuse treatment programs; 24-hour mental care availability; and a toll-free hotline. 
   In May, Domenici also introduced, along with Senator Barack Obama (D-Ill.), the Veterans' Mental Health Outreach and Access Act (S.38). The legislation would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to contract with community mental health centers and other qualified entities to provide peer outreach and support services, readjustment counseling and mental health services in any remote area of the country in which the VA determines there is inadequate access to medical services. 
   S.38 will require any contract-provider to hire a trained peer specialist as well as have its clinicians participate in a training program to be certain they provide "culturally competent" services. Finally, the bill will expand access to services so that the family can better help the veteran adjust back to civilian life, and also help the families as they readjust to having their loved ones back from duty. 
   A study published in March indicated that almost a third of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan are diagnosed with at least one mental health disorder. The study was led by Karen H. Seal, M.D., M.P.H., San Francisco VA Medical Center, University of California. (http://archinte.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/short/167/5/476) 
   Other information on VA mental health care services is available at: http://www1.va.gov/OPA/fact/returning_vets.asp
 
 