SEN. DOMENICI DETERMINES SENATE IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL TO BE 'NEITHER WORKABLE NOR REALISTIC'
  Sen. Pete Domenici today withdrew his support for a pending border security and immigration reform bill in the Senate, saying he was forced to vote against the package for a variety of reasons. 
   Domenici voted against invoking cloture (a vote against limiting debate) on S.1639. Following the 43-56 vote, the Senate leadership withdrew the bill. 
   "We must address our border and immigration crisis. I know first-hand the need to secure our borders because every day my constituents tell me about the problems they face because of illegal immigrants breaching the Southwest border. We have a crisis on our borders that must be resolved," Domenici said.  
   "The bill before us is neither workable nor realistic," he said. "Some of the provisions that I initially supported in this bill have been amended to the point that the bill can no longer accomplish intended purposes." 
   Domenici had worked with the Senate group that proposed legislation mandating border security measures be in place before any immigration reform provisions could be implemented. In discussing his vote today, Domenici listed a number of concerns that led him to decide that this existing legislative package is unworkable. He was critical of: 
   * The debate process limiting the consideration of amendments; 
   * The link between providing $4.4 billion in mandatory border security funding to passage of a full bill; 
   * The limitations and restrictions on the temporary worker program and the impact on New Mexico small businesses; 
   * The probability that the House of Representatives will not consider the issue; and, finally, 
   * The indication that the Z Visa proposal in the Senate bill could affect the Medicaid program in New Mexico. 
   "I have been told that this bill would have an unintended effect in New Mexico. As I understand it, New Mexico state law would allow all Z Visa holders under this bill to qualify for Medicaid. That matter needs to be reviewed and its impacts fully considered so that the Congress can avoid unintended effects of this bill," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also advocated the Senate now taking up a separate emergency spending bill to fund the $4.4 billion in immediate border security initiatives recommended in S.1639. 
   "What is clear to me is that the American people want the measures in the bill like providing 20,000 border patrol agents, constructing 370 miles of border fencing and 300 miles of border vehicle barriers, putting 105 radar and camera towers on the border, and using four unmanned aerial vehicles for border security in place before we address the millions of unauthorized aliens living and working in the United States," Domenici said. "I have come to the conclusion it would be more appropriate to provide $4.4 billion in border security funding in a separate emergency spending bill to fund these border security initiatives." 
   The following is a full text of Domenici's floor statement related to his vote on S.1639: 
   Statement of Senator Pete V. Domenici Regarding Border Security and Immigration Reform (S. 1639) 
   MR. DOMENICI: Mr. President, I rise today to discuss my vote against cloture on S. 1639, the border security and immigration reform bill debated by the Senate this week. 
   I support some of the proposals behind S. 1639 because we must address our border and immigration crisis. However, I was forced to vote no on the motion to invoke cloture on S. 1639 for several reasons. 
   The bill before us is neither workable nor realistic. Additionally, many Senators do not even know what is in the latest version of the bill. 
   Mr. President, it is also pretty clear to this Senator that anything similar to S. 1639 is dead on arrival in the House of Representatives. I question the rationale of passing a bill that has so many flaws when several Members of the House have said this bill will not even be considered by the House. Would it not be better for all of us to have a more open and fair debate on border security and immigration that is not subjected to unnecessary deadlines and closed-door decision making? 
   In addition, as a border state Senator, I know first-hand the need to secure our borders because every day my constituents tell me about the problems they face because of illegal entries into our country. We have a crisis on our borders that must be resolved. 
   However, instead of pursuing immediate emergency funding to help secure our border, S. 1639 cobbles border security improvements and funding with some concerning immigration reforms. While the bill also provided $4.4 billion to fund these border security initiatives, that money was contingent upon final passage of the bill by Congress, something that appears to be less than a sure thing. 
   What is clear to me is that the American people want the measures in the bill like providing 20,000 border patrol agents, constructing 370 miles of border fencing and 300 miles of border vehicle barriers, putting 105 radar and camera towers on the border, and using four unmanned aerial vehicles for border security in place before we address the millions of unauthorized aliens living and working in the United States. Therefore, I believe it would be more appropriate to provide $4.4 billion in border security funding in a separate emergency spending bill to fund these border security initiatives. 
   Additionally, I remain concerned about the amendment process associated with this bill. More than 300 amendments were filed to this bill's predecessor, S. 1348, and almost 150 amendments have been filed to S. 1639. However, we were only allowed to consider 26 amendments to S. 1639. Border security and immigration reform are the most important domestic issues facing the United States today. Clearly the Senate, the most deliberative body in the world, should be allowed to consider additional amendments that could improve upon this bill. While one of my amendments is part of the package of amendments that was allowed to be considered to this bill, I had other good ideas to make this bill better for New Mexico, the southwest border, and the United States. Many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle did, too, and we deserve an opportunity to consider those amendments. 
   Also, some of the provisions that I initially supported in this bill have been amended to the point that the bill no longer has its initial purposes. For example, the temporary worker program that is critical to so many industries in my State does not meet those industries' needs. 
   Further, I am concerned by statements by members of the bi-partisan border and immigration working group that some issues of concern in S. 1639 will be resolved in conference. The Senate should debate the issues of concern in this bill; we should not rely on a small group of our colleagues to resolve those issues in an un-amendable conference report. 
   Lastly, I have been told that this bill would have an interesting and unintended effect in my home state of New Mexico. As I understand it, New Mexico state law would allow all Z Visa holders under this bill to qualify for Medicaid. That matter needs to be reviewed and its impacts fully considered so that the Congress can avoid unintended effects of this bill. 
   For all of these reasons, I decided to vote no on the motion to invoke cloture on S. 1639. We need improved border security and immigration reform. 
   I ask unanimous consent that my statement be printed in the RECORD.
 
 