SEN. DOMENICI HONORS FALLEN NEW MEXICANS AT MEMORIAL DAY CEREMONY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today addressed New Mexico veterans and their families at the United Veterans Council of New Mexico Memorial Day ceremony, and announced his cosponsorship of a bill to pay the death gratuity to children if fallen members of the Armed Services do not have a living spouse.  
   Domenici joined veterans and dignitaries from around the state in honoring the lives and sacrifices of New Mexico and the nation's fallen military heroes, as well as applauding the service of New Mexicans in the Armed Forces now serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "We observe Memorial Day to honor all of those who have served and made the ultimate sacrifice. This year, we also reflect on the sacrifice that so many New Mexicans have made serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. As we have done for generations, it is on this day that we must pause and commemorate our fallen heroes' service, honor their valor, and remember their lives," said Domenici. 
   "Because our men and women in uniform today face combat situations in Iraq and Afghanistan, our attention is placed on those recent casualties that have affected families and communities in our state," he said. 
   "One of the ways we must demonstrate our active gratitude to the members of our Armed Forces is by protecting and providing for their loved ones," said Domenici, who sits on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   Domenici announced that he has cosponsored a bill (S.659) that permits service members to pass along the death gratuity to their surviving children in the event they die in service without a spouse. The bill also allows for designation of all or a portion of the death gratuity to be paid to a service member's parent, sibling, or other relative, if they will gain legal custody of the surviving minor child or children. 
   "This bill will give service men and women the assurance that if they were to lose their life in the line of duty or in service to this country, the needs of their children would be met. The death gratuity is a small way we can acknowledge and honor the tremendous sacrifice that military families make," Domenici said. 
   Nearly 11 million veterans stand to benefit from this legislation, including the estimated 180,000 veterans and their families who reside in New Mexico. Similar legislation has been introduced in the House (HR.1115). 
   Today's United Veterans Council ceremony was sponsored by the city of Albuquerque Cultural Services Department, Kirtland Air Force Base, and New Mexico National Guard and Reserve components from the Albuquerque area. In addition to Domenici, the ceremony featured remarks by Congresswoman Heather Wilson, Commander Rob Dain of the USS New Mexico, and a tribute to the New Mexicans killed in combat since Memorial Day 2006.
 
 