SEN. DOMENICI TO WORK WITH BUREAU OF RECLAMATION TO ADDRESS DROUGHT AID FOR WATER-STARVED AREAS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today indicated that he will be closely collaborating with the Bureau of Reclamation to determine how best to assist areas in New Mexico and throughout the Southwest that will be hit hard by some of the most severe drought conditions in decades. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that Tuesday conducted a hearing to review the proposed $971.6 million budget for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in FY2007, including $43.9 million for work in New Mexico.
   Domenici focused on the likelihood of severe drought conditions throughout New Mexico where the snowpack is dramatically low and where cities like Ruidoso and Ruidoso Downs have imposed the strictest Phase IV water restrictions.
   "It is possible there will be no runoff from the Sangre de Cristo, which is so important to the Pecos, Santa Fe and Canadian rivers. The latest information I've seen shows the Pecos runoff at 4 percent, the Rio Grande at 26 percent and the Zuni will get 1 percent of normal runoff in Bluewater Lake. These are grim statistics, and unless we get unusual rainfall, the situation will be even more critical next year," Domenici said.
   "The fact that Ruidoso and other communities are already imposing water restrictions is an indication that we must be ready to help. There is not one corner of New Mexico that will not be touched by drought conditions," he said.
   Domenici asked Bureau Commissioner John Keys and Mark Limbaugh, Assistant Interior Secretary for Water and Science, to outline drought contingency plans and to begin preparing for assistance that might be offered in the form of water deliveries or well drilling. In addition, he asked Keys to report soon on which aspects of the Reclamations States Emergency Relief Act have expired and require reauthorization by Congress.
   Domenici also issued an inquiry as to the Bureau's assessment of how the drought will affect in-stream flow requirement for endangered species.
 
 