SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN JOIN PRESIDENT FOR COMPETITIVENESS STRATEGY SESSION
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman joined several of their colleagues at the White House today for a strategy session aimed at passing legislation that will promote U.S. global competitiveness. 
   Domenici and Bingaman, along with Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), are the sponsors of the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, which follows the guidelines of a report released last fall by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) that outlined a plan to ensure the U.S. remains economically competitive with the rest of the world.
   President Bush today urged Senators to coalesce around a single competitiveness proposal. The New Mexico senators' bipartisan PACE Act already has garnered nearly 70 Senate cosponsors. The energy segment of the bill, which would utilize the Department of Energy and the national labs for science education and development, has already passed the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Domenici is the committee's chairman, while Bingaman is the ranking member.
   "I was pleased to hear first hand President Bush's continued commitment to the competitiveness issue. I believe that the PACE Act is the best and most comprehensive bill to make sure that America remains the world leader in science and technology. Our bill utilizes all available resources in the Department of Energy and the Department of Education to make sure our students and teachers are well trained. I look forward to working with the White House and my colleagues to pass it," Domenici said.
   "We already have overwhelming support in the Senate for a competitiveness package. Having the backing of the White House will help improve our chances of winning support in the House of Representatives as well," Bingaman said.
   The PACE Act, incorporated in three bills, would greatly increase federal investment in math and science education, basic science and energy research, and research and development tax incentives. The bipartisan effort was crafted to implement 20 recommendations outlined in "Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future," a National Academies of Science report issued last October.
   Among the other Senators at today's White House meeting were Alexander, Mikulski, and Senators Mike Enzi (R-Wy.), John Ensign (R-Nev.), Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.), and Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.). Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings also intended.
   In January, Bush joined Domenici and Bingaman in New Mexico for a roundtable discussion on science and math education in Rio Rancho. Las December, the Senators were at the White House to discuss their competitiveness ideas with the President.
 
 