N.M. LAWMAKERS SPREAD WORD OF RECOVERY NEEDS IN TORNADO-HIT EASTERN NEW MEXICO
  The New Mexico congressional delegation today reported that they have put federal agencies on notice to be ready to provide available assistance to the tornado-damaged areas of east-central New Mexico. 
   Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, with Representative Tom Udall, took part in a meeting Wednesday with Dan Paulison, director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), to discuss the prospects for gaining a federal disaster declaration for Curry, Quay and Roosevelt counties in the event the Governor Bill Richardson requests such a declaration. Richardson also attended the meeting.  
   Domenici, Bingaman, Udall, as well as Representatives Heather Wilson and Steve Pearce, have indicated they will fully back any formal state of New Mexico request to FEMA for a federal disaster designation once damage assessments are completed in the state. More than a dozen tornadoes ripped through the region March 23, claiming one life and causing damage to homes, businesses and infrastructure. 
   In the meantime, the entire delegation today issued letters to the heads of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Housing and Urban Development and the Small Business Administration (SBA) to alert them of recovery needs in New Mexico--including aid that can be made available outside the parameters of a formal presidential disaster declaration made at the request of the Governor. 
   "There is a pretty high threshold to meet before more comprehensive FEMA aid can be offered. While that is under consideration, we want other federal agencies to be ready to help meet housing and other recovery aid needed for storm victims," Domenici said. 
   "These tornadoes tore through dozens of homes, turning lives and livelihoods upside-down. We are aggressively searching for any and all federal assistance available to help these New Mexico families get through this difficult time and begin the process of rebuilding," Bingaman said. 
   Udall, who returned to Washington late Tuesday from visiting the areas affected by the tornadoes added, "The tremendous force with which these tornados struck the Eastside has left many families homeless and financially strapped. I am extremely impressed by the collective spirit the community has shown and the stellar performances of the local and state emergency management officials as we begin to pick up the pieces. I will continue to do everything possible to emphasize the urgent need for federal funds to start flowing our way so we can begin moving forward and rebuilding the area." 
   "Rural communities will not rapidly recover from large levels of damage without some help. This paperwork needs to be cleared and the federal agencies should be ready to go," Wilson said. "We need to get this help in motion and get our communities on the path to recovery." 
   "Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families who have suffered injury and lost precious belongings. Governor Richardson and the town of Clovis will have my full support in requests to FEMA and for recovery assistance. I ask FEMA to give the appropriate attention to all request made from the State of New Mexico and respond in a timely manner," Pearce said. 
   The delegation wants to be sure that applicable small business, housing and development programs funding is available to eligible storm victims. Much of this assistance could be in the form of low-interest loans. 
   For example, the U.S. Department of Agriculture could make rural housing repair and rehabilitation loans and grants available to residents in Curry, Roosevelt, and Quay counties. The funds are available to low-income households, as well as elderly individuals looking to modify their current place of residence for improvement, modernization, health, or disability purposes. http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rhs/sfh/brief_repairgrant.htm. 
   Last Friday's storms included 16 tornadoes that damaged homes, schools, businesses, roads, and power lines. One death has been attributed to the storm, and dozens of people were injured in the storms. Despite initial reports, current information indicates that hundreds of dairy cattle were also lost during the storms.
 
 