SEN. DOMENICI: SENATE RIGHT TO TAKE ON BORDER SECURITY & IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today addressed the pressing topic of border security and immigration in his remarks to the Kiwanis Club of Albuquerque, explaining that the nation will be better off addressing this major problem than ignoring it.  
   Domenici spoke about the highlights of the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act of 2007, which is currently being considered in the U.S. Senate. The debate will resume in June, when the Senate reconvenes after the Memorial Day recess. 
   "Border security and immigration are topics that all New Mexicans feel strongly about, and the Senate is working hard to address these issues in the most practicable and comprehensive way possible - starting with border security measures," said Domenici, who worked with key administration officials and members of the Senate to help craft the bipartisan agreement. 
   "I am committed to delivering New Mexicans better border security and better immigration laws and during the Senate debate I am working to improve the underlying bill. A priority component of this bill is that our borders must be secured before the immigration reforms can take effect," he said. 
   Domenici has authored provisions in the bill to improve infrastructure and technology at land ports and to hire 250 Deputy U.S. Marshals over five years to help guard and transport illegal immigrants. When the debate resumes in June, Domenici will introduce an amendment to increase federal judgeships in districts that are overwhelmed with immigration cases, including two new judges for New Mexico. 
   Domenici has also offered support to amendments offered by other members of the Senate including: 
   * An amendment offered by Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.) to require undocumented workers applying for the new Z Visa to pay back taxes. 
   * An amendment offered by Senator Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) that increases the criminal penalty for any illegal immigrant who has been denied entry or deported and attempts to reenter the United States. 
   * An amendment offered by Senator Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) to strengthen the border security trigger requirements in the bill, specifically: 20,000 Border Patrol agents; 300 miles of vehicle barriers along the Southwest border; 105 radar and camera towers along the U.S.-Mexico border; and 31,000 detention beds to end "catch and release" of illegal immigrants. 
   "I will continue to work for a comprehensive bill that puts border security first and denies blanket amnesty for undocumented workers. If the final bill holds true to these principles, I will support it," Domenici added. 
   The Kiwanis Club of Albuquerque is one of the first Kiwanis Clubs in the nation, and one of the largest chapters in the world. For over 90 years it has served the Albuquerque community by providing services to the needy and underprivileged.
 
 