SEN. DOMENICI: BORDER INCIDENT SHOWS NEED FOR GREATER DOMESTIC, INTERNATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a long-time leader of nonproliferation efforts, today said more must be done to ensure that the American homeland is secure from smuggled radiological materials at border crossings and ports, and stressed that the United States must work cooperatively with foreign nations and companies to interdict such materials at the source and before they ever reach this country. 
   Domenici took part in a Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Investigations hearing Tuesday to review United States efforts to deploy radiation detection equipment and prevent nuclear terrorism.
   The hearing also highlighted the release of three Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports that identified shortcomings in this effort, as well as the successful smuggling of radioactive material through two ports of entry on the Mexican and Canadian borders by tricking border agents with fake documentation. Although radiological portal monitors successfully detected the material and border agents followed procedures, falsified documentation was presented allowing the material through.
   Domenici confirmed that the successful smuggling investigation did not involve a New Mexico border crossing. There are radiological detectors at the Santa Teresa, Columbus, Antelope Wells and El Paso ports of entry. The U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency indicated that a system to validate documentation will be in place next month.
   "Our strategy for the past decade has been to identify and secure nuclear material at the source and before it crosses our borders. If we merely sit and wait to detect material at our border, it is already too late," Domenici said. "Clearly, more work needs to be done at all levels, from better training of our frontline border personnel and greater international cooperation for applying multiple layers of defense."
   Domenici, who crafted the U.S.-Russian agreement to down blend 500 metric tons of highly enriched uranium-- enough for 20,000 nuclear weapons -- into fuel for civilian nuclear reactors, also stressed that securing the American homeland will require a level of cooperation with foreign countries.
   "We must rely on other countries to cooperate with the United States in order to detect nuclear material before it enters our borders. Redundant systems must be deployed to overcome the influence of corruption and fraud and to ensure there are multiple checks on all nuclear detection equipment. In addition to securing material at its source, we must work with our international partners to deploy detection equipment at their borders and ports, in addition to our own," Domenici said.
   "Countries recognize the importance of trade and seek competitive market advantages. We should consider how we can implement a screening program that uses economic incentives to reward countries that screen and document cargo going through their ports," he said.
   The subcommittee will have a second hearing Thursday to focus on the security of the global supply chain. (10 a.m., Thursday, Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 342.) Links to the three GAO reports can be found at: http://hsgac.senate.gov/index.cfm?Fuseaction=Hearings.Detail&HearingID=335
 
 