SEN. DOMENICI, REP. TAUSCHER STRESS LAB MISSION REQUIREMENTS AMID BUDGET UNCERTAINTIES
  Following classified briefings at Los Alamos National Laboratory, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici (R-N.M.) and Congresswoman Ellen O. Tauscher (D-Calif.) today stressed the ongoing mission requirements within the nation's nuclear weapons complex, even in the face of change and budget uncertainties. 
   Domenici joined a contingent of lawmakers, led by Tauscher, from the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces that received briefings at Sandia National Laboratories Tuesday and LANL today. NNSA Administrator, Tom D'Agostino, who has management and oversight responsibilities for the national security laboratories also actively participated in the member briefings.  
   Tauscher chairs the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, and Domenici is the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   The LANL visit served to underscore the national security mission requirements carried out at nuclear weapons laboratories, amid ongoing difficulties in setting FY2008 funding levels for the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) and lab facilities. 
   "Our lab meetings helped demonstrate that they carry out critical national security missions that cannot be jeopardized by budget battles in Congress. Yes, our labs face changes, but we have to be sure that the funding decisions don't compromise this work," Domenici said. "The CMR is a case in point. It is responsible for a critical component of ensuring the existing safety and reliability of our stockpile, but the current facility is unsafe. It has to be replaced." 
   "The NNSA is moving toward a smaller, more modern and cost-effective complex. The leaner complex will support a smaller nuclear arsenal but also respond to the nation's great current and future scientific challenges," Tauscher said. "One thing that will not change during this transition is the need for our national security laboratories to be fully capable of executing their stockpile stewardship mission, in both human and physical terms." 
   Funding levels for the CMR-R is just one of the issues being debated as House and Senate committees work to complete FY2008 appropriations and authorizing bills related to defense work carried out by Sandia, Los Alamos and Lawrence Livermore national labs. CMR currently supports not only pit manufacturing and certification, but the space program, a nonproliferation program including characterization and pit disassembly and nuclear fuels research and development important to GNEP. Safety authorization on the existing 60-year-old facility expires in 2010. 
   "Funding for the facility is uncertain, but with or without upgrades, CMR mission requirements will not disappear. In fact, the stockpile stewardship work conducted in CMR--and planned for the CMR-R--will only become more critical, regardless of whether the NNSA moves forward with the Reliable Replacement Warhead (RRW) program or not," Tauscher said. 
   "While I've never experienced a more difficult budget situation with the labs, I am hopeful we can reach an agreeable resolution to funding CMR-R and other lab programs that are necessary for us to meet our national security challenges," Domenici said. "We need to make the necessary investments in safe, secure workplace to support the national security mission responsibilities that are fundamental to the safety and reliability of our nuclear deterrent." 
   Other Strategic Forces Subcommittee members attending the Sandia and LANL briefings included Terry Everett (R-Ala.), Mac Thornberry (R-Texas), and Michael Turner (R-Ohio).
 
 