SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS MEASURE TO PROMOTE OVERSEAS TRAVEL TO U.S., BOOST NEW MEXICO TOURISM
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced his support of bipartisan legislation to put in place federal offices, funds and security measures to promote international travel to the United States.  
   Domenici, while meeting with representatives of the New Mexico Department of Tourism on Thursday, announced he will cosponsor the Travel Promotion Act of 2007 (S.1661), a measure introduced by Senator Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.) to boost declining international travel to the United States. 
   The bill would create a Travel Promotion Office in the Department of Commerce and establish a Travel Promotion account under the Department of Treasury. 
   "U.S. travelers are drawn to destinations across New Mexico for their unique culture and beautiful landscape. Tourism is an industry of tremendous importance to our state," said Domenici. 
   "The Travel Promotion Act would promote tourism in New Mexico, as well as other states, to the international community and help introduce the Land of Enchantment and all it has to offer to travelers from around the globe," he said. 
   Tourism brings about $5.0 billion into New Mexico each year. It is the second largest industry in New Mexico, behind oil and gas. The travel and tourism industry is also the state's largest private sector employer with a workforce estimated to be 80,000 strong. 
   Legislation was introduced in response to estimates that travel to the U.S. has fallen by nearly 20 percent since 2001. The bill would designate a Commerce Department Office of Travel Promotion to provide information to an international audience promoting travel to the U.S., and correct inaccuracies and dispel misperceptions regarding U.S. travel policy. 
   The Department of Treasury would also administer a Travel Promotion Account funded by traveler Visa fees and private industry matching funds. 
   The legislation would seek to address the impact tightened security has had on international travel by authorizing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to put in a place an automated electronic travel system that would determine, in advance of travel, the eligibility of an alien to enter the U.S. DHS would also be required to establish model ports-of-entry programs at 20 international airports to promote business and tourist travel while improving security.
 
 