SEN. DOMENICI COMMENTS ON NEW MEXICO SUPREME COURT DECISION ON VOTER ID REQUIREMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today issued the following statement regarding the New Mexico Supreme Court decision to uphold the Secretary of State's interpretation of a state law regarding voter identification requirements.  
   While the state law stipulates that voter identification is required for registrations "not submitted in person by the applicant," the New Mexico court ruled to uphold an interpretation that voter identification will be required only for individuals who registered by mail and not those who were registered through a third party. 
   "I am not surprised, but still profoundly disappointed in the court's ruling. In essence, its interpretation of registering 'in person' seems really to mean registering to vote with a person, any person. This is a remarkable interpretation of a clear-cut statute. As it stands now, there will be few if any checks at the polls this fall to ensure that a voter is who they say they are. 
   "Requiring an ID is common practice in our society, especially after 9/11. It is not an infringement on anyone's ability to vote. I remain concerned about the prospect of voter fraud this fall, and believe it is vitally important that county clerks and their poll workers be vigilant as voting commences in New Mexico." 
   Domenici said he continues to search for a legislative course for possibly moving his Voter Registration Clarification Act (S.2818), which would amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA) by extending the existing federal identification requirements to individuals who have not registered in person with their authorized government entity. In addition, it would enhance criminal penalties for individuals who knowingly and fraudulently register 10 or more persons. 
   For the record, the New Mexico statute says: 
   N.M. Stat. Ann. ? 1-4-5.1 (2004) 
   (4) a statement informing the applicant that: 
   (a) if the form is not submitted in person by the applicant and the applicant is registering for the first time in New Mexico, the applicant must submit with the form a copy of a current and valid photo identification, utility bill, bank statement, government check, paycheck or other government document that shows the name and address of the applicant; and 
   (b) if the applicant does not submit the required identification, he will be required to do so when he votes in person or absentee.
 
 