SEN. DOMENICI HELPS BREAK GROUND FOR NATIONAL ENRICHMENT FACILITY IN NEW MEXICO
  With the heave of a shovel, Sen. Pete Domenici today helped move a little earth to launch construction on the National Enrichment Facility (NEF)--one of the largest construction projects ever in southeast New Mexico that he believes will help enliven the resurgence of nuclear energy in the United States. 
   Domenici, with state and local officials, today joined representatives from Louisiana Energy Services to begin construction on a $1.5 billion uranium enrichment facility that will provide fuel for existing and planned nuclear power plants in the United States. The facility is expected to be fully operational in 2013, with employment expected to reach 1,000 workers during peak construction. Uranium enrichment could begin in 2009 and the plant will have a permanent workforce of about 300 employees.  
   "The National Enrichment Facility, New Mexico and everyone here today are about to make history in our country. I have been talking over the last several years about the coming of the 'Nuclear Renaissance' in commercial nuclear energy in America. I am delighted and proud that the renaissance is in New Mexico," Domenici said. "I am doubly excited that as part of this renaissance, Lea County and southeast New Mexico will gain a powerful new pillar for its economy. The ramifications, I believe will be beneficial on so many levels." 
   "The uranium enrichment technology developed by Urenco has been in use for over 30 years and has a terrific safety and reliability record. The NEF will provide a sustainable domestic supply of fuel for our nations nuclear power plants and further contribute to weaning us off of foreign energy supplies and encouraging competition within the U.S. market," he said. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee (NRC), was a leading author of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 that set in place incentives for expanding the development of modern nuclear power plants in the United States. The industry now produces about 20 percent of the energy consumed by Americans. Since enactment of the law, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has stated that it is planning to receive license applications to build as many as 25 new nuclear power plants in the near future. 
   "In 1997, while speaking to an audience at Harvard University I spoke of the need for a new nuclear paradigm in America. Back then I said that, 'while some may continue to lament that the nuclear genie is out of his proverbial bottle, I'm ready to focus on harnessing that genie as effectively and fully as possible, for the largest set of benefits for our citizens.' That Genie is out of the bottle with all its wonders for the future and is here with us today," Domenici said. 
   Domenici commended the people of Lea County for their commitment to the NEF, and noted the cooperative efforts of the congressional delegation and state government to make New Mexico a welcoming host for the enrichment facility. 
   Following discussions with Domenici in May, Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman took action to advance the project by using a so-called Part 810 Waiver to allow LES and Urenco in Europe to confer on materials and data needed to license and design the NEF. The Part 810 Waiver was necessary to negate a U.S. prohibition against LES contacting URENCO about material, data and technology it transferred to LES on the New Mexico project. In July, the NRC issued a license for the plant.
 
 