SEN. DOMENICI CELEBRATES LEAP YEAR CAPITAL - ANTHONY, N.M.
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today recognized Anthony, N.M.-the Leap Year Capital World-and its quadrennial birthday festivities in honor of those born on Feb. 29. 
   Every four years, "leap year babies" converge on the small town of Anthony for its Worldwide Leap Year Festival. This year's celebration, underway Feb. 28 - March 2 includes a parade, golf tournament, and birthday cake. Domenici honored the town and its celebration in a statement submitted to the Congressional Record.
   "A leap year only occurs once every four years, and is something to be celebrated. Anthony has taken this unique day and made it a staple celebration for their community. I want to commend the citizens of Anthony, and the creative way they promote their city. I wish them much success for this year's celebration," said Domenici. 
   The following remarks were printed in their entirety in the Congressional Record:
   "Mr. President, I want to recognize Anthony, New Mexico today for being the Leap Year Capital of the World. A leap year only occurs once every four years, and is something to be celebrated. Anthony has taken this unique day and made it a staple celebration for their community.
   "Twenty years ago in Anthony, two neighbors who shared a common birthday, February 29, decided they should find other people with the same unique situation and have a giant birthday party; after all, it only happens once every four years. Mary Ann Brown and Birdie Lewis created the Worldwide Leap Year Birthday Club which now has almost 500 members. Because of the popularity of the birthday club, they have also created the Worldwide Leap Year Anniversary Club for couples who celebrate their anniversaries on this special day. 
   "The Anthony Chamber of Commerce has planned several events this year for those with leap year birthdays and anniversaries, and also for those with birthdays on the other 365 days of the year. The Worldwide Leap Year Festival will be kicked off with a parade, and then those attending will enjoy a Leap Year Birthday Dinner complete with birthday cake. Also in attendance will be Josephine Concho Abeita, a true New Mexico native, born in 1908, four years before New Mexico was even a state. Ms. Abeita will celebrate her 100th birthday and her 25th actual leap year birthday. I want to commend the citizens of Anthony, and the creative way they have designed to promote their city. I wish them much success for this year's celebration. 
   "Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that a copy of my statement appear in the Record in its entirety."
 
 