SEN. DOMENICI SAYS PASS STIMULUS PLAN QUICKLY, THEN TURN TO MAJOR BUDGET PROBLEMS FACING U.S.
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today warned of the economic hardships facing the United States if Congress does not act to address the most pressing budget problems, including a weakened dollar and expanding entitlement program costs.  
   Domenici today took part in a Senate Budget Committee hearing on the country's long-term budget outlook with David M. Walker, comptroller general, Government Accountability Office (GAO) testifying. 
   Domenici, former Senate Budget Committee chairman, agreed with Walker that Congress should send President Bush an economic stimulus package that is "timely, targeted and temporary" as soon as possible. 
   "We can question whether a $150 billion stimulus can affect a $13 trillion economy. But I think if we don't fool around, pass it quickly and match it with the Federal Reserve Board's actions, it could send a strong signal to the American people and the world that we're serious about heading off a serious economic downturn," Domenici said. "We need to do something and we need to do it now." 
   The Senate Finance Committee this week is expected to offer a $156 billion stimulus plan in place of a $150 billion rebate package crafted by the White House with leaders in the House of Representatives. 
   In the long term, Domenici and Walker agreed that the weakened American dollar, national debt and exploding entitlement spending pose serious economic problems for the United States. Domenici encouraged Walker to support legislation to force Congress to establish a process for reforming entitlement programs, including Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. 
   "The weakened dollar is a serious problem, and we simply cannot continue to put off addressing entitlement spending. We need a new process. We have legislation introduced, but we need to act on it. I'm ready to do that, whether it's my bill, another plan or a combination of plans," Domenici said. 
   Domenici and Senator Dianne Feinstein last January introduced the Social Security and Medicare Solvency Commission Act (S.355) to create a permanent, 15-member commission to make recommendations on how best to save Social Security and Medicare. The legislation includes provisions requiring Congress to act on commission recommendations within a fixed timeframe. Budget Chairman and ranking member Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) and Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) have also introduced a similar bill. 
   Mandatory spending, including entitlement programs, is projected to grow faster than the economy as a whole, which CBO predicts will grow only 1.5 percent in 2008. Under the assumptions of CBO's baseline, spending for Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security will together equal nearly 10.8 percent of GDP in 2018, compared with 8.9 percent this year. 
   The annual growth rate of Social Security spending is expected to increase from about 4.3 percent of GDP in 2008 to 4.9 percent of GDP by 2018. 
   In addition, because the cost of health care will likely continue to rise rapidly, spending for Medicare and Medicaid is projected to grow even faster--in the range of 7 percent of GDP to 9 percent of GDP annually.
 
 