SEN. DOMENICI JOINS SENATE TO PASS GUN LIABILITY MEASURE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined the Senate to approve legislation he cosponsored that clarifies the liability firearms and ammunition manufacturers, dealers and importers can face if their products are used in the commission of a crime.  
   The Senate approved the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (S.397) on a 65-31 vote. The bill would protect gun manufacturers and sellers from frivolous lawsuits seeking to hold them liable for the criminal acts of third parties beyond their control. 
   "This is a common sense measure that simply holds that gun manufactures should not be responsible for the misuse of their products by others. Unfortunately, there have been several lawsuits filed by cities and counties that attempt to punish manufactures for the actions of criminals. This bill will ensure that these frivolous lawsuits do not proceed, and that individuals are held responsible for their actions," Domenici said. 
   "This is a personal responsibility issue. There is no question that criminals who misuse guns should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. But they are the ones that are liable, not the companies that make guns. Going after gun manufacturers for firearm crimes is like holding car companies responsible for bad driving," he said. 
   The legislation would prohibit certain civil and administrative proceedings to be filed against manufacturers and sellers if the lawsuits stem from the unlawful use of a firearm or ammunition. Exceptions to the prohibition are created for certain lawsuits, including those alleging a breach of contract or warranty relating to the purchase of a firearm, a manufacturing defect, or that a seller negligently entrusted a person with a firearm. 
   Domenici noted that on Feb. 10 a California state appellate court upheld the dismissal of a lawsuit brought by the cities of Los Angeles, San Francisco, Berkley and others that attempted to hold dozens of gun manufacturers responsible for firearms getting into hands of criminals.
 
 