SEN. DOMENICI JOINS SENATE TO IMPROVE LOBBYING REFORM MEASURES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined the Senate to approve bipartisan legislation which will bring significant reforms to the way that Congress operates. 
   The Senate today passed the Lobbying Transparency and Accountability Act of 2006 (S.2349), which reforms the earmarking process and strengthens disclosure of lobbyist and congressional activities to the public. As a member of the Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee, Domenici was involved in drafting the legislation passed by the Senate.
   "Unfortunately, the reputation of Congress in the eyes of the public today is not very good. My hope is that this legislation will bring about changes that will make people feel more comfortable about their government. Bringing openness and transparency to the legislative process cuts down on the potential for abuse and misunderstanding," Domenici said.
   The bill passed by the Senate will allow for earmarked projects added during House-Senate conference negotiations to be subject to a 60 vote point of order, meaning that three-fifths of Congress must agree that the earmarked project is a good use of taxpayer dollars.
   The bill also strengthens disclosure requirements for Senators. In the case of travel, Senators would need to receive prior approval for any trip sponsored by a third party from the Ethics Committee, and would need to make travel information available on their website.
   Lobbyists would also need to file more frequent disclosure reports, which would then be made available to the public. Under the provisions of the bill, lobbyists would have to disclose political contributions they make, travel expenses, and previous employment.
   "It is important that the public have access to disclosure information about lobbyists. This bill will greatly strengthen disclosure requirements for both lobbyists and members of Congress, which is a step in the right direction," Domenici said.
   The bill will require mandatory ethics training for Senators and staffers to ensure compliance with rules.
 
 