SEN. DOMENICI CELEBRATES SUCCESS OF RIO GRANDE MINNOWO PROJECT
  Sen. Pete Domenici stood on the banks of the Rio Grande today to mark the millionth silvery minnow released as part of a cooperative effort to save the endangered fish and restore and preserve the river's ecological habitat.  
   Domenici spoke at the event, which celebrated the millionth silvery minnow released into the Rio Grande since 2002 under the Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Act Collaborative Program. He was joined by fellow members of New Mexico's congressional delegation, as well as representatives of the program's state, federal, city, and pueblo signatories. As ranking member and former chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici has worked over almost a decade to direct federal funds to assist collaborative minnow recovery activities. "Today marks an important milestone in our efforts to protect this important species," said Domenici. "I am proud to have been a part of this collective effort to ensure its preservation and successful reproduction. In the process, we have become a model for the rest of the nation to follow when protecting the mutual interests of both humans and endangered species." 
   The Endangered Species Act Collaborative Program was created by Domenici in 2000. Since then, he has also secured about $60 million for silvery minnow restoration activities, including $11 million for FY2007. These resources have supported joint federal, state, pueblo, and local participation in silvery minnow recovery projects, including the breeding of captive minnows at the Albuquerque zoo and Dexter fish hatchery. 
   "The recovery of the minnow is just one of many steps necessary to ensure the health of the Rio Grande's ecological environment," Domenici continued. "I continue to do all I can to find federal resources necessary to be persistent in this work." 
   Last month, Domenici announced the start of a new refugia in Los Lunas that will breed minnows to be introduced further downstream in Big Bend, Texas. The first such refugia will be housed at the Albuquerque Biopark and should be finished in December. Both facilities were required under the 2003 Biological Opinion for the Rio Grande Silvery Minnow which was formulated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. For FY2007, the Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Act Collaborative Program is funded within $27.6 million in Bureau of Reclamation funding provided for the Middle Rio Grande Project.
 
 