SEN. DOMENICI: U.S. AIR FORCE WANTS CANNON FUTURE DECIDED BY SUMMER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today was told by Air Force officials that the Defense Department, including Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, wants the fate of Cannon Air Force Base decided this year, ideally as early as June or July. 
   Domenici addressed the Cannon situation during a Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing to review the proposed $130.4 billion budget for the U.S. Air Force in FY2007. Air Force Secretary Michael M. Wynne and Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Michael Moseley testified at the hearing.
   "I am very pleased with Secretary Wynne and General Moseley's apparent readiness to culminate the search for a new mission at Cannon, and that Secretary Rumsfeld is actively following this situation," Domenici said. "We all realize that Cannon will not be the base it was, but I am hopeful it will have a broader mission that fits with expanded joint operations. In the long run, the base will be better positioned to benefit the Air Force and the Clovis area."
   Wynne indicated to Domenici that the Air Force conducted a useful workshop Tuesday on Cannon's future for interested military and federal agencies with the intent of "identifying maximum operations for the base." Both Wynne and Moseley indicated that community leaders have been very helpful in promoting the entire region as part of the mission search process.
   Wynne said the Air Force goal is to resolve the Cannon mission by summer or at least by year's end if the bureaucratic process slows progress.
   During today's hearing, Domenici also discussed with the Air Force officials the value of the unfettered air space available in New Mexico to the Air Force and other services. Domenici has been a proponent of the New Mexico Training Range Initiative in eastern New Mexico, and is also actively promoting the joint military exercise capabilities between Holloman Air Force Base, White Sand Missile Range, and the Army's Fort Bliss installation at El Paso.
   Wynne said the New Mexico ranges cannot be duplicated and would be utilized as Fort Bliss becomes home for field testing of the Army's Future Combat System. The vast expansion of Fort Bliss is a result of the 2005 Base Closure and Realignment process.
 
 