SEN. DOMENICI WANTS WORKABLE, REALISTIC IMMIGRATION REFORM PACKAGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici of New Mexico today helped open formal Senate debate on border security and immigration reform legislation with a call for his colleagues to strive for a workable and realistic approach to protecting the homeland and dealing with millions of illegal immigrants already in the United States. 
   Addressing the Senate, Domenici advocated finding the "middle ground" between those who call for mass deportation of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States and those who want amnesty or an automatic path to citizenship for them.
   "I think we should reach for a workable, realistic middle ground on illegal immigration. We need a bill that stops illegal passages into the United States. But we also need a policy that recognizes the contributions made to our economy and society by undocumented workers who have been here for a long period, and allow them to do so for a fixed amount of time," Domenici said.
   Domenici, the son of Italian immigrants who represents a state with a common border with Mexico, has introduced bills dealing with border security (S.2049) and immigration reform (S.2326).
   The Senate is using the Securing America's Borders Act (S.2454), introduced by Majority Leader Bill Frist, as the legislative vehicle for the border security/immigration issue. Domenici said he expects to be active in the debate and may offer amendments to improve the Senate package. The Senate debate is expected to extend through next week.
   "Security along our international borders is imperative, without which any immigration reform will be futile. I often hear troubling stories about the problems lax borders security efforts cause for my constituents. Clearly, we must do more to secure our borders," said Domenici, who also advocated improved guest worker policies before tackling the contentious issue of undocumented workers.
   "There aren't any easy answers to what to do with millions of undocumented workers who live and work in America today. As part of this debate, we need to be clear that we are talking about addressing workers--contributing members of society," Domenici said.
   "When we consider their impact on our society, I think we should give many of the undocumented workers here today an opportunity to legalize their status as guest workers," he continued. "I also think it makes sense to create a special rule for undocumented aliens who have been here for a long time and have established roots in their community."
   Domenici outlined information compiled by Los Alamos National Laboratory on the economic impact of undocumented workers in the United States. LANL estimates that these workers spent 11.5 billion hours at work in 2005, and accounted for $148 billion in consumption expenditures and $36 billion in federal tax receipts.
   The LANL review also estimated that at all levels of government spending, undocumented persons accounted for $7.3 billion in law enforcement spending, $11 billion in health care expenditures, and $8 billion in education costs--in total almost $10 billion less than what they are estimated to have paid in federal taxes last year.
   "I believe we must be fair to these people who are adding to America's prosperity, and I think there is a compromise that this body can reach on this point," Domenici said.
 
 