SENS. DOMENICI, KENNEDY, SMITH, HARKIN ANNOUNCED SENATE CAUCUS ON MENTAL HEALTH REFORM
  Sens. Pete V. Domenici (R-NM), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Gordon Smith (R-OR) and Tom Harkin (D-IA) today announced the establishment of a Senate Caucus on Mental Health Reform.
   The Caucus, intended to increase awareness of mental health issues in the Senate, was announced as part of a meeting of former members of the President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health. The reconvening is being sponsored by the Campaign for Mental Health Reform, a coalition of 16 national mental health organizations. 
   "I want to use this new forum to increase the knowledge and understanding among Senators of the importance of making mental health a national priority. As we move beyond the stigma of mental illnesses, early access, recovery and quality in mental health services must become the hallmarks of our nation's mental health system," Domenici said.
   Senator Kennedy said, "the Senate Mental Health Caucus will work in a bipartisan way to educate the Congress on the importance of addressing mental health as a national priority. No one is exempt from the human toll of mental illness, and it is time to end the discrimination and stigma that millions of Americans face each day.
   In particular, Senator Smith noted that one example of the Caucus' efforts will be to "help those of us who care deeply about mental health to educate our colleagues about the devastating impact of mental illness and the vital importance of access to mental health coverage for all Americans."
   Senator Harkin noted the "importance of raising awareness in order to end discrimination against millions of Americans with mental health disabilities and the significance of prevention and early intervention during childhood, before there are consequences in terms of disrupted lives and disability."
   In July 2003, the President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health released its groundbreaking report entitled "Achieving the Promise: Transforming Mental Health Care in America." The Commission found the U.S. mental health system "fragmented and in disarray, lead[ing] to unnecessary and costly disability, homelessness, school failure and incarceration."
   The Commission called for a "fundamental transformation" of the mental health system in which: Americans understand that mental health is essential to overall health; mental health is consumer and family driven; disparities in mental health services are eliminated; early mental health screening, assessment, and referral to services are common practice; excellent mental health care is delivered and research is accelerated; and technology is used to access mental health care and information.
   Yet, in the first two years following release of the Commission's report:
   * 63,000 Americans died by suicide-more than by homicide;
   * More than 300,000 Americans with mental illnesses were incarcerated instead of treated;
   * 25,000 families relinquished custody of their children due to inadequate mental health services; and
   * The American economy lost $150 billion in productivity due to unaddressed mental health needs.
   In all, more than 20 million adults and children have mental illnesses. But tragically, one out of two does not receive treatment due to lack of access to effective mental health services, as well as the lingering stigma associated with mental illness.
   People can and do recover from serious mental illnesses when they receive appropriate treatment. The key is to make access to effective treatment and recovery national priorities.
   The 16 organizations that comprise the Campaign for Mental Health Reform joined together in 2003 to educate policymakers, the public and the media about the vital goals established by the New Freedom Commission.
   The Campaign's members are: American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, American Psychiatric Association, American Psychological Association, CHADD - Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance (DBSA), Federation of Families for Children's Mental Health (FFCMH), Judge David L. Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI), National Association of County Behavioral Health and Developmental Disability Directors (NACBHD), National Association of State Mental Health Program Directors (NASMHPD), National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare (NCCBH), National Empowerment Center (NEC), National Mental Health Association (NMHA), National Mental Health Consumers Self-Help Clearinghouse, Suicide Prevention Action Network USA (SPAN USA), and United States Psychiatric Rehabilitation Association (USPRA).
   Contact: Charles Konigsberg, 202/587-2984.
 
 