SEN. DOMENICI LIKE PROGRESS ON GLOBAL NUCLEAR ENERGY PARTNERSHIP INITIATIVE WITH EDDY/LEA & ROSWELL SITES IN RUNNING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded an announcement by the U.S. Department of Energy that it is moving forward with plans to select suitable sites for spent fuel recycling as part of its Global Nuclear Energy Partnership (GNEP), including two potential locations in New Mexico.  
   Domenici, who chairs the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee with funding jurisdiction over DOE programs, has been a major proponent of the GNEP program. DOE today announced that 11 sites will receive up to $16 million to conduct studies to determine their suitability to house a fuel recycling facility. Among the sites selected were those proposed by the Eddy/Lea Energy Alliance in Hobbs and EnergySolutions, LLC in Roswell. 
   The funds awarded by DOE will be used to perform detailed studies related to hosting one or both of the Consolidated Fuel Treatment Center and the Advanced Burner Reactor. Domenici included $20 million for site studies in the FY2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. 
   "I have long believed that nuclear energy must be a major part of the long term solution to our nation's energy needs. As we proceed with a nuclear energy strategy, we must include careful consideration of how to address waste. GNEP will provide us with a mid-term solution which will give us a way to reuse the energy not consumed in spent fuel and reduce the toxicity of the material that needs permanent disposal in Yucca Mountain," Domenici said. 
   "I'm particularly pleased to see two New Mexico sites among the 11 that will be studied. Our state is a leader in energy production, and our national labs and others are developing the best technology that will help solve our problems. Placing a facility in New Mexico would make a lot of sense and is a natural partner for our facilities in our state, including the new WIPP plant near Carlsbad," he said. 
   Domenici has advocated a three tiered policy for dealing with short, middle- and long-term strategies for waste from nuclear power. 
   The Senator has said that the federal government must honor its obligation to take control of waste stored at more than 60 sites around the country until a spent fuel recycling facility or Yucca Mountain is ready. 
   For more information on GNEP, visit www.gnep.gov.
 
 