SEN. DOMENICI HONORS NEW MEXICO MINORITY BUSINESS AWARD WINNERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today saluted 10 minority-owned businesses that have won Minority Enterprise Development Week awards, pointing to them as an integral ingredient to New Mexico's effort to expand its economy and grow jobs.  
   Domenici joined Commerce Secretary Don Evans, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, and members of the New Mexico Business Association to honor the award-winning businesses from Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Las Cruces and Los Alamos. U.S. Small Business Administrator Hector Barreto attended the event. 
   In his remarks, Domenici highlighted the economy's strong growth and the important role small businesses have had in creating more than 40,000 new jobs in New Mexico in almost four years. Domenici, through his membership on the Senate Appropriations Committee and the subcommittee that funds the Commerce Department, has been a leading advocate for federal programs that aimed at helping minority and women-owned small businesses succeed. 
   "I'm very proud of the outstanding small businesses being honored today. Owning a small business is hard work and often fraught with failure. But there is nothing more rewarding than seeing a small business, particularly one owned by a minority or woman, succeed and grow. Small businesses truly are the foundation of our economy, and throughout my career I've done all I can to give them a boost, from programs like Women's Business Centers to keeping the tax burden low for small business owners," Domenici said. 
   "I'm also proud of the Bush Administration's economic record. Homeownership is at an all-time high, at 69 percent, and for the first time, more than half of all minorities own their own home. We've added 1.7 million new jobs in the past year, and 41,900 in New Mexico since George W. Bush became President. 
   "In addition, take home pay increased by 3.6 percent last year, higher than the averages over the last two decades. Considering the recession that Bush inherited, the terrorist attacks, and corporate scandals, those are remarkable achievements," Domenici continued. 
   New Mexico received five national Minority Enterprise Development Awards for 2004. Among those awarded were Desert Paper and Envelope of Albuquerque for National Minority Manufacturer of the Year, MV Industries of Albuquerque for National Minority Construction Firm of the Year, and Wildflower International of Santa Fe for Regional Minority Supplier/Distributor of the Year. 
   A number of statewide awards were also presented, including a New Mexico Graduate Firm of the Year award to Fiore Industries of Albuquerque and a Minority Business Advocate of the Year award to Ken Easley of Albuquerque-based Flintco. 
   Minority Enterprise Development Week was proclaimed by President Bush to recognize outstanding minority businesses, minority business buyers and advocates for their personal achievements and contributions.
 
 