SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES HUD APPROVAL OF FINANCING PACKAGE FOR $217 MILLION UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO HOSPITAL EXPANSION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that a financing package has been approved for the $217 million construction of a new University of New Mexico Hospital (UNMH) expansion project, a deal that clears the way for the massive project to proceed.  
   The package has been approved by the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Federal Housing Administration (FHA). The $217 million package will finance the construction and renovation project at UNMH, with the mortgage insurance commitment issued under Section 242 of the National Housing Act covering $183 million of the project. The favorable terms of the deal will save the hospital more than $43 million in interest payments over the life of the loan.
   "This is an exciting and important development, representing a guarantee from the federal government to back this project. It gives UNMH the impetus to move forward with this critical expansion and at the same time save an incredible amount of money over the term of this agreement," Domenici said. "This project will provide hundreds of construction jobs, and ultimately improve the University of New Mexico Hospital's status as the state's leading trauma, pediatric and primary care facility in the state." 
   In May, Domenici personally interceded with Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson and Dr. Charles Grim, the Director of the Indian Health Service (IHS) to resolve a contract agreement that threatened the construction project. Domenici's intervention helped gain the necessary IHS approval needed to allow UNMH to find the best financing package for the project.
   The FHA financing agreement will allow UNMH to build an entirely new six-story, 480,000 square foot expansion. The new space will provide room for 68 new adult and pediatric beds, 232 replacement beds, and expanded emergency departments for adults and pediatric patients.
   UNMH is the largest integrated healthcare treatment and education complex in New Mexico, serving as the primary healthcare facility for indigent patients. Demand at the hospital is so high that UNMH often must divert patients, making the need for additional space critical.
   Separately, Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has also been a major supporter of plans to build a new UNM Health Sciences Education Building. In April, he submitted a formal request for an additional $7 million to support the Health Sciences Center Education Building construction project. Domenici had already secured $6.3 million in FY2004, and $2 million in FY2003 for the facility, which will replace a 30 year-old building.
 
 