CHARACTER COUNTS KIDS TO SOAR AT ABQ BALLOON FIESTA WITH NORTHOP GRUMMAN
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised defense industry giant Northrop Grumman for again providing area youngsters from Character Counts programs with a unique field trip to the 2004 Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta, Oct. 7-8.  
   Elementary students involved with the Albuquerque YMCA and the Boys and Girls Clubs of Albuquerque and Rio Rancho get tethered hot air balloon rides at 11 a.m. each day, weather permitting. Northrop Grumman provides the rides with the company's craft, "Cricket's Dream", piloted by Steve Early. This is the fourth year in a row that Northrop Grumman has hosted Character Counts students.
   The students and their chaperones will also special guests for the day at the Balloon Fiesta Media Tent, and lunch and drinks are provided at no cost by Meals on Wheels and the balloon fiesta officials.
   "This is a once in a lifetime adventure for some of these youngsters," Domenici said. "Northrop Grumman's sponsorship of these field trips is a great illustration of responsible and caring business behavior." 
   "There is no greater influence on a young person than the behavior of adults. This balloon fiesta experience is a great way for these kids to link up with business leaders who understand the importance of character building by example." 
   Domenici is one of the founders of Character Counts, both in New Mexico and nationally. The character education initiative is used in almost every classroom in New Mexico. Many youth groups and businesses throughout the state base their activities on the six pillars of good character-Respect, Responsibility, Trustworthiness, Citizenship, Fairness and Caring. 
   Domenici highlighted the Balloon Fiesta and the Northrop Grumman Character Counts sponsorship in a statement for the Congressional Record Tuesday. 
   Information on the launch sites Oct. 7-8 will be available each morning by calling Lisa Breeden of Domenici's Albuquerque office.
 
 