SEN. DOMENICI, REP. PEARCE ANNOUNCE DOE GRANT TO CARLSBAD
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Rep. Steve Pearce today announced the Department of Energy is awarding $600,000 to the Carlsbad Environmental Monitoring and Research Center (CEMRC) for independent environmental testing and monitoring of the DOE's WIPP facility.  
   The city of Carlsbad needs $100,000 per month for the environmental monitoring center to ensure the WIPP facility is safe. CEMRC is an independent oversight and monitoring laboratory funded through DOE which replaced EEG. The monitoring will be done by CEMRC until the DOE competitively awards the independent oversight monitoring contract, which is expected in August 2005. 
   Pearce met with Energy Secretary Spence Abraham on Tuesday of this week and expressed his strong support for DOE providing the money necessary for CEMRC to continue monitoring the WIPP site and ensuring the safety of Carlsbad and New Mexico residents. 
   "I'm extremely pleased that after my meeting with Secretary Abraham yesterday he recognized the need and acted so quickly to ensure the people of Carlsbad have the monitoring and oversight promised," Pearce said. 
   "This award is a good indication that DOE is serious about independent monitors at WIPP. As the transition is made away from the previous contract, this funding will ensure that this mission is carried out until a new provider is found," said Domenici, who chairs the Senate subcommittee that funds WIPP and related activities. 
   "I am very pleased there will be no disruption to the workforce and WIPP can operate as normal," he said. 
   Pearce added, "This money will ensure the safety and efficacy of WIPP, and is the reason the residents of Carlsbad feel so secure with WIPP. They know independent oversight and monitoring is important." 
   The money is needed to fill the gap between FY04 funding which runs out September 30, 2004 and when the contract is awarded. The contract for the monitoring to replace the old EEG mission is for $1.8 million per year.
 
 