COMMITTEE APPROVES SENS. DOMENICI-BINGAMAN LANGUAGE TO CLARIFY CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS ON PUEBLO LANDS
  Legislation authored by Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman to clarify prosecutorial jurisdiction on pueblo lands has advanced in the Senate, improving chances that Congress will act to remove the possibility of 'prosecution-free zones' in New Mexico.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee that today approved the Native American Technical Corrections Act (S.2843), which includes Indian Country prosecution provisions he and Bingaman crafted in consultation with pueblo leaders, the Office of the U.S. Attorney and others. 
   The legislation, which amends the Indian Pueblo Land Act of 1924, pertains to serious criminal acts within the exterior boundaries of a pueblo. The legislation clarifies when a crime should be prosecuted in federal, tribal or state court. Recent federal and state criminal cases have left open the question of who prosecutes serious crimes committed on private lands within Indian Country. 
   "The prospect of having lands where anyone could commit a heinous crime and not be prosecuted for it was untenable, and is something that needs fixing. This language clearly outlines who is responsible for trying such cases. We've taken care to honor tribal sovereignty while making sure that there aren't prosecution-free zones in our state," Domenici said. "This legislation culminates a lot of work among the New Mexico delegation, the pueblos, and the state. I appreciate all the work that went into getting this resolved." 
   "This measure makes clear who will prosecute crimes in Indian Country and ensures no offenses fall through the cracks. I appreciate the effort New Mexico pueblos put into resolving this important question," Bingaman said. "This is an issue that will require the continuing attention of all parties to avoid future problems, but I am pleased we were able to arrive at this solution." 
   The language, included in Section 5 of S.2843, recognizes the pueblos' inherent power over certain criminal offenses committed by a member of the pueblo or another federally-recognized Indian tribe or entity. Federal prosecution would occur for serious criminal acts - as described in chapter 53 of title 18, U.S. Code*. The state of New Mexico retains jurisdiction over offenses not covered under federal jurisdiction. 
   The Native American Technical Corrections Act now goes to the full Senate for consideration, and from there to the House of Representatives. Domenici and Bingaman are optimistic that the bill will move through Congress this year, but are uncertain as to whether final passage will occur before the House and Senate leave for the fall elections. 
   * (a) Any Indian who commits against the person or property of another Indian or other person any of the following offenses, namely, murder, manslaughter, kidnapping, maiming, a felony under chapter 109A, incest, assault with intent to commit murder, assault with a dangerous weapon, assault resulting in serious bodily injury (as defined in section 1365 of this title), an assault against an individual who has not attained the age of 16 years, arson, burglary, robbery, and a felony under section 661 of this title within the Indian country, shall be subject to the same law and penalties as all other persons committing any of the above offenses, within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States.
 
 