N.M. LAWMAKERS WILL CONTINUE TO PRESS FOR TORNADO RELIEF AS BUSH APPROVES EASTERN N.M. DISASTER DECLARATION
  The New Mexico congressional delegation today welcomed a presidential disaster designation for tornado damaged Curry and Quay counties, and pledged to continue to press federal agencies to provide assistance to storm victims. 
   Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, with Representatives Tom Udall, Heather Wilson and Steve Pearce had strongly recommended approval of Governor Bill Richardson's application for a presidential disaster designation for eastern New Mexico, which was hit by 13 recorded tornadoes on March 23.  
   The President on Monday declared a major disaster for Curry and Quay counties, triggering the release of federal funds to help individuals recover from tornado and severe storm damages. All New Mexico counties are also eligible to apply for Hazard Mitigation Grant Program funding. 
   "We are grateful for any assistance offered. Lives were disrupted by these storms and this FEMA aid should help them pick up the pieces and put their lives back together," Domenici said. "I will continue to press to the USDA and other agencies to be mindful of the needs in eastern New Mexico and make resources available through existing programs." 
   "The tornadoes did an incredible amount of damage to dozens of homes in Curry and Quay counties. FEMA's decision is very good news for the families who lost their homes. It means they can begin the process of rebuilding their lives," Bingaman said. 
   "I am very pleased that FEMA has responded with the necessary urgency and will come to the aid of individuals in Quay and Curry Counties," Udall said. "The entire community has been united in the recovery effort and this notice marks a positive first step in the process to rehabilitate the Eastside." 
   "This declaration by the President will help the people of Eastern New Mexico get their community on the path to recovery," Wilson said. 
   "I am pleased to see the FEMA has come through for New Mexico in a time of need. Hopefully this is a sign that Curry and Quay county will be on a quick path to recovery," said Pearce. 
   Federal Emergency Management Agency Director R. David Paulison late Monday informed members of the delegation that at this time the agency can only offer individual assistance to storm victims. FEMA indicated that additional designations could be made at a later date after further evaluation, and Paulison indicated that FEMA staff would be in New Mexico to carry out such evaluations. 
   Under the approved declaration, FEMA Assistance to Individuals and Households aid is available through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to eligible applicants for temporary housing, rental, and repair costs. Other assistance may be offered to individuals for "necessary expenses and serious needs," including some medical, transportation, or household requirements. (Call 1-800-621-3362 to register for disaster assistance.) 
   Hazardous Mitigation assistance is offered to state and local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property for natural hazards. 
   Last week, the delegation wrote to the heads of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Housing and Urban Development and the Small Business Administration (SBA) to alert them of recovery needs in New Mexico--including aid that can be made available outside the parameters of a formal presidential disaster declaration made Monday at the request of the Governor. 
   For example, the U.S. Department of Agriculture could make rural housing repair and rehabilitation loans and grants available to residents in Curry, Roosevelt, and Quay counties. 
   http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rhs/sfh/brief_repairgrant.htm.
 
 