SEN. DOMENICI SAYS MORE INVESTMENT NEEDED TO MAXIMIZE ENERGY, SCIENCE POTENTIAL AT NEW MEXICO LABS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today began making a case for allowing more long-term contracts by government entities to advance renewable energy use, and cited a potential Kirtland Air Force base proposal that could benefit from such a policy change. 
   Domenici is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that today conducted a hearing on the FY2009 budget requests for Department of Energy (DOE) agencies that handle science and renewable energy programs.  
   During the hearing, Domenici raised a number of issues related to science and energy research carried out in New Mexico by Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories. 
   Domenici received enthusiastic support from Alexander Karsner, DOE Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy after suggesting that federal procurement rules should be changed to allow federal entities, like Kirtland AFB, to enter into more-long term contracts to secure clean energy sources. 
   "I believe we need to seriously look at changing the procurement rules because the existing 10-year limitation is serving as a roadblock to our goal of maximizing federal government usage of renewable energy," Domenici said. 
   Current federal procurement rules have prevented Kirtland AFB from signing a long-term power purchase agreement beyond 10 years, despite the fact there could be an ideal site between the base and Mesa del Sol for a 100 megawatt concentrating solar power plant. Sandia National Laboratory is a national leader in concentrating solar power technology.
   "The procurement rules prevent the base from entering into a contract beyond 10 years, well short of the useful life of the plant. This has a big impact on the economics of such a deal," Domenici said. "We should look at changing these rules, which in this case is impeding a military base from using a renewable energy power technology developed by Sandia. I'm sure there are other instances throughout the federal government."
   With the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Congress enacted a federal purchase requirement for renewable energy, starting at 3 percent of consumption from FY2007-2009 to 7.5 percent in FY2013 and beyond.
   Karsner agreed that a change to 20- or 30-year contracts for renewable energy needs would not only advance the use of these energy sources within the federal government, but make them more affordable to taxpayers. He also noted that longer-term contracts could also help sustain and commercialize such projects as Sandia's concentrating solar power program.
   Domenici was critical of the existing DOE funding disparity between photovoltaic research ($137 million requested) and concentrating solar power ($19 million).
   "I think we have to look at this funding disparity, particularly as we see a world record of 31.25 percent net efficient rate set at the sterling concentrating solar array at the Sandia Thermal Test Facility. Based on economic and technology performance with concentrating solar technology, I'm not convinced the suggested research investment ratio is right," Domenici said.
   Domenici also advocated increasing federal investment in nanotechnology development at existing DOE Nanotechnology Centers, including the joint Sandia-Los Alamos Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies (CINT) in Albuquerque. The FY2009 budget request recommends $20 million for all nanotechnology centers, roughly the same level as FY2007 and 2008.
   "Each center has more applications than they can financially support. This leaves many important research projects without funding. There have been so many advances in this area, that we should recognize this as a good investment whether we need $25 million or $40 million," Domenici said.
   Related to the scientific missions at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Domenici remained critical of DOE funding plans for upgrading the Los Alamos Neutron Science Center (LANSCE). While the FY2009 budget request seeks $11 million for operations, a $655,000 increase over current funding, there has been no commitment to begin providing the $30 million necessary to begin refurbishing LANSCE. In February, Domenici asked Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman to provide $5.0 million to begin this work.
   Today, Undersecretary for Science Raymond Orbach told Domenici that LANL could win support for LANSCE by competing for funding through an "Energy Frontiers" research program.
   "I want more of a commitment to LANSCE than just a chance to compete for grants. Refurbishing the Los Alamos Linear Accelerator is necessary not just to sustain LANL's scientific capabilities, but to allow the lab to broaden its basic and advanced science activities," Domenici said.
   The Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee is expected to soon begin developing its version of the FY2009 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill.
 
 