SEN. DOMENICI GETS INDIAN DIABETES PROGRAM SUPPORT AS SENATE PASSES CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE BILL
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today offered to have his legislation to reauthorize Indian diabetes programs added to a larger children's heath insurance bill being debated by the Senate, which led to commitments to consider the Indian health legislation this year.  
   Domenici and Senator Byron Dorgan (D-N.D) on Thursday offered their diabetes reauthorization legislation (S.1494) to the Senate bill to reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). 
   Before final passage of the SCHIP bill, the Domenici-Dorgan amendment was withdrawn after a colloquy involving the bill's managers was crafted outlining support for S.1494, which would renew the Special Diabetes Program for Indians and the Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes Research. These programs expire in 2008. The Senate passed the SCHIP measure (HR.976) on a 68-31 vote late Thursday evening. 
   "Renewal of the Indian diabetes programs needs to be a priority, and my amendment was intended to put the Senate on notice that their renewal cannot slide. Diabetes is one of the most serious and devastating health problems of our time, and it is particularly acute among Native American populations," Domenici said. "I am pleased with the level of support for the bill expressed during the debate on the SCHIP legislation." 
   The colloquy on the diabetes program included Finance Committee chairman Max Baucus (D-Mont.) and ranking member Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). Both Baucus and Hatch are cosponsors to the Domenici-Dorgan diabetes bill. 
   The S.1494 bill would increase funding for each diabetes program to $200 million annually for each the next five years. Domenici helped create the Indian diabetes programs, like SCHIP, during work on the 1997 Balanced Budget Act which he oversaw as then-chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. 
   Currently, the Special Diabetes Program for Indians provides $150 million annually for Indian Health Services (IHS), tribes and tribal organizations, and urban Indian organizations to prevent and treat diabetes. The Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes allocates $150 million each year for research, development of therapies, and treatment methods to help diabetics treat the disease in the long term. The program is used by the Navajo Nation and the pueblos in New Mexico. 
   Though diabetes occurs among all ethnic groups, it has reached epidemic levels among American Indian populations. In some tribes, 50 percent of the adult population is diabetic. 
   Domenici voted for final passage of the SCHIP reauthorization bill (HR.976). The Senate measure is a five-year plan that would increase funding for the program to $60 billion to extend coverage to 6.6 million children already enrolled in the program and expand it to cover an additional 3.3 million more children without health insurance. Most of these 3.3 million children are currently eligible or entitled to SCHIP coverage, while only 600,000 come from expanding coverage to higher income levels. 
   There are more than 93,500 children in New Mexico without health insurance, which is about 25 percent of all youth in the state. The committee-passed plan would allow New Mexico to cover children from 133 percent to 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL).
 
 