SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL TO STIMULATE SPECIALTY CROPS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today cosponsored legislation aimed at improving the health of Americans, as well as strengthening specialty crop industries, such as New Mexico's chile, pecans, pistachios, and fruits and vegetables, and supporting the local economies the crops impact.  
   Domenici cosponsored the Specialty Crops Competition Act of 2007, a bill introduced by Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) and Larry Craig (R-Idaho), to enhance the competetiveness of U.S. grown specialty crops. By stimulating the specialty crop industry, the bill will help ensure an abundant and affordable supply of nutritious fruits, vegetables, and other specialties that are an important part of a healthy diet. 
   "Across the state, New Mexico boasts a broad and unique array of specialty crops that are, not only an import part of our culture and cuisine, but also critical to the livelihood of many local communities," said Domenici. "This bill could help strengthen these industries with beneficial provisions such as permanent emergency and disaster assistance, operating loans, and grants to enhance competetiveness." 
   The bill broadly supports specialty crop industries by expanding market access, encouraging and facilitating consumption of nutritious projects, funding research programs, and increasing opportunities for small growers in conservation programs. Bill sponsors also indicated that they will push to add such provisions to the Senate's 2007 Farm Bill. 
   Surpassing all other chile-producing states, chile is New Mexico's premier specialty crop valued at nearly $400 million per year and employing about 5,000 workers. In 2006, New Mexico led the nation in pecan production with a 46 million pound crop valued at $85 million. 
   According to the most recent agricultural census in New Mexico, the state's vegetable, melon, potato and sweet potato industries are valued at $96.9 million annually; grains, oilseeds, dry beans, and dry peas together are worth approximately $68.2 million a year; and fruits, tree nuts, and berries have a combined estimated yearly value of $59 million. 
   For more information on U.S. Department of Agriculture sponsored Fruit and Vegetable programs and grants, visit: http://www.ams.usda.gov/fv/scbgp.html 
   Learn more about New Mexico agriculture and specialty crops by visiting: http://cahe.nmsu.edu/employee/cca/
 
 