SEN. DOMENICI TOURS NEW EASTERN NEW MEXICO UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS CENTER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he expects a new communications building at Eastern New Mexico University to further enhance the school's reputation as a great training ground for would-be reporters.  
   Domenici today toured the nearly-complete facility, for which he obtained $500,000 last year to help outfit with state-of-the-art equipment. Eastern's broadcast communications facility is home to KENW, public radio and television outlets that serve all of eastern New Mexico and parts of West Texas. 
   "The new communications building at ENMU will add to what was already an excellent pre-professional program in mass media communications. That academic program, teamed with KENW, provides students with real-life experience. It is important that the new facility contain state-of-the-art equipment, which is why I was pleased to obtain federal funds for modern telecommunications equipment for the program," said Domenici, the only member of New Mexico's congressional delegation to serve on the appropriations committee. 
   Domenici obtained the funding through the FY2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. In 2003, the state of New Mexico authorized a bond for the construction of a communications building at ENMU. The building is expected to be completed this November. Graduates of the communications program possess highly marketable skills in broadcast production, writing, and the media. 
   In addition to providing learning opportunities to students, KENW radio reaches 417,000 New Mexicans as a source of local, state and national news and information. 
   Last month, Domenici supported the Senate effort to restore full funding to PBS stations such as KENW. The Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $400 million as an advanced appropriation for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for FY2008. In addition, Domenici has long supported additional CPB funding to offset digital conversion costs for public stations. The FY2006 bill has $35 million for this effort nationwide. 
   For FY2006, Domenici has obtained Senate committee approval to provide $620,000 for science and technology equipment at a new ENMU science center that will house the school's chemistry and biology programs and their laboratories. The equipment, purchased with the funds secured by Domenici, will be utilized by the entire student body since all at ENMU students are required to enroll in at least two laboratory science classes.
 
 