SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO EXPAND CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici late Thursday voted to renew and expand a national children's health program intended to help provide the nearly 100,000 uninsured children in New Mexico with access to health insurance.  
   The Senate voted 68-31 to reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), a program that expires Sept. 30. The bill (HR.976) will now be sent to a conference committee to reconcile differences in the Senate and House-passed versions of the bill. The White House has threatened to veto both versions of the reauthorization measure. 
   Domenici, who as then Budget Committee chairman helped create SCHIP as part of the 1997 Balanced Budget Act, noted that the Senate bill includes children's mental health parity provisions that follow similar legislation he cosponsored with Senator John Kerry (D-Mass.). 
   "We are under the gun to reauthorize this important program. It has worked to give thousands of New Mexico children the coverage they need to get more affordable health care. Expanding the program should help us help more children," Domenici said. "The Senate bill is not perfect, but I hope the Senate bill is not substantially changed in talks with the House." 
   Domenici, who was an original cosponsor to the Children's Mental Health Parity Act (S.1337), lauded its inclusion in the SCHIP measure. As such, in state child health care plans that provide both medical and mental health benefits, financial requirements for mental health and substance abuse benefits cannot be more restrictive than those for medical benefits. 
   The Senate measure is a five-year plan that would increase funding for the program to $60 billion to extend coverage to 6.6 million children already enrolled in the program and expand it to cover an additional 3.3 million more children without health insurance. Most of these 3.3 million children are currently eligible or entitled to coverage, while only 600,000 come from expanding coverage to higher income levels. 
   There are more than 93,500 children in New Mexico without health insurance, which is about 25 percent of all youth in the state. The committee-passed plan would allow New Mexico to cover children from 133 percent to 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL).
 
 