SEN. DOMENICI: HAPPY VALLEY WATER COOP LANDS $1.17 MILLION GRANT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the Happy Valley Cooperative Water Works will receive more than $1.35 million in federal grant and loan funding to replace a well and improve its overall water delivery system.  
   Domenici said the Eddy County cooperative will receive a $1.17 million grant, as well as a $175,000 low-interest loan from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Happy Valley water cooperative covers more than 250 customers living and working in a region northwest of Carlsbad. 
   "This is a sizable USDA grant award to support a rural water system. The funding will be used to improve the coop's ability to deliver clean and safe water to its customers, and I'm pleased these resources are being directed toward southeast New Mexico," Domenici said. 
   "I am increasingly concerned about finding ways to help water associations meet the needs of their rural customers as they deal with the drought, new federal regulations and aging infrastructure," he said. 
   The USDA Rural Development grant funds will be used to upgrade the Happy Valley water system, including replacing a well and water distribution mains, including isolation valves, water meters, fire hydrants and related equipment. The terms of the $175,000 loan are set at 5 percent over 40 years. 
   In July, Domenici introduced the Department of Energy National Laboratory Water Technology Research and Development Act of 2004 (S.2658), an ambitious bill authorizing $200 million annually for basic and applied research and development in water supply technologies. The Domenici bill, intended to find new and more affordable means of meeting the nation's water needs, creates a new mission within DOE. 
   Domenici is also an original cosponsor to the Rural Community Arsenic Relief Act (RCARA) which would exempt nonprofit small public water systems from certain drinking water standards related to naturally occurring contaminants like arsenic, radon or radium. Starting Jan.1, 2006, the EPA will impose its new 10 parts per billion (ppb) arsenic water standards, a level sharply lower than the current 50 ppb standard. Communities granted an exemption would be required, on a graduated scale, to meet the new arsenic standard by 2015.
 
 