CAFTA WILL OPEN NEW MARKETS FOR NEW MEXICO GOODS, SEN. DOMENICI SAYS AS BUSH SIGNS PACT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded President Bush for signing a trade agreement that will make it easier to export New Mexico products to key trading partners that already play a significant role in the economy of the state.  
   The President signed into law Tuesday the Dominican Republic-Central American-United States Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA). The law (S.1307) implements a free trade agreement between the United States and the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. 
   In 2004, New Mexico exported approximately $234 million worth of merchandise to those countries, 13th most among all 50 states. 
   "New Mexico stands to greatly benefit from this agreement. Free trade with these regions, which our state has a particularly important relationship with, will strengthen our markets and create more opportunities for business. I am pleased President Bush swiftly enacted this measure and I believe New Mexico will come out of this agreement as a winner," Domenici said. 
   New Mexico's exports to the CAFTA group grew by 273 percent from 2000-2004, the third-fastest growth nationally. Exports to the region accounted for 11.4 percent of the state's total world exports, which is the largest share in the country. 
   Most products exported to the CAFTA region are electronics and instrumentation-related. In particular, semiconductors are a major export from New Mexico to Central America. 
   The law allows 80 percent of U.S. consumer and industrial goods exports to become duty-free, with the remaining 20 percent becoming duty free over 10 years. Key U.S. exports, such as information technology products, agricultural and construction equipment, paper products, and scientific equipment will gain immediate duty free access to the region. 
   The Central American countries covered in this agreement will join Canada, Mexico, Israel, Jordan, Chile, Singapore, Australia and Morocco as nations with bilateral free trade agreements with the U.S. 
   Last year was the first year of a free trade agreement with Chile, which Domenici also supported. As a result of that agreement, New Mexico's exports to Chile increased by more than 2,300 percent.
 
 