SEN. DOMENICI BELIEVES NEW MEXICO LABS AND UNIVERSITIES VIABLE TO BE NEW DOE BIOENERGY CENTER
  Sen. Pete Domenici said he believes that national laboratories in New Mexico, teamed with the state's research universities, could be viable as one of the new Bioenergy Research Centers the Department of Energy will establish in the next two years. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, says Sandia and Los Alamos laboratories could present a compelling case for putting their expertise toward a national goal of finding new, more affordable ways to produce cellulosic ethanol and other biofuels.
   Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman today announced that DOE will spend $250 million to establish and operate two new Bioenergy Research Centers to accelerate basic research and development into the more efficient conversion of plant fiber, or cellulose, into ethanol. The authorization and funding of the centers is one major thrust of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which was signed into law last August in Albuquerque.
   "This will be a very competitive process, but there is no good reason why Sandia and Los Alamos couldn't pair their expertise with those of our universities and high-tech firms to vie for one of these bioenergy R&D centers. Each has the scientific, technical, and computational expertise to advance the quest for alternatives to traditional fossil fuels," Domenici said.
   The initiative, called the "Genomics: GTL Program," is being administered through the DOE Office of Biological and Environmental Research. This office originated from Domenici's late 1980s effort to put the DOE at the forefront of the federal government's genome research efforts.
   DOE is asking the scientific community to submit applications for two GTL Bioenergy Research Centers that will "develop novel biological solutions for the production of such fuels as cellulosic ethanol or hydrogen or for other groundbreaking bioenergy research with the potential to revolutionize biology-based energy production." Applications will be accepted from universities, national laboratories, nonprofit organizations and private firms.
   Each center will be funded for up to $125 million over five years-$25 million in the first year for start-up costs and up to $25 million per year for operations in subsequent years.
   The DOE plan does not include funding for construction of new buildings.
   More information on the request for applications can be found at: https://e-center.doe.gov/iips/faopor.nsf/UNID/E0680007EC6633FD852571BD005A4502?OpenDocument.
 
 