SEN. DOMENICI: EXPANDED PORTALES ETHANOL PLANT OPENS OPPORTUNITIES FOR JOB GROWTH IN NEW MEXICO
  Fresh from a significant victory on a massive national energy policy bill, Sen. Pete Domenici today celebrated the grand opening of an expanded ethanol plant in Portales that will produce tens of millions of gallons more of the fuel annually.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said the expanded Abengoa Bioenergy Corp. plant puts this east-central region in a good position to take advantage of a new national mandate to ramp up ethanol production over the next eight years as one means of cutting into American dependence on foreign oil. 
   "The ethanol mandate in our national energy bill is not just an esoteric provision stuck in a bill. As it is implemented, it will mean real jobs for workers in every sector of the economy, and not just those who toil in fields or labor in ethanol plants. The goods and services needed to support this production will influence the entire economy. I commend the city of Portales for working with Abengoa to make this plant expansion a reality," Domenici said. 
   The growth of the plant, which now employs 45 full-time workers, was supported by industrial revenue bonds issued by the city of Portales. The expanded plant will be able to process more than 11 million bushels of grain sorghum into 30 million gallons of ethanol and about 90,000 tons of distiller grains annually. To date, the plant has obtained virtually all its grain sorghum from sources within a 100 mile radius of the facility. 
   Among the policies included in the national energy policy bill is a mandate requiring fuel manufacturers to use 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol in gasoline by 2012. The Energy Information Administration estimates that this mandate will reduce U.S. oil consumption by 80,000 barrels of oil a day by 2012. 
   Included in the $2.7 billion in tax incentives in the energy bill for energy efficiency and conservation is $181 million to expand the small ethanol producer credit and to create a similar agri-biodiesel credit. 
   "I am excited for President Bush to sign the energy bill into law because it will be good national policy, and closer to home it will mean more opportunities for states and communities to be part of solving our national energy problems," Domenici said. 
   "From the ethanol provisions to the renewable energy provisions for wind and other resources, this area of New Mexico is well suited to benefit from our comprehensive new bill. I believe the economic benefits will reverberate throughout our economy," he said. 
   New Mexico farmers last year produced about 4.23 million bushels of grain sorghum worth nearly $8.3 million. A single bushel of grain sorghum or corn will produce 2.8 gallons of ethanol. Unlike corn however, it takes about a third less water to produce a bushel of grain sorghum, which is important in arid states like New Mexico. 
   Leading grain sorghum counties in New Mexico include Curry, Roosevelt, Quay, Union, Chaves, Do?a Ana and Luna.
 
 