SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES BILL CREATING 11 NEW JUDGESHIPS TO SERVE SOUTHWEST BORDER FEDERAL COURTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation to create 11 new federal judgeships to help the courts meet a burgeoning caseload associated with greater immigration and security enforcement on the Southwest Border.
   Domenici's bill would place these additional judges in federal courthouses serving the U.S. District Courts in New Mexico, Arizona, Texas and southern California-all of which have immigration caseloads that total more than 50 percent of their total criminal filings. 
   "It is imperative to equip all of our Federal agencies with the assets they need to secure our borders and enforce our immigration laws. That includes equipping our U.S. District Courts with enough judges to handle the criminal immigration cases that appear on their dockets," Domenici said.
   Domenici says his legislation is necessary since the immigration reform and border security bill passed by the Senate in May increases the number of immigration judges but fails to address the needs of the federal judiciary.
   "That bill fails to recognize that repeat immigration violators can be charged with a felony and tried in U.S. District Court," Domenici said. "We're setting up a nightmare scenario for the already overloaded federal courts on the Southwest Border. To increase border security and immigration enforcement efforts without equipping these courts to handle the even larger immigration caseloads that are with our increased border security efforts is tantamount to willful negligence."
   Of the 11 new permanent and temporary judgeships created in the Domenici bill, New Mexico would be allocated one permanent and one temporary position. The Southern District of Arizona would get the largest allotment with four permanent and one temporary position, while the Western District of Texas would gain three permanent judgeships. The Southern District of California would get one permanent judgeship.
   Domenici said the need for new federal judges has been readily apparent for years and will only become even more critical as stricter enforcement is carried out under the reforms.
   The Domenici legislation is cosponsored by Senator Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) and John Cornyn (R-Texas). The legislation, like previous legislative efforts by Domenici, follows the recommendations of the 2005 Judicial Conference for U.S. District Courts. (http://www.uscourts.gov/judgesrecommendation2005.htm)
   Chief Judge Martha V?zquez of the U.S. District Court for New Mexico has written Domenici endorsing the new judgeships for New Mexico.
   "Immigration and drug cases account for 85 percent of the caseload in the District of New Mexico," V?zquez wrote. "Increasing the number of immigration judges will do nothing to reduce the increasing caseload in the border states' federal courts."
   The District Court for New Mexico had 1,502 immigration filings in FY2004, which was more than 60 percent of the total 2,407 criminal case filings. The FY2004 immigration caseload for the Southern District of Texas totaled 3,668 filings, representing more than 65 percent of the court's 5,599 criminal filings. Similar rates were recorded in the Southern District of California (64 percent) and in Arizona (59 percent).
   Last month, Domenici used his position on the Senate Appropriations Committee to secure a $20.4 million appropriation to support for magistrate judges and critical staff positions for federal districts located on the Southwest border.
   The FY2007 Transportation, Treasury and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill also includes Domenici-requested language that asks for a change in staffing formulas by the Administrative Office of the Courts that will result in more staff being assigned to border areas. This spending bill awaits consideration by the full Senate.
 
 