SENATE APPROVES NEW MEXICO SENATORS' 'AMERICA COMPETES' ACT, SENDS IT TO PRESIDENT
  U.S. Senators Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici, the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today announced that Congress has given final approval to legislation they wrote to ensure nation retains its competitive edge. The bill will now be sent to President Bush for signature. 
   Both chambers of Congress today approved the America Competes Act, legislation that dramatically increases the nation's investment in science and technology, and puts a new, heavy emphasis on mathematics and science education.  
   Both New Mexico Senators were part of a core bipartisan group that began the push for passage of an American competitiveness bill nearly two years ago, and they negotiated the final version of the bill. 
   "The America Competes Act is a landmark piece of legislation that will ensure that our nation retains its competitive edge for generations to come. This bill invests in education, and in scientific research and development to ensure we create and retain the best jobs of the future," Bingaman said. "I am so glad we were able to get broad bipartisan support our bill, and I very much look forward to it being signed into law." 
   "We are sending the President a bipartisan bill that will do more to harness and develop our national brainpower," Domenici said. "We need to take U.S. competitiveness seriously. We need to take action to support our standard of living, and ensure we continue to grow and prosper. If we do not, we can expect other nations to rival our global competitiveness-and one day to surpass us. As such, this bill gives the nation a vehicle for long-term increased investment in education, technology, science and research at all levels." 
   The America Competes Act would double the authorized funding for the National Science Foundation in seven years and sets the Department of Energy's Office of Science on a path to double over seven years. 
   It also provides grants of up to $6 million to help states create specialty math and science schools. Department of Energy laboratories will be partners in this effort in several ways, including "adopting" schools to strengthen their math and science capability. It also creates a broad range of programs to strengthen the skills of math and science teacher and encourages mathematicians and scientists to become teachers. And it provides resources to encourage students to enroll in Advanced Placement international baccalaureate programs. 
   The bill also supports other key New Mexico initiatives, including the following: 
   The National Science Foundation science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) program-The New Mexico Alliance for Minority Participation, based at NMSU, is a STEM recipient. Eastern New Mexico University, as well as New Mexico State University-Carlsbad, participates in this New Mexico program. (http://www.nmsu.edu/~nmamp/) NASA's Space Grant College and Fellowship Program-New Mexico participates in this program through a consortium led by NMSU. (http://spacegrant.nmsu.edu/); The Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research program (http://www.nmepscor.org/); 
   Develops "Discovery Science and Engineering Innovation Institutes" which will benefit Sandia Laboratories collaborative efforts with New Mexico Universities to train the engineer of the 21st century in such areas as nanoscience and Microsystems. 
   Complements New Mexico's efforts to strengthen K-12 math and science education, by expanding access to the Summer Institutes for teachers at the National Labs so more New Mexico teachers can participate in these very successful programs. Further, the bill would increase access to Advanced Placement programs, ensuring more New Mexico teachers are trained to teach Advanced Placement and more students have access to these critical courses of study.
 
 