PRESIDENT SIGNS SEN. DOMENICI'S DAM SAFETY BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici's bill to authorize more than a half-billion dollars to improve the safety of aging dams across the West, including several in New Mexico, has been signed into law by President Bush.  
   During November's lame duck session, the House of Representatives approved Domenici's bill (S.1727) amending the Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978 to increase authorized appropriations levels to $540 million annually for the Bureau of Reclamation to carry out dam safety projects. The Senate passed S.1727 in September. The Bureau's "Safety of Dams Program" is currently authorized at $109 million a year. 
   "I'm pleased that the President signed this bill into law because its 'dam' good for the nation and for New Mexico. I've been concerned for some time about the federal system of dams, which are getting up there in years and are showing signs of wear," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "This new law addresses the problem by increasing funding for dam safety projects and making funds available to identify dams in need of repair and then carry out the work necessary to make them sense," he said. 
   About 50 percent of the Bureau's dams were built between 1900 and 1950 before current state-of-the-art design and construction practices were available. The Bureau of Reclamation, an agency within the Interior Department, has reservoirs impounded by 457 dams and dikes. 
   The Domenici bill would directly affect work in New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Utah, Oklahoma, Nebraska, Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, Oregon, Washington and California. 
   By the end of FY2002, more than 61 dam modifications had been completed under existing funding authority. Over the next several years, another 46 projects have been identified as potential Safety of Dams Projects-including Caballo and El Vado dams in New Mexico. 
   Domenici is also chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Bureau of Reclamation.
 
 