SEN. DOMENICI PRESSES OFFICIALS ON PATROLS FOR NEW MEXICO BORDER
  With President Bush calling for patrols by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to combat illegal immigration on the southern border, including New Mexico, Sen. Pete Domenici today urged quick action to establish the program and promoted Las Cruces as an ideal base.  
   In order to deploy UAVs outside of military airspace, a waiver from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) must be granted. Such a waiver has been sought for the last two years, but bureaucratic red tape has delayed it so far. 
   In separate letters to FAA Administrator Marion Blakey and Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, Domenici asked the FAA to quickly finalize a waiver agreement to bring UAVs to the border, and encouraged the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to consider the Las Cruces International Airport as a base to deploy and house UAVs. 
   "I have been advocating the use of UAVs at the border for several years, so I am very pleased to hear President Bush say that he wants UAVs to be flying over New Mexico. UAVs are one of the best tools we have to secure the border, but so far they simply aren't being utilized. It is hard for me to understand why it would take more than two years to get clearance from the federal goverment to begin patrolling the border. I have asked FAA Administrator Blakey to cut through the red tape and finalize an agreement with DHS to get the program underway," Domenici said. 
   "I have also asked Secretary Chertoff to consider Las Cruces as a base for UAV operations on the border because I believe it is a perfect fit. The Las Cruces Airport is already the headquarters for DoD UAV research and has plenty of hangar and tarmac space. The region is located less than 40 miles from the border and features ideal weather. It makes sense to center UAV border operations in Las Cruces," he continued. 
   As a major proponent of UAVs for military and border use, Domenici secured $9.8 million over the last two years to set up the New Mexico State University/Physical Science Laboratory's Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Systems and Operations Validation Program (USOVP), a joint partnership between the school and the 46th Test Group at Holloman Air Force Base. 
   The Senator also authored an amendment to last year's intelligence reform bill which required DHS to develop a plan for a pilot program to more fully monitor the U.S.-Mexico border with an unmanned aerial vehicle network to reduce the threat of infiltration by terrorists and other criminal activities.
 
 