SEN. DOMENICI QUESTIONS HOMELAND SECURITY NOMINEE ON SETTING PRIORITIES, USING EXISTING ASSETS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said one of the biggest challenges for the new Secretary of Homeland Security will be setting priorities and rating true risks to Americans in order to more effectively use federal funding.  
   Domenici today took part in the Senate confirmation hearing of Judge Michael Chertoff, who has been nominated to succeed Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge. Chertoff today testified before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, on which Domenici serves. 
   More than two years after the creation of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Domenici stressed the importance of Chertoff being able to better determine priority risks and needs around the nation, as well as the effectiveness of security mechanisms put in place following the 9/11 attacks. 
   "We are coming to the realization that not every security risk is as serious as others, and that we must have a strategic way of determining what's real and what's not. I think that will be one of the biggest challenges facing the head of the Homeland Security Department," Domenici said. 
   "We need a leader that will be able to assess the risks and how to confront those risks. That means being able to recognize that we cannot eliminate every risk, but we can be smart in how we invest our resources in protecting this nation," he said. 
   "We have to make choices," said Chertoff, who told Domenici he would work toward a "disciplined, strategic vision of what our priorities are." 
   Domenici, who also serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, also welcomed Chertoff's commitment to direct the DHS to use existing assets to fulfill its mission. 
   During the hearing, Domenici encouraged the nominee to take advantage of the scientific research and technological expertise of such facilities as Los Alamos and Sandia national laboratories, and the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center in Albuquerque. 
   The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Artesia and the new National Emergency Response Training Center at Playas are also under the purview of the DHS.
 
 