SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES BUSH FOR SETTING BOLD FUTURE-ORIENTED GOALS FOR U.S., WORLD
  Sen. Pete Domenici tonight praised President George W. Bush for his State of the Union address that presented the nation with a strong, future-oriented vision of the hopes, challenges and opportunities facing the United States.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, attended the State of the Union address in which the President began to more fully outline his plans for securing the nation and building a better world. 
   Domenici issued the following statement: 
   "Without a doubt, President Bush is not wasting any time in setting an agenda that addresses our current needs and the complex challenges-like the future of Social Security-that will only become more difficult with time. I credit him for setting before us a bold and far-reaching goals that will positively affect the lives of Americans and improve the world overall. 
   "I continue to be impressed with President Bush's unfailing devotion to protecting the United States, and his belief that we can be a force for good in spreading liberty and freedom around the world. He is right in saying we must stay the course in Iraq and Afghanistan, and take every opportunity to defeat tyranny and foster peace in the Middle East and beyond. Doing so will ultimately make the United States homeland safer. 
   "I think it is significant that President Bush's tenure in office has been marked by his setting big goals and them working to bring as many people together as possible to do what's best for the nation. We saw it in his first term with education reform and Medicare prescription drug benefits. Tonight, he reached out and asked Americans of all generations to join together to, among other things, ensure the future of Social Security. I'm willing to work with him. 
   "I'm pleased the President again forcefully expressed his desire for Congress to enact a comprehensive national energy policy that will critical for U.S. economic growth and security. It is time to get it done, and I believe that we are entering into the debate this year with renewed bipartisan support. 
   "As always, I truly hope we in Congress can put the nation's interests first and work in a bipartisan manner to ensure move this nation forward."
 
 