SEN. DOMENICI ARGUES FOR CONFIRMATION OF ATTORNEY GENERAL-NOMINEE GONZALES
  Sen. Pete Domenici took to the floor of the Senate today to strongly urge his colleagues to join him in voting to confirm Alberto Gonzales to be the next Attorney General of the United States.  
   Gonzales was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee on a party-line vote, and is being criticized by some Democrats for allegedly not following Geneva Convention guidelines in his legal memoranda to President Bush during his time as White House Counsel. 
   "It is crystal clear that the Geneva Convention guidelines do not apply to Taliban fighters or Al Qaeda terrorists. The final 9/11 Commission report said so, the U.S. Court of Appeals said so, and numerous legal scholars have agreed." 
   "I believe there are other forces at work against the Gonzales nomination that have nothing to do with the Geneva Convention. They are partisan, political and personal. Democrats are afraid that Judge Gonzalez would be a formidable nominee for a Supreme Court vacancy, so some of them are willing to say or do anything to inflict wounds on him. 
   "It's a terrible shame because Alberto Gonzales is extremely well-qualified and would be a clear signal of the prominence that Hispanic have risen to in this country. His story truly represents the American dream. He will be a fair, hard-hitting Attorney General for all the American people. 
   "I believe that in the end, Judge Gonzales will be confirmed. However, I remain deeply troubled by the partisan attacks and the smoke and mirrors that surrounded his nomination," Domenici said. 
   Judge Alberto Gonzales was commissioned as Counsel to President George W. Bush in January of 2001. Prior to serving in the White House, he served as a Justice of the Supreme Court of Texas. Before his appointment to the Texas Supreme Court in 1999, he served as Texas' 100th Secretary of State from December 2, 1997 to January 10, 1999. Among his many duties as Secretary of State, Gonzales was a senior advisor to then Governor Bush, chief elections officer, and the Governor's lead liaison on Mexico and border issues. 
   Gonzales has garnered support from numerous Latino organizations, including the League of United American Citizens, National Council of La Raza, Hispanic National Bar Association, United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, and the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.
 
 