SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES BUSH FOR SENDING NEARLY $1 MILLION TO BOOST HISTORY PROGRAMS IN GALLUP-MCKINLEY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded the Bush administration's efforts to revitalize history programs in Gallup and McKinley County schools by awarding nearly $1.0 million for the effort.  
   A representative for U.S. Secretary of Education Rod Paige was in Gallup today to present the $997,552 check that will fund the "Teaching American History" program in the area. 
   "First and foremost, I appreciate President Bush recognizing the importance of establishing a strong background in American history in his No Child Left Behind initiative. It's often a subject that gets passed over, much to the detriment of our youth," Domenici said. 
   "Second, I am very pleased with the funds awarded to New Mexico because they support a program that instills teachers with the knowledge and enthusiasm to keep standards high and students engrossed in the history of their country," he said. 
   The Teaching American History program supports three-year projects that help teachers develop a deeper understanding and appreciation of American history to improve instruction and raise student achievement. 
   The goal of this program is to demonstrate how school districts and institutions with expertise in American history can collaborate over a three-year period to ensure that teachers develop the knowledge and skills necessary to teach traditional American history in an exciting and engaging way. 
   Schools will partner with institutions such as libraries, museums, nonprofit history or humanities organizations, higher education institutions or other organizations with extensive knowledge of American history. 
   Teachers will attend seminars, graduate-level summer institutes, and action research projects during which they will explore early American history from pre-contact through the mid-19th century through the theme of American Encounters. 
   The No Child Left Behind Act was signed by President George W. Bush on Jan. 8, 2002 to reform the nation's educational system.
 
 