SEN. DOMENICI: W88 PIT DELIVERY SIGNALS U.S.COMMITMENT TO NUCLEAR DETERRENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said delivery of the first U.S.-made nuclear weapons pit produced in 18 years should send the world a signal that the United States is committed to maintaining its nuclear security deterrent-and that the nation's nuclear weapons labs are still vital and necessary. 
   Domenici on Monday took part in a classified event marking the delivery of the first certified W88 pit produced at Los Alamos National Laboratory. Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, was joined by officials from LANL and the Department of Energy's National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA).  
   Deployment of this capability at LANL will allow NNSA to safely conduct the nation's nuclear weapons deterrent activities without relying on underground nuclear tests. The certified W88 pit will be added to the U.S. stockpile-the first since the DOE closed its Rocky Flats facility in 1989. LANL was selected in 1996 to develop the U.S. pit capacity. 
   "The delivery of this pit is exciting because it signals to the world that the United States is serious about maintaining its nuclear deterrent. It does not mean we are now engaged in an arms race like we had during the Cold War. It means quite the opposite. Today, we signal that the United States wants to protect itself and its allies with a smaller, more efficient and cost-effective stockpile," Domenici said. 
   The Senator highlighted the significant nuclear arms reductions made by the United States and Russia with the deactivation of almost 7,000 warheads, 644 ICBMs and hundreds of other missiles, launchers and bombers. Currently, the United State is on a course to cut its stockpile to the lowest levels since the Eisenhower Administration-to roughly 1,700-2,000 weapons by 2013. 
   "Now I know there are those who will protest today's pit achievement. There are those who believe we should cut investment in labs like Los Alamos, Sandia or Lawrence Livermore because the stockpile is getting smaller. That is just wrong," Domenici said. "Crippling our labs and committing our nation to unilateral disarmament will make the world more dangerous, not safer. Los Alamos and its sister labs are necessary to ensure our stockpile is safe and reliable." 
   Domenici touched on the FY2008 budget debates in the House and Senate related to the future of the DOE nuclear weapons complex, and pledged to work to protect laboratories. The Senate Appropriations Committee last week approved an FY2008 spending plan that provides strong overall support for the DOE weapons and basic science programs, in stark contrast to a House measure that would eliminate an estimated $600 million for work carried out by LANL and Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque. 
   "The labs play an incredibly important role in maintaining our deterrent and supporting our national security mission. So long as there are countries pursuing nuclear weapons, we will need to maintain our deterrent-a mission only performed by the three NNSA laboratories. As long as the United States' security is based on nuclear deterrent, we will need Los Alamos," Domenici said. "There is no other place in the country that does the kind of science work we do here and we cannot afford to lose this resource." 
   The Senate's FY2008 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill added funding for activities at LANL, including: 
   * $67 million to upgrade LANL security, providing $45 million for classified vault upgrades to consolidate over 140 separate vaults across the lab complex to fewer than 10 vaults, and $12 million to complete the Red Network at LANL to reduce the potential for staff to remove classified material. 
   * $95.5 million for the Chemistry Metallurgy and Research Replacement (CMR-R) facility at LANL. 
   * $83 million in additional Environmental Management funds for work at LANL, providing a total of $222 million to enable LANL to catch up with the Consent Order milestones. 
   The overall Senate bill provides $25.8 billion for the Department of Energy (a $1.13 billion increase over the president's budget request), including $9.56 billion for NNSA. Within the NNSA funding is $6.49 billion for weapons activities (down $22 million from the budget request, but $231 million over FY2007) and $1.87 billion for nonproliferation activities ($200 million increase). The bill provides $256.3 million, a reduction of $25 million, for pit manufacturing, but eliminates all funding provided for the proposed Consolidated Plutonium Center.
 
 