SEN. DOMENICI GLAD FIREFIGHTING AIRCRAFT CLEARED FOR SERVICE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed word that a series of large slurry bombers will be deemed airworthy and again available to assist firefighters battling wildfires in the West.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, was informed Friday that the U.S. Forest Service, working with the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), have cleared five of eight grounded P-3 Orion aircraft, making the large aircraft available for ongoing wildfire battles. 
   "Getting these planes back in the air and working to squelch wildfires is very good news, especially since we continue to have fires pop up all over the West. It is a positive sign of progress by the Forest Service to increase its capacity to launch aerial attacks on these fires," Domenici said. 
   "The need for aerial assaults on these fires is clearly evident, and the more planes and helicopters we can get safely into the air the better. We continue to suffer from an extended and extreme drought throughout much of the West, and these aircraft are important tools in the arsenal to combat these destructive fires," he said. 
   The P-3 Orion planes, along with other firefighting aircraft, have been grounded since multi-engine retardant aircraft contracts were cancelled in late April because of safety concerns. 
   Last week, Forest Service officials briefed Domenici on its work to double its capacity to drop slurry and water on wildfires, and gave him assurances that the planes and helicopters needed to fight fires in New Mexico, Arizona and other states will be assigned as requested by fire incident commanders. 
   The USFS is continuing its reexamining the airworthiness of its multi-engine large slurry aircraft-like the C-130A, P-3 Orion, DC-6 and DC-7, working with the NTSB, Sandia National Laboratories, DynCorp, and the Federal Aviation Administration to examine the aircraft of firms with firefighting contracts. 
   A month ago, the USFS announced a plan to enter contracts for up to 36 additional single engine tankers, 26 heavy helicopters, 45 medium helicopters, and two CL 215 air tankers to join a fleet of over 700 fire-fighting aircraft. In addition, 8 military C-130 aircraft equipped with the Modular Airborne Firefighting System will be made available. Implementing the plan will cost an estimated $66 million above and beyond the $18 million that initially budgeted this year for contracting the multi-engine aircraft.
 
 