SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES USDA AWARDS TO FIX WATER, WASTEWATER NEEDS IN DO?A ANA COUNTY
  Sen. Pete Domenici praised the strides the Department of Agriculture took today to fix inefficient pipelines and water systems in southern Do?a Ana County by awarding the Mesquite and Desert Sands Water Associations a combined total of over $3.5 million in grants and loans.  
   "USDA has done a remarkable job in recognizing the need of these smaller communities to make their water systems more efficient," Domenici said. "As Mesquite and Anthony area continue to grow, water and wastewater systems must be upgraded to safeguard these residents from health risks and to protect the environment." 
   Mesquite Mutual Domestic Water Consumer Association was awarded over $1.5 million in grant funding to improve its water system. A new transmission line, new well, booster pumps, and the purchase of an additional 60-acre-feet of water rights will beget safer, cleaner water. Another $1.04 million grant and $100,000 loan will help this association replace its STEP (Septic Take Effluent Pumping) system for 155 customers. 
   Desert Sands Mutual Domestic Water Consumer Association received a $938,100 grant and $50,000 loan to protect customers from arsenic by purchasing a new well, tank, booster pump station, and water treatment system. 
   "New Mexico has struggled to preserve the water we have because of drought and other complications, but I am pleased the projects will help make water cleaner for residents in Mesquite and Anthony," Domenici added. 
   Domenici has used his position as the only member of the New Mexico delegation to serve on the Senate Appropriations Committee to offer steady support for USDA and EPA water and wastewater projects in the border regions of southern New Mexico. 
   Domenici supported $25 million provided through the USDA for Colonias infrastructure projects in 2004. Recently, the lawmaker again approved of Bush's $50 million request for Colonias wastewater construction and $3.23 billion for state and tribal projects. 
   (To hear an audio statement, visit http://domenici.senate.gov/newscenter/audio.cfm or call 800-545-1267 ext. 309.)
 
 