SEN. DOMENICI RECEIVES NONPROLIFERATION AWARD AS AUTHOR OF U.S.-RUSSIA PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici was presented with the first "Champion of Nonproliferation" award today as part of the celebration of the 10th anniversary of the Initiatives for Proliferation Prevention program (IPP), part of the U.S. Industry Coalition (USIC).  
   The award was presented by Larry Stolarczyk, President of Stolar Industries, a Raton-based defense research firm. Domenici wrote the legislation in 1994 creating the IPP program and has been a longtime supporter of the nonproliferation activities worldwide. 
   The IPP program, federally funded by the DOE's National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), works to provide meaningful, sustainable non-weapons work for former Soviet weapons scientists. To date, 1,000 new high tech jobs have been created in Russia, and 15,000 scientists have been involved in non-weapons research. 
   "I'm honored to receive this award from the Initiatives for Proliferation Prevention program. In its first 10 years, the IPP program has been a resounding success. Engagement is a critical element to building cooperation and trust among nations, and this program gives us contact and funding for Russian scientists who are attractive targets for terrorists and enemies of freedom," Domenici said. 
   "However, my message today is that more work must be done. DOE estimates that at least 35,000 Russian scientists possess knowledge that is useful to terrorists. Outreach must be conducted to Iraqi and Libyan scientists who work on weapons programs in those countries. I remain committed to do whatever I can to aid nonproliferation efforts around the world," he said. 
   Stolarczyk was selected to give Domenici the award since his firm has been an IPP participant, receiving contracts to use Russians to advance landmine detection technologies. 
   Domenici gave credit to the Bush administration for generously funding nonproliferation activities in the President's proposed FY2006 budget. In fact, nuclear nonproliferation funding is up 15 percent, and the IPP program is slated to receive $40 million. Research and development has seen a 21 percent increase, and should lead to the next generation of nuclear sensing devices. 
   The administration also has made headway in the Plutonium Disposition program, which will destroy 34 tons of plutonium from U.S. and Russian stockpiles-the equivalent of 8,000 weapons. The President has requested a 200 percent increase in funding for the program to close Russia's three remaining plutonium reactors. 
   Domenici serves as chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which oversees DOE's nonproliferation efforts. He is also a senior member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
 
 