SEN. DOMENICI: SELECTION OF RRW LEAD LABORATORY IS STEP TOWARD MORE RELIABLE, AFFORDABLE STOCKPILE
  Sen. Pete Domenici offered the following statement regarding the selection of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory to lead the design of a Reliable Replacement Weapon (RRW) for the American nuclear stockpile.  
   Livermore, teamed with Sandia National Laboratories, was competing with Los Alamos National Laboratory for the right to lead the RRW development program. The Livermore design selection was revealed Friday by the Department of Energy and the National Nuclear Security Administration. "I commend Livermore and our scientists at Sandia for their good work. I know there is disappointment at Los Alamos. Los Alamos offered an innovative, competitive design and they should be proud of that effort as the labs will work to incorporate certain exceptional elements of the Los Alamos design. The more conservative Livermore design was chosen, after consideration of many factors, but primarily because of the desire to avoid underground testing. The important thing is that we're taking a step forward with the RRW to transform and reduce our stockpile, improve security and reliability, and lower the life-cycle cost of that stockpile. 
   "This is not the end of our RRW effort. One system is not equivalent to a transformation and we need to move on a second design competition, one that should give priority consideration to pit reuse." 
   Domenici, who has been briefed on the selection by DOE officials, is the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Department of Energy and its national laboratories. Domenici has secured funding for RRW development in the previous Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bills. The Administration has requested $88 million for the RRW program in FY2008. 
   The RRW program stems from the Nuclear Posture Review completed in 2002, which found that the current weapons complex is ill equipped to respond to changes from evolving threats.
 
 