SEN. DOMENICI WANTS PROGRESS ON BLM OIL AND GAS PERMIT OFFICES IN CARLSBAD, FARMINGTON
  Sen. Pete Domenici today received assurances that the Interior Department is moving forward to fully establish and operate BLM Energy Pilot Offices in Farmington and Carlsbad.  
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that today conducted a hearing to review the FY2007 budget requests for the Department of the Interior. Because the federal government owns about one-third of the land area in New Mexico, funding levels for the Interior Department affect the state. 
   Domenici asked for an update from Interior Secretary Gale Norton on the permitting offices because the administration's budget request includes a legislative recommendation affecting funding for the BLM Energy Pilot Offices that were authorized in the Energy Policy Act that became law last August. 
   "It is important that these offices be established and fully operational as soon as possible so we can determine whether the multi-agency, one-stop permitting process will work well," Domenici said. 
   Norton reported that the BLM has been directed to complete hiring needs for the pilot offices and that other federal and state agencies are cooperating with the effort. The Energy Policy Act established seven offices in New Mexico, Utah, Colorado, Montana and Wyoming to bring oil and gas from approved lease sites to market sooner by ending months and years of bureaucratic delays in the issuance of drilling permits. 
   Domenici threw cold water on an Office of Management and Budget recommendation to amend the Energy Policy Act to allow lease rent in New Mexico and other pilot states to go into the U.S. Treasury. Congress, in the energy bill, authorized BLM to keep that money-approximately $20 million annually-to fund the pilot programs. 
   "I am also disappointed with requests to repeal provisions related to oil, gas, and geothermal permitting and development that we felt were necessary to give you the resources to expedite these programs. I'm sure you are well aware that repeal of those provisions will not occur, and I hope that you will take action to ensure that their intended purpose, getting permits out the door, is realized as soon as possible," Domenici told Norton. 
   Domenici was also critical of the budget request for the BLM Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which last year provided New Mexico counties with more than $22 million as compensation for hosting tax-exempt federal lands and installations. The FY2007 budget recommends $198 million, a $35 million reduction compared to the $235 million provided by Congress for FY2006. 
   "I'm disappointed in the cut proposed in this year's PILT request. Let's not forget that just as budgets are tight here in Washington, they are also tight in rural America. As long as there are federal lands in these counties, this nation has an obligation to provide local governments funding for the important role they play in providing public services on lands they do not own and over which they cannot levy property taxes," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also serves on the Senate Budget Committee that will soon develop the FY2007 Budget Resolution that will serve as a budget and appropriations blueprint for Congress.
 
 