SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEXICO PART OF NATIONAL MOVE TO FORTIFY CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that federal funds will be headed to New Mexico to guard the state's key resource sites and critical infrastructures from outside influences, including potential terrorist threats.  
   DHS issued $400,000 to New Mexico as part of a $91.4 million commitment to fortify vulnerable facilities around the nation. The Buffer Zone Protection Program (BZPP) will help New Mexico purchase equipment to extend the zone of protection beyond the immediate perimeters of these sites. 
   "It's necessary to evaluate potential vulnerabilities in our nation's infrastructure as it's possible that some terrorist cells still linger with the hopes of infiltrating susceptible sites. The good news is that federal dollars have been allotted to New Mexico to begin safeguarding sites that conduct sensitive work or pose lucrative options for attack," Domenici said. 
   "The Buffer Zone is stepping up our approach to securing critical sites in every state in the country," he said. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   Under the new grant program, states will be expected to submit Buffer Zone Plans and equipment purchasing plans to DHS by April 30, 2005, allowing DHS's Office for Domestic Preparedness to review plans. 
   BZPP provides both funding and coordination in bringing federal, state and local levels of government, law enforcement and the private sector together to create Buffer Zone Plans to reduce vulnerabilities in areas surrounding critical infrastructure and key resources. 
   DHS's Information Analysis and Infrastructure Protection (IAIP) Directorate, which is in charge of coordinating the program, classify critical infrastructure as any commercial assets such as the stock exchange, government facilities, dams, nuclear power plants, national monuments and icons, chemical plants, bridges, and tunnels. The President's 2006 budget includes $530 million for IAIP's infrastructure protection activities.
 
 