SEN. DOMENICI SUBCOMMITTEE STUDIES GNEP AS KEY TO LONG-TERM NUCLEAR POWER AND WASTE PROBLEMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today pledged to work toward implementation of President Bush's Global Nuclear Energy Partnership (GNEP), a program to address new solutions to deal with wastes associated with the burgeoning nuclear power sector.  
   Domenici's Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee today held a hearing to receive Department of Energy testimony on GNEP. The plan would address nuclear waste through an advance fuel cycle that will reduce the overall volume of waste and protect against possible proliferation by eliminating separated plutonium. 
   The administration has requested $250 million through the DOE Office of Nuclear Energy for an advanced Fuel Cycle Initiative (ACFI). 
   "The United States in the 1970s abandoned its leadership on nuclear recycling and let the rest of the world pass us by. With the creation of the GNEP, we're getting back in the game," Domenici said. "I am all for setting forth on a comprehensive global nuclear strategy that promotes nuclear nonproliferation goals while helping resolve nuclear waste issues." 
   "With GNEP, we begin to close the cycle on nuclear waste in ways that prevent proliferation and reduce both the volume and toxicity of waste. By recycling spent nuclear fuel, we can reuse the uranium, which is 96 percent of spent fuel, and separate the most toxic radioactive material to be burned in an advanced burner reactor. By reusing uranium fuel and burning the transuranic material in a new generation of modern reactors, we can reduce the amount of waste placed in Yucca Mountain by a factor of 100," he said. 
   "I have asked Deputy Secretary Clay Sell to clarify the specific role Sandia and Los Alamos national labs will play going forward. They have immense experience in safeguards and security as well as reactor fuel research," he said. 
   Earlier this week, DOE announced that it will release $400,000 in FY2006 funding to Los Alamos National Laboratory for advanced burner reactor development of fuels and remote fuel fabrication and materials. Other labs are also expected to participate in GNEP, but DOE has not yet allocated the distribution of other AFCI funding. 
   Domenici has been the leading proponent of expanding nuclear power in the United States as part of an overall policy strategy to increase domestic energy production--particularly advanced nuclear power, clean coal technologies and renewable energies. 
   There are 103 nuclear reactors at 64 sites in 31 states, and another 19 plants are under consideration since the enactment last August of the National Energy Policy Act. It is estimated that by recycling spent fuel can reduce the amount of waste planned for storage at Yucca Mountain can be reduced by a factor of 100.
 
 