SEN. DOMENICI JOINS SENATE TO REAUTHORIZE PATRIOT ACT, INCLUDES METH CONTROL ACT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined his colleagues to end months of debate and reauthorize the Patriot Act, which provides law enforcement with essential tools needed to fight terrorism and further strengthen port security.  
   The Senate today voted to reauthorize the USA Patriot Act until 2010 on a 89--10 vote. The bill contains a number of changes designed to protect civil liberties and ensure appropriate oversight of law enforcement. 
   The Patriot Act also includes two new titles supported by Domenici that will help reduce vulnerability to methamphetamine production and trafficking, as well provisions that strengthen port security. The meth provisions were originally part of legislation cosponsored by Domenici. 
   "The Patriot Act is absolutely essential to the security of this country. It contains common sense measures that give law enforcement the same tools to fight terrorism that they've been using for years to catch drug dealers and other common criminals. This bill strikes the appropriate balance between allowing law enforcement to do their jobs and protecting civil liberties," said Domenici, who is a member of the Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee. 
   "Meth is one of the most serious problems facing New Mexico. Unfortunately, it is easy to make with ingredients commonly available, and the rural nature of our state makes meth easy to transport and evade detection. We need to fight meth harder, and I'm pleased to say that the Senate today took a step toward doing just that," Domenici said. 
   The provisions in the Patriot Act reauthorization bill would direct that pseudoephedrine and ephedrine be sold only by a pharmacist or pharmacy technician, with buyers limited to 9 grams of products containing this ingredient per month. 
   In addition, the bill would authorize the expenditure of federal funds to: 
   * Support the Meth Hot Spots program that trains state and local law enforcement to investigate and lock-up meth offenders and expand funding available for personnel and equipment for enforcement, prosecution and environmental clean-up; and, 
   * Create rapid response teams to help children affected by meth production ($20 million for both FY2006 and FY2007). 
   The Port Security title added to the Patriot Act will increase penalties for port violations such as entering seaports under false pretenses, obstructing maritime inspections, and transporting terrorists.
 
 