SEN. DOMENICI PLEASED WITH EPA RULEMAKING START TO ADDRESS DAIRY, LIVESTOCK WASTES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he is pleased the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has begun a rulemaking process that could reduce the risk that livestock producers, like New Mexico's growing dairies, would be subjected to federal toxic waste regulations. 
   EPA Administrator Steve Johnson has informed Domenici of the decision to move forward with the rulemaking process following weighing different options for reducing the burdens on animal feeding operations under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), more commonly known as the Superfund law) and the Community Right to Know Act (EPCRA).
   "The fact the EPA is moving to address these regulations is an indication that it too is concerned about the potential for over regulating dairies and farms," Domenici said. "It is evident to me that a case of over-regulation can be made since dairies are already regulated by the federal clean air and water laws as well as other state-specific permitting and regulatory programs. I am interested in seeing the EPA move forward with its rulemaking process."
   Johnson was responding to Domenici inquiries made at a Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee hearing to review the FY2008 EPA budget. At that hearing, Domenici asked the EPA Administrator whether he believed the EPA should draft new regulations for livestock wastes in light of moves to impose CERCA and EPCRA toxic waste standards to farms, dairies and other livestock operations.
   Domenici said this issue is important to the growing dairy industry in New Mexico, and that applying CERCLA to these operations could have significant economic ramifications for dairy producers, alfalfa growers and implement suppliers.
   In March, Domenici and Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) introduced the Agricultural Protection and Prosperity Act of 2007 (S.807) to clarify that CERCLA industrial and toxic pollutant standards are not to be applied to livestock operations. It spells out that livestock emissions-already regulated by the EPA through the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and other laws-may not be classified as industrial pollutants under CERCLA or EPCRA.
   S.807 would not affect state and local permitting and regulatory standards for farm and livestock operations. Instead, it would clarify that animal manure is not a toxic waste that would necessitate emergency response and the creation of a Superfund site under CERCLA and EPCRA.
   The bill has been referred to the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and a similar measure has been offered in the House.
   New Mexico currently ranks seventh in the nation for milk production and eighth in cheese production. The state's roughly 180 dairies have the largest average herd size-1,600 to 1,700 cattle-in the nation. Dairies in 12 New Mexico counties (Chaves, Roosevelt, Curry, Do?a Ana, Lea, Eddy, Valencia, Socorro, Sierra, Bernalillo, Torrance and Luna) have an estimated $1.15 billion annual impact on the state's economy and generate about 17,000 dairy-related jobs in the state. (http://spectre.nmsu.edu/dept/docs/DAIR/NM_Dairy.pdf)
   S.807 has 18 bipartisan cosponsors. The House bill (HR.1398) introduced by Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) has 104 cosponsors, including New Mexico Representatives Heather Wilson and Steve Pearce.
 
 