SEN. DOMENICI VOTES AGAINST MARITIME CARGO BILL, SAYS MEASURE DUPLICATES NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION MEGAPORTS INITIATIVE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted against maritime cargo security legislation based on a contention that it would duplicate an already existing U.S.-led international detection program led by the National Nuclear Security Administration. 
   Domenici was the sole member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee present who voted against committee passage of the Greenland Maritime Cargo Security Act (S.2459). It was approved on a 9-1 vote and will be forwarded to the Senate for consideration. Including proxy votes, the tally was 14-2-with Senator Ted Stevens indicating opposition.
   Within the Department of Homeland Security, S.2459 would create an Office of Cargo Security Policy and establish container security initiatives to identify maritime containers that pose a risk for foreign terrorism at foreign ports. Domenici argued today that this program would be redundant to the NNSA Megaports Initiative started in 2003.
   "Clearly, the Megaports Initiative is already doing what Section 11 of S.2459 is intended to do, and the NNSA is now working closely with the Homeland Security's Bureau of Customs and Border Protection to do this work," Domenici said. "I am all for increasing security at our sea and land ports, but we do not need to duplicate work being done by NNSA. We do not need to add to the Department of Homeland Security's wide-rage of responsibilities. To do so would be a costly and over-burdensome mistake."
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Energy Department and NNSA, indicated that he expects to try to amend the bill during Senate debate.
   Congress has appropriated $235 million to date for the Megaports Initiative, which provides exportable radiation detection equipment and training resources to host country personnel to specifically check for nuclear and other radiological materials before cargo ever reaches the United States.
   The Megaports Initiative is operational in four countries (Greece, Bahamas, Sri Lanka and the Netherlands), and at various stages of implementation in 10 additional nations (Belgium, China, Dubai, Honduras, Israel, Oman, the Philippines, Singapore, Spain and Thailand). The NNSA is also engaged in Megaport negotiations with approximately 20 countries in Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and South America.
   Domenici noted that both Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories in New Mexico support the Megaports Initiative by participating in the DOE nuclear detection R&D program, which had developed a variety of nuclear detection technology. For example, the recently unveiled M-PONDS detection system developed in New Mexico is based on technology developed at Sandia National Laboratories.
   It is currently unclear when S.2459, authored by Senators Susan Collins (R-Me.) and Patty Murray (D-Wash.), will be brought to the Senate floor for debate.
 
 