N.M. SENATORS ANNOUNCE PLANNED ARMY EXPANSION AT WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today confirmed that the U.S. Army expects to station an engineering battalion at White Sands Missile Range next year, significantly increasing the military personnel assigned to the world-class research and test facility. 
   As part of its "Grow the Army" (GTA) Initiative, the Army has indicated plans to reflag the 70th Engineer Battalion as the 2nd Engineer Battalion at WSMR in mid-June 2008. The move would increase the Army military population by approximately 245.
   Domenici, who serves on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, and Bingaman have expressed interest in the Army's plans to grow WSMR as part of overall expansion of the Army and implementation of the Future Combat System at Fort Bliss and testing at WSMR.
   "This move will be very good for the Army and WSMR. White Sands offers an ideal research and test facility for the Army and I have no doubt the military personnel who will be stationed there will be warmly welcomed by the entire region," Domenici said. "I am excited about this plan and its potential to result in WSMR's future growth. I will now work with the Army to do what I can to make this transition a success."
   "This is terrific news for White Sands Missile Range. The people, assets, and capabilities at WSMR are second to none and I am very glad the Army is tapping our world-class test facility to house this important battalion," Bingaman said.
   Both Senators pledged to support the Army decision to reprogram $71 million in FY2008 GTA military construction funds needed for site preparation, utility infrastructure, and permanent construction.
   The Army indicated to the New Mexico lawmakers that it will work with area municipalities, counties and school districts to determine how best to accommodate the estimated 145 families, and 240 children, that will move to the region with the relocation of the 2nd Engineer Battalion.
   Under the GTA, the Army expects to expand by 65,000 active-duty soldiers by 2013, adding six new Brigade Combat Teams and their associated support personnel.
 
 