SEN. DOMENICI CALLS FOR PUBLIC FEEDBACK ON CROSS-BORDER TRUCKING PLAN BETWEEN U.S.- MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced a U.S. Department of Transportation call for public comment on a new NAFTA trucking project that will expand cross-border commercial transportation with Mexico. 
   As part of a program to safely expand commercial trucking zones within Mexico and the United States, the demonstration project will test the effectiveness of the safety measures adopted by Mexico-based trucking companies and new inspection procedures implemented by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.
   Under the provisions of the program, 100 Mexican trucks will be able to operate within U.S. borders in compliance with U.S. safety regulations, while 100 U.S. trucks are simultaneously granted reciprocal rights in Mexico.
   "The Transportation Department has worked closely with Congress to develop a safe program that is poised to expand and revamp our trade system with Mexico, which is currently limited, inefficient, and costly," said Domenici, a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee.
   "As the Transportation Department evaluates the safe implementation of this initiative, it is important that members of the public also provide feedback on the program that will affect the security of their own roads and highways," he continued. "The public comment period is now open for those who have concerns about this program to air them."
   Transportation Secretary Mary E. Peters announced the NAFTA trucking provisions were published in the Federal Register Tuesday, and requested public comment. Interested persons may review the provisions and will have 30 days to provide feedback. All comments received within the allotted time period will be filed in the public docket and will receive due consideration.
   Currently, Mexican trucks only have the authority to operate inside a narrow commercial zone, resulting in exorbitant off-loading and zone transfer costs, which are often passed off on consumers. Successful implementation of the program, the Transportation Department projects, will lower costs for consumers and strengthen the economy through competition.
   For more information visit: http://dmses.dot.gov/docimages/p101/467487.pdf
   Public comments are due by May 31, 2007. Comments can be made by visiting http://dms.dot.gov and following instructions for submitting comments on an electronic docket site.
   Written comments may be submitted by fax (202-493-2251), or mailed to: Docket Management Facility, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh St. SW, Nassif Building Room PL-401, Washington DC 20590-0001.
 
 