SEN. DOMENICI WELCOMES 'SECURE BORDER INITIATIVE' AS DHS SEC. CHERTOFF VISITS FLETC-ARTESIA
  Sen. Pete Domenici welcomed Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to Artesia Wednesday to outline New Mexico's role in a multi-year plan to secure America's borders.  
   Chertoff discussed the Secure Border Initiative (SBI) during a visit to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia, where all 1,500 new Border Patrol agents that will be hired as a result of additional funds provided by Congress will be trained. 
   Chertoff toured FLETC-Artesia and outlined the department's new Secure Border Initiative, which will include more agents deployed on the border, expanded and more efficient detention and removal capabilities, and a comprehensive upgrade of the technology used in controlling the border such as unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). 
   "The Secure Border Initiative is a direct result of the action taken by Congress to boost our nation's border security efforts. I know that the first step in true immigration reform is securing the border. The Homeland Security Appropriations bill that we passed provides for additional border patrol agents and facilities that are essential if we are to get serious about combating illegal immigration," said Domenici, who was personally invited last month by Chertoff to accompany him to Artesia. 
   "While I wish I could be there in person, I'm very pleased to welcome Secretary Chertoff to Artesia so he can see first hand the excellent training that our new Border Patrol agents will get at FLETC. The Secretary clearly has a comprehensive plan to take full advantage of the resources now being provided to DHS, and I look forward to working with him to implement that plan in the coming months," he continued. 
   In the FY2006 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, Domenici obtained $44.3 million for new facilities at FLETC-Artesia including $33 million for two new dormitories to accommodate the training of new Border Patrol agents, $5 million for temporary Border Patrol facilities, $3 million for an aquatics training facility, and additional funding for instructors and staff at Artesia. As a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici helped write the bill. 
   The appropriations bill recently passed by Congress includes $79.5 million to annualize 500 new Border Patrol agents funded in the emergency supplemental bill passed earlier this spring. The bill provides funding to hire 1,000 additional Border Patrol agents for a total of 1.75 billion for Customs and Border Protection personnel. 
   It also includes $1.37 billion for detention facilities, including $77.4 million to add more detention beds to the system for detained illegal immigrant which will support about 1,800 new detention beds, as well as $10.2 million to continue development, procurement, deployment, and operation of a system of UAVs.
 
 