SEN. DOMENICI ARGUES TO ALLOW EXPLORATION IN ANWR, AS SENATE VOTE LOOMS ON APPROVAL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today argued against an amendment to squelch a legislative initiative that would allow energy exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, a decision that should come to a vote in the Senate Thursday.  
   Domenici took part Wednesday in the Senate's 20-hour debate on the Deficit Reduction Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 2005 (S.1932), a deficit reduction package that will draw down federal spending by $39 billion over the next five years. As part of that debate, Senator Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) offered an amendment to strip provisions related to ANWR which were added to the bigger package by Domenici's Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "We face a choice. We either say its time for Congress to recognize these are American resources, they belong to us and we ought to produce those resources at ANWR in an environmentally sound manner. We can take a step forward, and not another step toward complacency. Or we can continue to say everything's wonderful in America. We can continue to get our oil from Saudi Arabia, Mexico and Venezuela, and not bother to produce our own oil and gas," Domenici said. 
   As instructed by the FY2006 Budget Resolution, Domenici's Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee produced a portion of the reconciliation package that will reduce federal spending by $2.5 billion between 2006-2010 by opening a small portion of ANWR to oil and gas leasing in an environmentally sound manner. 
   Even if oil prices moderate at $50 a barrel, the legislation would also generate more than $1 billion annually in royalties payable to the federal government for an estimated 30 years once production begins. 
   In a speech to the Senate, Domenici attacked arguments that the energy resources at ANWR are not sufficient enough to warrant exploration. Domenici also pointed out that the 2,000 acres identified in the ANWR provision are not "wilderness," but within an area intended for oil and gas exploration when ANWR was created. 
   "The estimated reserves in this small portion of ANWR are presumed to exceed the reserves in Texas, and no one is suggesting that it's not worthwhile to extract oil and gas from Texas," Domenici said. 
   "People should surely understand the idea that ANWR is a significant resource for our country. At the mean calculation of 10.4 billion barrels of oil from ANWR, that resource could supply every drop of petroleum for the entire state of Florida for 29 years, or for Arkansas for 146 years, or Hawaii for 249 years," he said. 
   The Senate "vote-a-rama" on successive amendments to S.1932 is expected to begin Thursday and last throughout the day. The reconciliation package cannot be filibustered.
 
 