SEN. DOMENICI: STATE RECEIVES GRANT TO ADVANCE RIO GRANDE TRAIL INITIATIVE IN DO?A ANA COUNTY
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today reported that a $332,708 Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) grant has been awarded to allow the state to acquire 250 acres in Do?a Ana County to advance a Rio Grande Trail initiative.  
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, said the grant to the New Mexico State Parks Division will support the purchase of the property, which is part of an 870-acre Tonuco parcel near Radium Springs, N.M. The property is adjacent to the Rio Grande and north of Leasburg State Park. The total project cost is $645,416. 
   With the property, the New Mexico Parks Division will gain an access point for the Rio Grande Trail initiative, a proposed 250-mile trail between Sunland Park and Bernalillo in Sandoval County. 
   "Land and Water Conservation Fund grants allow states and localities to enhance public spaces, including parks, natural recreation areas and support facilities," Domenici said. "I am pleased to see that this grant will be used to support the development of a nature trail through the Rio Grande corridor. I have been keenly interested in preserving the bosque on the Rio Grande, and I believe this trail plan could lend itself to that goal." 
   The LWCF grant to Do?a Ana County was made through the National Park Service. The LWCF, created in 1964 and funded with royalties from Outer Continental Shelf energy production, has resulted in more than $40 million being invested across New Mexico to support setting aside property for conservation and recreation. 
   Last year, Congress enacted Domenici legislation that will provide a steady stream of income for the LWCF. As part of broader package enacted in 2006, Domenici's "Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act" specified that 12.5 percent of all royalties produced from new areas within the Gulf of Mexico be directed to the stateside LWCF. 
   Over the years, the LWCF has been used, for example, has been used to expand such projects as the Sugarite Canyon State Park near Raton, Mesilla Valley Bosque Park in Las Cruces, and the Living Desert State Park in Carlsbad. (http://www.nps.gov/lwcf/)
 
 