SEN. DOMENICI FLIES HIGH ON NEW KIRTLAND OSPREY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today got a bird's eye view of Albuquerque-from the Air Forces Special Operations newest tilt rotor aircraft, the CV-22 Osprey. 
   Domenici visited Kirtland Air Force Base to fly on the CV-22 and tour two other aircraft of the 58th Special Operations Wing, the MC-130 Combat Talon II and the MC-130P Combat Shadow. These Kirtland aircraft are the type that could be assigned to Cannon Air Force Base at Clovis as it is transformed into a Special Operations base.
   "It is very exciting to have the chance to see our nation's brave soldiers operating the state of the art, tilt rotor CV-22 first hand. I now know why the aircraft is so valuable to our military-it is a first rate machine that is going to help our troops fight and win the war on terror," Domenici said.
   "I am proud of the fact that New Mexico bases are supporting the military's elite special operations units. The CV-22s at Kirtland are being used to train Special Ops airmen, and Cannon Air Force Base will eventually host its own Special Operations wing," he continued.
   Today's flight came about when Domenici asked General Michael Wooley for a more exhaustive look at the Osprey when he visited Kirtland last April.
   As a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici helped write the FY2007 Defense Appropriations Bill, which contained $242 million for the CV-22 procurement program. Also in that bill, Domenici secured $61 million for 27 defense projects carried out in New Mexico.
   Domenici also noted that later this fall he will work to complete approval of an $11.4 million military construction appropriation to construct a new facility for the Pararescue/Combat Rescue Officer (PJ/CRO) School at Kirtland. The Senator has gained authorization for the new PJ/CRO school, which provides most of the training curriculum for PJ/CRO personnel world-wide. Enrollment is expected to double in FY2007, so the current facilities, which are 50 years old, are inadequate.
   The CV-22s based at Kirtland are used to train airmen, who will then be able to contribute to Special Operations missions around the world. The Osprey is particularly valuable for Special Ops missions because it has the ability to deploy quickly and quietly.
   The CV-22 is equipped with the latest technology, including a laser-based system to defeat infrared guided missiles; radio frequency countermeasures; radar guidance jamming and threat detection systems; and terrain avoidance radar systems that will help guide pilots in avoiding mountains and hills.
   The MC-130H Combat Talon II provides infiltration, exfiltration and resupply of special operations forces and equipment in hostile territory. The MC-130P Combat Shadow performs clandestine or low-visibility missions intruding politically sensitive or hostile territory to provide air refueling for special operations helicopters.
 
 