SEN. DOMENICI REGRETS VETO OF WATER BILL, BUT CONFIDENT OF CONGRESSIONAL OVERRIDE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said he regrets President Bush's veto of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), but expressed confidence that Congress will override the veto and allow the federal government to invest millions in water and environmental projects in New Mexico.  
   President Bush vetoed the WRDA measure Friday. However, both the Senate and House approved the bill by wide margins, and both are expected to muster the votes needed to override the veto and enact the legislation. 
   For New Mexico, Domenici gained authorization for millions of federal dollars to continue Rio Grande bosque restoration, as well as flood control projects in Albuquerque's South Valley. He also added provisions for overall Rio Grande environmental restoration work in New Mexico, Texas and Colorado. 
   "I am confident that Congress will override this veto and finally get a renewed WRDA bill on the books. We need this law and it is important for public safety and the Rio Grande environment," Domenici said. 
   Domenici included provisions in WRDA authorizing the Corps to continue its participation in Middle Rio Grande bosque restoration ($25 million federal), South Valley flood control projects ($16.15 million federal, $8.69 million nonfederal) and overall Rio Grande environmental restoration work in New Mexico, Colorado and Texas ($15 million federal). 
   WRDA (HR.1495) is intended to authorize appropriations for water resource projects and studies for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. The House easily passed the measure by a vote of 381-40 in August. The Senate passed it in September, 81-12. Both exceed the two-thirds vote needed in each house to overcome the veto. 
   Domenici is the ranking member on the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that provides funding for WRDA-authorized projects. Within the Senate's FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, Domenici included $10.0 million for WRDA Section 595 projects like the North and South Valley flood control works, and $4.0 million for Rio Grande bosque restoration.
 
 