SEN. DOMENICI, REP. WILSON INTRODUCE BILL TO FIND WAYS TO INCREASE FLOW OF NEW MEXICO RIVERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Rep. Heather Wilson today announced that they have introduced legislation to investigate ways to increase the flows of New Mexico's rivers, with an eye toward mitigating the damaging effects of long-term drought. 
   The New Mexico Rivers Feasibility Act of 2006, introduced late last week, would instruct the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation to study the Rio Grande, Pecos and Canadian Rivers in order to better understand how they flow. Current studies indicate that despite record rains, New Mexico's reservoirs are still far below historical averages.
   "While we have seen a brief respite from drought conditions in New Mexico this summer, we all know that long-term planning is still needed to deal with droughts and growing pressure on our rivers over the coming years. To that end, better understanding how our rivers work could allow us to find ways to help those who depend on them for water, including wildlife municipalities, industries and agricultural producers. I look forward to working with Congresswoman Wilson to pass this bill in the House and Senate," said Domenici, who chairs the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   "Better knowledge of our rivers will help improve the water management that is essential to New Mexico's continued growth," said Wilson. "Water is our most precious natural resource in New Mexico." The bill authorizes $3 million for the feasibility study, and will require BOR to report its findings within two years. While Domenici and Wilson will seek to move the bill during the post-election session of Congress, the pair introduced the bill in order to lay groundwork for action in the 110th Congress, since the outlook for the lame duck session is up in the air.
   The Natural Resources Conservation Service of the USDA has reported that New Mexico's reservoirs are still not at full capacity. As of late last week, the Heron and El Vada Reservoirs on the Chama River are at 71 percent and 56 percent of average, the Conchas Reservoir on the Canadian River are at 50 percent, and the Elephant Butte Reservoir on the Rio Grande is at 27 percent of average. The situation is even worse on the Pecos River, as the Santa Rosa and Sumner Reservoirs are at 14 and 20 percent, respectively.
 
 