FEMA APPROVES DISASTER DECLARATION FOR NEW MEXICO, SEVEN COUNTIES ELIGIBLE FOR AID
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici, and Rep. Steve Pearce today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will make disaster aid available to several New Mexico counties that suffered flooding from recent severe storms. The entire congressional delegation last week wrote to President Bush in support of Gov. Bill Richardson's request for a major disaster declaration for New Mexico. 
   Today's decision means that the counties of Cibola, Do?a Ana, Luna, Valencia, Otero, Socorro and Lincoln are available for "public assistance" - meaning federal funding will be made available to cover at least 75 percent of the cost to repair, replace, or restore publicly owned facilities.
   FEMA also announced that Do?a Ana County will be eligible for "personal assistance" - funding that can help homeowners and renters affected by the disaster with housing needs and cover necessary expenses. Finally, under today's decision, all New Mexico counties are eligible to apply for Hazard Mitigation assistance to prevent or reduce long term risk to life and property from natural hazards. "Our state has suffered serious flood damage from weeks of severe storms. It's very good news that FEMA is stepping up to help New Mexico communities get back on their feet," Bingaman said.
   "This has been an extremely difficult monsoon season for New Mexico, and I have seen first-hand the damage wrought on New Mexico communities by summer storms," said Domenici. "I commended the President's Chief of Staff, Josh Bolten, when he called me today with the good news that FEMA understands New Mexico's situation and is offering Federal assistance to some of the communities that have been hit hardest this summer."
   "The people of New Mexico desperately need this relief and I appreciate the Bush Administration's quick action upon the Governor's request," Pearce said. "In light of this decision, I once again urge FEMA to act quickly upon the Governor's appeal and reverse its prior determination denying personal assistance for Alamogordo."
   Last week FEMA denied a disaster declaration for Alamogordo. In their letter to the president, the congressional delegation also asked that FEMA reconsider that decision in light of more recent storms. A disaster declaration for Alamogordo could mean that residents would become eligible for personal assistance.
 
 