SEN. DOMENICI: EDUCATION KEY TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said that science and math education is the key to future economic development, and that New Mexico is well positioned to be a national leader in efforts to keep the U.S. competitive in the global marketplace. 
   Domenici addressed the New Mexico State University community as part of the Garrey Carruthers Economic Development Speakers series. The Senator outlined a path to economic prosperity that starts with early childhood education and continues all the way to highly skilled opportunities for college students.  
   "Studies have shown that between 50 and 85 percent of economic growth is due to technology change. Without high quality, knowledge-intensive jobs and innovative companies, our economy will suffer in the long term," Domenici said. 
   Domenici is the author of the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, which directly acts on 20 recommendations made in the National Academies of Sciences' Augustine Report that details America's challenge in remaining competitive with the rest of the world. 
   "The Augustine report emphasized that improvements to K-12 math and science education are essential to our nation's future economic competitiveness. This is true at the local level as well. Maintaining a well-educated, highly-skilled workforce can help draw high-tech companies to an area. First-rate local schools also make a location more attractive to families," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that with its national laboratories and strong universities, New Mexico, and in particular New Mexico State University, is well suited to be a leader in this effort. 
   "NMSU has developed programs to improve the quality of science and math education through its College of Education and College of Engineering. Drawing on the talents of both the Colleges is crucial, and NMSU is showing real leadership in this area. My PACE-Energy Act establishes a nationwide program to encourage this kind of collaboration between colleges of education and math, science and engineering departments," he continued. 
   The Senator also pointed to two other programs at NMSU related to science and math education. The National Science Foundation's science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) program and the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) gives students opportunities to focus on advanced research that will help them build successful careers and develop technology that could eventually help the private sector. 
   Another major focus of Domenici's is involving national laboratories in science and math efforts. The Senator provided $25 million in the FY2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill for national laboratories to help train teachers and students in math, science and engineering disciplines. 
   "New Mexico is home to two of the finest national laboratories in the country, Los Alamos and Sandia. The world-class scientists and technical specialists who work at these facilities are a tremendous resource for our state. Los Alamos has established an institute for math and science teachers to allow them to upgrade their skills. If one teacher receives training from a lab expert, they can use that knowledge to teach 25 students when they return to the classroom. My PACE legislation will create a national program to put the tap into this resource," Domenici said. 
   Last week, Domenici helped open two nanotechnology centers at Los Alamos and Sandia that will enable the labs to collaborate with universities and top researchers on micro-technology. The Senator said it was another example of using public resources to develop technology that one day could make the U.S. a leader in the field.
 
 