AFTER SIX-DECADE WAIT, SEN. DOMENICI DELIVERS PURPLE HEART MEDAL TO NAVY VETERAN
  Sixty-two years after suffering wounds from an early morning bombing raid in the South Pacific, a World War II veteran from Sierra County today received Purple Heart military honors secured by Sen. Pete Domenici. 
   William L. Rice of Williamsburg today gained the Purple Heart medal he earned as an aerial gunner on a Navy torpedo plane on Feb. 13, 1944. Rice, now an octogenarian, was presented the medal by Domenici, whose office worked with the National Personnel Records Center and the Navy Personnel Command to secure the medal. 
   "The courage displayed by our World War II veterans set a standard for bravery and patriotism. I am honored that William Rice is finally being recognized for his service to the nation," Domenici said. "It's unfortunate that he had to wait such a long, long time for this Purple Heart, but I hope he knows it comes with an undiminished appreciation for his service and sacrifice." 
   Rice received his medal from Domenici in a ceremony at the Loretto Towne Center in Las Cruces. The Purple Heart is a combat decoration awarded to members of the U.S. armed forces who are wounded or killed in battle. 
   Rice was serving with the Aircraft Squadron VC-38 in the Solomon Islands when he was injured after his aircraft, damaged during a bombing mission on a Japanese airfield on the island of New Britain, crashed during landing. Suffering broken vertebrae and lacerations, Rice was hospitalized for months but returned to combat duty for the remainder of World War II. 
   The Order of the Purple Heart for Military Merit, commonly called the "Purple Heart," was created by Gen. George Washington. It is the oldest military decoration in the world in present use and the first award made available to a common soldier. 
   Rice was accompanied by his sons: Thomas Rice of Salt Lake City, John Rice of Park Rapids, Minn., and William Rice Jr. of Sacramento, Calif. In addition, his three sisters attended--Margaret Martz and Mickey Wood, both of Albuquerque, and Marian Kamplain of Truth or Consequences.
 
 