HUD RELEASES FUNDING SECURED BY SEN. DOMENICI TO EASTERN NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY FOR SCIENCE EQUIPMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that Eastern New Mexico State University in Portales has received a $613,800 grant, part of appropriations funding which he requested, from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to raise the quality of its science education.  
   Domenici secured the funding on behalf of ENMU as part of the FY2006 Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary and Housing and Urban Development (TTHUD) Appropriations Bill. 
   The funds will be used to purchase molecular and cellular biological equipment, as well as equipment used for microbiology, biochemistry, physical chemistry, anatomy and physiology. The equipment will be utilized by the entire student body since all ENMU students are required to enroll in at least two laboratory science classes. 
   "I am a firm believer in the idea that our nation must dramatically improve its science and technology capabilities and personnel," said Domenici. "This starts with the education individuals receive, which is why I requested these funds for ENMU. I am especially happy that the equipment purchased will be utilized by every student at ENMU so that each will have the opportunity to develop an interest science." 
   Domenici is a long-time member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which is determines all funding for programs at HUD. 
   Domenici also indicated that he will continue to press HUD to grant $500,000 in EDI funding to support ENMU technology infrastructure and equipment. Such funding was among the FY2007 earmarks that were eliminated in a Democratic leadership plan to fund most of the federal government under a year-long FY2007 Continuing Resolution (CR). 
   Under that CR plan, ENMU will also miss out on an $885,000 Education Department appropriation gained by Domenici to support computer and telecommunications equipment for a foreign language instruction laboratory. 
   "I adamantly dislike the manner in which we're handling the FY2007 appropriations process. The year-long CR will hurt programs and project like those I've supported for ENMU," Domenici said. "Because Congress has ceded its appropriations responsibility on FY2007, federal agencies and departments will have more authority to decide where to designate funding. That being the case, I will continue to press the importance of New Mexico priorities."
 
 