BILL WOULD BOOST HEALTH CARE FUNDING IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today introduced legislation that would protect tens of millions of federal dollars directed to the state for health care coverage of New Mexicans.  
   Bingaman's legislation, cosponsored by U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, would ensure that New Mexico is not penalized for taking the bold step of covering more uninsured children before Congress granted incentives to do so through the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) - the state/federal health care initiative that covers millions of children and others nationwide who live above the poverty line. 
   Through the creation of SCHIP in 1997, states were granted additional federal funds to expand coverage to children who did not qualify for Medicaid but whose families could not afford health insurance. But because New Mexico had already expanded coverage to many of those children, it could not make use of all the funding being made available to it without receiving additional congressional authority. This congressional authority has been granted in the past, but has not been made permanent and will expire this year. 
   Bingaman's Children's Health Equity Technical Amendments Act would ensure that this authority is permanent and would make it easier for the state to access the funds. Thus, the legislation would allow New Mexico to keep tens of millions of additional federal dollars per year, allowing the state to provide health care to more young people. 
   "Our state is working to reduce the number of residents who lack health insurance, but there are still too many New Mexicans - especially young people - who do not have health care coverage. This legislation would ensure that our state gets its share of federal health care dollars, giving us an opportunity to cover more uninsured children," Bingaman said. 
   "I supported efforts to expand New Mexico's SCHIP coverage back when Governor Johnson first obtained a waiver from the Bush Administration in 2002. I continue to believe that our state ought to be able to tap into all available funds in order to serve as many children as possible. It makes no sense for the state to be forced to return funds to the federal government when there are those who cannot afford health insurance that are benefiting from New Mexico's program," Domenici said. 
   The bill has been referred to the Senate Finance Committee, a panel on which Bingaman serves. Other states that would benefit from its passage are: Connecticut, Hawaii, Maryland, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Vermont, Washington, and Wisconsin. 
   Other Senate cosponsors are Jack Reed (D-RI), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Norm Coleman (D-MN), Daniel Inouye (D-HI).
 
 