SEN. DOMENICI: FINAL FY2007 FUNDING PLAN MEANS STEADY SUPPORT FOR LABS, ELIMINATION OF OTHER N.M. EARMARKS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the agreement reached to fund most of the federal government in FY2007 suitably treats the national laboratories but is poor news for other New Mexico programs and projects expecting earmark funding this year. 
   Domenici, ranking Republican on the Senate panel that funds Energy Department activities in New Mexico, has been working the past few weeks with the new Democratic leadership, Senate and House appropriators and the Department of Energy to mitigate the impact of a year-long Continuing Resolution (CR) on DOE and National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) weapons activities and the like.  
   The House is expected to take up the year-long CR legislation this week and the Senate could take up the measure next week. The current short-term CR to fund most of the federal government expires Feb. 15. 
   "I adamantly dislike the manner in which we're handling the FY2007 appropriations process, but I have been working to make sure that we ended up with a best case scenario for DOE work, particularly in New Mexico," Domenici said. 
   "I believe the CR is not bad for the Energy Department or the national laboratories. It keeps major priorities, like the weapons program, largely intact. I see no reason why our labs and the NNSA cannot ensure that there will be no need for layoffs this year. The NNSA has committed as much during this process," he said. 
   Domenici noted that his work will mean that the NNSA will move forward with the Chemical and Metallurgy Research Replacement project and environmental cleanup at Los Alamos National Laboratory, and that the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant near Carlsbad is sufficiently funded. 
   "Because Congress has ceded its appropriations responsibility on FY2007, federal agencies and departments will have more authority to decide where to designate funding. That being the case, I will continue to press the importance of New Mexico priorities on departments, like the NNSA, Bureau of Reclamation or Transportation Department," Domenici said. 
   Domenici will meet this week with federal water agencies to outline priorities that should be funded this year. 
   Domenici has been warning New Mexico constituents, who expected an estimated $75 million in (non-DOE) appropriated earmark funding this year, to prepare not to receive federal funding. In the Senate last year, Domenici had secured funding for a variety of projects ranging from funding to expand the dialysis center in Gallup, to agriculture research at New Mexico State University, to airport improvement funds for the Albuquerque International Sunport. 
   Because the Rocky Flats cleanup was completed in FY2006, Domenici helped negotiate in the FY2007 CR a shift of $400 million to new spending priorities and $169 million to fill in the DOE cleanup program such as LANL environmental cleanup. The LANL program was facing a $50 million shortfall in the FY2007 budget request. 
   Funding for DOE Carlsbad Area Office and WIPP will follow the FY2006 funding level, which does not include the $12 million in FY2007 earmarks gained Domenici. These included $3.5 million in community impact funding, $2.0 million for development of the Center of Excellence for Hazardous Materials Management, $5.0 million for the WIPP Records Center and $1.5 million for continued Neutrino Research. 
   "I am already working with DOE to ensure that WIPP is fully funded for the remainder of this year," Domenici said. 
   Domenici said he would work with DOE to have some of these earmarked programs funded this year from within available DOE funding. 
   In negotiations, Domenici pressed for, and gained, sufficient new funding with DOE accounts to support implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, such as $265 million to support nuclear energy R&D including GNEP and Nuclear Power 2010. The agreement also provides an additional $300 million for renewable energy R&D, and adds $330 million toward the President's American Competitiveness Initiative. 
   Under the year-long CR plan, $6.275 billion is outlined for weapons activities, $1.683 billion for nonproliferation activities, and $3.79 billion for scientific research.
 
 