SEN. DOMENICI PLEDGES COOPERATION WITH STATE TO GIVE NEW MEXICO'S WATER SYSTEMS TIME TO MEET ARSENIC STANDARD
  Sen. Pete Domenici today sought to ensure the state of New Mexico's cooperation in allowing more time for small water systems in New Mexico to meet new federal arsenic drinking water standards that went into effect last Monday.  
   In a letter to Governor Bill Richardson, Domenici asked that the state be amenable to giving community water systems in New Mexico more time, without incurring fines, to adhere to new federal arsenic drinking water standards. On Jan. 23, the EPA began enforcing its new standard that requires only 10 parts per billion (ppb) for arsenic contaminants in drinking water. The previous standard had been 50 ppb. 
   Domenici reported to the Governor that he has received assurances from EPA that it "will continue to support the appropriate use of exemptions under the Safe Drinking Water Act as a means to provide additional time for systems to come into compliance." The New Mexico Environment Department has indicated it will continue to accept applications for temporary exemptions. 
   "Fewer than half the systems in New Mexico affected by the arsenic standard have taken action to seek an exemption until they reach compliance. The EPA is willing to work with states and communities, and I trust our state government will also be proactive in helping these water systems find ways to meet this new federal standard," Domenici said. 
   Domenici said he is working with the DOE Arsenic Water Technology Partnership, which includes Sandia National Laboratories, to make affected New Mexico systems aware of the additional time to file for exemptions. (http://www.arsenicpartners.org/) 
   "I appreciate the state's willingness to work with water systems on this issue, and I encourage you to communicate this policy to affected water systems," Domenici wrote Richardson. "Additionally, I urge you to utilize the other options under the Safe Drinking Water Act to help New Mexico's water systems meet drinking water standards. As the EPA points out in its letter, there are 'a range of tools to help water systems come into compliance with the arsenic standard.'" 
   The NMED has to date approved seven exemptions from about 30 applications filed by the more than 80 New Mexico water systems that currently have arsenic contaminants that exceed 10 ppb. Exemptions have been approved for Bernalillo, Rio Rancho, Albuquerque, La Mesa Water Coop (Placitas), Los Lunas, Espa?ola, and the Desert Sands MDWCA (Berino, Do?a Ana County). Approval for additional exemptions is pending. 
   Domenici has aggressively pushed several initiatives to help impacted communities with the arsenic standard. In the FY2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, he provided $12.5 million to support Water Technology Programs at Sandia National Laboratories, which includes $7 million specifically for desalination and arsenic treatment. He also introduced the Community Drinking Water Assistance Act (S.689) to create a $1.9 billion grant program to assist disadvantaged communities, tribes and water associations in meeting the new arsenic drinking water standard.
 
 