NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY GETS SCIENCE EDUCATION RESEARCH GRANT
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that the National Science Foundation has awarded a $799,894 grant to New Mexico State University to research science education methods and their effect on southern New Mexico students.  
   The funds will be directed to the NMSU's project entitled "Stone Age to Space Age--Southern New Mexico Academies for Young Scientists," which is intended to provide 500 southern New Mexico fifth graders with educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Researchers will use information gathered to better understand how these projects affect students' learning in these fields. 
   "As I have stated multiple times in the past, I believe that science and technology education is one of the most important tools we can give our young people to equip them for the future and help our nation remain on the cutting edge," said Domenici. "I have lent my support in the past to measures that support these programs through federal attention and funding. I am pleased to announce this grant for NMSU because it represents an impressive opportunity for southern New Mexico youth to learn more about science and technology, but also because it will help sharpen our ability to provide these youngsters with meaningful learning opportunities." 
   As part of the program, students will receive 150 hours of educational programs that are designed to integrate students and their families outside of the classroom. As a result, researchers hope to better understand student interest and achievement in science, technology, engineering, and math subject areas as well as gauge the interest of teachers when teaching these subjects. 
   Domenici is a long-time proponent of education in subject areas associated with science and technology and has supported measures that focus federal attention and funding on them. He was an author of the bipartisan Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, which has been incorporated into a larger bill, the National Competitiveness Investment Act (NCIA) introduced last October.
 
 