SEN. DOMENICI: SOLUTIONS NEEDED TO CONTROL COSTS OF FIGHTING WILDFIRES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said federal forest management agencies will face increasing budgetary hardships if solutions are not found to keep wildfire control costs from draining their budgets.  
   Domenici today took part in a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing focused on federal land firefighting cost containment. Domenici is the ranking Republican on the panel which received testimony from the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management. 
   "Nearly half the Forest Service discretionary budget is now expended on firefighting and fire preparedness. This cannot be sustained," Domenici said. "The pressure that wildfire containment places on the Forest Service and BLM only makes it more difficult for these agencies to carry out their other work, including Healthy Forests, maintenance and management projects." 
   The USFS and BLM now spend approximately 45 percent of their discretionary budgets on the cost of fire preparedness and fire suppression--a drastic increase from the less than 20 percent expended in the early 1990s. 
   Last year, the U.S. Forest Service spent over $1.5 billion on all fire suppression and nearly $400 million on 20 of the largest fires, while the Interior Department spent approximately $424 million on all fire suppression. 
   The causes of the cost escalation are attributed to the weather, explosive growth of homes within Wildland Urban Interface (WUI), and the lack of local and state governments to address the challenges associated with more people living in close proximity of federal forests. 
   The committee is interested in recommendations made to reduce the cost of federal wildland fire suppression and the reluctance of land management agencies to act on many of these recommendations. 
   "We must look at what is doable and what will require legislation. We must work through contentious recommendations including the prospect of changing how the federal and local governments share the costs of fighting fires in Wildland Urban Interface areas," Domenici said. 
   "I look forward to working with Senator Bingaman and others to find ways to reduce the cost of federal wildland firefighting," he said. 
   There were more than 2,600 wildfires in New Mexico in 2006 that burned more than 607,000 acres. Nationally, there were more than 96,000 wildfire incidents, burning almost 9.9 million acres (about 5 million acres on federal land and 4.9 million acres on non-federal lands).
 
 