SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO BLOCK FILIBUSTER ON JUDGE ALITO, SUPPORTS CONFIRMATION TO SUPREME COURT
  Having earlier taken to the Senate floor to argue the case for Supreme Court nominee Samuel Alito, Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded a Senate vote to block a filibuster of the judge, setting up a final vote Tuesday morning.  
   On a 72-25 vote, the Senate voted to invoke cloture and end debate on Alito's nomination. A group of Senate Democrats had sought to delay the nomination through a partisan filibuster, which has never occurred in Senate history. 
   Domenici implored his colleagues to reject a filibuster and to support Alito's nomination based on his experience, qualifications and judicial temperament. 
   "Judge Alito is qualified to be a Supreme Court Justice. The American public realizes this and that's why they overwhelmingly indicate we should get on with it and vote. It is clear that there's been no nominee that spread before the eyes of the Congress and the public more about themselves, their record, their philosophy, their votes, their rationale, and their ethics, than Sam Alito," Domenici said. 
   "This has turned into nothing more than a political war. Those who voted to continue debate know that this man is as qualified as anyone we're going to see nominated. He's assured to make good decisions for the American people. I regret that this process has turned into the spectacle that it has," he continued. 
   Domenici noted that he did not agree with the philosophy of previous nominees, such as Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer, but voted in favor of their nominations because of their qualifications. 
   Today's cloture vote to block a filibuster marked the first time in Domenici's 34 year career that he had to make such a vote. No other Supreme Court nominee in his tenure faced the threat of a filibuster. A final vote to confirm Judge Alito is scheduled for Tuesday morning. 
   The American Bar Association has given Alito, who served on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals for 15 years, its highest rating.
 
 