SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON HOUSE HEARING ON LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY SECURITY
  In response to the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing regarding Los Alamos National Laboratory, Sen. Pete Domenici, ranking Republican of Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today released the following statement:  
   "I share the frustrations over security failures at Los Alamos that have been expressed by many members of Congress. For many years, I have been involved in the effort to make Los Alamos and all of our DOE national laboratories as strong and safe as possible. I believe strongly in the mission of the lab, and I'm proud of all the work that has been done over the years at Los Alamos to make our nation safer and better. 
   "It is clear that security at LANL must improve. The Department of Energy knows this, and has recently announced two important personnel changes, along with a comprehensive effort to address security at the labs which includes employee drug testing, random searches, a cyber security taskforce, disabling computer ports, and a lab-wide review of cyber policies. 
   "Singling out LANL for security problems may generate headlines, but it is hardly the only government agency to struggle with this issue. Massive amounts of personnel and other private data have been lost by government contractors and even agencies, such as the Veterans Administration. I am quite sure, for instance, that the security procedures at Los Alamos far exceed those here in Congress. A government-wide effort to improve the way data is handled is needed. 
   "One specific proposal that came out of the House hearing is the prospect of legislation to strip National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) oversight over LANL. While I have publicly expressed my belief that NNSA has not lived up to expectations to this point, I do not believe removing its role in oversight is a good idea. Removing NNSA's oversight of LANL and other labs would merely restore all authority to the Secretary of Energy, or lead to the creation of yet another layer of bureaucracy at a department already choking from that very problem. 
   "I look forward to further addressing security concerns at LANL and other labs as well as NNSA administration issues through constructive hearings in the Senate."
 
 