NEW MEXICO SENATORS CELEBRATE FINAL PASSAGE OF BIPARTISAN NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY ACT; BILL NOW GOES TO PRESIDENT
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today celebrated their successful passage of a far-reaching bipartisan national energy policy bill, the first such American policy measure to help the nation become less dependent on foreign energy sources.  
   The Senate today voted 74-26 to complete congressional action on HR.6, the Energy Policy Act of 2005-a massive, bipartisan national energy policy bill that now goes to President Bush to be signed into law. 
   Domenici, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and Bingaman, as the ranking Democrat on the committee, set the tone for an open, transparent and bipartisan process for developing the legislation. This effort was carried over into the successful conference negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   "This bipartisan energy bill will make a real difference to every American. I believe that five years from now, we will look back on an energy bill that will have stabilized energy prices, created hundreds of thousands of jobs, boosted our economy and protected our environment. We will see new varieties of energy that aren't used now become available. From renewable energy, to coal, to nuclear and everything in between, America can look forward to having more of these resources in its energy arsenal," Domenici said. "I am proud of what we've accomplished and I'm proud that Senator Bingaman and I were able to bring us to this point together." 
   "Energy is essential to our everyday lives. We require it in our homes, in our schools, and at our workplaces. This comprehensive bill helps us find new ways to produce energy to meet our future needs, while emphasizes energy conservation," Bingaman said. "This bill isn't perfect, but it will undoubtedly greatly benefit our state and our nation. I want to thank Senator Domenici for working so closely with me to craft a bill that could win broad support from both sides of the aisle." 
   Details of the bill are available at http://energy.senate.gov In general for New Mexico, the measure will strengthen the state's bid to increase renewable energy (wind, solar, biomass, etc.), streamline the permitting process for oil and gas production on federal lands, and enhance energy research carried out by the states national laboratories. It also includes a series of incentives to encourage businesses, government, households and individuals to conserve energy.
 
 