SEN. DOMENICI MARKS 39TH BIRTHDAY FOR MEDICARE, POINTS TO DRUG CARDS AS SIGN OF PROGRAM'S STRENGTH
  Sen. Pete Domenici today marked the 39th birthday of Medicare, while pointing to the recently enacted Medicare prescription drug discount cards as evidence of the program's continued strength and need.  
   The Medicare program was signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson on July 30, 1965. The program was first proposed by New Mexico Senator Clinton Anderson, whose seat Domenici now occupies in the Senate. 
   In December 2003, President Bush signed into law the most significant reform to the Medicare program, making Medicare prescription drug coverage available to 40 million seniors and people with disabilities. 
   While the new benefit will become available on Jan.1, 2006, low-income beneficiaries will receive $600 this year to help them purchase medication. In June, seniors gained access to Medicare-approved prescription drug discount cards in June. The cards give seniors the chance to save 15-30 percent off the retail price of most brand name drugs, with even deeper discounts on generic drugs. 
   "The birthday of Medicare is a cause for celebration because the program is so important to millions of Americans. This year, we have reason to be especially optimistic about Medicare. President Bush has shown tremendous leadership by bring prescription drug coverage to senior citizens for the first time. Already, seniors in New Mexico and around the nation are taking advantage of drug discount cards to save money, and when the full program is enacted in 2006, seniors and those with disabilities will see enormous benefits," Domenici said. 
   Studies have shown that since the Medicare program was enacted in 1965, the average life expectancy has increased from 73 to 80 for women, and from 67 to 74 for men. 
   Thus far, over 4 million seniors have signed up for the drug cards, at a rate of over 100,000 per week. Of that, more than 1 million will receive the low-income credit. Medicare officials report that participation in the drug card program is eclipsing the pace of even the popular State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) when it was introduced. 
   In addition to helping seniors afford their prescriptions, the Medicare reform package signed by President Bush enhances basic Medicare coverage by providing better preventive care. Beginning in 2006, seniors also will get the same kinds of choices that members of Congress and federal employees have to select the coverage that is best for them, including the choice of keeping their Medicare coverage the way it currently is. 
   The bill also creates Health Savings Accounts (HSA's), which are tax-free, portable accounts will help families pay routine medical expenses and provide a tax-preferred means of saving for future health care needs. 
   As a result of the bill, New Mexico can expect approximately $233 million over the next 10 years in increased reimbursements to physicians and hospitals that provide care to a high number of low-income and uninsured patients. 
   By 2006 seniors will be able to choose to stay in traditional Medicare and still get prescription drug coverage or a new Medicare-approved private plan. Seniors without prescription drug coverage may join a Medicare-approved plan that would greatly reduce their yearly drug costs, in exchange for a $35 monthly premium. In many cases, the savings will be even greater.
 
 