SEN. DOMENICI SIGNALS SUPPORT FOR SENATE EXPANSION OF CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today gave his qualified support to Senate legislation that would extend and expand a federal children's health insurance program that he helped create as Budget Committee chairman in 1997.  
   In a brief floor speech, Domenici issued his support for the Senate legislation (S.1893) to reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), a program that will expire Sept. 30 without action by Congress to extend it. Domenici, who helped create SCHIP as part of the 1997 Balanced Budget Act, voted Monday to set in motion the Senate debate on the reauthorization bill. 
   "SCHIP has been a success in New Mexico and around the country. The number of children without health insurance has declined. New Mexico has a terrible problem with uninsured children, and we unfortunately rank poorly for coverage of children. The SCHIP program has helped," Domenici said. 
   "In its current form, I will support the Senate bill passed by the Finance Committee. I have many concerns with the cost of the bill and the way it is paid for. However, I am willing to work on these concerns," he said. "While I support the package before the Senate now, I will withhold my support if the bill is substantially changed or expanded during debate this week in the Senate or if it is changed significantly during the conference with the House." 
   The Senate measure is a five-year plan that would increase funding for the program to $60 billion to extend coverage to 6.6 million children already enrolled in the program and expand it to cover an additional 3.3 million more children without health insurance. Most of these 3.3 million children are currently eligible or entitled to coverage, while only 600,000 come from expanding coverage to higher income levels. 
   There are more than 93,500 children in New Mexico without health insurance, which is about 25 percent of all youth in the state. The committee-passed plan would allow New Mexico to cover children from 133 percent to 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL). 
   The $35 billion expansion of SCHIP in the Senate bill is paid for by increases in the federal cigarette tax, adding a 61-cent levy per pack. The bill would also raise revenue by increasing the tax on cigars.
 
 