SEN. DOMENICI PRESSES DOE ON FY2007 ENERGY BUDGETS
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, today conducted a wide-ranging hearing on Department of Energy's FY2007 budget recommendations for: Energy Supply and Conservation Accounts; DOE Office of Fossil Energy R&D; Nuclear Energy; DOE Office of Science; Environmental Management and Yucca Mountain.
   The following is the text of Domenici's prepared remarks to open the hearing: 
   "Good morning, I would like to thank Dr. Ray Orbach and Secretary Garman for joining us here today to testify on the President's budget for the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2007.
   "Dr. Orbach is Director of the Office of Science and the President's nominee for the newly created position of Under Secretary of Science. Dr. Orbach, it is a pleasure to have you back before the subcommittee.
   "Secretary Garman is the Under Secretary for Energy and Environment and will testify on the budgets for the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewables, the Office of Nuclear Energy, the Office of Electricity Delivery and Reliability, the Office of Fossil Energy R&D and Environmental Management Activities. David, it is nice to see you again, and welcome back to the Committee.
   "In the State of the Union, the President announced the American Competitiveness Initiative and the Advanced Energy Initiative. These initiatives recognize the Department's long term investment in the physical sciences and energy R&D.
   "I am also pleased to see an increasing level of cooperation between the Office of Science and Energy R&D offices to solve our energy needs. I believe the bioenergy and hydrogen initiatives are a good example of this cooperative investment.
   "The American Competitiveness Initiative commits $5.9 billion in FY2007, and more than $137 billion over 10 years to programs that help America retain its leading edge in science, math and technology. The ACI will increase investments in research and development, education, and tax incentives to encourage innovation. Within the Department of Energy this translates to a $505 million increase from FY'06 levels to $4.1 billion in FY2007 for the Office of Science.
   "The President also announced the Advanced Energy Initiative, which aims to reduce America's dependence on imported energy sources and commits $2.1 billion to meet that goal, an increase of $381 million over FY2006.
   "The President recognizes that research and innovation are America's best answer to the voracious global appetite for carbon fuels. And thanks to the work of the Department, our nation will be able to produce more energy from nuclear power, wind, the sun and our own field crops in the coming years.
   "I commend the President for his efforts to make tough choices within the available funds. However, I am concerned about several programs that are vital to our energy independence that did not receive sufficient funding. Specifically, I am concerned about the shortfall in funding for the Nuclear R&D funding, the Clean Coal Power Initiative and several provisions within EPACT that will support deployment of new alternative energy technology demonstrations.
   "In the Office of Nuclear Energy, there are shortfalls in the Nuclear Power 2010 and Next Generation Nuclear Program that will inhibit our ability to fully realize a revival in nuclear power. The NP 2010 program is critical to demonstrating the first-of-its-kind combined Construction and Operating license process with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. This is a cost-shared activity in which the Department isn't living up to its share of the deal.
   "The Next Generation Nuclear Plant received $23.4 million, down $16.6 million. I am concerned that the Department has lost interest in this reactor, despite the fact that it is our best chance to demonstrate nuclear hydrogen production.
   "This budget proposes to cut the Clean Coal Power Initiative from $49.5 million this year to $5 million in 2007. The United States has a 250-year supply of coal and perfecting the technology to burn coal with minimal impact to the environment is critical to our economic and global competitiveness. I question the wisdom of short-changing that program at this point.
   "Another area of concern is the Energy Policy Act. This legislation provided incentives, in the form of loan guarantees, for all new, clean energy technologies including clean coal, biomass and new nuclear power plants.
   "American businesses stand ready to develop new innovative sources of energy under this program, but progress is stalled by delay in providing guidelines for applications.
   "Mr. Garman, I would also like to take issue with other non-energy related programs that failed to receive adequate funding. The first is weatherization and the second is environmental cleanup activities.
   "The weatherization program provides important assistance on a formula-basis to help families cut their energy costs. The $78 million proposed cut will shut off assistance to 33,000 families who are facing rising energy bills at home.
   "I am deeply concerned about the $762 million cut to the Environmental Management program. I recognize that we have completed Rocky Flats this year, but this budget seems to reflect a reversal in the Department's accelerated cleanup strategy. Cuts to virtually all of the defense cleanup sites will certainly push back completion dates and add to the lifecycle costs of these cleanups. In addition, I am concerned about the current status of the Waste Treatment Facility in Washington. I am aware of cost estimates that exceed $11 billion. I hope you can explain to the subcommittee what the Department's strategy for addressing the sky rocketing costs. Finally, I am interested to know how the Department intends to fulfill its commitments under the consent agreement with the State of New Mexico for cleanup at Los Alamos. Funding for this project has been cut by $50 million from FY2006.
   "In closing let me say a few words about Yucca Mountain. I am concerned about the slow progress for completion of this facility. I understand that the license application will not be ready until FY2008. I am aware that the Administration is working on new legislative authorities for the repository, which I intend to introduce on behalf of the Administration. However, if something doesn't arrive soon, I will very likely introduce my own bill. We must get this discussion started.
   "Dr. Orbach and Secretary Garman, you have an important job in front of you in delivering on the President's promise of the American Competitive Initiative and the Advanced Energy Initiative. I wish you the best of luck in this endeavor."
 
 