SEN. DOMENICI: NEW KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE VISITORS QUARTERS WILL BE BUSY AS BASE CONTINUES TO GROW
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the opening of a new visitor's quarters facility is just another harbinger of the growth expected for Kirtland Air Force Base. 
   Domenici and Congresswoman Heather Wilson today joined base officials for a ribbon-cutting ceremony to formally open the facility. The New Mexico lawmakers worked together to secure more than $9.0 million in FY2003 military construction funds to build the facility.
   "Kirtland is getting bigger and better, and this lodging facility is proof of that," Domenici said. "Kirtland will soon be the home to a new Armed Forces Reserve Center and the Air Force Research Laboratory's Space Vehicle Directorate as a result of the 2005 BRAC process. All these activities will mean this visitor's quarters facility will be well used in the years to come."
   The new "Kirtland Inn" will provide temporary lodging for nearly 100 visiting Air Force airmen and officers.
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, supported federal funding for the new facility to relieve backlogs within existing dormitory space at Kirtland. Until its construction, airmen that could not be accommodated on base were housed in off-base quarters--sometimes up to an hour away. Costs associated with this off-based housing exceeded $3 million a year.
   "This new facility will save the Air Force money and ensure that visiting airmen have better access to the base facilities they need," Domenici said.
   Domenici noted that the Senate Armed Services Committee has approved his request for an $11.2 million military construction project to build a new Pararescue/Combat Rescue Officer (PJ/CRO) School at Kirtland. The Kirtland PJ/CRO school provides most of the training curriculum for PJ/CRO personnel world-wide. Enrollment is expected to double in FY2007, so the current facilities, which are 50 years old, are inadequate.
   The Senate is expected to debate the FY2007 Defense Authorization Bill in June, and Domenici is committed to securing actual funding for the PJ/CRO project through the FY2007 Military Construction Appropriations Bill.
 
 