SEN. DOMENICI CRITICAL OF DOE BUDGET TO CUT LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY CLEANUP
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed concerns about proposed cuts to the Department of Energy's environmental cleanup program - spending reductions that are problematic to existing cleanup agreements for Los Alamos National Laboratory. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that today held a FY2007 budget review over a wide-ranging array of DOE programs, including the Office of Science, Environmental Management, and Energy Supply and Conservation programs.
   Domenici praised President Bush's budget commitment to an American Competitiveness Initiative and a recommended $505 million increase for DOE science programs. However, the chairman was critical of a proposed $762 million reduction for Environmental Management accounts, including a $70 million reduction for soil and water cleanup activities at LANL.
   "The President rightly recognizes that research and innovation are America's best answer to the voracious global appetite for carbon fuels. But like the President, we're going to be faced with some tough choices to put resources into DOE programs that will allow us to produce more energy from nuclear power, clean coal, wind and our own field crops," Domenici said.
   "I believe we will end up supporting the competitiveness initiative and the American Energy Initiative, but also readdressing some of the funding reductions sought for programs like nuclear energy R&D, clean coal development and DOE Environmental Management," he said.
   Domenici asked DOE officials to explain how the recommendation to cut $70 million from environmental clean up at LANL will affect a DOE-signed 2005 Consent Order with the state of New Mexico on a cleanup strategy to fully remediate the site by 2015.
   "The budget justification claims that the department has yet to complete its validation of the site baseline in cost estimates. I find it remarkable that the department, which has been onsite for more than five decades, doesn't have an accurate picture of the cleanup responsibilities or cost estimate," Domenici said.
   Domenici also asked DOE to report to him which specific cleanup activities will be foregone if the subcommittee agrees to the funding reduction, as well as any expectations DOE may have for the new lab contractor, Los Alamos National Security LLC, to find cost savings to offset the funding reduction in soil and water remediation.
   During the hearing, Ray Orbach, the nominee to be Energy Undersecretary for the Office of Science, told Domenici that the office would continue its support of the Los Alamos Neutron Science Center (LANSCE) should the National Nuclear Security Administration move forward with a major accelerator refurbishment project at LANL.
   "LANSCE is one of the most powerful linear accelerators in the world, and refurbishment plan would result in a significant lifetime extension for the facility. It is not well known that the Office of Science supports a lot of NNSA research, including about $70 million for LANSCE. So I'm glad to hear there will be a continued commitment for LANSCE should the renovation move forward," Domenici said.
   Domenici is expected to begin developing the FY2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill this spring and into the summer.
 
 