SEN. DOMENICI PRESENTS CHECK FOR TAOS COUNTY 911 COMMUNICATION CENTER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today presented Kit Carson Electric Cooperative with federal resources to create a nearly $3 million 911 Communication Center to serve growing rural communities and better protect area residents during emergencies or threatening situations.  
   During the event hosted by the United States Department of Agriculture, Domenici joined USDA Rural Development State Director Ryan Gleason in presenting the ceremonial check to community leaders of Taos and the management of Kit Carson Electric Cooperative. The USDA grant award and loan will fund a Regional Command, Dispatch, and Homeland Security Center, which will consolidate the region's emergency dispatch and response entities under one roof. 
   "I am proud to be a part of this event in which we acknowledge and fulfill the needs of Taos County and work to enhance the safety of the community and its residents," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 
   "With these federal resources, area first responders and various agencies will have the tools and facilities needed to efficiently serve and protect the region, especially during emergency situations," he said. 
   Taos County first responders and emergency personnel serve a broad region of the state, including the communities of Pe?asco, Questa, Taos Pueblo, Ranchos de Taos, and Red River. 
   With the resources, Kit Carson Electric Cooperative will construct a state-of-the-art facility housing multiple agencies and entities dedicated to managing and responding to emergencies. The community 911 communication center will streamline operations to decrease response time, improve accuracy of dispatch calls, and manage Homeland security issues. 
   The funding for this multi-million dollar project will come out of the USDA Rural Development Community Facility program and will include a $550,000 grant reward, supplemented with a $2.3 million loan.
 
 