SEN. DOMENICI PRESSES TRANSPORTATION AND SECURITY ADMINISTRATION HEAD TO EQUIP ROSWELL WITH STAFF, RESOURCES FOR REGIONAL AIR SERVICE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced Transportation and Security Administration Administrator Kip Hawley's assurance that TSA certification in of support proposed regional air service between Roswell International Air Center (RIAC) and the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) is "on track" for September deadline.  
   In a phone call with Hawley, Domenici impressed upon the TSA administrator the importance of achieving TSA certification, ensuring security and regulatory requirements will be met at the Roswell Municipal Airport in a timely fashion so that the Roswell-DFW flights may begin service without delay. American Eagle Airlines, the regional affiliate of American Airlines, is scheduled to begin nonstop service between DFW and RIAC, beginning Sept. 5. 
   "I am well aware of the rigorous requirements that must be met before this important advancement in southeastern New Mexico's transportation system can begin operations. The Roswell Municipal Airport, in conjunction with surrounding communities and counties has worked hard to make this regional air service a reality. Administrator Hawley has indicated that TSA is on track to have security screening in place to accommodate the service," said Domenici. 
   The conversation followed letters that Domenici sent to Administrator Hawley and Marion C. Blakey, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) administrator, urging them to address security, physical and regulatory needs at the Roswell Municipal Airport to support the Roswell-DFW flights. 
   All FAA regulations governing service have been met, but the Roswell airport must also comply with TSA requirements for airport security operations, including passenger security screening to accommodate regional air service. Domenici asked Hawley to continue working with city officials to determine how the airport can meet Part 121 requirements. Noting that TSA has conducted a preliminary assessment of the Roswell airport, Domenici asked for a report on that initial assessment, and future steps necessary to bring Roswell into compliance. 
   Domenici also wrote Transportation Secretary Mary E. Peters to endorse the Chaves County Development Foundation's application for a $400,000 Air 21 Grant. The Foundation is proposing to use this grant for marketing, promotion, sponsorship and advertising of the passenger air service.
 
 