SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS SUPPORT FOR MAJOR MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR EXPANSION OF COLUMBUS BORDER CROSSING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today formally asked that the Department of Homeland Security get squarely behind a $20 million project to improve and expand a run-down port of entry at Columbus, N.M.  
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, encouraged the agency to support the Columbus improvement proposal in a letter to Commissioner Robert C. Bonner of the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. 
   Domenici asked Bonner to support a General Services Administration (GSA) plan that calls for doubling the size of the port of entry building at Columbus and adding new noncommercial vehicle lanes, expanding the commercial area and constructing a new a Border Patrol detention facility. The project is expected to cost between $20 million and $25 million. 
   "We know of many needs at our border crossings and those at Columbus are among the most pressing on the Southwest border. I want the Department of Homeland Security to acknowledge those needs and to make it a priority to support full funding for Columbus," Domenici said. "The current situation is untenable and not conducive to modern port of entry operations. The existing port is undersized and unable to efficiently process trade and traffic." 
   Domenici noted that the GSA has proposed that the Columbus project be designed in FY2006 with construction beginning in FY2007 or FY2008. 
   "There is a great need for infrastructure and security upgrades at our ports of entry on the Southwest border; this is particularly true at the increasingly busy port in Columbus, New Mexico," Domenici said in his letter to Bonner. "I urge you, on behalf of the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection and the Department of Homeland Security, to support this proposal for the Columbus Port of Entry." 
   The Columbus projects were recommended in a report issued by the GSA, which had been directed by the Senate Appropriations Committee to work with the Homeland Security Department to develop a nationwide strategy to prioritize and address the infrastructure needs at land ports of entry. The New Mexico Border Authority also assisted in developing the plan. 
   The FY2005 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which became law in October, includes $91.7 million for construction, renovation and maintenance of border facilities.
 
 