SEN. DOMENICI: AMTRAK FUNDING FULL STEAM AHEAD WITH SENATE PASSAGE OF REAUTHORIZATION BILL
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined the Senate in approving a bill authorizing federal support for long-distance Amtrak routes, including the two lines that serve New Mexico.  
   The Senate passed by unanimous consent the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2007 (S.294), which authorizes $11.4 billion over the next six years for Amtrak operating costs, capital projects to maintain current operations, and infrastructure. 
   The Senate bill preserves federal subsidies for long-distance Amtrak passenger routes, including the Sunset Limited in southern New Mexico and the Southwest Chief that rolls from Raton to Gallup. 
   "Reauthorization of Amtrak funding has been long overdue. Though this bill is not perfect, it will equip Amtrak with the resources to continue its vital service, while emphasizing economic efficiency and pressing for badly needed service improvements," said Domenici. "I believe this is a good package primarily because it will allow continued passenger train service to New Mexico." 
   Last week, Domenici voted against an amendment, offered by Senator John Sununu (R-N.H.), that would have eliminated federal subsidies for long-distance Amtrak passenger service. The Senate defeated the measure 28-66 last Thursday. 
   The Amtrak reauthorization bill has provisions directing Amtrak to evaluate and rank each route, and develop and implement plans to improve performance. It requires the Federal Railroad Administration to develop a program that could allow rail carriers that own routes used by Amtrak to become passenger rail carriers on those routes in lieu of Amtrak service. 
   If signed into law, it will be the first measure to reauthorize the Amtrak program since its last authorization expired in 2002. 
   Since 2002, Congress has provided $1.3 billion annually for Amtrak. Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds Amtrak, supported an FY2008 appropriation of $1.37 billion for the rail service. This Senate-passed level is $570 million above the administration's request and $76.5 million above FY2007 funding. The House-passed version included $1.4 billion for Amtrak.
 
 