SEN. DOMENICI: MEASURE TO KEEP GOVERNMENT FUNDED WILL PINCH NEW MEXICO LABS, PROGRAMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the measure passed by Congress to keep the federal government funded through Nov. 18 will put a pinch on the weapons programs carried out by the national labs in New Mexico, but indicated a desire to reach a funding agreement with the House soon.  
   The Senate today gave final approval to a continuing resolution or CR that is needed to keep the federal government funded until Congress completes the FY2006 appropriations process. The FY2006 fiscal year starts Saturday, Oct. 1, and the CR will fund programs and agencies through Nov. 18--or until individual appropriations bills become law. 
   Because the CR is written to continue funding at the lowest level possible--the least amount passed by the House, Senate or current FY2005 funding--weapons programs carried out by Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories will face reduced funding. Where the Senate increased lab funding in its FY2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, the House of Representatives reduced funding for the National Nuclear Security Administration--cutting weapons funding by $449 million. The House bill reduced nuclear nonproliferation by $137 million. 
   "I am not pleased with the current funding situation, which will affect the labs and many other federal activities in New Mexico. It's not good, but we can live with this for a short period of time," Domenici said. "We need to redouble efforts to reach an agreement with the House and finalize a FY2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill so there will be no uncertainty as to what the funding the labs will have to carry out their national security missions." 
   "The good news is that we do not expect the funding restrictions in the CR to cause any layoffs at Los Alamos or Sandia," he said. 
   Domenici, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, is leading the Senate team that is trying to reconcile differences in the House and Senate-passed versions of the appropriations bill that funds DOE, the national laboratories, the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant and federal water projects under the Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation. 
   Last week, Domenici warned the White House Office of Management and Budget of the potential negative effects the CR would have on the NNSA and the national laboratories as they try to absorb the $450 million in cuts outlined in the House bill. 
   Absorbing $450 million in cuts would cause the NNSA to miss "key milestones for the life extension program, delay investment in weapons surety initiatives and decimate the computer modeling and simulation activities, which have enabled the U.S. to forego nuclear testing," Domenici said.
 
 