SEN. DOMENICI OPTIMISTIC FOR ACTION ON VALLES CALDERA MINERAL RIGHTS ISSUE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today revitalized legislation to acquire the remaining mineral rights at the Valles Caldera National Preserve and Trust, giving a fresh start to the effort to further protect the area.  
   The Valles Caldera Preservation Act of 2005 is authored by Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and cosponsored by Bingaman, the committee's senior ranking Democrat. 
   Like the bill he introduced last year, the new legislation directs the Agriculture Secretary to negotiate a price for buying the remaining geothermal interests at the Preserve. If negotiations are unsuccessful, the matter would be directed to federal court for resolution. The Department of Agriculture would use available funds to acquire the mineral interests, unless the court sets a higher price, in which case the difference would be paid from the judgment fund. 
   "The start of the new Congress will reinvigorate several bills that could not make it out last year. One of these is the Valles Caldera legislation that heals some long-standing wounds revolving around mineral rights ownership on the Preserve. I am eager for Senate action on this bill to protect the area for the future and enhance the beauty of the land," Domenici said. 
   "This bill sets out a plan to resolve mineral rights ownership issues once and for all," said Bingaman, the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "I hope we can move this bill through the Senate quickly." 
   Among other things, the bill also clarifies the Valles Caldera National Preservation & Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act of 1999 (S.1892) in terms of employment classifications, and resource management and funding authority. 
   Domenici expects to gain quick Committee and Senate approval of the bill this year. 
   In 2000, Congress passed S.1892 authorizing the federal purchase of the 95,000-acre Baca Ranch and provided $101 million to buy the property.
 
 