SEN. DOMENICI WELCOMES DYNAMIC AGENDA OUTLINED IN BUSH'S 2006 STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, tonight praised President Bush's State of the Union address for presenting the public with a dynamic agenda to ensure the American economy and way of life through innovation.  
   "President Bush set out a serious and dynamic agenda for the country, particularly on energy and American competitiveness in the world. Both of these are critical to the future of our way of life," Domenici said. "This is a sharp departure from past speeches. Traditionalists may be disappointed that oil and gas weren't the centerpieces of his energy remarks, but the President is absolutely right to map out an expanded strategy in alternative energy." 
   "We aren't going to displace foreign oil next year, but the President's moving us in the right direction and he's challenging us to use all our talents and resources to solve the problem. The President clearly recognizes that American ingenuity and technology are our best answer to the voracious global appetite for carbon fuels," he said. 
   "He builds on the energy bill by doubling the investment in bio-refinery research. That's a smart move. If we can figure out how to affordably refine ethanol from cellulosic biomass, particularly without using a lot of heat, we solve our oil problem and our oil refinery problem," he said. 
   Domenici said the United States must tap more oil shale while moving forward with the President's initiatives on alternative fuel research. 
   "The President matches his initiatives in transportation fuel with an emphasis on new nuclear power, clean coal, solar and wind energies," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also commended the American Competitiveness Initiative outlined by President Bush, which is closely akin to broad bipartisan legislation authored by Domenici and Senators Bingaman, Alexander and Mikulski. These efforts are aimed at ensuring America's competitive edge in the world, particularly by encouraging more youth to study math, science, and engineering. 
   The competitiveness issue will also be the focus of President Bush's scheduled visit to the Albuquerque area on Friday. The Protecting America's Competitive Edge Act (S.2197, S.2198, S.2199) is now sponsored by 60 Senators. 
   "The President tonight continued his theme of America rising to the challenge by making it clear that maintaining American competitiveness around the globe is one of his top priorities. The administration, over 10 years, will invest $50 billion in research, education and workforce training to maintain our leading edge. I share the President's grave concern and congratulate him for his vision and leadership," Domenici said. 
   "We must develop the brain power of America to meet the challenges of the future. There is a strong bipartisan commitment in the Senate to fixing this problem. I look forward to working with the administration to implement the President's plan and complement it with our legislation," he said. 
   Finally, Domenici noted President Bush's remarks on border security and immigration reform. 
   "It is clear something must be done about border security and illegal immigration. In the past year, the administration and Congress have dramatically increased the number of border patrol agents," Domenici said. "In the coming months, we must work together to find a solution that addresses those who are in this country illegally right now which recognizes their contributions, but doesn't reward them for subverting the legal immigration process."
 
 