SEN. DOMENICI WANTS TO STOP PLANNED MEDICAID SERVICE CUTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today added his support to legislation to stop a federal agency from implementing severe cuts to Medicaid case management care that is important to the disabled, mentally ill and foster care children.  
   Domenici is an original cosponsor of a measure (S.2578) that would delay implementation of new Medicaid regulations that would cut funding for case magement and targeted case management (TCM) services that currently help disadvantaged individuals receive essential medical, social, and educational services. The bill was introduced by Senator Norm Coleman (R-Minn.). 
   The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Servcies (CMS) has issued an interim final rule on TCM, attempting to implement budget savings mandated by Congress in the Deficit Reduction Act. The Coleman bill would prevent CMS from implementing the regulations until April 1, 2009, allowing CMS time to review and redraft these changes. 
   "The situation facing people who are poor and facing difficult health needs could be needlessly complicated with these new regulations. The plain fact is that the CMS went too far and exceeded congressional intent to craft rules that weeded out fraud and abuse. These new rules must be reworked and done right," Domenici said. 
   The TCM rule, if implemented this spring, would affect state time frames for the assessment of individuals in need of special services, including the mentally ill, as well as services under child welfare and foster care systems. 
   "Implementing these new regulations in such swift and drastic fashion could undermine the ability of many states and localities to assess and determine appropriate action for countless cases," said Domenici. "Congress should quickly take steps to pass this legislation so that Medicare and Medicaid can determine how to best serve those who benefit from their services." 
   Fellow Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Benjamin Cardin (D-Md.), Ken Salazar (D-Colo.), and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) also cosponsored the Coleman bill. 
   Domenici has consistently advocated for improved efficiency for Medicare and Medicaid. Last year, he joined Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) to introduce the Social Security and Medicare Solvency Commission Act (S.355) to create a permanent, 15-member commission to make recommendations on how to best save both entitlement programs and force Congress to take decisive action within a fixed timeframe.
 
 