SEN. DOMENICI: FIX SCAAP & PAY LOCALS FOR JAILING CRIMINAL ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today cosponsored legislation to ensure that states and counties are more fully reimbursed--and in a timely manner--for costs they incur for incarcerating criminal illegal immigrants.  
   Domenici is supporting two bills introduced by California Senator Dianne Feinstein to improve the effectiveness of the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP)--a program used by a number of counties throughout New Mexico. The program now is troubled by slow reimbursement times and restrictive eligibility intpretations within the Department of Justice. 
   "We need to improve SCAAP so that it works better for those law enforcement agencies that are racking up costs associated with illegal immigrants who commit crimes. Local law enforcement must absorb much of the cost associated with housing illegal immigrants who have committed a crime, thus diverting funds from other crucial local public safety needs," said Domenici. 
   The Justice Department has interpreted the SCAAP law to limit reimbursements to only costs associated with jailing illegal immigrants who have been convicted of a crime, and not those charged with crimes. The first Feinstein bill would restore the original intent of the SCAAP law to ensure states and localities also receive payment for costs associated with incarcerating illegal immigrants who have been either charged with or convicted of a felony or two misdemeanors. A similar measure, HR.1512, was unanimously passed by the House Judiciary Committee late last year. 
   Because reimbursement times sometimes extend almost two years, the second bill would provide SCAAP reimbursement within 120 days of the application deadline. The House version of the bill, HR.3836, was introduced late last year. 
   "Both of these legislative changes will help state and local authorities to successfully cope with some of the costs associated with illegal immigrants picked up because of criminal activities. Both should work to ease the burden placed on local agencies and help them maintain other necessary local law enforcement efforts," he said. 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate subcommittee that funds Justice Department programs, has supported federal funding for the SCAAP program, including $410 million for the program as part of the FY2008 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. 
   In recent years, SCAAP funding has been paid to the state of New Mexico and at least 17 counties: Bernalillo, Chaves, Colfax, De Baca, Lea, Otero, Rio Arriba, Santa Fe, Taos, Do\xF1a Ana, Grant, Hidalgo, Luna, Quay, Roosevelt, Sierra and Valencia.
 
 