SEN. DOMENICI'S N.M. WATER PLANNING BILL CLEARED BY ENERGY COMMITTEE
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today approved legislation authored by Sen. Pete Domenici to make additional federal aid available to New Mexico as it works to sort out its water future. 
   The New Mexico Water Planning Assistance Act (S.255) is now ready for consideration by the full Senate. The legislation, cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, authorizes the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) and U.S. Geological Survey to provide specific technical assistance to the New Mexico Office of the State Engineer (OSE) for assessing water resources in New Mexico and their future use. 
   "We want the federal government to be able to share its expertise with New Mexico as serious efforts are made to better understand the scope of our water resources and how best to apply them for our state's future growth," Domenici said. "I'm pleased that this facet of my plan to help New Mexico deal with its water issues is moving forward." 
   "New Mexico communities planning for their long-term water needs would benefit from this legislation," said Bingaman, Senate Energy Committee chairman. "The bill has already cleared its first hurdle, and I hope we can continue to advance it through the Senate quickly." 
   S.255 authorizes the state of New Mexico to receive technical assistance from the BOR and USGS, and authorizes $3.0 million per year for 2008-2012 for the OSE to perform hydrologic models of New Mexico's most important water systems, basins and tributaries. 
   The technical and financial assistance will help the OSE acquire hydrologic data, assess existing water resources, coordinate efforts with federal water management initiatives, and assist with numerical analysis and modeling to provide an integrated understanding of water management options. 
   Domenici is ranking Republican on the Energy Committee, as well as the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds federal water agencies. Domenici authored similar legislation in the 109th Congress, and it separately cleared both the Senate and House, but no singular measure was sent to the White House to become law. 
   Domenici has also introduced, with Bingaman's support, the New Mexico Aquifer Assessment Act (S.234) authorizing the USGS to assess groundwater aquifer resources in the Estancia Basin, Salt Basin, Tularosa Basin, Hueco Basin, and Middle Rio Grande Basin in New Mexico.
 
 