SEN. DOMENICI MEETS WITH BUREAU OF REC TO PUSH N.M. WATER PRIORITIES
  In the wake of losing FY2007 funding specifically allocated for water projects in New Mexico, Sen. Pete Domenici today met with federal water officials to press them to complete ongoing projects such as the desalination project in Tularosa Basin, silvery minnow refuges near Albuquerque and emergency water wells around the state.  
   Domenici is ranking Republican on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Bureau of Reclamation, Army Corps of Engineers and other federal agencies that oversee water projects. Today he met with Mark Limbaugh, Interior Department Assistant Secretary for Water and Science, and Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Bob Johnson to discuss New Mexico water project priorities. 
   "New Mexico is looking to its near and long-term future as an arid, water-thirsty state. The Bureau has sway in how water is managed in our state, and I wanted to stress to the agency's leadership just how important it is to move forward on these projects," Domenici said. 
   Domenici was encouraged to learn that the Bureau should complete development of the Tularosa Basin Desalination Facility in Otero County this spring. This facility will focus on developing more affordable and effective desalination processes. 
   The meeting comes on the heels of an agreement by Democratic House and Senate leaders on a year-long FY2007 Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the federal government through Sept. 30. That CR eliminates all earmarked funding, including money gained by Domenici for water-related projects in New Mexico. The CR does, however, provide a five-year extension for BOR desalination research. 
   "New Mexico has vast untapped stores of brackish water. Being able to take advantage of this resource will require developing affordable desalination technologies. I am pleased the USBR is on schedule to complete the facility in February so that testing of promising desalination technologies can get underway," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also pressed the Bureau to complete construction of the "off-channel" sanctuaries on the middle Rio Grande as one means of promoting survival of the endangered silvery minnow. The Bureau reported that Phase 2 construction should be completed by March, with Phase 3 to take about nine months to finish. Following the completion of Phase 3 and operational tests, they can begin operation of the facility. 
   Domenici also encouraged the Bureau to complete as expeditiously as possible the drilling of emergency water wells in Ruidoso, Cloudcroft, Capitan, and Las Vegas. Domenici worked with the Bureau to drill the wells after these communities, as well as Ruidoso Downs, faced water disruption this summer due to severe drought conditions. Only the Ruidoso Downs well has been completed. 
   "The wells are desperately needed to provide a reliable supply of water to these communities," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also received assurance that the USBR will be on schedule to promulgate criteria for a new law he authored--the Rural Water Supply Act which will assist in constructing new rural water systems and repairing worn-out water infrastructure.
 
 