CONGRESS SET TO PASS MAJOR WATER BILL WITH SENS. DOMENICI-BINGAMAN PROVISIONS FOR N.M. PUEBLOS
  Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced Congress is set to approve a major national water resources bill that includes a provision they wrote to engage pueblos in the operation and maintenance of flood control projects in the middle Rio Grande region.  
   A conference of Senate and House negotiators has reached a final agreement on legislation to reauthorize the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). Final approval by both the House and Senate could occur as soon as this week, allowing the bill to be sent to President Bush to become law. 
   "New Mexico has long anticipated a new WRDA bill and with the projects our state will now be able to better manage critical water resources and development projects," said Domenici. "Our provision for the pueblos will help streamline operations by authorizing the Army Corps of Engineers to work directly with individual tribes to efficiently and effectively maintain important civil works programs." 
   "Under this proposal, the federal government will be able to work directly with New Mexico pueblos to perform habitat restoration projects and water operations that will improve the health of the Middle Rio Grande," Bingaman said. 
   The provision authored by Domenici and Bingaman will make it possible for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to enter into cooperative agreements with New Mexico pueblos, allowing the pueblos to play a greater role in assisting the Corps with operation and maintenance activities on flood control projects. 
   At the Senators' urging the WRDA bill also reauthorizes the Corps' Tribal Partnership program, which expired last year. The Tribal Partnership program allows the Corps to perform watershed assessments and study flood damage reduction and environmental restoration projects on tribal lands that will substantially benefit New Mexico's tribes and pueblos. 
   WRDA authorizes appropriations for water resource projects, study authorizations and policy modifications for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. Domenici is the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that provides funding for WRDA-authorized projects.
 
 