SEN. DOMENICI APPLAUDS ARSENIC EXEMPTION FOR BOSQUE FARMS, URGES NEW MEXICO ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT TO WORK WITH OTHER RURAL COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded action taken by the New Mexico Environment Department this week that will result in granting Bosque Farms an exemption to strict new federal arsenic standards. 
   Domenici has repeatedly called for more assistance from NMED for communities struggling to meet the new 10 parts per billion (ppb) standard for arsenic in drinking water. Compliance with the standard, which took effect in January, has been virtually impossible for many small communities and water systems that lack the financial resources needed to implement changes. Bosque Farms becomes the eighth water system to receive an extension or exemption.
   "The news this week that Bosque Farms has received an exemption to the new arsenic standard is promising. The NMED compliance and extension requirements to this point have been unnecessarily tough on communities that simply can't afford to make dramatic changes. NMED needs to take advantage of the flexibilities offered by the EPA to help economically challenged, rural communities. I hope that this approval is a sign that NMED will take action on the applications it is currently holding," Domenici said.
   Last week, Domenici wrote Governor Bill Richardson to urge him to instruct NMED to use the more lenient EPA-suggested guidelines to help alleviate compliance and economic hardships rather than self-imposed guidelines.
   On Monday, Domenici will make opening remarks at a briefing that he is hosting along with the National Rural Water Association on the science behind the current EPA arsenic standards. The briefing will occur at 1:30 pm in room 366 of Senate Dirsken Office Building and is open to the public.
   The Senator also said that he was prepared to hold a public meeting with the EPA, the state of New Mexico, agencies from other states, and communities and water systems which cannot meet the new standard.
   By the time the new EPA rule became effective in January, NMED had approved just seven exemptions from about 30 filed. Bosque Farms was among the communities which had applied but had not received exemption action from NMED because the agency was demanding additional detailed information. There are about 80 New Mexico water systems that will have to meet the new EPA standard at an estimated cost exceeding $500 million.
   "The new arsenic standard is just plain tough on our communities. Exemptions will provide extra time so that water systems and communities can secure financing and determining the best way to meet the standard for their system. I hope that NMED will continue to work with the EPA, my staff, and the affected communities to develop plans, gain exemptions, and implement the full range of flexibility for the arsenic standard under Federal rules," Domenici said.
   Domenici has been working with the DOE Arsenic Water Technology Partnership to make affected New Mexico systems aware of the additional time to file exemptions and provide advice as to the best way to file paperwork with the State. The partnership involves Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, WERC, New Mexico Rural Water, Rural Community Assistance Corp., and American Water Resources Research Foundation.
 
 