SEN. DOMENICI: U.S. LEADERS, PUBLIC MUST NOT SHY AWAY FROM TACKLING GROWING ENERGY CRISIS
  In a tough speech to civic and business leaders today, Sen. Pete Domenici said the growing energy crisis facing the United States demands that the nation's leaders-along with the public-not shy away from seeking solutions now. 
   Domenici discussed major policy and economic challenges facing the country in a speech to the Greater Albuquerque Chamber of Commerce Thursday. Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, focused his speech on energy policy, but addressed the increasingly costly and troubled Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare systems.  
   "Leaders are responsible for looking forward, for seeing challenges and addressing them head-on even before solutions are clear," Domenici said. "As we look forward to the coming decades, we can take the view that the challenges facing Social Security, health care costs, and energy supply are not immediate and do not meet the definition of a crisis. I think that truly is like putting one's head in the sand." 
   With New Mexicans now paying record-high prices for gasoline, and global energy prices reaching unprecedented heights, Domenici said the immediate and long-term energy outlook is not likely to improve. He said growing American dependence on imported oil not only hits family pocketbooks at the gas pumps, but is also contributing to a rising trade deficit and the falling value of the U.S. dollar. 
   "The media is avidly following gasoline prices. These prices will rise and fall depending on the season, refinery capacity and a number of other issues. However, the trend upward is permanent. Prices for oil, natural gas, coal and uranium are at record or near-record levels. In each of these areas, we face serious challenges," Domenici said. "The impact of our dependence is not simply felt in the energy and transportation sector. It is, and will continue to be, felt economy wide." 
   Domenici indicated he will actively promote bipartisan and comprehensive national energy legislation in the Senate this spring. The plan will be developed on the premise that the United States-expected to import almost 70 percent of its oil needs by 2025-must aggressively embrace policies to maximize domestic production of all types of energy. 
   "It is impossible for this country to be energy independent. And our energy predicament is even bigger when we consider that other nations with expanding populations and growing GDPs are catching us," Domenici said. 
   "Total world demand today is about 85 million barrels per day. Just meeting the increased demand from China will require an almost 10 percent increase in world production by 2025. And the economies of India, Korea and Indonesia are all booming. Simply put, people around the world want what Americans have had for decades: abundant energy. Unfortunately, the days of abundant and cheap energy may be over," he said. 
   His new American energy policy, Domenici said, will be realistic and futuristic about the potential energy production capacity for all types of resources, including renewable energy, clean coal, shale oil, nuclear energy and hydrogen. He said legislation will promote conservation and more energy efficient automobiles including hybrid vehicles. 
   "The Energy Bill gets criticized from all sides. Many say we are not doing enough. There is also a camp that says we are doing too much, believing the free market will eventually solve all these problems," Domenici said. "I cannot support a policy of simply waiting." 
   The full text of Domenici's prepared remarks are included below. 
   U.S. Senator Pete V. Domenici 
   Greater Albuquerque Chamber of Commerce 
   March 29, 2005 
   I once heard Henry Kissinger give a speech in which criticized American policy-makers for focusing too much on little matters and not enough on matters of strategic importance. 
   It does seem to me, particularly in these days of 24 hour news and talking heads, that Americans and policymakers focus on the most minute details of interesting stories but, in doing so, we seem to have lost a sense of the bigger stories; of the trends, and of the strategic issues facing the country. 
   Individuals and nations have a tendency to put off for another day truly challenging issues - I understand that natural inclination. But it seems to me that we are now so able to fill our minds with immediate issues that we have pushed strategic matters not just to the back of our minds but actually out of our minds. 
   A terrific example is Social Security. Whether you like President Bush's proposal for private accounts or not, he deserves tremendous credit for insisting that we start now to think about the problems Social Security faces in the future. 
   In his effort to force us to think about Social Security, the President said the program faces a crisis. Others claim there is no crisis - they say we have no problem until 2042 - so now we are debating what constitutes a crisis. 
   It almost reminds me of that famous line, "it all depends on what your definition of 'is' is." 
   The facts about Social Security are pretty straightforward. Since 1982, pay-role taxes have collected more than needed to fund annual Social Security costs. Those excesses are nominally held in the Social Security Trust Fund which has sufficient balances to pay full benefits through 2042. 
   Almost everyone recognizes that, beginning in 2042, we are going to have to do something to reduce Social Security expenses or increase Social Security taxes. 
   But, in fact, we face a problem sooner. In order to pay current expenses, the Treasury has borrowed all the money in the Social Security Trust Fund and spent it on other things - the military, medicare, you name it. 
   Beginning in 2018, annual Social Security receipts will not be enough to meet annual Social Security obligations and so the Trust Fund, which has been loaned to the Treasury, will have to begin being drawn down. 
   The Treasury will pay back the Social Security Trust Fund as needed. However, in order to do so, we are going to have to either cut expenses elsewhere, raise taxes, or borrow the money needed to repay the Trust Fund. 
   Those are going to be extraordinarily difficult budget years. Let me describe for a moment just what we are going to face in the area of health care costs as we are trying to pay-back the Social Security Trust Fund. 
   Today, Medicare and Medicaid cost $485 billion per year. That is about 21 percent of all federal spending. 
   In 2025, those two programs will cost $2.2 trillion per year. That will be about 33 percent of all federal spending. 
   Try to imagine for a moment what it will be like trying to write a budget with health care spending increasing at that rate while, instead of borrowing from the Social Security Trust Fund, the Treasury suddenly has to start paying it back beginning in 2018. 
   After spending that much of my talk on Social Security and healthcare, some of you are going to be surprised to find out that I did not come here today to talk to you about those issues. I want to talk about energy, but I need you to understand that, whether you want to call it a crisis or not, the energy problems we face in the coming decades are bigger than the problems we face with regard to Social Security and health care. 
   There is no question that, when I left the Chairmanship of the Senate Budget Committee to become Chairman of the Energy Committee, I took on a much more challenging position. 
   Let me give you some facts - I will confine them just to oil -- to set the stage - you can decide for yourself if we face an energy crisis: 
   Today the U.S. consumes about 20.5 million barrels of oil per day. By 2025, that number is forecast to rise to 27.9 million barrels per day. 
   Today, 58 percent of our oil is imported. Because U.S. production is in decline and because our demand keeps rising, by 2025, we will import 68 percent of our oil. 
   The impact is not simply felt in the energy and transportation sector - it is felt economy wide. In 2004, our Merchandise Trade Deficit was $651.52 billion - $166.11 billion or 25.5 percent of that deficit was from oil. All those dollars flowing overseas are part of the reason the value of the dollar is falling - that is why imported goods cost more. 
   It is impossible for this Country to become energy independent. Just so you realize, the United States has produced an extraordinary amount of oil from our lands over the last 100 years. However, today, we have only 1.7 percent of the world's proven oil reserves left. 
   However, a bigger problem with regard to energy - and oil is a good example - is that other nations with rapidly expanding populations and economies are catching up to us. 
   Chinese demand for imported oil is 2.42 million barrels per day today. In 2025, it will be 9.4 million barrels per day. 
   To give you some idea of what that could do to prices, you need to understand that total world demand today is about 85 million barrels per day. Just meeting the increased demand from China will require an almost 10 percent increase in world production. And you need to understand that China is not alone - the economies of India, Korea, Indonesia are all booming. 
   The problem may compound itself. Because the U.S. has been the world's largest purchaser of oil for decades, oil is priced in dollars. In part, the recent run-up in prices has been due to the 30 percent decline in the dollar against other currencies - as the dollar has been worth less-and-less, oil exporting nation's have demanded more per barrel. But I worry that oil might one day be priced in Euros or Chinese Yuan and be much more closely tied to the economies of Asia than of the United States. 
   Simply put, people all around the world want what we have had for decades; abundant energy. Unfortunately, the days of abundant AND CHEAP energy may be over. 
   The newspaper and television reporters follow gasoline prices - in parts of the California, gasoline is now over $3.00 a gallon. 
   Prices will rise and fall depending on the season, refinery capacity, and a number of other issues. However, the trend upward is permanent. 
   What you may not know is that today, prices for oil, natural gas, coal, and uranium are at record or near record prices. In each of those areas, we have serious challenges. 
   Utility CEOs have told me for example, that they are uncertain as to what kind of new power plants to build: 
   1. Natural gas-fired plants are easy to build and cheap, but natural gas prices are three times what they were just a few years ago. 
   2. Coal plants are expensive to build but relatively cheap to operate. Unfortunately, any executive considering a coal plant has to seriously wonder what sort of Clean Air or carbon regulations will be in affect in the future. 
   3. Nuclear plants produce our cheapest, most reliable electricity, but no CEO wants to be the first one to bet the company that the construction costs won't balloon like they did for plants under construction when Three Mile Island occurred. 
   I strongly believe that the United States needs a serious energy policy to prepare itself for what I believe is coming in the next several decades. 
   Some politicians will tell you we need to become energy independent. I will tell you that is absolutely impossible. 
   Some politicians will tell you that we need to build windmills and solar farms. I used to think those proposals were simply a way to duck the serious issues. 
   Renewable energy today provides less that 2 percent of our nation's energy, and I think some people fail to understand what it will take to really increase that number. 
   Let me give you a few facts. 
   1. One of those new, 300 foot tall windmills can produce up to 1.5 megawatts of power. 
   2. To produce the 1500 megawatts equivalent to a modern reactor or coal plant would require approximately 1000 windmills. 
   3. Spaced far enough apart to work effectively, those 1000 windmills would have to cover about 10 square miles. 
   4. The federal government already has a subsidy in place for wind - the Production Tax Credit - and companies are building windmills as fast as possible. 
   5. The current forecast is that by 2025, windmills will cover 670 square miles of the U.S. - if lined up in a row they would stretch 5000 miles - and still only provide 3.7 percent of our electricity demand. 
   Even with subsidies, renewable energy sources simply cannot meet much of our future demand. 
   However, I am a strong supporter of wind and renewables - we need everything we can get. It is the same reason I am a proponent of clean coal, of nuclear power, of drilling in ANWR. 
   I also am a proponent of greater efficiency in the use of energy. We can make significant gains in efficiency in almost all sectors of the economy including more efficient turbines at power plants, new technologies to reduce losses during the transmission of electricity, and all sorts of more efficient motors and appliances. 
   I am very pleased that today there is strong consumer demand for fuel efficient and hybrid-powered cars. I hope that trend continues, and I hope American manufactures develop more cars to meet that market. 
   While I hope to avoid it now, if we do not continue to make progress in that direction, it may eventually be necessary to go through another round of increasing CAF? standards. 
   CAF? standards are tough. For those of you who followed the last Presidential election, you will recall that Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Missouri were all battleground states. Those happen to also be car manufacturing states. 
   Higher CAF? standards are opposed by free-market Republicans, United Auto Worker-friendly Democrats, and anyone who wants to win the electoral college. 
   Let me talk about some of the solutions to our energy problems. 
   I believe the future of our electricity generation is really fairly simple. Coal currently generates 51 percent of our electricity, and no serious energy policy contemplates that number being reduced much in the future. However, burning coal and all other fossil fuels has serious environmental consequences. 
   We need to build cleaner coal-fired power plants. The technology exists to turn coal into a gas immediately before it is burned. That allows massive reductions in traditional pollutants like mercury, SOX, and NOX. It also means the exhaust from the plant is at very high pressure. That high-pressure carbon-dioxide could then be injected deep into the ground and be sequestered if we decide we need to regulate carbon emissions. 
   I think we need to massively expand our nuclear fleet. Nuclear power is safe and clean. We do not have a permanent solution to spent nuclear fuel, but we can safely store it indefinitely. 
   Nuclear power also holds the promise of producing a new fuel for the transportation sector. 70 percent of our oil consumption goes into transportation and a serious energy policy has to have a vision for replacing the fossil-fueled internal combustion engine. 
   I believe that future is hydrogen. Nuclear plants can run all day long producing electricity during the hours of peak demand and then produce hydrogen for our cars at night when the lights are off. 
   The Energy Bill gets criticized from all sides. Many say we are not doing enough. But there is also a camp that says we are doing too much. They say the free-market will eventually solve all these problems. 
   For example, proponents of the free market do not worry about increasing oil prices. They correctly point out that the United States has massive reserves of oil shale. That is oil trapped in rocks that is not currently economic to produce but will be as prices rise. 
   When prices get high enough, proponents of the free-market argue, demand will go down - consumer will buy more fuel efficient cars without being forced to by higher CAF? standards - and oil shale production will come on-line. 
   Oil shale is a tremendous opportunity. Most of world's known reserves are in North America - somewhere between 600 billion and 1.5 trillion barrels of oil might be produced depending on price and technology. 
   However, I cannot support the policy of simply waiting for prices to run-up high enough to make oil shale economic. That might work in academia, but in the real world that would mean gasoline would be too expensive for the ordinary consumer. 
   It would mean working families could not afford to drive to work and that the price of transportation would drive inflation across the economy. 
   The free-market is a wonderful, powerful force. However, when transitions occur in free-markets they are not smooth and frequently are not peaceful - there is a huge amount of commotion before they become stable again. 
   There are cases in which the government has tried to intervene in energy markets with terrible results - the Fuel Use Act and synfuels corporation are frequently derided as complete failures. 
   However, today, we generate over 20 percent of our electricity with nuclear power. It is the cheapest, cleanest, safest, and most reliable electricity source we have. It is the result of a huge federal effort in nuclear technologies largely driven by Admiral Rickhover's nuclear Navy program. 
   Incidentally, the U.S. Navy operated over 100 nuclear reactors on ships around the world without incident. They are absolutely incredible feats of engineering. We can now put an aircraft carrier to sea, and it will not need to be refueled for 25 years. 
   As we look out of the coming decades, we can take the view that the challenges facing Social Security, healthcare costs, and energy supply are not immediate and do not meet someone's definition of crisis. 
   I think that truly is like putting one's head in the sand. 
   Leaders are responsible for looking forward, for seeing challenges and addressing them head-on even before solutions are clear. 
   That is why I commend the President for forcing us to examine our Social Security policies and why I am going to spend the next several months pressing as hard as I can for America to understand the challenges we face with regard to energy.
 
 