SEN. DOMENICI: DOT ANNOUNCES ESSENTIAL AIR SERVICE FOR CLOVIS, SILVER CITY
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that the Department of Transportation (DOT) has officially selected Great Lakes Aviation, Ltd. (Great Lakes) to provide subsidized essential air service (EAS) from Clovis and Silver City.  
   Between May 1, 2007 and April 30, 2009, Great Lakes will provide 12 weekly nonstop round trips to Albuquerque from both Clovis and Silver City, for a combined subsidy of $2,365,290. 
   "Air service to Albuquerque is extremely important to the communities of Clovis and Silver City. I am pleased that the Department of Transportation has resolved this matter and that subsidized essential air service will allow rural communities to maintain current standards of flight service," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Transportation, Housing and Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "The subsidized service will provide an important link to our nation's transportation system for smaller towns and rural areas that aren't in close proximity to major airports. I join these communities in thanking Secretary Peters and DOT for their work to make this happen," said Domenici. 
   In late March 2007, DOT selected Great Lakes Aviation Ltd. to provide subsidized essential air service to Clovis and Silver City for two years. The service would have provided 18 one-stop round trips per week to Denver from Clovis, and would have provided 12 nonstop weekly round trips to Phoenix from Silver City. Both communities expressed concern that no flights would be provided to Albuquerque. 
   Domenici wrote to Transportation Secretary Mary Peters, asking DOT to address the lack of service between Clovis and Silver City and Albuquerque, New Mexico's largest city. At the request of Senators Domenici and Bingaman, DOT reopened the process for new proposals in April. 
   The EAS program is operated by the Department of Transportation. It was created to ensure that small rural communities are continually provided with a level of air service concurrent with their needs and to connect them with the national transportation system. The current program helps to provide commuter airline service for 140 rural communities nationwide. To read the DOT's order to select Great Lakes Aviation, please visit: http://www.regionalaviationpartners.org/Home/pdf/5.31.07EAS_NM_carrierselection.pdf
 
 