SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEXICO HIGHLANDS UNIVERSITY INSTITUTE TRAINING NEW CADRE FOR CARRYING OUT FOREST, WATERSHED RESTORATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici visited an ecological restoration program operated through New Mexico Highlands University to learn more first-hand about the forest and watershed restoration activities he has supported with federal funding.  
   Domenici visited the New Mexico Forest and Watershed Restoration Institute (NMFWRI) at NMHU Thursday, where he received a tour of the new Ivan Science Technology Building and was briefed by students on NMFWRI activities to promote forest health and restoration. Since its inception in 2004, Domenici has worked to secure more than $500,000 in federal funding to support this environmental education program. 
   "It was a pleasure to see the progress being made in forest restoration activities. For too long, we allowed our forest to become overgrown and endangered through mismanagement. It is good to know that such programs are now teaching a new cadre of people dedicated to forest health and restoration. More importantly, the people in this program are learning how cooperation is needed to make good progress," said Domenici, who has used his position on the Senate Appropriations Committee to gain U.S. Forest Service funding for the Institute. 
   "New Mexico's forests are an important asset that must be protected and well managed. Strife or neglect can only lead to serious problems like blight and catastrophic wildfires," he said. "Fortunately, we have some bright minds at NMHU looking for ways to preserve watersheds and forest resources for today and the benefit of future generations." 
   During the visit, Domenici was briefed by students Roger Griego and Jason Martinez, both NMHU senior forestry majors, concerning the program and their work to learn about restoration-based forest thinning, viable forest product industries, watershed-based planning, and forest monitoring. 
   NMFWRI collaborates with private and public entities to provide information on forest and watershed restoration and promote ecological restoration and forest management efforts in New Mexico. The Institute functions within a consortium of fellow institutions-Northern Arizona University (NAU) and Colorado State University (CSU)-that together comprise the Southwest Ecological Restoration Institute. 
   Last month, Domenici announced $250,000 in FY2007 U.S. Forest Service funding for NMFWRI activities at NMHU, building on an early $250,000 award granted in FY2006. Both NAU and CSU also received funds to support their work in the institute. The Institute has also received significant funding from the state of New Mexico. 
   The Southwest Ecological Restoration Institute was formed as a result of the Southwest Health and Wildfire Prevention Act of 2004 (P.L. 108-317), which authorized institutes at NMHU, NAU, and CSU to work with other institutions and entities toward comprehensive ecological restoration. Domenici played a pivotal role in securing passage of the bill as then-chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   Domenici is now the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. He is also a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which is pivotal in determining funding for land management activities, including those carried out by the U.S. Forest Service and other federal land agencies.
 
 