SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEXICO TO RECEIVE $8.2 MILLION FOR HOMELAND SECURITY
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that the Department of Homeland Security has allocated $8.2 million for homeland security efforts in New Mexico for FY2006. 
   The funds were included in the FY2006 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, which Domenici helped draft as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. Domenici is also a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee, which has oversight of DHS and its programs.
   The allocation is split through four different homeland security grant programs, which are designed to give states the opportunity to enhance their ability to prevent, protect against, respond to and recover from terrorist attacks, major disasters, and other emergencies.
   "I'm pleased that New Mexico will receive a significant share of the funds allocated by DHS provided during last year's appropriations process. Keeping in mind that the laboratories and associated facilities are secured through other departments, the $8.2 million provided should be a substantial help to our state government and local law enforcement entities charged with keeping us safe," Domenici said.
   Domenici said that New Mexico will receive $4.53 million though the State Homeland Security Program which funds statewide homeland security implementation activities. In addition, $3.29 million will be provided as part of the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program, which focuses on law enforcement and public safety activities such as intelligence gathering and sharing.
   New Mexico will also receive $232,330 as part of the Metropolitan Medical Response System, which plans and prepares the medical response for a catastrophic event, and $217,993 for the Citizens Corps Program, which promotes citizen preparedness.
   As a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici will begin working on the FY2007 DHS Appropriations this summer.
 
 