SEN. DOMENICI: $6.2 MILLION ISSUED FOR WATER PROJECTS IN SOUTHERN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has award nearly $6.2 million in grants for water and waste disposal-related rural development projects in southern New Mexico.  
   The grants and low-interest loan will support projects in Chaparral, Anthony, Columbus, Bayard, and Lordsburg. 
   "The USDA Rural Development Program is essential for small communities to develop much-needed infrastructure, particularly for wastewater programs. This group of grants will help communities across southern New Mexico afford improvements that are necessary to maintain an appropriate quality of life," said Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   Do?a Ana County will receive a $1.66 million grant for the installation of a wastewater collection and treatment facility plant for Chaparral. The facility will process up to three million gallons a day and will include a surface irrigation facility. 
   The town of Anthony will receive $629,093 in grant funding for the redirection of the method of disposal of effluent, or wastewater discharge, with the goal of pushing the material toward the river. A loan of $341,000 is also provided to help with the project. 
   The village of Columbus will receive $2.76 million in grants for three projects, including $1.14 million for wastewater system improvements for 87 new users, $1.02 million for a new facility to process effluent and $601,096 to support Phase I of a Reverse Osmosis water treatment and a 400,000 gallon storage tank. 
   The city of Bayard will receive a $1.0 million grant to replace and repair portions of the wastewater collection system, which has been damaged due to a low water table as a result of severe drought conditions. 
   The city of Lordsburg will receive a $737,134 grant to support Phase I of water system improvements that will include better well infrastructure and a new, 60,000 gallon water storage tank. 
   The USDA Rural Development program achieves its mission by helping rural individuals, communities and businesses obtain the financial and technical assistance necessary to address their diverse and unique needs.
 
 