SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES DRUG FREE COMMUNITY GRANTS TO 10 NEW MEXICO ORGANIZATIONS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced that 10 New Mexico organizations focused on community activities meant to keep children drug-free-including groups in Albuquerque and Torrance County-have been awarded $988,491 in federal grants.  
   In the Albuquerque area, Domenici said the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) has awarded Drug Free Community Support Program grants to New Mexico Voices for Children in Albuquerque ($100,000), the Albuquerque Partnership ($100,000), and Torrance County ($90,710). 
   "These drug-free grants will enable local, community-based coalitions to curb illegal drug use among our youth. The goal is to harness the power of the community to work together toward a common goal of keeping our kids off drugs, alcohol and other illegal substances," Domenici said. 
   "Methamphetamine and other illegal drugs remain a threat to children in New Mexico, which is why we must cast a wide net to address the law enforcement, treatment and education aspects needed to contain the problem," he said. 
   In addition to the Albuquerque-area grants, the ONDCP also awarded grants to: Carlsbad Community Anti-Drug/Gang Coalition ($100,000); Hands Across Cultures Corp. of Espa?ola ($100,000); North Central Community-Bases Services Inc. in Chama ($97,781); Lea County ($100,000); San Juan Partnership Inc. in Farmington ($100,000); Presbyterian Medical Services in Gallup ($100,000); and the Wellness Coalition in Silver City ($100,000). 
   The goal of the Drug Free Community Support Program is to support programs that increase citizen participation in activities to prevent youth alcohol, tobacco, illicit drug and inhalant abuse. 
   Domenici, as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has worked to support anti-drug programs in New Mexico. In addition to supporting this program, he has worked to expand the High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program, which now incorporates 16 New Mexico counties affected by illegal drug activities. The Southwest Border HIDTA program now involves Bernalillo, Sandoval, Valencia, Chaves, Do?a Ana, Eddy, Grant, Hidalgo, Lea, Lincoln, Luna, Otero, Rio Arriba, San Juan and Santa Fe counties.
 
 