SEN. DOMENICI: RURAL NEW MEXICO PATIENTS, DOCTORS BENEFIT FROM UNM TELEHEALTH CLINIC
  Sen. Pete Domenici today visited a clinic that uses high-tech telecommunications advances to help physicians in rural areas to treat a chronic liver disease that kills New Mexicans at rate higher than anywhere else in the nation.  
   Domenici, a long-time promoter of telemedicine initiatives, received a briefing and demonstration Wednesday on the scope and goals of the Project ECHO (Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes) at the University of New Mexico Health Science Center. 
   Project ECHO is being used to assist medical caregivers in nine mostly-rural hospitals and community health care clinics in New Mexico in treating patients with the Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) or cirrhosis-diseases that afflict more than 32,000 New Mexicans. New Mexico has the highest rate of death due to chronic liver disease and cirrhosis in the United States. 
   "Project ECHO is a great example of technology being put to good use to help people. It is simply impossible for hospitals and clinics in rural areas to offer the same breadth and quality of care as a major medical center like UNM. Telehealth projects like ECHO ensure that no matter where a patient is located, he or she can have access to the best opinions, diagnosis and treatment available," Domenici said. 
   Domenici sat in on a demonstration of the project in which doctors at UNM consulted with physicians treating Hepatitis C patients across New Mexico. The project also encompasses treatment of patients in Indian Health Services facilities, corrections facilities and some private practices. 
   "Technology gives us the ability to bring the best care to rural areas, and the promising advances being made by Project ECHO can eventually be applied to other chronic and complex diseases, like diabetes, that affect people in medically underserved areas," Domenici said. 
   Project ECHO currently works with the Indian Health Services facility in Santa Fe, three facilities in Las Cruces, the state prison at Los Lunas, the Espanola-based Health Care Centers of Northern New Mexico, the First Choice clinic in Albuquerque's South Valley, Hidalgo Medical Services in Silver City, Pojoaque Primary Care, El Pueblo Health Services in Bernalillo, and the St. Francis Family Medical Center in Carlsbad. 
   In May, Domenici addressed the New Mexico Telehealth Alliance Conference, reiterating his support for expanding telemedicine services. Domenici was responsible for the creation of New Mexico Technet that helped develop New Mexico's Telehealth program which uses telecommunications and information technologies to transmit vital health information between and among healthcare experts and patients. 
   Domenici secured initial federal funding that helped launch the University of New Mexico's Telehealth Outreach for Unified Community Health (TOUCH) program with over $2.25 million between FY2000 and FY2002. TOUCH applies virtual reality technology for simulating actual telehealth scenarios. 
   A member of the Senate Rural Health Care Caucus, Domenici has also supported the Office for the Advancement of Telehealth at the Department of Health and Human Services. This office coordinates and promotes the use of telehealth technologies by fostering partnerships between federal agencies, states and private sector groups to create telehealth projects.
 
 