SEN. DOMENICI COMMENDS $1.7 MILLION TO FIGHT DOMESTIC VIOLENCE IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded over $1.7 million in grant funds to help provide treatment, medical advocacy, and counseling services for victims of domestic and child violence.  
   DOJ is providing a total of $1,752,651 to the Pueblo of San Felipe, Legal Forms and Courthouse Services (FACS), and the New Mexico Coalition Against Domestic Violence through the Rural Domestic Violence and Child Victimization Grant Program. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee that sets funding levels for the DOJ and its programs. 
   "It is important that this funding be provided to help women and children in their continued battle against domestic violence," said Domenici. "These resources are needed to help inform communities and families of their options if they are faced with these unfortunate circumstances." 
   The Rural Domestic Violence and Child Victimization Enforcement Grant Program helps rural areas form partnerships between law enforcement and community organizations. 
   The Pueblo of San Felipe, a tribal government, will use the $380,703 grant to provide assistance to victims of domestic and dating violence. The funds will also develop education and prevention strategies to inform of services, educate the public, and promote a strong community response to those kinds of violence. 
   Legal FACS is a non-profit organization that will apply the $471,948 awarded to continue a project in Bernalillo, Sandoval, Torrance and Valencia counties that continues advocacy services, including a 24-hour advocacy line and public education and training for victims. 
   The New Mexico Coalition Against Domestic Violence, a non-profit statewide coalition, will use the $900,000 to implement a new project to expand advocacy services, provide job training, and inform the public of immigration rights.
 
 