BILL TO CLARIFY CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS OF PUEBLO LANDS REINTRODUCED
  Legislation authored by Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman and supported by New Mexico's House delegation to clarify prosecutorial jurisdiction on pueblo lands has been reintroduced in the Senate.  
   The bill, which would remove the possibility of "prosecution-free zones" in New Mexico, was introduced today by Domenici. In the House, a companion bill has been introduced by Rep. Tom Udall. 
   The legislation would amend the Indian Pueblo Land Act of 1924 and pertains to serious criminal acts within the exterior boundaries of a pueblo. It clarifies when a crime should be prosecuted in federal, tribal or state court. Recent federal and state criminal cases have left open the question of who prosecutes serious crimes committed on private lands within Indian Country. 
   The Indian Country prosecution provisions were crafted by Domenici and Bingaman in consultation with pueblo leaders, the U.S. Attorney's office, and others. They were included in a larger technical corrections bill cleared by the Senate Indian Affairs Committee but not acted on by the full Senate. 
   "This legislation addresses a critical problem. There should not be any place in New Mexico where a person could commit a crime and not be prosecuted. The bill we have put together clearly outlines who is responsible for trying cases, and it also respects tribal sovereignty. I'm pleased to work with Senator Bingaman and the rest of our delegation to move this bill forward, and I'm thankful for all the effort that the pueblos and the state put in to put this language together," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee that has jurisdiction over the bill. 
   "This legislation would make it clear that there is no place in our state where a person can commit a crime and expect to get away with it," Bingaman said. "I appreciate the assistance of all the stakeholders who helped us develop this bill." 
   The bill, recognizes the pueblos' inherent power over certain criminal offenses committed by a member of the pueblo or another federally-recognized Indian tribe or entity. Federal prosecution would occur for serious criminal acts - as described in chapter 53 of title 18, U.S. Code*. The state of New Mexico retains jurisdiction over offenses not covered under federal jurisdiction. 
   "Recent court decisions have created uncertainty and the potential for a void in criminal jurisdiction on pueblo lands. Because of the risk to public safety and law enforcement arising out of this uncertainty, it is important to clarify the scope of criminal jurisdiction on pueblo lands," Rep. Tom Udall said. "I share the concerns of tribal leaders who have urged Congress to step in and resolve this legal quandary. I will work with other members of the delegation to see that we can enact a solution this year." 
   "The federal government has a unique responsibility to tribes and pueblos," Rep. Heather Wilson said. "We have a responsibility to protect tribal sovereignty from encroachment by the state. This bill recognizes the pueblos' rights in certain criminal cases within a recognized Indian tribe." 
   Rep. Steve Pearce added: "This common sense legislation will serve to clarify the criminal jurisdiction in the exterior lands of Pueblo grants that would otherwise be left to lawlessness and the inability to prosecute criminals." 
   * (a) Any Indian who commits against the person or property of another Indian or other person any of the following offenses, namely, murder, manslaughter, kidnapping, maiming, a felony under chapter 109A, incest, assault with intent to commit murder, assault with a dangerous weapon, assault resulting in serious bodily injury (as defined in section 1365 of this title), an assault against an individual who has not attained the age of 16 years, arson, burglary, robbery, and a felony under section 661 of this title within the Indian country, shall be subject to the same law and penalties as all other persons committing any of the above offenses, within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States.
 
 