SEN. DOMENICI: RISING U.S. ENERGY CONSUMPTION MAKES NEEDS FOR NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY MORE CRITICAL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said all indicators point to continued increases in American energy production, a fact that - when matched with growing global demands for more energy - increases pressure on Congress to pass a national energy policy. 
   As chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Domenici today led a hearing on "Forecasting the Future: U.S. Energy Challenges in the Global Context." The hearing, featuring testimony from the Energy Information Administration, came a day after President Bush's State of the Union plea for congressional action on a national energy policy. 
   The committee received testimony on the EIA's Annual Energy Outlook 2005 report, which provides supply, demand and price projections for oil, natural gas, nuclear, coal and renewable resources. The hearing also covered emerging world energy trends, including the key factors affecting energy supply and energy demand. 
   "As far as I can tell, the United States will never be energy independent. The fact is we need to become more dependent on the energy resources we have and control, and become less dependent on foreign sources," Domenici said. "We will try to set ourselves on such a course with an energy bill. The President in his State of the Union Address demanded we finally get this done, and the EIA report gives us evidence that our energy predicament is one of the most serious problems facing this nation." 
   EIA estimates that Americans consumed 20.5 million barrels a day of petroleum in 2004. Total 2005 petroleum demand is projected to grow by 400,000 barrels per day, or 2 percent, to an average 20.9 million barrels per day. EIA estimates that U.S. petroleum demand in 2025 will be 27.9 million barrels a day. Natural gas consumption is projected to increase from 21.9 trillion cubic feet in 2004 to 30.7 trillion cubic feet in 2025. 
   "World demand is projected to increase from 82 million barrels a day to 121 million barrels a day in 2030. Where will it come from? How will the United States get what it needs, and how will the competition for that oil affect its relationships with our allies and rivals? These are very serious matters that we can address in an energy bill," Domenici said. "We must heed the call to diversify and expand America's energy sources, or accept that we are going to face some very bleak times economically." 
   As part of his effort to further his argument that Congress must act on an energy bill, Domenici and ranking committee member Democrat Senator Jeff Bingaman issued a call for proposals from industry, government, public interest groups and private citizens to address the challenge of developing and using coal in an environmentally-friendly manner to help meet growing U.S. demand for electricity. The proposals will be reviewed by committee staff and the most promising ideas will be discussed at a half-day conference scheduled for March 10. 
   Proposals must be received electronically by close of business on February 14. Later this week the committee will issue guidelines for the written proposals, which can include proposed legislative language. Staff contacts for the conference are J. W. Peschke and Jennifer Michael. Electronic inquiries should be sent to Coal_Conference@Energy.Senate.Gov.
 
 