SEN. DOMENICI APPLAUDS CONFIRMATION OF JUDGE GONZALES TO BE FIRST HISPANIC U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today cast his vote for Judge Alberto Gonzales before the Senate confirmed the Texas native to be the first Hispanic to serve as Attorney General of the United States.  
   Gonzales, a former Texas Supreme Court justice and counsel to the President, was confirmed 60-36 by the Senate to take the reins as head of the Department of Justice and the chief law enforcement officer of the federal government. 
   "I put my trust in Judge Gonzales to do a first-rate job as our new Attorney General. He was not nominated just because he has a Hispanic surname but because he is qualified in every sense of the word for this job. I proudly cast my vote to confirm him," Domenici said. 
   "I look forward to working with Judge Gonzales after his swearing in and the positive influence I believe he will have on the judicial branch," he said. "The approval of Gonzales to one of the highest, most prominent positions in the country is testament to the representation of minorities in this administration." 
   With Senate confirmation, Gonzales also becomes the first American of Hispanic descent to serve in the President's cabinet as Attorney General. Prior to the confirmation vote, Domenici argued twice on the Senate floor for Gonzales, whose nomination came under harsh criticism for his role as counsel to the President George W. Bush. 
   "The hours of criticism about discourse within the Justice Department about the treatment of terrorists has been off -base. I find that the most authentic interpreters of the Geneva Convention conclude that it does not apply to terrorists. It has been unfair for his detractors to assert that Alberto Gonzales promoted or implicitly promoted torturing captive terrorists," Domenici said. "I believe a lot of the opposition was based on thin legal arguments and partisan politics." 
   Judge Alberto Gonzales was commissioned as Counsel to President George W. Bush in January of 2001. Prior to serving in the White House, Gonzales served as a Justice of the Supreme Court of Texas and was the Texas Secretary of State. 
   Gonzales has garnered support from numerous Latino organizations, including the League of United American Citizens, National Council of La Raza, Hispanic National Bar Association, United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, and the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.
 
 