SEN. DOMENICI LAUDS RELEASE OF FIRST FUNDS FOR NISAC FACILITY CONSTRUCTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for releasing $250,000 that will jump start the construction of a new building for the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC) at Kirtland Air Force Base.  
   As a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici included language in the FY2005 Homeland Security Appropriations bill directing the Homeland Security Department to obligate $7.5 million in funding that he secured in FY2003 to construct the NISAC facility at Kirtland. Domenici has urged the Department for years to issue the funds that would allow this construction to proceed. 
   "This is great news for NISAC because these funds really jump start the initial steps to get construction on this new building rolling. After completing an environmental analysis of the site and reviewing different design work, I think we will see real progress on this facility," Domenici said. 
   "Disruptions in the nation's infrastructure could be gravely detrimental, whether it be economic interruptions, property destruction, or loss of life. I'm ready to get this project moving so we can further fortify the nation's infrastructure against outside influences," he said. 
   The funds will be used to complete a site layout, facility design, environmental assessment, and to develop construction cost estimates. The project is scheduled to take three months and will conclude with a final report that included a recommended course of action for future projects. 
   NISAC is designed to utilize the computing expertise of both Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories to find better ways to protect inter-dependent critical infrastructures in the United States, such as electrical grid, telecommunications, energy and transportation networks. NISAC will be a DHS operated facility. 
   The FY 2005 Appropriations bill also includes $20 million to support NISAC, a joint collaboration between Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories. This designation was $4 million above the President's request and House bill.
 
 