SEN. DOMENICI MOURNS DEATH OF LONG-TIME NEW MEXICO AIDE POE CORN OF ROSWELL
  With great sorrow, Sen. Pete Domenici today announced the death of Poe R. Corn of Roswell, his long-time aide and southern New Mexico field director.  
   Corn, who joined Domenici's field staff in May 1980, passed away Tuesday evening at his home following a lengthy illness. As southern New Mexico field director, Corn oversaw Domenici's staff and work throughout the southern half of the state. His wife Nancy is also a southeast New Mexico field representative for the Senator. 
   Domenici issued the following statement regarding Poe Corn: 
   "I am thoroughly saddened by Poe's loss. Poe Corn was a trusted friend and staffer for almost 30 years and he never ceased to amaze me with his optimism. No matter what the problem, no matter how poor the speech, he was eternally optimistic. What made him very special was that he embodied optimism with unquestioned competence. He dedicated those traits to serving his country and his state. 
   "New Mexicans, especially those in the eastern and southeastern parts of our state, have been very well served by this man. Poe made my job and the lives of many people so much better with his service. He was a Vietnam veteran, which made him able to understand the needs of our military bases and veterans. He came from a large, well-established family in Chaves County, which gave him a lot of insight into the farming, ranching and energy industries that dominate the region. And most importantly, he was a down-to-earth fellow who never forgot the little guy. 
   "My wife Nancy and the entire Domenici staff extend our deepest condolences to Nancy Corn and the entire Corn family. It is hard to lose such a wonderful man, but we can take comfort in the knowledge that his suffering is over and that his legacy will be long and lasting." 
   Among Corn's most recent accomplishments were leading Domenici's efforts to find a new mission for Cannon Air Force Base and promoting the Character Counts program in Chaves County. Corn will also be fondly remembered for his quick work to secure emergency National Guard feed drops to ranchers after the Christmas 1998 snowstorm.
 
 