SEN. DOMENICI REVIEWS ANIMAS-LA PLATA PROJECT PROGRESS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today visited Animas-La Plata water conveyance sites, including Farmers Mutual Ditch and Lower Valley Users Water Clarification Plant, both of which play key roles in serving the immediate and long-term domestic and agricultural water needs of northwest New Mexico. 
   Domenici began his tour at the site of a landslide on the northern bank of the San Juan River near its juncture with the Animas River that in April buried the Farmer's Mutual Ditch, cutting off Animas-La Plata water for irrigation to 600 farmers and domestic water to 9,600 residents west of Farmington. Domenici had helped clear the way for emergency repairs, which were completed within about a month with state emergency funds just before water reserves for domestic use were exhausted.  
   "The Farmers Mutual Ditch is a vital lifeline for water in the San Juan Basin and it is vulnerable to this type of natural disaster. While the immediate problem has passed, we need to find a permanent solution. I commend the resiliency and dedication of the managers of this ditch system and those many other members of the community that helped restore water," Domenici said, specifically commending regional oil companies, the Bureau of Land Management, Army Corps of Engineers and Fish and Wildlife Service. 
    As part of his San Juan County tour, Domenici was briefed by the Bureau of Reclamation on the Animas-La Plata construction project. He also received reports from San Juan Water Commission representatives and other leaders representing communities benefiting from Animas-La Plata water, including the Navajo Nation. 
   "I am pleased to see the Bureau make progress on the Animas-La Plata project, which is of great importance to northwest New Mexico communities. Animas-La Plata will settle one set of American Indian water claims and provide a stable source of water to meet the domestic and irrigation needs of the San Juan basin," said Domenici. 
   "The Farmington-Shiprock pipeline will be a vital channel in the region, and I look forward to coming back to Farmington and celebrating its completion. I will continue to work with my colleagues through the Senate appropriations process to fund the project to construction's finish," he said. 
   Key components of the Animas-La Plata Project include construction of a pipeline from Farmington to Shiprock to replace the current pipeline and replenish water supplies for municipal uses. Under the project, the Ridges Basin Dam, an outlet and channel which will create Lake Nighthorse, will also be completed. A pump station in Durango is also underway, which will allow water to be conducted from the Animas River to fill Lake Nighthorse. 
   Many communities in the San Juan Basin rely on water from the Animas or San Juan Rivers, designated as Animas-La Plata water, and use it for agriculture or domestic purposes. The San Juan Water Commission represents and protects the interests these communities, including 10 water associations. The communities and entities paying a percentage of the total construction costs will receive storage space in the reservoir and a share of the annual water. 
   The estimated total cost of the Animas-La Plata projects is currently $564 million. Domenici, who is ranking member on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, has consistently supported funding for the Animas-La Plata project, including the $63 million included in the Senate's FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill to continue construction of the project. With consistent appropriations of $58 million per year, the project could be completed in 2012. The Energy and Water bill has been approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee, and will next be considered by the full Senate.
 
 