SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES FIRST CONTRACT TO HELP NEW MEXICO COMMUNITIES OVERCOME WATER SHORTAGES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the issuance of a first contract funded with emergency funding he secured that will help the town of Ruidoso Downs drill a new well to provide water to its residents. 
   On Monday afternoon, the Bureau of Reclamation signed a contract with Stewart Brothers Drilling Co. of Milan to drill a new water well for Ruidoso Downs. Work is expected to begin later this week on the project which could cost an estimated $1.1 million. The project will be completely funded through the Bureau of Reclamation's Drought Emergency Assistance Program.
   "The Bureau has correctly recognized the seriousness of the water situation for residents in Ruidoso Downs and other Lincoln County communities. I am proud of the fact that the city leaders in Ruidoso Downs have made quick work of getting with the Bureau to access the federal emergency assistance that is now available," Domenici said.
   "I am hopeful that this is only the first such contact that will be signed to ensure that people have access to water for day-to-day living during this drought," he said.
   Less than a month has passed since President Bush signed into law the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, which included $9.0 million Domenici secured to fund the Bureau of Reclamation's Drought Emergency Assistance Program. This program is used to provide emergency water and water-related resources assistance to communities suffering from drought-related water shortages.
   Since the bill was signed June 16, Domenici has been working with mayors in Ruidoso Downs, Ruidoso, Capitan, Cloudcroft and Las Vegas to coordinate application for the drought aid. These communities are facing water shortages and have imposed strict water restrictions on residents. In addition, the Senator has worked with the Bureau and the New Mexico Office of the State Engineer to ensure that reviews and permit processes are streamlined.
   "I am very concerned about the water situation in our state and the disastrous implications for affected communities threatened by serious water supply disruptions. I have contacted the Bureau and asked that it give primacy to New Mexico communities and to make every effort to process requests in an equitable and expeditious manner," Domenici said. "The Ruidoso Downs contract is an indication that help is on the way."
   This program is designed to allow the Bureau to help states, tribes and some nonprofit organizations find ways to minimize the losses and damages associated with severe drought situations. This work includes on-the-ground relief for states including well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, and water banking, and conservation. Congress agreed to Domenici's request and reauthorized this program for another five years.
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee which has funding jurisdiction over the Bureau of Reclamation. As an appropriator, Domenici has also supported FY2007 funding to help farmers and ranchers survive the ongoing severe drought.
 
 