SEN. DOMENICI: BANDELIER VISITOR CENTER UPGRADES FUNDED INI SENATE BILL AFTER YEARS OF DELAY
  Sen. Pete Domenici on Monday reported that $2.3 million has been included in a funding bill to push the National Park Service to move forward with long-overdue renovations to the Bandelier National Monument. 
   Domenici, who on Wednesday will visit the Jemez Pueblo, said the funding has been approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee as part of the FY2007 Interior Appropriations Bill. Renovation of the visitor center to address deferred maintenance, accessibility, and safety issues was originally scheduled to start in 2004 and Domenici complained when the Park Service indicated that work might be put off until 2008.
   "We still have a few hurdles to clear, but I am very pleased that we are making headway to have resources available to renovate the Bandelier visitor center. This national monument is a key draw for the region and suitable Park Service facilities are a must. These repairs are long overdue," said Domenici, who serves on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee.
   The FY2007 Interior Appropriations Bill is now ready for full Senate consideration. Overall, the Senate bill includes $1.75 billion to support the National Park system nationwide.
   Bandelier is the most frequented National Park site in northern New Mexico, and is visited by more than 230,000 visitors a year. The visitor center is the only public facility in the park, and is the entry and exit location for 80 percent of the park's visitors.
   On Wednesday, Domenici will travel to rural Sandoval County to help the Jemez Pueblo launch two important water projects--a new community water treatment system and an arsenic water treatment demonstration project. The arsenic project is the fourth such project in New Mexico funded through Domenici's chairmanship of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee to find more affordable ways to meet strict new EPA arsenic standards. (11 a.m., Wednesday, July 5, Walatowa Youth Center, north end of Jemez Pueblo intersection of N.M. Highway 4 & Bear Canyon Road.)
 
 