SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEXICO, LOUISIANA ENERGY SERVICES AGREEMENT BRINGS DECONVERSION FACILITY CLOSER TO REALITY IN LEA COUNTY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today issued the following statement regarding an agreement reached by Louisiana Energy Services (LES) and the State of New Mexico that requires LES to dramatically limit the storage and disposal of byproduct from a uranium enrichment plant proposed to be built near Eunice. 
   As chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici has worked on legislative language that will ensure that the depleted uranium tailings will not be stored in New Mexico for any length of time.
   "I appreciate the Governor's help on this matter. Last year, I included legislation in the Consolidated Appropriations Act that would require the federal government to take title to this material and move it out of the state," Domenici said. 
   "The efforts by the Governor and Attorney General provide a belt and suspenders approach to solve this issue. With my legislation and this agreement, it is clear that uranium tails will not remain in New Mexico. I am pleased to have their support," he said.' 
   Domenici has been a strong advocate for the National Enrichment Facility (NEF), which will create more than 200 permanent jobs that will bring an estimated $13 million in pay and benefits. It will also create over 400 construction jobs while the $170 million facility is completed. 
   "The agreement today between LES and the State of New Mexico signals the beginning of what I believe will be a tremendous economic boost for Lea County and a solid partnership with the community. New Mexicans in the area have thrown their overwhelming support behind the initiative and waste storage concerns have been met with a comfortable solution," Domenici said. 
   "With these behind us, we are on a solid course to bring the uranium enrichment plant to Eunice. This venture will make a real contribution to energy independence without compromising the integrity of land, air, and water resources," he continued. 
   The new NEF will use the world's most advanced, energy-efficient and cost effective uranium enrichment technology. The facility will allow the U.S. to have a domestic source of enriched uranium for the country's commercial nuclear power plants. Construction is expected to be completed in 2013.
 
 