SEN. DOMENICI LAUDS SANTA FE WATERSHED PROGRESS, WANTS OTHER AT-RISK N.M. WATERSHEDS IDENTIFIED
  Sen. Pete Domenici has applauded the significant progress made on the Santa Fe watershed as it nears the final stretch of the project to thin dangerously dense acres of foliage in order to preserve the safety of a primary Santa Fe source of water.  
   Domenici addressed Forest Chief Dale Bosworth at a hearing for the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which he chairs, to review the FY2006 budget requests for the U.S. Forest Service. The Forest Service budget was further examined this morning at a hearing for the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, on which Domenici also serves. 
   "This project has been a long time coming but we are seeing the light at the end of the tunnel. The watershed was densely overpopulated with ponderosa pine and fir trees and posed a serious hazard to the city's water supply. I applaud the progress made to make it safe," Domenici said. 
   "I have asked the Forest Service for an assessment of other watersheds in the state that are at risk and could benefit from a similar thinning project. I remain pleased with the strides that have been taken to reduce perilous fuels and restore the security of the watershed," he said. 
   The Santa Fe watershed is 17,250 acres of mostly federal land that remains entirely uninhabited and closed to all public use. In the watershed, the Santa Fe River flows through the Pecos Wilderness to fill two reservoirs, Nichols and McClure, which supply Santa Fe with approximately 40 percent of the city's water. 
   "Keeping these areas dense welcomes the possibility of an insatiable fire coming in and not only destroying the land but defiling Santa Fe's water. Should the Forest Service recognize other watersheds in New Mexico as vulnerable, I would support implementation of this kind of project to ensure the longevity of our watersheds," he said. 
   Last summer, Domenici toured the forest thinning project in the Santa Fe watershed with Mayor Larry Delgado and members of the Forest Service. As a member of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici has secured $1.5 million in each of the last three appropriations cycle to support this project.
 
 