NEW MEXICO LAWMAKERS ADVOCATE FORMER SAN ILDEFONSO GOVERNOR TO LEAD INTERIOR DEPTARTMENT'S INDIAN AFFAIRS
  Sen. Pete Domenici, and Reps. Heather Wilson and Steve Pearce today advocated the nomination of former San Ildefonso Pueblo Governor John Gonzales to lead the Interior Department's Indian Affairs programs, including the Bureau of Indian Affairs.  
   Gonzales was endorsed for the job-officially Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs-in a letter sent by the New Mexico lawmakers to the White House Office of Presidential Personnel. 
   The Assistant Secretary position would entail administering the federal government's American Indian programs, including the BIA. The BIA employs about 10,000 workers nationwide, providing services for approximately 1.4 million American Indians and Alaska Natives. It also carries out federal trust responsibilities for the 558 recognized tribal governments. 
   "The experience, intellect and character of John Gonzales make him extremely qualified to be nominated Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs," the letter said. 
   "A graduate of MIT and Stanford, John has served as governor of his pueblo and has been otherwise actively involved in Indian Affairs for almost three decades," the lawmakers said. "In all of these experiences, John developed an innate understanding of the issues important to tribal members across the country." 
   A Santa Fe native, Gonzales earned a masters degree in city planning from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology-becoming the first member of his tribe to earn a graduate degree. He subsequently worked on Eight Northern Pueblo Indian Pueblos Council economic development projects before becoming chief operating officer of the All Indian Pueblo Council. 
   He also served as a consultant to former Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan during the formation of the National Indian Gaming Commission. 
   In addition to having served as San Ildefonso Pueblo governor, Gonzales has been a tribal planner for the pueblo, and worked in various capacities at the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Council of Energy Resource Tribes in New Mexico. 
   In 1987, Gonzales was the youngest person to ever be elected President of the National Congress of American Indians. As an artist, Gonzales has been an active member of the Santa Fe Arts Commission and the Southwestern Association for Indian Arts.
 
 