SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS & ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, March 3, 2008. 
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Evan Woodward, KRWG Las Cruces  
   * John McBreen, KYVA Gallup 
   * Devon Armijo, KUNM Albuquerque 
   TOPICS: 
   Ft. Sill Apache Bingo in New Mexico 
   Funding Payment in Lieu of Taxes 
   U.S. Energy Challenges 
   Iran's Nuclear Weapons Program 
   Penalizing Oil and Gas to Boost Renewable Energy 
   Weighing Risks in U.S. Energy Production 
   Progress in Iraq 
   REVIEW: 
   00:20 Domenici says he does not believe the Fort Sill Apache Indian Tribe has the sort of trust status to automatically establish a gaming operation in Luna County. He questions whether such gaming would actually help the economy in the region. 
   02:51 Domenici says he supports Governor Bill Richardson's contention that the Fort Sill Apaches do not have an automatic right to a gaming license in New Mexico. 
   03:38 Domenici says he will work to increase FY2009 funding for the Payment of Lieu of Taxes program, which the President recommends cutting. The administration requests $195 million for FY2009, lower than the $228 million provided in FY2008. He adds that it could be difficult to restore the funding but that doing so will be a priority for him. 
   08:25 Domenici discusses the two major energy policy speeches he delivered to the Senate, and recounts some of the primary actions he believes Congress should consider to address the nation's growing energy needs, including: exploration of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, off-shore energy production, and coal-to-liquid development. 
   08:25 Domenici discusses the two major energy policy speeches he delivered to the Senate, and discusses the growing economic hardships put on the nation because of higher-priced foreign oil. He noted progress that will occur from energy policy bills enacted in the past three years. 
   10:55 Domenici says that while the nation is moving forward to promote wind and other renewable energy sources, it must do more to increase domestic oil and gas production. He recounts some of the primary actions he advocated in his speeches that he believes Congress should consider to address the nation's growing energy needs, including: exploration of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, off-shore energy production, and coal-to-liquid development. 
   15:02 Domenici says he firmly believes Iran will produce nuclear weapons, and he expresses some skepticism of actions by the United Nations. He says Iran would pose a terrible risk to the region if it has nuclear weapons. He also discusses the impact on energy prices should a nuclear Iran cause discord in the Middle East. 
   17:54 Domenici says he disagrees with the House bill to take energy tax incentives away for oil and gas production and shift it to renewable energy development. He says he supports extending renewable energy tax credits, but that it would be wrong to penalize the oil and gas sector when those energy resources are also needed by the nation. 
   20:53 Domenici discusses his opposition to a moratorium on research to develop shale oil resources in the West. He says the nation is being hurt by foreign oil imports and that work should be allowed to understand the best ways to tap shale oil in the United States. He says he will try to overturn the moratorium, which was slipped into the FY2008 omnibus appropriations bill late last year. 
   24:02 Domenici explains why the nation must weigh the risks associated with greater energy production--in ANWR or off-shore, for instance--as opposed to subjecting the nation and its economy to greater oil and gas imports. He says the risk to sustained $100 or $200 a barrel oil prices "is terrible." 
   27:14 Domenici discusses his views on progress being made in Iraq. He credits General Petraeus and the American military forces, as well as actions by the Iraqi government and security forces. He notes that it seems the various factions in the Iraq government might be getting along better than the Democratic and Republican parties in the U.S. Congress.
 
 