DOD ISSUES $8 MILLION GRANT FOR WORK AT KAFB AIR FORCE RESEARCH LAB
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that an $8.0 million contract with the United States Air Force has been awarded to conduct research for the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) on Kirtland Air Force Base in Albuquerque.  
   Northrop Grumman Information Technology Inc., in Albuquerque will provide the necessary materials including any hardware, facilities, supplies, travel, labor, and services to perform Novel Optically Diverse Applications (NOVA) for the AFRL. 
   "I am very pleased to see this work done in Albuquerque to benefit not only the local Albuquerque economy but also the overall mission of the Air Force. Many of New Mexico's science and technology-based companies contribute significantly to the needs of the military and I'm confident they will continue to do so in the future," Domenici said who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that has funding jurisdiction over Kirtland and Pentagon projects. 
   The total contract amount is worth $8.0 million. The initial award of $201,000 has been issued to provide technical support to the Air Force Maui Optical and Supercomputing (AMOS) site located on Maui. 
   AMOS is a state-of-the-art electro-optical facility combining operational satellite tracking facilities with a research and development facility, the only one of its kind in the world. AMOS houses the largest telescope in the Department of Defense. 
   AMOS is managed by the AFRL's Directed Energy Directorate. The facility operates around the clock, responding rapidly to perform its complex and vital mission of advanced space surveillance research and space object identification. 
   The mission of AFRL is to lead the discovery, development, and integration of affordable war-fighting technologies for U.S. air and space forces, which is carried out by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research, nine technology directorates located throughout the United States, including the facility at Kirtland AFB, and a central staff.
 
 