SEN. DOMENICI BACKS MEASURE TO DISCOUNT NATIONAL PARK FEES FOR VETERANS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that he has signed on as cosponsor of legislation that would grant veterans discounted access to National Parks and other federal lands nationwide.  
   The Veterans Eagle Parks Pass Act (S.617) extends honorably discharged servicemen and women one-year passes at a cost of $10 under the American the Beautiful/National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Passes offered by the National Park Service. 
   The $10 rate set in S.617 is drastically reduced from the $80 annual rate offered to the general public. The bill, introduced by Senator Gordon Smith (R-Ore.), has been referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, on which Domenici serves as ranking member. 
   "This is another small but important way to extend our gratitude and honor the service of our nation's veterans," said Domenici, a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and long-time advocate for veterans issues. 
   "The sacrifices our veterans have made in service to this country deserve to be recognized and, in any way possible, rewarded by the federal government," he said. "These reduced-price passes would give veterans, many of whom are outdoorsmen, greater access to our National Park system, including the beautiful sites in New Mexico." 
   Nearly 11 million veterans stand to benefit from this legislation, including the estimated 180,000 veterans and their families who reside in New Mexico. S.617 has been endorsed by the American Legion, AMVETS and Veterans of Foreign Wars. Similar legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives (HR.652). 
   The National Park Service already offers a $10 pass to senior citizens who are 62 or older. The Veterans Eagle Parks Pass Act would extend that benefit to veterans, whether or not they qualify for the senior discount. (http://www.nps.gov/fees_passes.htm) 
   The passes provide access for recreation opportunities on public lands managed by four Department of the Interior agencies (National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, and Bureau of Reclamation) and the U.S. Forest Service.
 
 