SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS CODE TALKERS RECOGNITION ACT
  In recognition of the contribution made by American Indian Code Talkers during U.S. foreign conflicts, Sen. Pete Domenici today said he is cosponsoring bipartisan legislation to expand federal recognition of American Indians who used their native languages to help save lives and end conflicts. 
   Domenici is now a cosponsor of the Code Talkers Recognition Act (S.1035), which would award American Indian Code Talkers from various tribes around the country with congressional commemorative medals. The measure would build on the 2000 legislation that resulted in the presentation of Congressional Gold Medals to the original 29 Navajo Code Talkers in a July 2001 Capitol rotunda ceremony. Domenici cosponsored the 2000 law sponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman.
   "The Code Talkers profoundly influenced the outcome of American foreign conflicts and saved the lives of countless Americans in uniform," Domenici said. "It is time to honor those individuals whose extraordinary efforts, along with that of the Navajos, helped to ensure the success of American soldiers in foreign battles."
   Under S.1035, medals would be presented on behalf of Congress to Sioux, Comanche, Choctaw, Sac, Fox, and any other Native American Code Talkers who aided the United States military during World War I, World War II, and other foreign conflicts during the 20th century.
   The bill is currently pending in the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee.
   Code Talkers developed a secret code based on their native languages to transmit military messages during foreign conflicts. During World War II, the code proved to be highly successful, and though foreign enemies were able to decipher other codes used by the U.S. military, they were never able to break the codes used by American Indian Code Talkers. Because of their unique contribution, the American Indian Code Talkers have been credited with saving American lives and helping to hasten the end of World War I and World War II.
   Domenici is a longtime member of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs.
 
 