SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES SMOKEY BEAR'S 60TH BIRTHDAY, HIHGLIGHTS CAPITAN'S MAY 7-9 CELEBRATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici has called national attention to the 60th birthday of Smokey Bear, the beloved national icon whose fire danger and prevention message has helped save forests and wildlife.  
   In a Congressional Record statement, Domenici brought advanced attention to a three-day festival in Capitan this weekend. In his statement, the chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee recounts how a burned bear cub from southern New Mexico became the living symbol of Smokey Bear, who was created in 1944 as part of a public service campaign to save American forests from wildfires. 
   "Sixty years ago this year, Smokey Bear became the voice for the Forest Service public education campaign to save American forests. Since his creating in 1944, most Americans now quickly associate the name Smokey Bear with his long-time mantra, 'Only you can prevent forest fires,'" Domenici said. 
   "In 1950, Smokey Bear became real, sadly through an unfortunate forest fire. That spring in Lincoln County, a little black bear was found clinging to the side of a charred pine tree after a fire swept through the mountains," he said. "Since that late spring day, that cub became a living symbol and worked to remind Americans of the importance of outdoor fire safety. With another fire season just around the corner, it is a message whose importance has not faded since the bear was discovered on a charred New Mexico mountain." 
   Domenici saluted the citizens of Capitan and Lincoln County for their annual celebration of Smokey Bear and his message. This year's festival was moved from the Independence Day weekend to May in order to coincide with Smokey Bear's 60th birthday. The festival is slated for May 7-9 in Capitan. 
   "This beautiful place is full of wonderful people who love the land and refer to Smokey Bear as 'Capitan's favorite son.' Much of the three-day festivity will take place at the historical park built in Smokey Bear's honor and along what is now aptly named Smokey Bear Boulevard," Domenici said. "I pay tribute to the people of Capitan in this Record. They have gone to great lengths to preserve the story and meaning of Smokey Bear." 
   Domenici also expressed appreciation to the USDA, Forest Service, National Association of State Foresters, and the Ad Council for supporting the program over the decades. 
   For more information about Capitan's upcoming 60th birthday celebration or the history of Smokey Bear, visit: 
   http://www.villageofcapitan.com/index.html 
   http://www.smokeybear.com/ 
   http://www.emnrd.state.nm.us/smokeybear/index.htm
 
 