N.M. SENATORS SAYS ANALYSIS SHOWS HOLLOMAN AFB TEST FACILITY SHOULD REMAIN OPEN
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today pointed to new evidence cited in a just-released report as reason not to sacrifice a test facility at Holloman Air Force Base as the Defense Department looks to reduce the size of the U.S. Air Force.  
   The New Mexico Senators are reviewing the findings of a RAND Corp. analysis of the Air Force plan to reduce its test and evaluation infrastructure. The Air Force had proposed closing the Central Inertial and Guidance Test Facility (CIGTF) at Holloman. The CIGTF, with access to White Sands Missile Range, centers on a high-speed test track that employs 22 military personnel, 88 civilian workers, and seven contractors. It is operated by the 746th Test Squadron. 
   The RAND report concludes, as argued by Domenici and Bingaman, that the benefits offered by CIGTF outweigh any savings that would be achieved by shuttering the facility. It also points out that "no alternative facilities perform the range and quality of navigation testing available at CIGTF." 
   "I continue to strongly believe that this Holloman facility, and its associated research and testing components, remain vital to the evolving missions of the Air Force and the joint operations direction we are taking our military," Domenici said. "I believe this report should help convince the Air Force that the CIGTF must remain open and wholly operational." 
   "CIGTF fills a unique and important role, providing the military and other federal agencies with essential testing and evaluation functions. For that reason alone, shutting down would be a bad idea. But it also doesn't make sense from a fiscal perspective. I will continue to work with the Air Force to see that it reconsiders the decision to close CIGTF," Bingaman said. 
   The RAND analysis concludes: "Considering the uniqueness and the importance of CIGTF testing capabilities, the large number of programs that use its services, and the relatively small infrastructure savings divestment could achieve, it appears that it would not be cost-effective to close this facility." 
   In delivering the report to congressional defense committees late Wednesday, Maj. Gen. T. Michael Moseley, Air Force Chief of Staff said, "Given the insight provided by the analysis, the Air Force will continue to study the issue and work with Congress to find the right way ahead for Air Force test." 
   The RAND study was required in the FY2006 Defense Appropriations Act. Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, and Bingaman believe two other pending studies should help support their efforts to save the Holloman project. 
   Last August, the Senators asked the Pentagon's Director for Operational Test and Evaluation to visit Holloman and WSMR to get a first-hand view of CIGTF capabilities. 
   The Air Force had proposed closing CIGTF as part of an overall plan to find savings within USAF Materiel Command's test and evaluation infrastructure. CIGTF provides the Air Force with facilities for high speed sled track testing, navigation and guidance system testing, radar signature measurements, weapon systems and flight testing. In addition, the 46th Test Group acts as liaison for all Air Force programs tested at WSMR.
 
 