SEN. DOMENICI OUTLINES CONGRESSIONAL INTENT IN DISTRIBUTION OF DROUGHT AID IN SUPPLEMENTAL BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that he has acted to make congressional intent clear on the distribution of more than $17.0 million in federal drought assistance, namely directing water emergency funds to New Mexico and Texas.
   Domenici worked with Senators Robert Bennett (R-Utah) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) to outline the distribution of $17.0 million in USDA Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) funding included in the Senate version of the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill. The Senate is scheduled to pass this bill Wednesday evening or Thursday. 
   While the overall package is intended to support hurricane recovery efforts and ongoing military activities in Iraq and Afghanistan, Domenici won committee approval in April for a series of appropriations to help drought-afflicted areas, primarily in the Southwest.
   Domenici, Hutchison and Bennett offered a colloquy that explains that ECP funding for emergency water enhancing activities such as water hauling is supposed to be allotted to New Mexico ($5.0 million) and Texas ($12.0 million). While not binding, the language is intending to express congressional intent for the use of these funds.
   "Senator Hutchison and I worked together to get this funding in the bill to address emergency situations in our state. Texas has lost 5,000 head of cattle and wildfires have devastated parts of West Texas. Our predicament in New Mexico is just as precarious and it is anticipated that we are in for some serious hardship as the drought continues," Domenici said. "These conditions require emergency measures be undertaken in both states."
   The Bush administration has issued a veto threat over the size of the Senate $109 billion supplemental bill, which exceeds the $92 billion initially requested by the President in February. The Senate-approved drought aid is under the umbrella of the administration's veto threat. With Senate passage, the bill will be referred to a House-Senate conference committee to negotiate a final package for congressional passage.
   The ECP funding in the supplemental bill is part of an overall multi-agency attempt by Domenici to begin making federal resources available to confront what amounts to the worst drought conditions in New Mexico in 125 years.
   As part of a larger agriculture and drought aid package, Domenici included in the bill:
   * $17.0 million through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's ECP for emergency water enhancing activities such as water hauling;
   * $5.0 million through the Army Corps of Engineers for drought emergency assistance under the Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies authorities; and,
   * $7.5 million through the Bureau of Reclamation for drought assistance under Reclamation States Drought Relief Act authorities. These funds will allow the Bureau to undertake drought contingency planning and to provide emergency potable water sources for eligible communities.
   Domenici also gained approval for authorization language to renew provisions of the Bureau's Drought Emergency Assistance Program that lapsed in September 2005. Renewing these provisions is needed for the Bureau to provide drought assistance. This program is designed to allow the Bureau to help states, tribes and some nonprofit organizations find ways to minimize the losses and damages associated with severe drought situations. This work includes on-the-ground relief for states including well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, and water banking, and conservation.
   During committee consideration of the bill, Domenici cosponsored an amendment to provide nearly $4 billion in emergency assistance to agricultural producers. The provision includes: $1 billion for crop disaster assistance; $600 million for livestock assistance; and, $25 million in dairy assistance.
   On April 19, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Domenici hosted a field hearing in Albuquerque on the drought conditions facing New Mexico. The hearing explored the effects of the drought on the farming and ranching industries.
   "Our farmers, ranchers and dairymen have been particularly hard-hit by drought. While this bill will not make them whole, I hope that it will provide some measure of relief during these tough times. I hope that the House and Senate, with the administration, will work out a compromise that recognizes the hardship the drought has imposed," Domenici said.
 
 