SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES SENATE VOTE TO ALLOW ANWR EXPLORATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised a Senate vote to reject an amendment that would have prohibited Americans from benefiting from an estimated 10 billion barrels of oil under a small portion of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR).  
   Domenici voted with the Senate, 51-48, to defeat an amendment offered by Washington Senator Maria Cantwell to strike the ANWR title from the Deficit Reduction Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 2005 (S.1932). 
   Domenici, who is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, noted that defeat of the amendment makes it likely that the ANWR provision will be in the final bill that eventually goes to President Bush. 
   "This is a victory for American consumers because developing our Arctic reserves will bring 10 billion barrels of oil to the lower 48 states, increasing supply and stabilizing these steep oil and gasoline prices. This vote today sends a signal to OPEC and the rest of the world that America is serious about meeting more of its own energy needs," Domenici said. 
   "This is also a victory for American taxpayers because developing our oil reserves in the Arctic raises $2.5 billion for the federal treasury over the next five years. In addition, there will be billions of dollars more from royalties paid into the treasury by oil companies once the oil has been developed. Any time you can raise receipts without resorting to taxes, it's a win for the taxpayer," he said. 
   Prior to the vote, Domenici pleaded the case for finally allowing exploration within a small 2,000 acres of a coastal plain designated for potential energy production. 
   "It is finally time that we do something about our oil dependency. It is time we do something for the American people. As I see it, this is a rare opportunity to produce substantial quantities of crude oil from our own homeland. Not only will we be able to produce oil, it will also produce jobs for the American people," Domenici said. 
   As instructed by the FY2006 Budget Resolution, Domenici's Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee produced a portion of the reconciliation package that will reduce federal spending by $2.5 billion between 2006-2010 by opening a small portion of ANWR to oil and gas leasing in an environmentally sound manner. 
   Even if oil prices moderate at $50 a barrel, the legislation would also generate more than $1 billion annually in royalties payable to the federal government for an estimated 30 years once production begins.
 
 