SEN. DOMENICI VOTES FOR DEFICIT REDUCTION PACKAGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted for Senate passage of legislation that will trim federal spending by an estimated $35 billion over five years, in part by allowing energy exploration in a small portion of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
   The Senate today passed (52-47) the Deficit Reduction Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 2005, which is the first significant budget reduction package produced by the Senate since 1997. The bill incorporates an estimated $35 billion in savings from FY2006 to FY2010.
   Domenici, as a member of the Senate Budget Committee and chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, will serve on the conference committee that will reconcile the differences between the Senate's bill and a companion measure being formulated in the House.
   "Critics will carp and sling scare tactics, but this is a very responsible package for beginning to bring about fiscal control and responsibility. It does include a good number of changes that will actually benefit those who rely on federal programs like student loans. Medicare and Medicaid spending will continue to increase with this bill while also controlling their costs by going after fraud and waste," Domenici said.
   "Granted, no bill is perfect and this bill will not solve the very serious deficit problems facing this nation. But it is the first such bill in eight years, and it is necessary. The government has over-promised what it can give the people, and over the long run that will catch up with us," he said.
   As energy committee chairman, Domenici successfully protected his committee provision to generate $2.5 billion for the federal government by allowing energy exploration in ANWR. Royalties payable to the federal government are expected to be well over $1.0 billion annually for an estimated 30 years once production begins.
   During Senate debate of the bill, Domenici also voted for an amendment offered by Senator Jeff Bingaman to prevent a significant reduction in the federal medical assistance percentage (FMAP) determined for a state for FY2006. The amendment would ensure that New Mexico receives about $66 million in Medicaid funding that it would have otherwise lost.
   "New Mexico struggles to make Medicaid dollars stretch. This amendment moderates the negative impact the Medicaid formula has on resources available to the state. It will ensure that New Mexico and 30 other states have resources to support Medicaid benefits and services for low-income families, children, seniors and the disabled, which is why I voted for it," Domenici said.
   In addition, Domenici said New Mexico will benefit from a 1 percent update for all providers paid under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule instead of a 4.4 percent payment reduction in 2006.
   Finally, despite claims that the bill harms university education assistance, the bill provides more than $8 billion in additional direct grant aid for 5.3 million low-income students, and another $3 billion to benefit both low and middle-income borrowers in the student loan program. The bill produces savings by reducing bank and education lender special payments and profits by $21 billion and directs money back into student benefits ($11 billion) and deficit reduction ($10 billion).
   The FY2005 federal deficit is $319 billion, down from $412 billion in FY2004, primarily propelled by a 14.6 percent increase in tax receipts.
   Visit: http://budget.senate.gov/republican/pressarchive/2005-10-26RECSummary.pdf
 
 