SEN. DOMENICI: AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION FUNDING BILL WITH N.M. BENEFITS HEADED TO WHITE HOUSE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted with the Senate to grant final passage to an agriculture and nutrition spending bill that includes his funding to support agriculture-related projects carried out in New Mexico.  
   With the 81-18 Senate vote Thursday, the FY2006 Agriculture, Rural Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill now goes to President Bush to be signed into law. 
   Domenici, as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, secured funding for a wide variety of projects carried out in New Mexico, primarily at New Mexico State University. 
   "Our final bill takes care of some of the most essential government programs. This is a very difficult time for our nation because of spending constraints, but this bill ensures that social programs like WIC and food stamps will serve the people who need them. It also continues our commitment to making American agriculture the most cutting-edge in the world. New Mexico is at the forefront of this new technology, so this bill is good news for our state," Domenici said. 
   The measure (HR.2744) provides $40.7 billion for the Food Stamp program, of which $3 billion is a reserve to be available through FY2007; $179.9 million for Commodity Supplemental Food Program; and $5.26 billion for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). The bill has $7.2 billion for Child Nutrition Programs, which together with other available funds will make a total of $12.4 billion available in FY2006 to fund the school lunch, breakfast and other nutrition programs. 
   For New Mexico, Domenici gained $2.35 million for the continued operation of the Agricultural Products Food Safety Laboratory, which is $200,000 above FY2005 funding. The lab is supported by the Federal Drug Administration at the Physical Sciences Laboratory at NMSU. Domenici secured $1.75 million for the laboratory last year. 
   At Domenici's request, $1.85 million is approved through the Agriculture Research Service (ARS) to continue support for the Bioinformatics Institute for Model Plant Species at the National Center for Genome Resources in Santa Fe. 
   Domenici also supported a $547,000 appropriation for a Rapid Syndrome Validation Program for Animals that continues development of an early detection and reporting system for infectious animal diseases. In addition, the bill includes $93,000 for an Organic Waste Utilization program. 
   The Rapid Syndrome Validation Program is a multi-institution consortium consisting of NMSU, Sandia National Laboratories and Kansas State University. The program involves an internet-based system for early detection and reporting of outbreaks of infectious diseases in food animals. 
   The Organic Waste Utilization program addresses the growing problem of raw dairy waste. Specifically, the program aims to find ways to co-compost dairy waste with other organic materials to reduce the contamination of ground and surface water with nitrate, the spread of noxious odors, and increased soil salinity.
 
 