SEN. DOMENICI CRITICIZES PRESIDENTIAL SCHIP VETO
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today expressed disappointment at President Bush's veto of renewal of a national children's health insurance program that would provide coverage for uninsured children in New Mexico.  
   This morning, the president vetoed legislation that would have renewed and expanded the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which expired Sept. 30 and currently covers 6.6 million children nationwide. The Senate last week approved the conference agreement (H.R.976), to authorize increased SCHIP funds over the next five years. 
   "I believe we gave the President a good package for continuing SCHIP, which is working in New Mexico to make inroads into helping many children without insurance," said Domenici. "I had hoped the President would change his mind on a veto, and I believe his decision is a mistake. I remain hopeful that we can soon reach an agreement that will get us past the political theater on this issue and begin to build on the success of this worthwhile program." 
   There are more than 93,500 children in New Mexico without health insurance, which is about 25 percent of all youth in the state. The legislation would have allowed New Mexico to cover children from 133 percent to 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL). 
   The overall final bill would have granted a five-year SCHIP renewal to increase funding for the program to $60 billion, cover 6.6 million children already in the program, and expand it to cover an additional 3.3 million children who currently lack health insurance. Most of these 3.3 million children are currently eligible or entitled to SCHIP coverage, while only 600,000 come from expanding coverage to higher income levels. 
   Domenici noted that the SCHIP bill sent to the President includes a children's mental health parity provision similar to those in S.1337, the Children's Mental Health Parity Act, that he cosponsored with Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.). The provision would require state child health care plans to provide both medical and mental health benefits on par with one another. 
   Since its creation in 1997, Domenici has worked to improve SCHIP to keep Nw Mexico from having to return millions in unused funds. Through the creation of SCHIP, states were granted additional federal funding if they agreed to expand coverage to children who did not qualify for Medicaid, but whose families still could not afford health insurance. Because New Mexico had already expanded coverage to those low-income kids when Congress enacted SCHIP, the state has had difficulties in making use of all the funding being made available to aid children.
 
 