SENATORS TOLD ALBUQUERQUE CAN KEEP TRANSPORTATION FUNDS
  One day after U.S. Senators Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici chastised the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for attempting to take away nearly $5 million in federal funds directed to the City of Albuquerque, FTA has reversed course. On Tuesday, the New Mexico lawmakers wrote to Transportation Secretary Mary E. Peters urging her to intervene on the city's behalf. Today Peters said Albuquerque will be able to keep $4.8 million the Senators secured for the city. "This is terrific news. This funding was intended for Albuquerque, and we are now assured it will not be taken away," Bingaman said. "It will be put to good use purchasing clean-burning buses for Albuquerque's popular Rapid Ride system."  
   "Secretary Peters made the right decision to give Albuquerque more time to implement its mass transit program. These programs are important to growing cities, and I hope the decision to rescind the FTA's premature action will allow the city to find the best way to move forward," Domenici said. Over the years, the Senators secured $4.8 million to support a proposed light-rail project along Albuquerque's Central Avenue. But the city changed plans and decided instead to invest the funding in its Rapid Ride bus service. A key spending bill pending in the Senate gives the city the authority to "reprogram" the funding, and purchase six additional 60-foot diesel-hybrid buses for Rapid Ride and to build one additional park-and-ride lot to supplement and extend the existing Central Avenue service to the West Side. On Friday, however, the FTA decided to "reallocate" the funds - or take them away from Albuquerque - and direct them to another state. In a letter to Transportation Secretary Mary E. Peters, Bingaman and Domenici yesterday said such a move would be exceedingly unfair. The city has been working with FTA, an agency within the Department of Transportation, on this issue for over a year. In their letter, the Senators pointed out to Peters that the Senate-passed FY08 appropriations bill for DOT authorizes the city to use the $4.8 million for bus and bus facilities. That measure must be finalized with one passed by the House of Representatives before being enacted into law. The Senators thanked Senator Patty Murray, chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, for her efforts. Murray had spoken to Peters this week and urged her to allow Albuquerque to keep its funding.
 
 