SEN. DOMENICI: SBA TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE FOR JUNE 22 FLOODING
  Sen. Pete Domenici announced today that the Small Business Bureau will make assistance available to homeowners and businesses in southern New Mexico who suffered damages during flooding on June 22. 
   SBA assistance is being offered to Otero, Chaves, Do?a Ana, Eddy, Lincoln, and Sierra counties. Funds will be offered in the form of low-interest federal disaster loans for homes, businesses, and non-profit organizations. Small businesses will be eligible for Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDLs) to help meet working capital needs caused by the damage.
   "New Mexico was hit particularly hard by floods this past summer. I have dedicated my best efforts to ensure that the areas affected receive the financial assistance they need to get back on their feet and function at pre-flood levels," said Domenici. "This SBA assistance is desperately needed to cover the cost of flooding that occurred early in the summer. I will continue to do my best to make sure that southern New Mexicans affected by the flooding have every possible resource made available to them."
   While FEMA made disaster declarations in many of these counties, funds were only applicable to damage sustained between July 26 and September 18, and did not cover damages occurring during June 22 flooding. In an attempt to help residents in southern New Mexico recover from flooding damage, SBA has declared a disaster in Do?a Ana and Otero counties, as well as the neighboring counties of Chaves, Eddy, Lincoln, and Sierra.
   The filing deadline for SBA property damage applications is Nov. 28, 2006. The deadline for all economic injury applications is June 29, 2007. All other FEMA assistance applications are still subject to the Oct. 30, 2006 filing deadline.
   Filing centers are available in Alamogordo and Hatch and are open Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Those unable to visit these locations in person can call (800)877-8339. For more information visit SBA's website at http://www.sba.gov/disaster.
 
 