SEN. DOMENICI CELEBRATES HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined fellow Senators in celebrating the contributions of Hispanic Americans during Hispanic Heritage Month. 
   Domenici cosponsored a Senate resolution that was approved Tuesday evening which acknowledges Sept.15-Oct. 15 as Hispanic Heritage Month and encourages Americans to celebrate. Noting New Mexico's strong Hispanic influence, Domenici also issued a statement in the Congressional Record. 
   "I encourage Americans to take this moment to remember all of the areas of our society that have been influenced by the Hispanic community. I would also like you to recall the sacrifices Hispanics have made to preserve the liberties and freedom that make American a beacon of hope to millions around the world. I call on the American people to join with children, families, organizations, communities, churches, cities, and states across the nation to observe the month with appropriate ceremonies and activities," said Domenici. 
   The following remarks are part of Domenici's statement, which is printed in its entirety in the Congressional Record:  
   "Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to the contributions of Hispanic Americans as we commemorate Hispanic Heritage Month. This occasion welcomes the opportunity to celebrate the achievements made by Hispanic Americans to enrich the culture and day-to-day life of the United States. 
   "Today, there is no denying the strength and impact of Hispanic Americans, who are now more than forty million strong. In my home state of New Mexico, forty-four percent of the total population is made up of people of Hispanic descent, which according to the Census Bureau, is the largest proportion of any state in the Union. What has truly been remarkable to me over the years is the extent to which the Hispanic community has thrived in every facet of civic life." 
   There are 44.3 million Hispanic Americans who compose the largest ethnic minority in the United States. Domenici noted that New Mexico is home to influential Hispanic communities in areas such as business and the fine arts. 
   Hispanic Heritage Month dates back to 1968, when Congress designated a week in celebration of the United State's Hispanic community. Beginning in 1980, the designation was extended to an entire month which would now begins annually on Sept. 15. 
   HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD 
   Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to the contributions of Hispanic Americans as we commemorate Hispanic Heritage Month. This occasion welcomes the opportunity to celebrate the achievements made by Hispanic Americans to enrich the culture and day-to-day life of the United States. 
   Today, there is no denying the strength and impact of Hispanic Americans, who are now more than forty million strong. In my home state of New Mexico, forty-four percent of the total population is made up of people of Hispanic descent, which according to the Census Bureau, is the largest proportion of any state in the Union. What has truly been remarkable to me over the years is the extent to which the Hispanic community has thrived in every facet of civic life. 
   For instance, I am proud to call attention to the remarkable achievement of Private First Class José F. Valdez, one of forty-eight Hispanic American Medal of Honor recipients. Born and raised in Governador, New Mexico, José served during World War II near Rosenkrantz, France. He heroically saved the lives of his fellow comrades by engaging in a firefight which allowed the soldiers to escape after an enemy counterattack. Similar tales of bravery are prevalent in the history of Hispanic Americans, who have served with distinction in every U.S. military campaign including our current engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   In the areas of science, medicine, sport, art, business, and public service, the various achievements of the Hispanic community are immeasurable. This year, Hispanic Business magazine celebrated its 25th anniversary by profiling 500 of the largest Hispanic-owned companies in the United States, a nearly tenfold increase from the magazine's initial listing in 1982. These companies boast total revenues of $36.6 billion, which is a sizable contribution to the American economy. 
   Twenty-five of these top-ranked companies join me in calling New Mexico their home. At the top of this list is Manuel Lujan Agencies from Albuquerque, New Mexico, which has also been awarded "Most Admired Company" by New Mexico's top 100 private companies. Also included in this list is Centinel Bank of Taos in Taos, New Mexico, which is one of the very few minority-owned financial institutions in the United States. I am pleased that Manuel Lujan Agencies and Centinel Bank of Taos are joined by such firms as Roses Southwest Papers, Applied Tech Associates, Networx and Sparkle Maintenance Inc. The fact is that Hispanics in New Mexico today lead a growing number of firms that help set the pace for a growing economy in my state, and many of them are firms involving high technology, construction and service industries. 
   While there is no doubt that Hispanics have fought to protect our freedoms and made advancements in the corporate world, they are also leaving their imprint on the world of entertainment through sports and the arts. Of the athletes currently playing in the National Football League, 24 players are of Hispanic descent. These players are represented on 16 teams across the country, and during a recent football match up, Grammy winners Gloria Estefan and the musical group Ozomatli performed the national anthem and the half time show in honor of this month's celebration. In my home state, music legends like Al Hurricane and the popular Tobias Rene add to the rich cultural contributions being made to our society. 
   I encourage Americans to take this moment to remember all of the areas of our society that have been influenced by the Hispanic community. I would also like you to recall the sacrifices Hispanics have made to preserve the liberties and freedom that make America a beacon of hope to millions around the world. These men and women have stood up as proud Americans and volunteered to protect their families and communities during the global war on terror. Our nation is stronger because of these men and women. They deserve the gratitude of the nation for their sacrifices. 
   The tradition of Hispanic Heritage Month dates back almost forty years. In 1968, Congress started by designating a week to celebrate Hispanic heritage. By the early 1980s, we decided to extend the designation to cover a month starting on September 15. The extra time has been a necessary and appropriate change to allow us to recognize the long record of contributions Hispanic Americans have made to our communities and to our nation. I call on the American people to join with all children, families, organizations, communities, churches, cities, and states across the nation to observe the month with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 
   I ask unanimous consent my statement be printed in the Record.
 
 