SEN. DOMENICI FILES BORDER SECURITY AND IMMIGRATION AMENDMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today filed a series of five amendments to the Senate's border security and immigration reform legislation, including one to create a two-tiered approach to dealing with the millions of unauthorized immigrants living and working in the United States.
   Domenici offered the amendments to S.2454, the Securing America's Border Act, which the Senate is expected to debate throughout the week. Domenici indicated that he is working to have his amendments either brought up for a floor vote or otherwise accepted by the Senators managing the debate on the contentious legislation.
   "I am hopeful the Senate will accept some of these provisions, particularly those that would improve border security. In addition, I would expect the Senate to agree that we need to do more to fortify federal law enforcement and the judiciary, both of which are often overwhelmed by border crime and illegal immigration cases," Domenici said. 
   Prior to the Senate immigration debate, Domenici had introduced bills dealing with border security (S.2049) and immigration reform (S.2326). His amendments are largely based on provisions in these bills, as well as earlier legislative efforts to boost the federal judiciary.
   The following is a summary of the five Domenici-filed amendments (with amendment numbers), two of which are cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico:
   1. Border Crossings Improvements (S.Amdt.3261): Authorizes more than $585 million for improving ports of entry at the 197 land ports of entry on the Mexican and Canadian borders-the first substantive border crossings improvement plan since a 1986 DeConcini-Domenici southwest border improvement initiative. The amendment authorizes funding to implement infrastructure and technology improvements to meet port of entry needs, based on the priorities of enhancing border security while facilitating the flow of legitimate commerce. It also authorizes funding for the creation of up to five port of entry technology testing and demonstration sites on the Mexican and Canadian borders, and requires an annual National Land Border Security Plan containing port vulnerability assessments. (Cosponsored by Dorgan, Burns, Bingaman, Cornyn, Kyl, Hutchison)
   "It is imperative that we improve land port security. Our amendment seeks to improve border security by addressing longstanding border infrastructure backlogs and providing for border technology upgrades," said Domenici. "There are so many facets that must fit to make border security effective. A successful effort to control our borders requires ports of entry equipped with security enhancements that are effective without impeding legitimate commerce."
   "Technology and infrastructure improvements are needed along the border to ensure that our country's security and economic needs are met. This provision would help bolster security efforts and would greatly benefit trade along the U.S.-Mexico border and I am pleased it is being included in this bill," Bingaman said.
   2. Federal Judgeships (S.Amdt.3259): Authorizes nine permanent and two temporary federal judgeship positions as outlined in the 2005 Judicial Conference for the districts in which immigration filings totaled more than 50 percent of all criminal filings for FY2004. Under this amendment, Arizona (59 percent immigration filings) would get four new permanent federal judges and one new temporary judge; New Mexico (60 percent) would get one new permanent and one new temporary judge; Texas (65 percent) would get three new permanent judges; and California (64 percent) would get one new permanent judge. (Cosponsored by Cornyn, Kyl, Hutchison)
   "The court in New Mexico, like most southwest border districts, is already dealing with heavy immigration caseloads and that burden will only increase as border security and immigration law enforcement is increased," Domenici said.
   3. U.S. Marshals (S.Amdt.3260): Authorizes the hiring of 250 new Deputy U.S. Marshals over five years to meet increased duties associated with transporting and guarding criminal illegal immigrants involved in U.S. federal judiciary cases. (Cosponsored by Bingaman, Kyl, Cornyn, Hutchison)
   "We must ensure that our federal law enforcement and judiciary are well suited and equipped to handle stronger border security. Right now, our federal courts and law enforcement efforts in the Southwest are overwhelmed with border-related cases," Domenici said.
   "Transporting and guarding undocumented immigrants is a federal responsibility. Increasing the number of United States Marshalls in border states will help ensure that local law enforcement agencies don't shoulder this burden," Bingaman said.
   4. Undocumented Workers in United States (S.Amdt.3263): Creates a two-tier approach for undocumented workers now in the United States. The amendment creates a new visa category for unauthorized immigrants in the United States. This provision would allow any undocumented worker who were living and working in the United States on Dec. 31, 2005, to remain in the country for up to nine years to work, if they pay a $1,000 fine, remain employed and pass background checks.
   ? Less than Five Years: Undocumented immigrants who have been in the United States less than five years are then required-after up to nine years-to return to their native country for at least three years before applying for a valid visa to return to the United States.
   ? More than Five Years: Undocumented workers who have been in the United States more than five years would have the additional opportunity, after five years under the new nine-year visa, to obtain any of the other existing 72 visas offered by the United States to foreign nationals applying for entry. Some of these existing American visa categories would allow a worker to eventually adjust to Legal Permanent Resident (LPR) status, but many do not provide an opportunity to adjust to LPR status. A foreign worker with LPR status could, after another five years, apply to become a U.S. citizen.
   "I believe this plan gives us the middle ground we need as we try to craft a workable, balanced policy for dealing with the undocumented workers already in the United States and contributing to our society and economy. This plan is by no means a free ride for those who violated our immigration laws, but it does give them the means to legalize their presence here through the normal visa process or face deportation," Domenici said.
   5. Mexican Cooperation (S.Amdt.3262): Mandates Mexico's cooperation with the United States on border security and immigration, including reducing illegal immigration, combating drug trafficking and human smuggling, reducing gang membership, sharing information, and collaborating on the return of Mexican nationals deported from the United States.
   "Quite frankly, Mexico benefits greatly from the undocumented workers that have poured over our borders. It is time for the Mexican government to step up and become real partners with the United States as we try to secure our borders and enforce immigration policy. My amendment says no Mexican national may obtain any immigration benefit called for in our immigration bill unless Mexico agrees to work with us," Domenici said.
 
 