SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES APPOINTMENT OF GUTIERREZ TO LEAD USDA RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the Bush administration's decision to appoint Paul Gutierrez, a native of Magdalena, to be the New Mexico state director for the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development.  
   Domenici supported the appointment which was officially announced today by Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns. Gutierrez is currently stationed in Washington as the USDA deputy assistant secretary for civil rights. 
   "I am proud of Paul and his growing list of career accomplishments, and I trust he will now excel at carrying out the USDA rural development programs in New Mexico," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   "I've known Paul for a number of years, and he has always expressed an abiding interest in the well-being of the agriculture industry and rural New Mexico. The programs he will now administer have an important and direct influence on building community and job opportunities in our state. These programs are important to thousands of New Mexicans and Paul understands that well," he said. 
   Prior to becoming the deputy assistant secretary for civil rights in March 2004, Gutierrez served as the assistant deputy administrator for USDA farm programs. Before that he was state executive director of the USDA Farm Service Agency in New Mexico. 
   An agriculture economics graduate from New Mexico State University, Gutierrez worked as government affairs director for the New Mexico Farm and Livestock Bureau before signing on with the USDA. He also had work experience with the Farm Credit Services of New Mexico and the Production Credit Association of New Mexico. 
   In making the appointment, Secretary Johanns said, "Paul Gutierrez has repeatedly demonstrated his stellar ability and commitment to public service. He will be an effective representative of the Bush administration in New Mexico and a strong advocate for enhancing the quality of life and economic opportunities available in rural areas of his native state." 
   Since President Bush took office, USDA Rural Development has invested $50 billion nationwide to promote business development, community and technology infrastructure, and homeownership.
 
 