SEN. DOMENICI GAINS APPROVAL OF DROUGHT AID IN FISCAL 2006 EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today gained committee approval for a plan to ensure federal agencies have the funding and legal wherewithal to assist farmers and communities already hit this year by ongoing severe drought conditions. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee that today approved a $100 billion FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill that is primarily written to support hurricane recovery efforts and ongoing military activities in Iraq and Afghanistan. The bill next goes to the full Senate for consideration.
   As part of technical corrections section, Domenici included provisions to extend through 2010 authorization for expired sections of the Reclamation States Drought Relief Act of 1991. These provisions will allow the Bureau of Reclamation to assist drought-affected communities secure water through new wells or water hauling.
   "Water use restrictions are already a reality in some New Mexico communities, like Ruidoso and Ruidoso Downs. Farmers and ranchers are already facing this spring and summer with dread because every indication points to one of the worst drought seasons ever. It is right for us to begin taking action now instead of waiting for the disaster to get worse," Domenici said.
   Domenici, chairman of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Bureau and Army Corps of Engineers, also gained multi-agency funding for drought aid, including:
   * $17.5 million through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Emergency Conservation Program for emergency water enhancing activities such as water hauling;
   * $5.0 million through the Army Corps of Engineers for drought emergency assistance under the Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies authorities; and,
   * $7.5 million through the Bureau of Reclamation for drought assistance under Reclamation States Drought Relief Act authorities. These funds will allow the Bureau to undertake drought contingency planning and to provide emergency potable water sources for eligible communities.
   Domenici's authorization language would renew provisions of the Bureau's Drought Emergency Assistance Program that lapsed in September 2005. Renewing these provisions is vital for allow the Bureau to provide drought assistance. This program is designed to allow the Bureau to help states, tribes and some nonprofit organizations find ways to minimize the losses and damages associated with severe drought situations. This work includes on-the-ground relief for states including well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, and water banking, and conservation.
   "We must still gain House approval for this drought-related assistance, and that may be an uphill fight. I will work for that acceptance, and I will continue to work with the Bureau to ensure that it is ready to provide assistance to New Mexico communities in dire need," Domenici said.
   Domenici noted that he gained approval for similar emergency Bureau assistance in 2002 when $3.0 million was made available to drill five water wells to help ease a water availability crisis in the Santa Fe region.
 
 