SENATE PASSES 'COMBATING AUTISM ACT'
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the Senate has passed bipartisan legislation he cosponsored to focus greater federal attention on autism disorders. 
   The Combating Autism Act (S.843) unanimously passed the Senate late Thursday night. The bill would authorize a collaborative effort between various federal agencies to increase research, education, and prevention aimed at halting the prevalence of the developmental disorder. The bill would award grants to every state to develop statewide autism screening, diagnosis, and intervention programs.
   "I'm pleased that the Senate took action to pass legislation that will bring attention and add resources to autism. The key to combating illnesses like autism is to understand how and why it is occurs. Directing the talent of the NIH and its centers of excellence to research this illness is a positive step," Domenici said.
   Under S.843, the director of the National Institute of Health (NIH) would develop an annual research budget to fund research on autism spectrum disorders, as well as create a program to provide information and education on autism and its risk factors to health professionals and the general public. The legislation includes provisions for centers of excellence regarding autism research through the National Institute of Mental Health, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, the National Institute on Deafness and Other Disorders, and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences.
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that has provided increased funding for each of these NIH agencies as part of the FY2007 Labor, Health & Human Services Appropriations Bill, which is pending before the full Senate. The committee directed the NIH to pay more attention to the High Risk Baby Sibling Autism Research Project, gene-environment interaction research in autism, and regressive autism.
   Autism is a neurological disorder that interferes with normal development of reasoning, communication, and social interactions/skills. (http://www.nmautismsociety.org/index.html)
   In addition, Domenici has championed significant increases in federal research funding to better understand the human brain and the illnesses that afflict it. Domenici is a longtime advocate for persons with mental illness, and has authored mental health parity legislation which would provide equal insurance coverage for diseases of the brain.
 
 