SEN. DOMENICI: HHS READY TO ROLL WITH ADDED BENEFITS FOR RURAL HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici said New Mexico hospitals and care givers will soon begin receiving some of the benefits that were included in the landmark Medicare reform law to improve rural health care - including increased Medicare payments to five community hospitals identified as "critical access hospitals."  
   The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has finalized rules to administer the more than $25 billion authorized by Congress and the Bush administration to help rural health care providers. These benefits became law last December when President Bush signed the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvements and Modernization Act of 2003. 
   "The implementation of these new policies will benefit health care delivery in New Mexico, and the ability for our state to attract and retain the health care providers we need to serve the people," Domenici said. "I'm pleased the Bush administration is moving to implement these changes and get these new resources out to rural health care providers." 
   Domenici joined forces with Senator Charles Grassley to include the rural health care provisions to the Medicare reform law that also brought seniors their first federal prescription drug benefits. 
   CMS has issued the FY2005 hospital inpatient prospective payment system (PPS) regulation. Among other things, the final rule-which will appear in the Aug. 11 Federal Register - will yield an average increase of 6.2 percent in payments for rural hospitals in FY2005 and 5.7 percent for urban hospitals. (The final rule on rural health care benefits is available at: http://www.cms.hhs.gov/providers/hipps/frnotices.asp ) 
   The rules outline increases for critical access hospitals (CAHs), addressing the designation of acute and post-acute care regulations. There are currently five CAHs in New Mexico: Socorro General Hospital, Sierra Vista Hospital in Truth or Consequences; Dan C. Trigg Memorial Hospital in Tucumcari; Nor Lea General Hospital in Lovington; and Union County General Hospital in Clayton. The Guadalupe County Hospital in Santa Rosa has applied for a CAH designation. 
   "For rural New Mexicans, critical access hospitals are vital to providing emergency and medical services because there are few other facilities to which people can turn," Domenici said. 
   Unlike larger hospitals, CAHs are reimbursed based on their costs. To receive this cost-based reimbursement, CAHs must meet certain service guidelines such as bed limits, staffing, and emergency care. The Medicare reform law provided additional funding and flexibility by: increasing payments to 101 percent of costs; increasing the bed limit to 25 acute care beds; authorizing periodic interim payments; paying for costs of an expanded number of emergency room on-call providers; permitting psychiatric and rehabilitation distinct part units; and providing additional special grant funding. 
   The University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center, and about 20 smaller hospitals around the state, will also benefit from the final rule on increasing Medicaid allotments to facilities qualified as disproportionate share hospitals (DSH). DSH are centers that serve a disproportionately large number of uninsured patients and Medicaid enrollees. States like New Mexico (extremely low-DSH states) are expected to 12 percent increase in their allotments.
 
 