SEN. DOMENICI PLEASED WITH DOE FUNDS FOR NEW UNM HEALTH SCIENCES BUILDING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed news that the University of New Mexico now has additional funding to design and construct its new Health Sciences Center Education Building through a $1.9 million grant issued by the Department of Energy.  
   As the only member of the New Mexico delegation to sit on an appropriations committee, Domenici secured these funds within the FY2004 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. 
   "UNM is preparing New Mexico's next generation of health professionals, training over one-third of the state's practicing physicians. I am very proud that UNM has been ranked one of the top 10 institutes for primary care, rural medicine, and family medicine," Domenici said. "The new Health Sciences Building will help UNM stay among the best in the country while offering students and faculty the chance to work in a more modern facility." 
   The DOE appropriation is in addition to the $4.3 million Domenici also secured last year in Health and Human Services (HHS) funding to help construct the new facility. 
   The UNM Health Sciences Center Education Building will replace current facilities aged approximately 30 years. The 129,100 square-foot building will accommodate a student, faculty, and staff population of nearly 4,000 and the addition of 26 new programs. The new Center will combine research knowledge, education, and patient care in one central location. 
   "I hope with the help of these funds this new facility will promote interdisciplinary learning, accommodate various teaching environments, provide technological flexibility, and offer state-of-the-art training and equipment," he said. 
   Total cost for the new building is estimated at $39 million. Domenici has requested another $7 million in HHS Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) funds through the Labor-HHS bill. The State Legislature has appropriated $5 million to proceed with planning and design of the new facility, and Domenici gained an initial $2 million for the project in FY2003. 
   In 2002 U.S. News & World Report ranked three programs in the UNM School of Medicine among the top 10. For the eighth consecutive year, the school's rural medicine program held the number two spot in the nation. UNM's primary-care curriculum ranked fourth and UNM's family medicine program ranked in fifth place. 
   Domenici also worked persistently this year to reach an agreement between UNMH and the federal Indian Health Service (IHS) that would allow the University of New Mexico Hospital (UNMH) to move forward on a $180 million effort to construct a new wing of the hospital. The new wing will house UNMH's Children's Hospital, as well as the maternity and emergency units. UNMH is New Mexico's only Level I trauma center.
 
 