SEN. DOMENICI REQUESTS SIX-MONTH COMMENT PERIOD EXTENSION ON WILLOW FLYCATCHER DESIGNATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today formally requested that the public be given an additional six months to comment on a plan to designate a critical habitat in the middle Rio Grande region for the southwest willow flycatcher.  
   Public comment on the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) proposed critical habitat for the endangered willow flycatcher will end March 31. Domenici is recommending that the comment period be extended to August 31. 
   "The critical habitat designation could have many implications. Because there are so many different interests in the middle Rio Grande, we should ensure that this is carefully considered. I am particularly interested in how this designation might affect our overall effort to save and improve the bosque, which in and of itself should be beneficial to the preservation of the willow flycatcher," Domenici said. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, made the request in a letter to FWS Director Steven A. Williams. 
   In the letter, Domenici said he was requesting the extension, in part, to allow the Bureau of Reclamation and Army Corps of Engineers to evaluate the proposal and formulate comments. 
   "I have become aware that several parties with an interest in this critical habitat proposal have not had time to fully evaluate the plan," Domenici wrote. "Both these agencies have extensive river management responsibilities that overlap with the proposed designated habitat across the western United States and therefore have an interest in the critical habitat proposal." 
   In addition, Domenici said the extension might also allow his Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee to conduct a field hearing to gain additional information on the plan. Such a hearing, he noted, could not be scheduled until summer. 
   "I believe extending the comment deadline is necessary for us to determine the best course of action regarding the southwest willow flycatcher," Domenici concluded. 
   The southwestern willow flycatcher was placed on the Endangered Species list in 1995. It breeds in dense riparian habitats along rivers, streams, or other wetlands - such as the bosque or in areas dominated by salt cedar or Russian olive.
 
 