SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON NAVAJO COUNCIL VOTE ON WATER SETTLEMENT PLAN
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources, today issued the following statement regarding the vote of the Navajo Nation Council to approve a proposed water settlement and to eliminate the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project from the settlement proposal:  
   "I am very pleased at the overwhelming approval by the Navajo Nation Council of a proposed water settlement that will impact water users throughout northwest New Mexico. I am especially pleased that the Council agreed to eliminate the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project from the proposed settlement language. 
   "The action by the Council is an important step forward in this long-standing issue. Many of us have had a vision of a global settlement on this matter for decades. That vision includes potable water for many new parts of the Navajo Nation, a pipeline and more potable water for the city of Gallup, and a resolution of long-festering water rights controversies that have plagued the region. 
   "At the same time, I continue to support funding for NIIP as a separate matter and will push for as much funding as our tight national budget allows. 
   "Many steps remain in this process, including extensive hearings by Congress. I intend to hold hearings this year as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to air comments and concerns from every party affected by this proposed settlement. I expect that all parties involved will have to compromise further, as in any such legislative matter. 
   "I therefore cannot guarantee that my committee will approve the settlement exactly as the proposed language envisions, but I can guarantee that we will work expeditiously to begin what will be a long legislative process facing many hurdles. 
   "Finally, we must all recognize that for this settlement to become a reality on the ground, we will have to work hard to get support from the Executive Branch. To this end, I will discuss this matter once again with Interior Secretary Gale Norton, to whom the Bush administration will look for guidance. It is vital that the administration be active in this process. For instance, I sincerely hope the administration, the governor and the state of New Mexico can reach agreement on an appropriate level of financial contribution by the state. 
   "I will set dates for the beginning of hearings on this matter when the state of New Mexico and all other parties to the settlement submit to me a final, ratified proposal."
 
 