SEN. DOMENICI COMMEMORATES 231 YEARS OF AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today commemorated the 231st birthday of the United States, and called on New Mexicans to reflect on the sacrifices made by members of our Armed Forces and so many Americans throughout history as our nation celebrates its independence.  
   Domenici and his wife Nancy today took part in an Indpendence Day parade sponsored by the village of Corrales. 
   "We cannot forget the brave Americans of our armed services who throughout our history have fought and died to preserve the freedom we all enjoy, nor those currently serving. On the fourth of July we must also honor the sacrifice of these men and women," said Domenici in a Congressional Record statement. "As New Mexicans gather with family and friends to barbecue and watch fireworks, I hope they will take a moment to remember the greatness of this nation and pay tribute to all those who have made it so." 
   Domenici's full remarks, as follows, will be recorded in the Congressional Record: 
   I would like to take a few moments to commemorate the 231st birthday of our nation, on this coming Fourth of July. 
   On the fourth of July 1776, the Second Continental Congress adopted the Declaration of Independence and our nation was born. However, our forefathers would have to fight seven more years, and draft and ratify the Constitution before the principles laid down in the Declaration of Independence could truly begin to be realized. 
   That was just the beginning of our nation's story. It has taken the hard work and dedication of countless Americans to build the great and free nation we know today. On this day we should pay tribute to the pioneers who struck out across the frontier to build new lives, the individuals who built the roads and bridges that connect the country, the teachers who have ensured our youth reached their full potential and all Americans who in their own way have contributed to this nation. 
   We cannot forget the brave Americans of our armed services who throughout our history have fought and died to preserve the freedom we all enjoy, nor those currently serving. On the fourth of July we must also honor the sacrifice of these men and women. 
   As New Mexicans gather with family and friends to barbecue and watch fireworks, I hope they will take a moment to remember the greatness of this nation and pay tribute to all those who have made it so.
 
 