SEN. DOMENICI HERALDS NEW JOB FIGURES, SAYS CONGRESS SHOULD EXTEND TAX CUTS SPURRING GROWTH
  Sen. Pete Domenici today heralded new evidence that the American economy continues to grow at a breakneck pace, and argued that Congress should not allow the tax cuts that have helped spur job creation to expire.  
   The Department of Labor reported Friday that 248,000 new jobs were created in May. In addition, previous estimates of job creation were revised up, amounting to 353,000 in March and 346,000 in April, bringing the total number of new jobs created in the last 10 months to 1.4 million. 
   "There are some who argue that the tax cuts President Bush pushed through Congress were not good for the economy. Today's numbers continue to prove that they are wrong. President Bush inherited a recession, but thanks to his leadership and successful economic policies it was one of the shortest and shallowest in our nation's history," Domenici, the former Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said. 
   Domenici warned that the Senate should pass a budget resolution that includes provisions to extend the Bush tax cuts that will expire this year. 
   "The Bush policies have stimulated growth in our economy," Domenici said. "Now is not the time to raise taxes on small businesses and families. The tax cuts championed by the President have this economy percolating but there are some that will expire this year if we don't act. Inaction by the Senate on a budget resolution would amount to a tax increase and could very well hamper our economic growth." 
   "I believe those who talk about taking back the tax cuts because of the deficit have it backward. Because of the deficit we should be making sure the tax cuts remain so that more people can be put to work and more revenues to can then flow back to the economy. Keeping the tax cuts is a means of stabilizing and sustaining our economic growth," he said. 
   National unemployment rate stayed steady at 5.6 percent, below the national average for the past three decades. Virtually every sector of the country and the economy saw job gains, with the unemployment rate decreasing in 47 states. 
   The Senator pointed out that numerous economic indicators show good news. Real after-tax incomes are up by 11 percent since December 2000. Non-automotive retail sales increased 11.8 percent in the first quarter of 2004. New housing construction is at one of the highest levels in 20 years. Home ownership rates are their highest in history. Productivity grew from 2000 to 2003 at the fastest three-year rate in more than 50 years.
 
 