SEN. DOMENICI RAISES CONCERNS ABOUT TROUBLED 'VIRTUAL' BORDER FENCE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today inquired whether the Department of Homeland Security will alter its plans for a "virtual" fence to help secure U.S. borders in light it announcement of a three-year delay before the first phase of the project is deployed.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that today held a hearing on the DHS budget request for FY2009, which initially recommended $775 million for overall border fencing, infrastructure and border security technology. 
   An initial 100 miles of a "virtual fence" was to have been put in place in Arizona and near El Paso by the end of 2008. DHS has moved that goal back to 2011 due to software and other problems. Using technologically advanced sensors, cameras and radar, the virtual fence has been planned to complement 700 miles of actual fencing and vehicle barriers on the Southwest border. 
   "I was concerned and dismayed to read last week that plans to build a virtual border fence are being scaled back and delayed for years. We must get control of our borders, and these problems, on top of the failure of the America's Shield Initiative, are unacceptable," Domenici said. 
   "We have been counting on the use of high-tech devices to help control illegal crossings in the United States, and the Homeland Security Department should be ready to answer how it is going to move forward after this significant setback," he said. 
   Domenici has asked DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff what actions his department is taking to quickly address the problems discovered with the virtual fence, and whether its FY2009 budget is sufficient to rectify the problems. In addition, Domenici asked whether DHS might revise its budget request to provide more funding for actual border fencing because of the expected delay in deploying an effective "virtual fence." 
   Domenici has supported the authorization and funding for 700 miles of double-layered fencing at specified locations along the almost 2,000-mile Southwest border-including fencing and vehicle barrier installation in southern New Mexico.
 
 