SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN WANT MAXIMUM FLEXIBILITY IN LANL CONTRACT, BENEFITS PLAN
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today jointly issued new recommendations on how the Energy Department should move forward with the Los Alamos National Laboratory contract process, including continuing existing benefits under any new contract. 
   The New Mexico Senators made their recommendations in a letter to Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman on the last day to submit public comments on the National Nuclear Security Administration's draft request for proposal (RFP) addendum.  
   The NNSA Source Evaluation Board is in the process of developing a final RFP for a new management and operating contract for LANL. The lab has been operated by the University of California since its creation in 1943. 
   Domenici and Bingaman, chairman and ranking member respectively of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, focused their criticism on the SEB mandate for a stand-alone benefits and pension plan for LANL employees, including requiring the winning bidder to create a separate corporate entity to carry out the contract. 
   The Senators believe such a move could trigger an exodus of the most senior weapons designers who would retire in order to lock in their current benefits. It could also lead younger scientists to seek other employment. 
   "The SEB must ensure, with a high degree of confidence, that the final RFP will create an environment that will encourage employee retention. We hope the SEB will publish a final RFP that will not: reduce employee compensation and retirement benefits, reduce the mandate to support world-class scientific research, or increase operating costs to a level that can not be supported within the budget," the Senators wrote Bodman. 
   The Senators said the final RFP should not mandate the formation of a separate corporate entity, and they strongly recommended that the SEB allow maximum flexibility for bidders to continue existing benefits-even to the extent of using the existing benefits plan offered by UC. 
   "Preserving options maintains maximum flexibility and would be consistent with the approach taken by the Department of Energy in the Lawrence Berkley National Laboratory contract proposal. We believe the best way for the SEB to guarantee that employees receive 'substantially equivalent' benefits would be to allow existing employees to remain within the University of California Retirement Plan," the letter said. 
   The Senators also warned that some provisions in the RFP will significantly increase the overhead cost to operate the lab-an estimated $100 million a year over current spending, not including the mandate for a stand-alone pension plan with retiree health benefits. The increased costs, they contend, run counter to the Bush administration's budget proposal to reduce NNSA funding by $500 million over the next five years. 
   "Make no mistake; this will have a negative impact on program funding and scientific research. Before the SEB publishes the final RFP, we hope that careful consideration will be given to the issue of overhead cost and the impact the potential increases will have on stockpile stewardship and scientific research within the Department of Energy and at Los Alamos," they wrote. 
   On a positive note, the Senators agreed with the SEB decision to allow for a 180-day transition period for employees and retirees to evaluate the winning bid, as well as the move to extend the contract term from five to seven years, with the ability of the contractor to earn an additional 13 years over the term of the contract. 
   The following this the full text of the Domenici-Bingaman letter to Bodman: 
   March 4, 2005 
   The Honorable Samuel Bodman Secretary U.S. Department of Energy 1000 Independence Avenue Washington, D.C. 20585 
   Dear Secretary Bodman: 
   We are writing in response to the addendum to the Draft Request for Proposal (RFP) for the competitive selection of a management and operating (M&O) contractor for Los Alamos National Laboratory. 
   Let us reiterate that we stand by our comments outlined in separate letters dated January 21, 2005 and January 4, 2005. We hope that many of the suggestions addressed in these letters will be incorporated into the final RFP, including the proposed changes to the scoring criteria, employee benefits and an increased focus on science. 
   We appreciate the willingness of the NNSA Source Evaluation Board (SEB) to consider modifications to the earlier draft as a result of input during the comment period. As a result of this input, we believe the SEB has made the correct decision to provide a transition period of 180 days for employees to make critical decisions that may affect their employment and retirement benefits. We also support the extension of the contract term from five years to seven years, with the ability of the contractor to earn an additional 13 years over the term of the contract. This extension will be helpful in establishing continuity and longevity at the laboratory. 
   As was evident during your recent trip to Los Alamos, there are serious concerns with the NNSA's decision to mandate a stand-alone pension plan, including the impact of requiring the winning bidder to establish a separate corporate entity. We believe that the RFP should not mandate the formation of a new dedicated corporate entity as a condition for competing and that the NNSA should commit to remaining neutral on this issue in judging corresponding proposals. We also believe that NNSA should not foreclose the option of continuing the existing benefits plan or allowing the new contractor to utilize the existing plan. Preserving options maintains maximum flexibility and would be consistent with the approach taken by the Department of Energy in the Lawrence Berkley National Laboratory contract proposal. We believe the best way for the SEB to guarantee that employees receive "substantially equivalent" benefits would be to allow existing employees to remain within the University of California Retirement Plan. 
   We are concerned with the SEB's apparent strong desire to require competition at any cost. While we are not convinced that the Department will be able to overcome many of the intangible issues associated with the operation of Los Alamos, we understand you are under pressure to make this procurement as competitive as possible. We believe that many of the initiatives proposed by NNSA to increase competition would significantly add to the overhead cost of the lab by an estimated $100 million per year over current spending, In addition this does not include the costs associated with the mandate of a stand-alone pension plan with retiree health benefits. These large increases run counter to the direction of the President's FY'06 budget request, which proposes a net reduction to NNSA funding by $500 million over the next five years. Make no mistake; this will have a negative impact on program funding and scientific research. Before the SEB publishes the final RFP, we hope that careful consideration will be given to the issue of overhead cost and the impact the potential increases will have on stockpile stewardship and scientific research within the Department of Energy and at Los Alamos. 
   We believe that Los Alamos is a unique entity with enormous responsibility for maintaining our nuclear deterrent and performing science in the national interest. The SEB must ensure, with a high degree of confidence, that the Final RFP will create an environment that will encourage employee retention. We hope the SEB will publish a Final RFP that will not: reduce employee compensation and retirement benefits, reduce the mandate to support world-class scientific research, or increase operating costs to a level that can not be supported within the budget. 
   Thank you for taking time to review our concerns. 
   Sincerely, 
   Pete V. Domenici 
  United States Senator 
   Jeff Bingaman 
  United States Senator
 
 