SEN. DOMENICI WANTS KEMPTHORNE CONFIRMED SOON TO TAKE INTERIOR DEPTARTMENT HELM
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today questioned Interior Secretary-nominee Dirk Kempthorne on a series of federal lands management issues important to New Mexico and said he wants the Senate to confirm the Idaho governor as soon as possible. 
   Domenici Thursday conducted a confirmation hearing for Kempthorne, a former U.S. Senator who would replace Secretary Gale Norton at the helm of the federal agency that administers millions of acres of federal lands across the country.
   "We can't afford to leave the Interior Department without permanent leadership, so I'll do everything I can to get Governor Kempthorne in place as soon as possible," Domenici said.
   "Major decisions that must be made are on hold and many more will be coming down the pike in the next few months. The secretary's position is one of considerable magnitude considering the importance of issues that Governor Kempthorne will oversee. They are important to energy policy, American Indian relationships, national parks and other national treasures, and Western water management. The list goes on and on," he said.
   Domenici's opening remarks included a reference to a letter of support for Kempthorne signed by 40 Republican and Democrat governors. Domenici, who also serves on various Senate Appropriations Committee subcommittees that fund the Interior Department, asked Kempthorne a series of questions related to energy policy, New Mexico water settlements and the department's Water 2025 program.
   Domenici sought to get Kempthorne to agree to greater Interior Department attention and participation in a series of Indian water rights settlements that are nearing completion in New Mexico, including the Aamodt, Abeyta and Navajo settlements.
   "The Interior Department's lack of involvement in New Mexico water rights settlements and the amount of funding that the administration is willing to contribute has been disappointing. The Department seems oblivious to the fact that it will cost money to finish these," Domenici said. "I want assurances that the New Mexico Indian water rights settlements will now be a priority and that the administration will provide a reasonable federal contribution as part of these settlements."
   Domenici noted that all parties in the New Mexico settlements must work out realistic contributions, saying that currently the settlement proposals would have the federal government pay more than $1.0 billion-a difficult proposition in existing budget conditions.
   The chairman also sought Kempthorne's support for his legislation (S.2561) to authorize and expand the existing Bureau of Reclamation Water 2025 grant program to give communities and water systems a chance to get federal assistance for projects related to water conservation, water use efficiency, and actions to prevent water-related crises or conflicts in watersheds.
   Finally, Domenici also encouraged Kempthorne to work with the committee to convince lawmakers and the public to better accept policies that would allow more energy resources to be taken through environmentally-sound means from federal lands and waterways. 
   "This is a very good program, but we need to get it authorized and put more money into it," Domenici said.
 
 