SEN. DOMENICI VOTES FOR EMERGENCY FUNDING BILL, WILL BE PART OF TALKS TO REACH DEAL WITH HOUSE, BUSH
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted for an emergency supplemental funding package to support the war on terrorism in Iraq and Afghanistan, and to meet other national needs like border security and drought aid. 
   The Senate Wednesday passed (78-20) the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill (HR.4939), a $109 billion package that will now be referred to a conference committee to negotiate a final package with the House of Representatives. Domenici, as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, will serve on the conference committee.
   The Bush administration has issued a veto threat over the size of the Senate bill, which exceeds the $92 billion initially requested by the President in February.
   "I am confident we can reach an agreement with the House that is acceptable to the White House. It's an absolute certainty that we must get our jobs done so that the Defense Department has what it needs to carry its role in the war on terrorism," Domenici said.
   "I can understand the need to control federal spending. But we also have to recognize that this package needs to include necessary funding to help meet immediate needs in our country, including border security and aid to those being hit hard by drought," he said.
   Domenici cosponsored a $1.9 billion border security amendment that should result in new funding being assigned to the Border Patrol's El Paso Sector. The amendment, passed last week largely on party lines, would pay for critical one-time investments in more border patrol vehicles, aircraft, new stations, upgraded communications systems and targeted fencing in high-traffic areas.
   At Domenici's request, this border amendment restores $18.0 million, initially approved last December, to construct a new language arts facility and upgrade the information technology and telephone infrastructure at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia. FLETC Artesia is home to the Border Patrol Academy for basic and advanced agent training.
   "It is increasingly evident that immediate work needs to be done to better secure our borders. We know that as the Congress considers immigration reform, more effective monitoring and control over our borders is necessary. This amendment is a significant step in that direction, and it will benefit the New Mexico border region," Domenici said. "The expansion and upgrades at FLETC are necessary if we want to successfully train and deploy more Border Patrol agents on the border."
   Domenici also said New Mexico will benefit from nearly $4.0 billion in emergency assistance to agricultural producers and others affected by drought. The provision includes $1 billion for crop disaster assistance, $600 million for livestock assistance and $25 million in dairy assistance.
   Domenici specifically worked to include in the drought package: $17.0 million in USDA Emergency Conservation Program funding ($5 million for New Mexico and $12 million for Texas) for emergency water enhancing activities such as water hauling; $5.0 million in Army Corps of Engineers Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies authority for drought emergency assistance; and, $7.5 million for Bureau of Reclamation Drought Relief Act authorities to undertake drought contingency planning and to provide emergency potable water sources for eligible communities. (See separate Domenici news release, May 3.)
 
 