SEN. DOMENICI URGES INCREASED FUNDING FOR LEGAL SERVICE CORPORATION TO AID POOR AND ABUSED
  Sen. Pete Domenici today urged a substantial increase in federal support in FY2008 for the Legal Services Corporation (LSC), which provides important legal representation for the poor and abused.  
   In a bipartisan effort to restore critical LSC funding levels to prior highs, Domenici has recommended to the leadership of the Senate Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee (CJS) to increase the next fiscal year's funding to $380 million, up $32 million from the FY2007 appropriation of $342 million. 
   "Our justice system is designed to allow every citizen the right to representation. To protect this right, Congress tasked the Legal Services Corporation with providing legal services to vulnerable Americans all across the country. But LSC can't effectively do so under current funding levels, which have not kept pace with the rate of inflation," stated Domenici, who serves on the CJS Subcommittee. 
   "While we recognize and appreciate the increased appropriation this year, it simply isn't enough. Of the 50 million Americans who qualify for federally-funded legal assistance, tens of thousands are denied access because the resources are unavailable. The Americans who need these services are often victims of domestic violence, have been affected by national or natural disasters, or are otherwise legally vulnerable and unable to seek counsel. To underfund LSC, limiting the number of Americans served, is to deny justice to underprivileged persons in need," he continued. 
   Since 1995, when the LSC was funded at $415 million, the organization has suffered a number of significant budget cuts. Despites several small funding increases since 2005, LSC appropriations have continued to dwindle, bringing funding to its current level of $342 million. 
   In 2006, the Harkin-Domenici amendment achieved an important step toward adequately funding this vital corporation by raising the Subcommittee's approval level by $31 million, delivering LSC a $358 million budget for FY2007 in the CJS bill approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee. The FY2007 funding level was decreased to $342 million in the final Continuing Resolution for the year. This is markedly reduced from the $415 million provided in FY1995, which in today's dollars is $494 million, with which the LSC operated just over a decade ago. 
   LSC is a non-profit corporation, established in 1974 to administer legal counsel to individuals living near or under the poverty line. In 1996, Domenici restored funding and added program reforms for LSC after Congress began considering elimination of the program.
 
 