SEN. DOMENICI TO ATTEND YOUNG RESEARCHERS RECEPTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici Saturday will attend an event celebrating math and science programs for young people, where he will tell attendees that momentum is clearly with those seeking a major investment in education to make America more competitive. 
   Domenici will speak at the New Mexico Young Researchers Reception, which is being held to honor past New Mexico Science fair winners and helped raise money to bring the International Science Fair to Albuquerque in May 2007.
   "Over the past year, we've made excellent progress in convincing our nation and colleagues about the need to invest in math and science education programs. Unfortunately, America is at risk of falling behind our competitors when it comes to cutting edge research and technology. A major investment in improving our educational system to interest young people in science, math and technology is what we need to reverse this trend," said Domenici, who chairs the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   "Fortunately, we have outstanding programs in Albuquerque and around the state that make science more fun and interesting. I'm proud to help highlight programs like New Mexico MESA and RoboRave, and also to lend my support to the upcoming International Science Fair next year. I hope our youth will participate and draw inspiration from the activities at the fair," he continued.
   Domenici is among the architects of bipartisan, consensus legislation to make America more competitive by investing in education, science and technology.
   The National Competitiveness Investment Act (NCIA) builds on the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Acts introduced earlier this year by Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman. The NCIA bill (S.3936), sponsored by Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), combines PACE Act provisions with other competitiveness initiatives to form one large, consensus bill that will face an easier road to passage when Congress reconvenes in November.
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici has also been working to fund competitiveness activities. The FY2007 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill he helped develop contains $1.2 billion for competitiveness activities--including programs associated with the University of New Mexico, New Mexico State University, New Mexico Tech and others.
   In addition, Domenici authored a provision in the FY2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill to spend $25 million on math and science teacher training in conjunction with DOE national labs, including Los Alamos and Sandia.
 
 