SEN. DOMENICI: OIL, GAS DEMANDS MEANT $444.29 MILLION FOR NEW MEXICO IN FY 2005 FEDERAL ROYALTY PAYMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the increased demand for oil and gas and the production it has spurred on federal lands in New Mexico have resulted in the state gaining $444.29 million in federal royalty payments this year.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, noted that only one other state--Wyoming with $878 million--benefited more in FY2005 from mineral production on federal lands, including oil, gas and coal production. In all, the Interior Department's Minerals Management Service in 2005 distributed more than $1.7 billion in payments to 35 states, in addition to approximately $420 million to American Indian tribes around the nation. 
   New Mexico's share of MMS payments have steadily increased over the past four years, from $193 million in FY2002, to $292 million in FY2003, to $364 million in FY2004. 
   "New Mexico is an energy-producing state where the federal government controls more than a third of its land. The state's share of MMS payments reflects that fact, and also the truth that we are a nation thirsty for more energy," Domenici said. 
   "Some may sniff at the idea of energy production on federal lands, but clearly tapping these resources does have some benefit for the overall good of New Mexicans," he said. 
   "This record level of funding has been available for the state to improve public education and meet other critical needs in New Mexico," he said. 
   Overall, the MMS disbursed about $9.9 billion in FY2005, including contributions to the Reclamation Fund, the Historic Preservation Fund, and the Land and Water Conservation Fund. 
   The MMS is the federal agency responsible for collecting, auditing and disbursing revenues associated with mineral leases on federal and tribal lands. Disbursements are made to state on a monthly basis as royalties, rents, bonuses and other revenues are collected by MMS. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Interior Department and MMS.
 
 