SENATE EXTENDS VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT THROUGH 2010
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the Senate has approved legislation to extend through 2010 the federal programs that help combat domestic violence.  
   The five-year extension to the Violence Against Women Act (S.1197) was approved by unanimous consent Tuesday evening. The bill, cosponsored by Domenici, has broad bipartisan support and reauthorizes VAWA activities administered by the Justice Department's Office on Violence Against Women. The current law, first enacted in 1994 and renewed in 2000, expired Sept. 30. 
   Despite the need for the House of Representatives to take similar action on VAWA legislation, Domenici said there should be no disruption of services offered under the federal law. 
   "To those who suffer abuse and to those who pour their hearts into caring for them, the reauthorization of this law is important. I fully expect Congress to get this legislation to the President soon," Domenici said. "Domestic abuse touches every segment of our society, and there can be no lull in our persistence to fight it." 
   The Senate legislation would continue programs established in the original 1994 VAWA, and authorize new programs to improve treatment for children impacted by violence, enhance health care for rape victims, hold repeat offenders and high-tech stalkers accountable, ease housing problems for battered women, and help domestic violence victims keep their jobs. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate appropriations committee that funds the Justice Department and VAWA programs. The Senate FY2006 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill contains $395 million for the Office on Violence Against Women, which is $12.9 million above current funding. 
   October is National Domestic Violence Awareness Month and events are planned throughout New Mexico. For more information, visit the New Mexico Coalition Against Domestic Violence web site at www.nmcadv.org. National information is available at http://www.ncadv.org/
 
 