SEN. DOMENICI KNOCKS BUREAU OF REC FOR LACKING CLEAR PLAN FOR WATER DESALINATION, TREATMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asserted that the Bureau of Reclamation is failing to make adequate progress on a water treatment technology program, including the desalination program in Otero County, and stressed the importance of the agency bringing a new focus to the mission. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate appropriations committee that funds the Bureau of Reclamation, aired his complaints in a letter to acting Bureau Commissioner William E. Rinne following a series of staff briefings on the course of the water technology program.
   Domenici, who also chairs the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has for five years strongly encouraged, through legislation and funding, the Bureau to carry out a program to find affordable and effective water technologies to meet growing demand for water-particularly in the West.
   "To date, the response from the Department of the Interior and the Bureau has been highly disappointing and unacceptable," Domenici said.
   "I appreciate that the Bureau has developed a draft strategy for implementation of a desalination program. This is long overdue. The initial briefing on this document took place a few months ago. At that time, I clearly stated that the Bureau's program needs to be efficient, and above all, focused on developing real world, workable technologies that will be used to expand our water supply. This must be a results oriented effort. The draft documents presented do not contain the degree of detail and focus necessary to provide confidence that the Bureau's strategy will achieve these results," he said.
   Domenici said the Bureau's plan lacks a business model guide to prioritize research and guidelines for partnering with other federal agencies and commercial groups, including the Joint Taskforce on Water Reuse and Desalination.
   "The Bureau appears to be discounting the value of working with a self-organized group of other Federal Agencies, non-governmental groups, states and research groups who have exactly the same goals relative to developing water treatment technology as the Bureau. The lack of importance placed on this relationship is baffling," Domenici said.
   Domenici also criticized the Bureau for not sufficiently communicating with Congress on how its administrative actions can and will mesh with legislative actions in the Senate and House. For instance, he cited Bureau's efforts to contract a manager for the Tularosa Basin Desalination Facility in Otero County. The Senate's FY2007 Energy and Water Appropriations bill funds the Tularosa Basin Desalination Facility at $7.0 million and would establish New Mexico State University as the facility's manager.
   "I have stated multiple times that developing technology for civilian uses in water treatment should be a prime mission for the Department of the Interior, and I do not wish to undermine those limited activities within the Bureau that actually support this mission," Domenici said.
 
 