SEN. DOMENICI: BUSH SIGNS HOMELAND SECURITY BILL WITH $22 MILLION FOR FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING CENTER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that President Bush has signed into law a $34.8 billion homeland security funding bill that will direct $22.0 million in construction funds to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) at Artesia-the nation's primary facility for training Border Patrol agents.
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and served on the on the House-Senate conference committee that put together the final version of the FY2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. The $34.8 billion bill represents an overall increase in funding for Homeland Security measures.
   Specifically, it will help southern New Mexico's border security by increasing the number of border patrol agents, vehicles, and facilities along the border. 
   The final bill passed by Congress directs specific construction and maintenance funding-$22 million-to FLETC Artesia. Of this funding, $10 million is for a new firearms multipurpose building and $12 million will go toward completion of a new dormitory. Other funding could also be made available to FLETC Artesia within the $64.25 million overall provided for acquisition, construction and improvements within the FLETC network.
   "I'm pleased President Bush has signed this bill into law. It will fund an additional 1,500 Border Patrol agents, all of which will be trained at FLETC-Artesia. For that reason, I worked to obtain infrastructure upgrades at the facility to keep pace with increasing demands," Domenici said.
   The bill contains $275.25 million for the FLETC program. At Domenici's request, more than $9.1 million will be directed toward FLETC from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) directorates to hire the staff needed to support the training of Border Patrol and other federal agents.
   The conferees agreed to provide $379.6 million to hire 1,500 additional Border Patrol agents in FY2007, which would give the nation 14,819 agents. These agents would be trained at FLETC Artesia, which hosts the Border Patrol Academy where both basic and advanced border patrol training occurs. The bill contains funds for 2,700 new detention beds as well.
   Overall, for CBP, the bill provides $5.56 billion for salaries and expenses, which includes $2.28 billion for border security between ports of entry. The bill specifically provides $1.19 billion for integrated border security fencing and tactical infrastructure.
   "This new law continues our focus on securing our border, with significant funds designated to fences, barriers and other infrastructure improvements. This bill also funds other homeland security priorities in our state, like NISAC and FLETC. I'm confident that it serves our state and our nation well," Domenici said.
   Prior to passage of the appropriations bill, Domenici voted for the Secure Fence Act (HR.6061) to authorize 700 miles of double-layered fencing at specified locations along the almost 2,000-mile Southwest Border-including fencing five miles west of Columbus to 10 miles east of El Paso. President Bush signed this authorization bill into law in a ceremony in Arizona.
   For New Mexico, the final bill includes Domenici-authored language directing the Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) Directorate to study and submit a report to Congress on the impact of increasing commercial operating hours at the Santa Teresa Port of Entry in Do?a Ana County. The bill also provides $7.46 million for vehicle barriers in the Border Patrol's Deming sector.
   Finally, Domenici successfully secured $25 million to continue support for the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC), a joint Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories project. He also added language increasing NISAC ability to engage in activities related to emergencies, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, and other catastrophes and requires federal agencies and departments with critical infrastructure responsibilities to establish a formal relationship and share information with the New Mexico-based center.
   Programs of interest to New Mexico in the FY2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill include:
   NISAC - At Domenici's request, $25 million is provided for the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center at Sandia and LANL, an increase of $5 million above FY2006. The Senate report contains Domenici language stating that Sandia and LANL should continue to develop NISAC and be the lead entities in this initiative to secure the nation's critical infrastructure.
   FLETC - A total of $275.25 million is approved for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), an increase of $18.97 million over FY2006. This funding includes:
   * $64.25 million for acquisition, construction, and maintenance at FLETC locations (Glynco, Ga., Artesia, N.M., Cheltenham, Md., and Charleston, S.C), including a $22 million increase specifically for FLETC Artesia ($10 million for a new firearms multipurpose building and $12 million to complete a new dormitory);
   * $207.6 million for FLETC salaries and expenses, an increase of $18.97 million above the FY2006 level to fund instructors, staff, and tuition for training U.S. Border Patrol and U.S. Customs agents; and
   * At Domenici's request, included in the amount recommended for salaries and expenses is an increase of $9.13 million to provide training resources for the additional hiring provided for in Immigrant & Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs & Border Patrol (CBP). This amount includes $4.64 million in CBP funding, and $4.44 million in ICE funding. These amounts will instead be provided directly to FLETC.
   Santa Teresa Port of Entry Hours of Operation - At Domenici's request, the Senate report directs CBP to submit a separate report on resources allocated to the Santa Teresa port of entry, including an analysis of the impact of expanding the hours of commercial operations from 10 hours per day to 16 hours per day.
   Vehicle Barriers - Within Border Construction funding, the Senate Report specifies that the El Paso Sector, and specifically, the Deming field office, would receive $7.463 million for vehicle barriers. Funding for this purpose is provided in the conference agreement. The bill provides $5.56 billion for CBP salaries and expenses, including $2.28 billion for border security between ports of entry. The conference agreement also includes $1.19 billion for integrated border security fencing and tactical infrastructure.
   National Domestic Preparedness Consortium - $145 million is approved to continue first responder training through this consortium of Fort McClellan, Alabama ($57 million), and four training partners ($22 million each) - New Mexico Tech, Texas A&M, the Nevada Test Site, and Louisiana State University. This is the same as FY2006 funding. The report contains language requiring the Office of Domestic Preparedness to prepare a long-range strategic plan for the NDPC.
   Domestic Preparedness - $2.53 billion is provided for State and Local programs, $662 million for Firefighter Assistance Grants and $200 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants. Within national programs, $145 million is for the existing partners of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium, including New Mexico Tech. Exercises at Playas in Hidalgo County could be funded under this program.
   Domestic Nuclear Detection Office - $272.5 million for research, development and operations, as well as $30.4 million for management and administration. Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories are involved in this program. Domenici authored an amendment to the Senate port security bill that authorizes DNDO and establishes its roles and responsibilities.
   CBP Air Assets - $602.19 million for Air and Marine Interdiction, Operations, Maintenance and Procurement. At Domenici's request, $20 million is provided for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and related support systems. The bill also has $64 million for acquisition/refurbishment of two medium-lift helicopters and $58 million for two multipurpose aircraft. Border Tunnels - The conference agreement includes language stating Congress' concern with the lack of a clear policy regarding agency responsibility for securing, closing, and ultimately, filling illegal border tunnels, and directs the DHS Secretary to develop a policy. The bill also mandates a briefing by Jan. 10, 2007 on the technologies being researched to detect and prevent illegal entry into the United States via tunnels. Domenici cosponsored S.2355, the Border Tunnel Prevention Act, which criminalizes constructing border tunnels.
 
 