SEN. DOMENICI: FEDERAL FIREFIGHTING AGENCIES SHOULD BE READY TO PROVIDE MORE FOR WILDFIRE SUPPRESSION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed his concern that ongoing severe drought conditions across wide swaths of the nation could lead to an extraordinary wildfire season that could threaten communities and close the national forests in New Mexico. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. That panel's Subcommittee on Public Lands and Forests today held a hearing to review the impacts of the outlook for the 2006 wildfire season and assess the federal land management agencies' state of readiness for the coming fire season.
   "With the severe conditions and the underlying drought in New Mexico, it's fair to say we may be facing one of the worst fire seasons in our history. Without more moisture, we can expect many of the national forests in New Mexico to be closed to the public this year because of the extreme drought conditions and the associated wildfire threats," Domenici said. "The rangeland fires we've already experienced in eastern New Mexico are evidence that this year the threat is not just in our forested regions."
   "While Congress continues to increase funding in the fire suppression accounts, I remain concerned that the Forest Service has the resources it needs to suppress wildfire, especially in so-called urban-interface areas around communities," he said. "The Forest Service and Interior Department should be on notice that Congress will demand action should additional fire suppression resources be needed."
   Testimony was received from Mark Rey, Undersecretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and the Environment, and Nina Rose Hatfield, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Interior for Policy, Management, and Budget.
   Domenici and others in FY2004 fought to include a $500 million emergency fire suppression reserve account in the budget and Rey testified today that most of that fund is still available to the DOI and Forest Service for emergency fire fighting if needed which should be very helpful this fire season, if it is needed.
   In February, Domenici and Senator Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) wrote Rey recommending that the USFS be ready to make resources available to combat wildfire dangers in New Mexico and Arizona this year--despite recommendations in the FY2006 and FY2007 budgets to fund the implementation of the Pacific Northwest Forest Plan. The Senators believe the funding and resource focus should be on areas where severe droughts are predicted, like the Southwest.
   The President's FY2007 budget request seeks $912 million for the Healthy Forest Initiative carried out by the Forest Service and Interior Department. This is a $5.0 million increase over the FY2006 enacted level, and $220 million increase over FY2004 funding. The budget, however, also recommends a nearly $100 million increase to implement the Clinton administration's Pacific Northwest Forest Plan.
   Related to the drought conditions and water availability, Domenici on Tuesday gained Senate Appropriations approval for supplemental funding that would be directed toward a multi-agency effort to help drought-affected communities have access to potable water. This aid would be offered through the Bureau of Reclamation, Army Corps of Engineers and USDA.
   In 2005, 8.7 million acres of forest and rangeland were burned by 66,552 wildfires. The National Interagency Fire Center projects an above-normal fire potential in most of the Southwest, the southern half of California, and areas in Texas, Oklahoma, Missouri, and Alaska.
 
 