SEN. DOMENICI, NEW MEXICANS ADDRESS WATER WOES AT SENATE CONFERENCE, SEEK REFORMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said it is clear that the federal government should begin to seriously look at how it can work with states and communities to improve the management and development of water resources in the United States.  
   As chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Domenici today joined Senator Jeff Bingaman in hosting a Water Conference that involved receiving information on a wide range of issues facing water availability in the United States. The input will be used to guide the committee as it addresses water management issues. 
   Among the 22 individuals invited to make presentations was Jean Witherspoon of Albuquerque, representing the city of Albuquerque and the New Mexico Water Conservation Alliance. 
   In addition, Tom W. Davis of the Carlsbad Irrigation District discussed water supply and resource management coordination; and Galen Buller, representing the city of Santa Fe Sangre de Cristo Water Division, made a presentation on reforming the Bureau of Reclamation. 
   "Federal water resources management and development in the 20th century produced a complex web of governing authorities. Today we have everything from federal and state laws and regulations, compacts and other contractual obligations. We also have often-fragmented federal agency roles," Domenici said. 
   "Now at the beginning of the 21st century, Congress is faced with ever-increasing and expensive demands on water due to such factors as population growth, environmental concerns, drought, agriculture and tribal needs, aging infrastructures, and limited funding," he said. "We called this conference in hopes that our discussions with leaders from around the nation will lead to legislative initiatives that meet our immediate and long-term water requirements." 
   Domenici sought input from Witherspoon's panel on conservation and technological developments. 
   "There is a limited opportunity for expanding available water supplies through traditional means," Domenici said. "It is necessary that we increase available water supplies by making better use of the water we do have through conservation or by transforming previously unusable water into a 'new' supply. I already believe we need a new federal investment in water research, which has waned since the 1970s." 
   Witherspoon's presentation noted advances made by cities like Albuquerque, El Paso, Denver and others to reduce water usage through conservation and education campaigns. She advocated broader federal incentives for promoting conservation, water-saving infrastructure improvements, and broader research on desalination and other technologies. 
   "Competition for limited funds will become even more intense as the nation is forced to address its aging water and sewer infrastructure and the need for replacement. Federal support of water conservation, including 'soft' components like education, must continue in order to maintain the success that has been achieved to date and to more fully realize the benefits yet to be achieved through conservation," Witherspoon said. 
   "In the West and in some areas east of the Mississippi, supply cannot meet the existing and/or growing demand if usage levels remain at the high per capita rates common in the '70s and '80s. Without reduction of usage and further development of new technology that increases supply at reasonable cost, many areas of this country cannot meet future demand. And as most areas become more conscious of this situation, the willingness to share and/or allow limited commitment of currently unused supply decreases," she said. 
   In his presentation, Eddy County's Davis provided insight on improving federal water management roles. 
   "We all know that the many water laws and guidelines-and their implementation by various agencies-can cause conflicts at every management level. It seems to me there is a great need to improve federal coordination in managing water resources," Domenici said. 
   Davis indicated a greater need for federal coordination with state and local entities in addressing ground water and surface water resources, in terms of state and local surface water resources being stored and released from federal dams. He also discussed the cooperation needed to address Endangered Species Act enforcement, drought and population growth. 
   In addition, Davis also advocated negotiated agreements in place of lawsuits to settle water disputes that, in the instance of southeast New Mexico, could have crippled the regional economy. He recounted the formation of an agreement that permitted water distribution from the lower Pecos Basin that meets compact obligations to the state of Texas and the water needs of irrigation districts. 
   "To my knowledge, this is the first settlement of this type developed to solve a complex and contentious river basin problem involving an interstate compact, state adjudication and conjunctive use of ground and surface water," Davis said. "I believe this approach will become the preferred method of resolving such conflicts throughout the West rather than a lengthy and expensive legal battle resulting in a court decision that might not be functional." 
   Finally, Domenici sought input from Buller's panel on how the Bureau of Reclamation might be reconfigured to meet water demands of the 21st century. (Domenici is also chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Bureau.) 
   "The Bureau was established in 1902 to help develop and settle the arid West through irrigation and multipurpose projects. Over 100 years later, the West is largely settled and its population is booming. Agriculture, urban and environmental needs now compete for a limited and sometimes over-allocated water supply," Domenici said. "It is now time that we determine what the Bureau's role should be in this new century." 
   Buller strongly advocated Congress giving the Bureau greater authority to shift its attentions toward assisting growing municipalities in the West to secure their water supply needs. 
   "Sustained rates of population growth have literally become a way of life in New Mexico and throughout the West, bringing significant challenges and unprecedented pressures on our water resources for meeting municipal and industrial needs. Now is the time for Congress to revisit Reclamation's mission for the 21st century to undertake water supply and supply augmentation activities in the West for the purpose of assisting municipal and regional water providers to meet their water supply and drinking water needs," Buller said. 
   Buller advocated, among other things, more permanent agreements with the Bureau regarding water service contracts. He sought greater Bureau emphasis in helping municipalities protect watersheds and develop aquifer storage and recovery projects. In addition, Buller suggested implementing a federal mechanism to "streamline market-based conversions of water used for irrigation for municipal and industrial purposes and to meet environmental needs."
 
 