SEN. DOMENICI: OVER $7.5 MILLION AVAILABLE TO IMPLEMENT VOUCHERS FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE SERVICES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded nearly $7.6 million that will offer New Mexicans struggling with substance abuse to select treatments that best suit their road to recovery.  
   The grant was issued through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), the federal agency responsible for enhancing local mental health and substance abuse services. 
   "The Access to Recovery program allows individuals to choose between a wide range of treatment options that include faith and community-based programs," Domenici said. "Sometimes a 'one size fits all' approach doesn't work for individuals that need special attention. I am glad that New Mexicans can now select the most effective means to overcome their addictions." 
   The $7.59 million in federal funding will be used to enhance and implement voucher based services for substance abuse treatment through SAMSHA's Access to Recovery (ATR) program. President Bush announced the three-year, $600 million federal treatment initiative that broadens the base of recovery support and makes treatment services available to help 300,000 more Americans combat their addiction in his 2003 State of the Union Address. 
   These funds give New Mexico broad discretion to design and implement federally supported voucher programs to pay for a range of effective, community-based substance abuse treatments and recovery support services that promote individual choice, and expands access to care. 
   The ATR program, managed by the Office of the Governor, makes each state responsible for designing a free and independent choice of eligible providers. ATR also encourages states to include clinical treatments and other recovery support services. 
   Successfulness is measured by seven specific outcomes: abstinence from drugs and alcohol; no involvement with the criminal justice system; attainment of employment or enrollment in school; social supports; access to care; retention in care; and stable housing. SAMSHA was established by an act of Congress in 1992 as a separate entity within the HHS to focus attention, programs, and funding on improving the lives of people with or at risk for mental and substance abuse disorders.
 
 