SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES GRANTS TO COMBAT DOMESTIC VIOLENCE IN RURAL NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed four awards from the Department of Justice (DOJ) to strengthen efforts to investigate and prosecute domestic violence and child abuse cases throughout the state, particularly in rural areas.  
   Santa Fe, Zuni and Laguna Pueblos will receive a total of $1,133,120 from the DOJ's Office on Violence Against Women to support Rural Domestic Violence and Child Victimization Enforcement Grant programs. Las Cruces also received an award to serve southern New Mexico. 
   "These grants are designed to help victims in rural communities get the resources they need to justly prosecute their abusers and then move on with their lives. These funds will implement services to help with legal matters that can be daunting to those in rural areas while also waging local campaigns to decrease incidences of domestic abuse," Domenici said. 
   "I am pleased Santa Fe has taken a holistic approach to tackle domestic violence. This project targets each stage of the problem, including treatment and prevention," he said. 
   The First Judicial District of New Mexico in Santa Fe will receive $390,421 to work in collaboration with Esperanza Shelter for Battered Families, which acts as the lead service provider for this project. Programs at Esperanza range from 24-hour hotlines, crisis intervention, emergency shelter housing, counseling, therapy and advocacy for victims of domestic violence and their children. Esperanza also operates outreach crisis centers in Las Vegas and Mora. 
   The funds will enable the Santa Fe District Attorney's Office to hire a misdemeanor prosecutor, a civil court advocate, two legal victims advocates, and a residential counseling services coordinator; create a public awareness campaign; conduct school presentations; develop a partnership among child protection workers and domestic violence advocates; produce education and outreach materials; recruit and train volunteers; and conduct quarterly law enforcement training. 
   Zuni Pueblo will also receive $499,985 to provide advocacy and support services, draft a training curriculum, conduct training for schools, conduct outreach, complete two five-day workshops for youth participating in summer enrichment programs, and facilitate court mandated batterers re-education program. 
   The Zuni Beginning Shelter Program will serve as the lead implementing agency, partnering with Zuni Public Schools, the Zuni Youth Center, Zuni Police Department, Tribal Courts, Zuni CIRCLE Program, and other community organizations. 
   Laguna Pueblo has also been awarded $242,714 to provide reeducation to abusers, a 24-hour emergency shelter and crisis services, training to school personnel, officials, and businesses, conduct community presentations, and provide outreach to other Native American communities. 
   Laguna will collaborate with the tribal courts, Laguna Service Center, community health representatives, social services, crime victim specialists, Laguna Housing Authority, Laguna Police Department, and the Mayordomos Association. 
   Domenici also announced that the Third Judicial District Attorney in Las Cruces has also been awarded $250,000 by the DOJ in this same round of grant funding. Las Cruces will use the federal funds to work with La Casa, Inc. to provide similar aid to victims in Dona A?a County.
 
 