PRESIDENT SIGNS FY 2005 DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that President George W. Bush has signed into law a massive Defense Department funding bill that contains at least $80 million in additional funds he secured to support national security work carried out in New Mexico. 
   Domenici, as a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee, served on the conference committee that wrote the $418 billion FY2005 Defense Appropriations Bill.  
   "President Bush's action to make this bill law is good news for the men and women in uniform in New Mexico and around the world," Domenici said. "On this bill at least, Congress has risen to the challenge by providing funding for immediate national security needs while providing support for projects that will hold our military in good stead in the years to come. That includes vital research and contract work done in New Mexico for the Pentagon." 
   This year, Domenici secured additional funding for national defense programs carried out at Kirtland Air Force Base, the Air Force Research Laboratory in Albuquerque, and the White Sands Missile Range (WSMR). The bill will support the New Mexico National Guard and research done by New Mexico universities and defense contractors in the state. 
   Overall for America's military, the bill provides an average 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for military personnel; $350 million for National Guard and Reserve equipment; and $25 billion sought by President Bush to support antiterrorism activities in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   In addition to the increased funding for defense work in New Mexico, the defense appropriators in the House and Senate also agreed to provide $500 million in firefighting funding in the defense bill. In addition, the final bill includes: $685.3 million for diplomatic requirements in Iraq; $95 million for refugee aid in Sudan and Chad; $50 million to assist state and local law enforcement agencies in Boston and New York City with additional security at the national political conventions; and $26 million for defender services within the federal judiciary. 
   The bill provides $66.2 million to support the High Energy Laser-Joint Technology Office (HEL-JTO) in Albuquerque, which oversees the allocation of defense funding for high energy laser research and development. The JTO was placed in New Mexico following the enactment of 2001 Domenici-authored legislation to force better coordination of the nation=s high energy R&D. 
   The bill also contains language requested by Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman that prevents the Air Force from retiring any of the F-117 Stealth Fighters at Holloman Air Force Base. In addition, $9.8 million for the Stealth Fighters at Hollman was added to the bill by Representatives Steve Pearce and Heather Wilson. Domenici protected the funds during the Senate-House conference committee negotiations. 
   "Support for the F-117 Stealth Fighter program is now a matter in law," Domenici said. "Representatives Steve Pearce and Heather Wilson stepped up to the plate to secure additional funds for the F-117 program at Holloman, and now we can be sure that the Stealth Fighter program is even stronger than before." 
   At Domenici's request, the bill includes $11.5 million in third-year funding to support Navy participation in a major water desalination program in Otero County. He gained $5.6 million in FY2004 and $6 million in FY2003 for the Expeditionary Warfare Water Purification program. In addition, he secured $5.25 million to complete the Microelectronics Technology and Obsolescence Program at New Mexico Tech at Socorro. 
   Conferees agreed to Domenici's request and have provided $3.0 million to install the primary instrumentation grid to support a homeland security and emergency responder facility at Playas, N.M. 
   High priority projects conducted in New Mexico or which involve institutions in the state, for which Domenici secured funding within the FY2005 Defense Appropriations Bill, include: 
   Expeditionary Warfare Water Purification (Otero County): At Domenici's request, $11.5 million in third-year funding to advance this Naval water desalination program in Otero County. Domenici gained $5.6 million in FY2004 and $6 million in FY2003 for this project, which will develop high efficiency, compact technology to help alleviate the significant logistical load for transporting water. The program, which also involves the Bureau of Reclamation and Sandia National Laboratories, will deliver the first 100,000 gallons per day for testing in 2005. 
   MicroElectronics Technology and Obsolescence Program (New Mexico Tech): At Domenici's request, $5.25 million to support this new program that will test, evaluate, and assess the wide range of microelectronics components in military, space, and commercial systems. The METTOP will procure and store radiation tolerant electronic components and develop engineering solutions for microelectronic components that are no longer available. 
   Playas Instrumentation Network Design and Development (New Mexico Tech): At Domenici's request, $3.0 million is provided to install the primary instrumentation grid for the new homeland security and emergency responder facility at Playas. The training and research capability at Playas will provide a unique capability for studying a wide array of missions from urban warfare to environmental disasters. The funding for instrumentation will give all of the operations at Playas the critical data necessary to complete vital training and research that will begin in 2005. 
   Rapid Target Acquisition & Tracking System (Laguna Industries, Cibola County): At Domenici's request, $6.5 million for development, delivery, integration, and testing of a new Rapid Target Acquisition and Tracking System (RTATS). 
   Networking Environment for Command, Control and Communications (C3) Mobile Services (Laguna Industries): At Domenici's request, $5.6 million is provided for the C3 program, which is tested at the Mobility and Test Integration Center (MATIC) test facility at Laguna. This funding level would also support the extensive field testing of a communications system known as SLICE (Soldier Level Integrated Communication Environment). 
   Geosynchronous Laser Imaging Testbed (New Mexico Tech): At Domenici's request, $4.9 million to support GLINT which promises to expand the mission capabilities of White Sands Missile Range (WSMR) by adding a new laser transmitter which will be required for very high altitude and deep space object identification and capabilities analysis. 
   UAV Systems and Operations Validation Facility (New Mexico State University Physical Sciences Laboratory/NMSU PSL): At Domenici's request, $4.9 million to continue support the development of a USOVF at the Las Cruces International Airport to provide the Defense Department with a unique short- and long-range UAV operations capability to support testing of UAV platforms and systems in civil airspace. Domenici secured $4.9 million for the UAV project in New Mexico in FY2004. 
   Young Marines - $2.55 million to support this national drug prevention program that is utilized by New Mexico and American Indian communities. 
   EM Propulsion Cost Reduction (Los Alamos National Laboratories): At Domenici's request, $1.4 million is provided to advance research on lowering the cost and expanding applications for electromagnetic (EM) propulsion projects, such as the Navy electromagnetic gun and catapult. This research will begin with a detailed analysis of the major cost drivers and potential development risks for lower cost, high velocity systems. 
   Space Based Active Sensors (Air Force Research Laboratory-Kirtland AFB): At Domenici's request, $1.4 million to support research by a consortium of universities and national laboratories into determining the content of unknown space objects. Research on future technology has produced promising concepts but high weight and power requirements must be overcome. 
   Space Surveillance Technology (New Mexico Tech): At Domenici's request, $3.5 million to support technologies-such as advance digital cameras and multi-telescope imaging-to enable high resolution observation of space objects, which will be increasingly important as nanotechnologies are utilized to make satellites smaller. This is research associated with the Magdalena Ridge Observatory now under construction. 
   Laser Engineered Net Shaping (LENS) (Optomec Inc., Albuquerque): At Domenici's request, $1.8 million to advance LENS technology, a precise metal deposition process allowing for the repair of cracks, chips and other defects in high-value components such as turbine engine rotors. The laser energy technology has the potential to improve repair and maintenance of military equipment. 
   Electromagnetic Wave Gradiometer (Stolar Horizon Inc., Raton): At Domenici's request, $2.8 million to continue research into the application of Electromagnetic Wave Gradiometer instruments in locating and characterizing underground facilities. As part of the High Frequency Active Aurora Research Project (HAARP), this technology is also needed for characterizing the overlying geology and for bomb damage assessment. Domenici secured $2.1 million for this program in FY2004. 
   21st Century IO Workforce (NMSU PSL): At Domenici's request, $1.1 million through the National Reconnaissance Office to support an Information Operations curriculum to educate graduate and undergraduates in the increasingly important field of intelligence. Domenici provided $1.1 million to start this program in FY2004. 
   Decision Related Structures (NMSU PSL): At Domenici's request, $4.2 million to support the Army Research Lab project to identify vulnerabilities, and produce simulations and modeling to overcome new threats in technology-based network-centric battlefield and dynamic command and control (C2) situations. Domenici gained $4.2 million in FY2004 for this program. 
   Film Elimination Project (WSMR): At Domenici's request, $1.0 million to advance this project to transition to digital imaging from film, which will result in substantial cost savings in test and evaluation of tests at WSMR. The project will also provide a standard for establishing new data collection architecture at DOD test ranges. 
   Foreign Language Translator (Laguna Industries): At Domenici's request, $1.4 million is provided for further development of an electronic translator that provides one-way translation of numerous commands into several languages. Development will include field-testing in a variety of naval and ground environments such as water immersion and impact damage. 
   Blast Mitigation Program (New Mexico Tech): At Domenici's request, an additional $7.0 million is provided to continue work by New Mexico Tech's Energetic Material Research and Testing Center to conduct both research and testing on the best means of protecting personnel, equipment and infrastructure from explosives and other weapons of mass destruction. This comprehensive national program will be used to validate and enhance existing analytical tools that will be provided to the structural engineering community, homeland defense, state domestic preparedness groups, and the Armed Services. Domenici added $7.0 million for this program in FY2004. 
   Tribal Colleges: At Domenici's request, $2.25 million is provided to assist Tribal Colleges with the acquisition of science lab and computer equipment to strengthen their academic programs. 
   Hardening Technologies for Satellite Protection (Ball Aerospace, Albuquerque): At Domenici's request, $3.5 million is provided to support development of technologies to protect Defense Department data carried by satellites from directed energy (laser and microwave) threats. Domenici gained $3.5 million for this program in FY2004. 
   BioScience Center for Informatics (University of New Mexico): At Domenici's request, $1.0 million to support this center that will facilitate research on biodiversity, emerging diseases, resource management and the high performance computing and visualization required to integrate information from many sources related to bioterrorism threats. 
   Edit Advanced Landmine Detection (Stolar Horizons, Raton): At Domenici's request, $1.4 million to continue development of the EDIT landmine detector that employs sophisticated Resonant Microstrip Patch Antenna (RMPA) sensor technology. This technology was first developed for the coal mining industry. The funding will allow significant re-engineering and retrofitting in order to acquire the additional protection and robustness necessary for the rigors of military use. In FY2004, Domenici gained $1.4 million for EDIT. 
   Photonics Technology Access Program (University of New Mexico): At Domenici's request, $1.0 million is provided to advance optoelectronics and related technology research. The DARPA university optoelectronics centers have a proven track record of developing innovative ideas that have led to larger industry-led DARPA programs and ultimately to inclusion in military and commercial systems. Domenici secured $1.2 million for this work in FY2004. 
   Deep Digger (WSMR): At Domenici's request, $1.0 million to support this program that is designed to give the US a conventional alternative for the neutralization of hard, deeply buried targets. The work proposed for FY'05 is the completion of the transition of the Deep Digger system form an engineering to operational prototype that will demonstrate potential to reach targets at depths of up to 50 meters. 
   F-117 Nighthawk (Holloman Air Force Base): At Domenici's request, the bill reiterates language added to the FY2005 Defense Authorization Bill by Domenici and Senator Jeff Bingaman to prohibit the U.S. Air Force from retiring 10 F-117 aircraft at Holloman. The House has approved similar language, sending a clear signal to the Pentagon that these aircraft should remain in service. In addition, an extra $9.8 million has been provided for the Stealth program. 
   Mobile Tactical High Energy Laser (WSMR): At Domenici's request, an additional $8 million is provided for this joint U.S.-Israeli program, also located at HELSTF. The Senate recommends a total of $46 million for MTHEL. 
   High Energy Laser Systems Test Facility (WSMR): Following the budget request, provides $15.7 million for HELSTF research, development, testing and evaluation (RDT&E) activities. HELSTF is now testing full scale high energy laser weapons for the Army, Navy and Air Force. 
   High Energy Laser-Joint Technology Office (Albuquerque): Following the budget request for science and technology, $66.2 million is provided for the HEL-JTO, which coordinates the Pentagon's high energy laser research and development programs, some of which is carried out at WSMR and Kirtland AFB, and Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories. 
   Airborne Laser (Kirtland AFB): Following the budget request, $497 million is provided for the Air Force's Airborne Laser (ABL) program. The Airborne Laser Special Programs Office is located at Kirtland Air Force Base in Albuquerque. This system is capable of tracking and killing ballistic missiles while they are in the boost phase of flight. 
   Warfighter Information Network (WIN-T) (Laguna Industries): Following the budget request, $99.6 million is provided for WIN-T. Laguna Industries in New Mexico performs work on the Single Shelter Switches (SSS) program that is funded from this Army account. For FY2005, the SSS program is funded at $9.0 million.
 
 