AT WHITE HOUSE, SEN. DOMENICI PUSHES PRESIDENT TO FULLY IMPLEMENT ENERGY POLICY ACT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today came away from a White House meeting with President Bush pleased with a renewed commitment that the administration will more fully implement aspects of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct) dealing with loan guarantees for developing clean, alternative fuels.  
   Domenici was among several senior Senators who met with President Bush Tuesday to discuss a wide range of issues, including Iraq and energy. Domenici, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, asked the President to more forcefully push the Department of Energy to implement loan guarantee provisions in EPAct. 
   "I believe we had a very good meeting with the President who is working on his agenda for 2007. I strongly encouraged him to fully implement what we have already enacted with the Energy Policy Act, particularly on alternative energy sources," Domenici said. "The President committed to more vigorously implementing aspects of the law that have languished, particularly loan guarantees. This is a good and will set the tone for the new Congress to build on next year." 
   EPAct authorizes the Energy Secretary to provide loan guarantees to support the development of innovative energy technologies "that avoid, reduce or sequester air pollutants or anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases." These technologies include nuclear power, coal gasification, coal-to-liquids and carbon sequestration technologies. 
   Domenici, a leading proponent of nuclear energy, has argued that DOE must move to implement the EPAct loan guarantees which were developed to entice the private sector to carry out sustained research and development of more affordable alternative fuels to technologies. 
   Domenici also thanked the President Bush for his support for congressional passage of S.3711, the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act. The Senate-passed bill open two areas of the Outer Continental Shelf for oil and gas development. The House could take up the Senate bill this week which would clear the bill to be sent to the White House. 
   "This bill is the most meaningful step we can take in the near term to stabilize energy prices by bringing more oil and gas to market. Everyone recognizes this. The public supports this legislation. American businesses and manufacturers, small and large, are clamoring for its passage. The President wants this bill and national newspapers across the political spectrum are running editorials urging Congress to get it done," Domenici said. 
   S.3711 will open 8.3 million acres in Lease Sale 181 and Lease Sale 181 South for oil and gas exploration. The government estimates that the region contains 1.26 billion barrels of oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas-enough to heat six million homes for 15 years.
 
 