SEN. DOMENICI: FY2008 BUDGET CAUSES SERIOUS CONCERN, LABS' WEAPONS BUDGETS CUT IN BUSH PLAN
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the FY2008 federal budget unveiled by the Bush administration is cause for serious concern in New Mexico, as the fiscal plan means significant reductions for weapons work carried out at Los Alamos and Sandia national laboratories. 
   Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Budget Committee, predicted critical congressional review of the $2.9 trillion budget plan, which will be the basis for a FY2008 Budget Resolution and subsequent appropriations measures to fund the government next year. 
   "The President's FY2008 budget poses some serious concerns, and Congress will have to consider it carefully. It underscores the increasing pressure on our federal budget, and it will not get better easily. I'm not happy about this budget's recommendations for the national labs, education and health care," Domenici said. "It is clear that we will have to work hard to make up funding where we think it is most needed." 
   "I like the budget's overall commitment to basic science and energy independence in the Energy Department budget plan. But I am seriously concerned with proposed cuts to DOE weapons programs. Under this plan, we face tight budgets for our weapons labs. It invests in infrastructure and security at the labs but takes away from science and engineering. We can't help but be troubled that overall weapons funding will go down at Los Alamos by about 6 percent and at Sandia by about 8 percent," he said. 
   Since the FY2007 Joint Resolution has not passed yet, it is difficult to establish a year to year comparison of funding. Comparing the FY2007 budget requests to the FY2008 requests, Domenici said LANL will see a $61 million cut in advanced computing and a $47 million reduction in Directed Stockpile Work. It would, however, receive a $46 million increase for security upgrades and a $50 million increase for environmental cleanup activities. Sandia would see a $42 million cut in advanced computing and $26 million less for Directed Stockpile Work. 
   The baseline budget for the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP) is $219.7 million, a $6.4 million increase from the FY2007 budget request. The increase will support an increased number of shipments from around the complex, including remote handled waste. 
   Domenici noted that the Department of Defense budget recommends $3.7 billion for 20 new F-22s in FY2008, which will replace the F-117 Stealth Fighters that will be retired from Holloman Air Force Base in the new fiscal year. 
   The budget offers $23.2 million in Bureau of Reclamation funding for the Middle Rio Grande Project, a $5.0 million decrease, for water infrastructure and Endangered Species Act compliance. However, the Army Corps of Engineers budget recommends no funding for Albuquerque-area levees evaluation (-$2.0 million in FY2006), Rio Grande bosque restoration (-$4.0 million), and the New Mexico acequias system (-$2.4 million). 
   Finally, the U.S. Forest Service budget recommends only $850,000 for operations at the Valles Caldera National Preserve and Trust, an 83 percent decrease from $5.025 million provided in FY2006.
 
 