DELEGATION WINS RELEASE OF $13.2 MILLION FOR CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
  In response to a request by the New Mexico Congressional Delegation, the Pentagon today has announced that it will release $13.2 million in funding for Cannon Air Force Base in Clovis. 
   The delegation secured the $13.2 million last year for a modern fuel storage and distribution system at Cannon Air Force Base in Clovis. The funding was included in the FY2006 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill, but was not released by the Department of Defense until today.  
   Release of the funding was stalled during the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, but the delegation contended that the funding should have been distributed following the announcement that CAFB would be the new home to Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) forces. 
   In November, the delegation sent a letter to then-Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld asking that the money be delivered to Cannon. 
   "I'm very pleased that Secretary Gates has released funding for the fuel loading and storage facility at Cannon. Along with the new Consolidated Airmen's Center, this project will help make Cannon an even better base for the Air Force Special Operations Command. I look forward to the 16th Special Operations Wing assuming control of Cannon this year," said U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "This is exactly the outcome we were hoping for. Cannon Air Force Base needs to be prepared for its important new mission, and the upgraded facilities that will be completed with this funding will help accomplish that goal," U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman said. 
   "Cannon plays a vital role in securing our nation. We want ensure our men and women of AFSOC have the equipment and facilities necessary to accomplish their mission and I am pleased this important project is again moving forward," said U.S. Rep. Tom Udall. 
   "The mission of Cannon Air Force Base is important to New Mexico and our national security," U.S. Rep. Heather Wilson said. "This funding is an investment in the safety and capabilities of the base. I'm pleased these funds will now be available." 
   "I am pleased that this critical modernization effort can finally proceed," U.S. Rep. Steve Pearce said. "The Fuel Loading and Storage Facilities project remains an essential component of Cannon's preparations for its new role on the cutting edge of America's national defense strategy." 
   In their November letter, the Delegation wrote, "We believe that progress on these important projects is necessary to ensure the men and women of AFSOC have the equipment and facilities they need to accomplish their mission," adding, "We respectfully urge the release of funds for the Fuel Loading and Storage Facilities project to further improve CAFB preparations for the 16th Special Operations Wing assuming control of the base in 2007." 
   The funding for Cannon will support construction of two jet fuel storage tanks and a loading facility. A modern fuel storage and distribution system will help renovate facilities constructed in the 1960s so that commercial fuel delivery trucks can be safely unloaded. 
   Following the decision to locate AFSOC at Cannon, the delegation successfully got the Defense Department to release $9.5 million they secured in FY2005 funding to begin planning and construction of a consolidated airmen's center at Cannon. This facility will include a dining hall, postal center, a laundry exchange, and troop subsistence issue.
 
 