SEN. DOMENICI COMMENTS ON 2005 BRAC PROCESS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today stressed the high "military value" of New Mexico's defense installations in remarks he made to discuss the impending 2005 base realignment and closure (BRAC) process.  
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, recorded a statement for the Kirtland Partnership Committee that sponsored an event Wednesday in Albuquerque to review the next steps in the 2005 BRAC. Domenici focused on the "military value" offered to the Department of Defense by Kirtland Air Force Base, as well as White Sands Missile Range, and Holloman and Cannon Air Forces Bases. 
   "From a broad historical perspective, New Mexico's 'military value' has long been critical to U.S. national security-a fact that will not be lost on the Department of Defense during BRAC considerations," Domenici said. 
   "Our military is transforming into a more agile force that will emphasize jointness in training and operations. I believe this favors New Mexico in a number of ways. Kirtland, with its array of tenants, is the prototypical 'joint' base. The proximity of Holloman, White Sands Missile Range and Fort Bliss forms a strong nucleus for inter-service training. Cannon, with its world class bombing range, vast airspace and excellent flying weather makes it a unique asset to the DOD," he said. 
   "Furthermore, because our bases have the physical capacity for growth and enjoy low operating costs, New Mexico is a strong candidate for hosting forces of the 21st century," he said. 
   As the BRAC process accelerates, Domenici encouraged civic and political leaders in Albuquerque and New Mexico to "communicate support for added missions at our installations." 
   "In particular, you must protect against encroachment and promote expanded use of our military operating areas. For example, at my request the Pentagon is currently studying how to get more realistic testing of missile defense at White Sands and improved air-to-air training for Cannon and Holloman," Domenici said. 
   President Bush in mid-March will name the members of the BRAC Commission. The Secretary of Defense will submit his proposed BRAC list to Congress in mid-May.
 
 