SEN. DOMENICI CONDEMNS NORTH KOREAN MISSILE TESTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a leading nonproliferation advocate in the Senate, today condemned North Korean long-range ballistic missile tests as "reckless and aggressive" acts that do little to advance global security. 
   Domenici, who on Thursday in Albuquerque will review new developments for a nonproliferation program, said the regime in North Korea should abandon further missile tests and return to the six-party talks.
   "North Korea's continuing reckless and aggressive acts toward its neighbors and the United States demonstrate that this regime cannot be trusted with nuclear technologies and must agree to dismantle its nuclear program," Domenici said. "The United States has worked toward a peaceful resolution to the security concerns raised by the North Korean nuclear program. These concerns have only been heightened by the missile tests this week."
   "The North Korean government must return to the six-party talks and agree to suspend all actions that can only be viewed as provocative by the international community," he said.
   Domenici serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and has consistently supported development of U.S. missile defense systems, including testing carried out at White Sands Missile Range.
   In addition, Domenici has included $1.57 billion for U.S. nonproliferation activities in the FY2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. This work includes detection and verification, international materials control, fissile material disposition, and a global threat reduction initiative. Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that has funding jurisdiction over these DOE defense activities.
   On Thursday, Domenici will receive a demonstration of a new project related to the DOE Global Initiatives for Proliferation Prevention (IPP), which cost-share industry partnership program to engage Russian scientists in commercial and non-weapons related activities. IPP partnerships involve the Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories in New Mexico.
 
 