SEN. DOMENICI: FEDERAL RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO STANDARD UNFAIR, UNRELIABLE, UNAFFORDABLE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said that he believes a proposal to impose a 15 percent across the board Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) presents an unfair burden to consumers.  
   Domenici said that when the Senate takes up energy-expected to be next week-he and other Senators are planning on offering an alternative Clean Energy Portfolio Standard (CEPS) which would create a fair playing field for all low-emission energy resources. 
   "I support the use of clean energy sources, but the approach I favor would provide for a fairer standard. If our goal is to encourage the use of low-emitting resources, then the playing field should be fair for all resources that meet this standard. For that reason, a Clean Energy Portfolio Standard makes sense," Domenici said. 
   The Clean Energy Portfolio Standard would encourage the use of a variety of clean energy resources, such as nuclear power, biomass, fuel cells, solar, wind, ocean, geothermal, hydropower, landfill gas, and clean coal technologies. CEPS also includes provisions that would help states use less electricity in order to meet target goals, such as energy efficiency measures. 
   Under the proposed federal RPS, a much smaller set of resources would be allowed to meet targets. Most states that have adopted renewable portfolio standards include a broader set of technologies to meet their standards. States that cannot produce the required amount of renewable energy would purchase credits, the cost of which would likely be passed on to consumers. 
   "In my opinion, states are in the best position to determine what resources fit their needs. In my home state of New Mexico, for instance, we are able to use some energy sources like wind that other states-like those in the Southeast-cannot. And even New Mexico's current state standard allows for more energy sources to be used than the RPS proposal likely to be introduced in the Senate," Domenici said. 
   "I believe that we should find ways for all 50 states to produce clean energy, which is what a Clean Energy Portfolio Standard would do. States have unique resources and the federal government must recognize that and legislate accordingly. A Clean Energy Portfolio Standard, instead of a one-size fits all federal RPS mandate, would provide states with much needed flexibility in meeting their electricity needs, and would help our nation move toward cleaner energy," he continued.
 
 