SEN. DOMENICI: U.S. POSTAL SERVICE SHOULD MAKE NEW WORKERS IN EL PASO PLANT PERMANENT
  Citing expectations for continued growth in the southern New Mexico and El Paso, Sen. Pete Domenici asked the U.S. Postal Service to explain the rationale for hiring only temporary workers for its El Paso processing and distribution center.  
   Domenici has asked Postmaster General John E. Potter to clarify the USPS announcement in May that it would be hiring 15 new workers to allow the El Paso facility to operate on a 24-hour schedule. Contrary to information provided at the time of the announcement, it has since been learned that the new employees have been hired on a temporary basis. 
   "I believe the Postal Service is being short-sighted with its decision to hire these workers on a temporary basis," Domenici said. 
   "Mail delivery problems have been critical and persistent for quite a while. I can't see the situation getting any better in the years to come as we see continued growth in Do?a Ana County and the major expansion of Fort Bliss. I believe the USPS and the people in the region would be better served with a more far-reaching outlook for the region and begin to prepare for this growth. That indicates to me that these workers should have been hired as permanent employees," he said. 
   In correspondence to Potter, Domenici said he was pleased with the USPS plan to launch a third shift in order to allow the El Paso plant to operate on a 24-hour basis. However, he said subsequent facts curbed his optimism about the hiring decision. 
   "Southern New Mexico is a growing area and as a result the postal needs of the population continue to rise. That is why the USPS announcement concerning additional workers to service this area was such good news," Domenici wrote Potter. 
   "However, my enthusiasm for this additional shift was cut short when I read the KFOX-TV report quoting Sam Bolen of the USPS, who stated that some of the new employees will be temporarily working two ninety day terms. I have enclosed a copy of this news report. The USPS news release did not lead me to believe that this would amount to a temporary fix. Please let me know in detail how the USPS plans to staff the three shifts at the El Paso plant and under what circumstances the third shift will be permanent," the Senator's letter said. 
   At a Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee (HSGAC) hearing on April 19, Domenici told Potter and Dan G. Blair, chairman of the Postal Regulatory Commission, about consistent reports that mail for southern New Mexico at the El Paso facility was not being processed for delivery, primarily because of a lack of personnel at this plant.
 
 