SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL TO HELP EQUIP BROADCASTERS FOR DISASTERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today cosponsored a bill to support the efforts of television and radio broadcasters to provide essential public information programming during natural or man-made disasters.  
   The First Response Broadcasters Act of 2007 (S.1223), introduced by Senator Mary Landrieu (D-La.), would provide local broadcasters access to supplies critical to keeping public information broadcasts on the air during disaster situations. The bill would also award disaster preparedness grants allowing broadcasters to protect and reinforce facilities, infrastructure, and telecommunications equipment in advance of an emergency, so that critical public information could be broadcast without disruption during an emergency. 
   "Local television and radio stations play a vital role in broadcasting public safety information during emergencies. The lessons of Hurricane Katrina taught us all too well that preparedness is key to public safety, and to be effective we must have measures in place before a disaster strikes," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 
   "New Mexico is not immune to disasters. Public safety broadcasts are crucial, whether it's a community guarding against wild fires, tornadoes, or landslides," he said. "The First Response Broadcasters Act of 2007 would help public information programs to remain on the air and provide essential information during and in the aftermath of a public emergency." 
   The bill, endorsed by the New Mexico Broadcasters Association, would grant First Response Broadcasters access to federally supplied fuel, water, food, and other crucial resources, just behind priority emergency services, health care facilities, and public utilities. The bill would also prohibit these supplies from being confiscated as long as the broadcasters fulfill an essential disaster-related function and public safety is not endangered. 
   Another provision would create a $10 million 3 year pilot program to be managed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to provide annual matching grants to encourage disaster preparedness and community coordination. With these grants, qualified First Response Broadcasters would protect vital broadcast infrastructure and deploy disaster-resistant telecommunications equipment. Priority would be given to broadcasters who form cooperative proposals with other broadcasters or in conjunction with local or state governments. Grants would also be awarded based on the public service merits of the broadcaster's disaster plan, as well as to those in more disaster-prone areas. 
   The bill would also require FEMA and other federal response agencies to honor press access credentials set by the local governing authority in the disaster area. Further, FEMA and local and state agencies would coordinate efforts to expedite disaster area access for broadcast personnel and equipment to restore or maintain critical-to-air broadcast infrastructure. 
   Under the First Responders Act of 2007, New Mexico broadcasters would be eligible to apply for grants as part of the 3 year pilot program. 
   Last week in Taos, Domenici presented Kit Carson Electric Cooperative with U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development resources to create a nearly $3 million 911 Communication Center to serve growing rural communities in northern New Mexico and better protect area residents during emergencies or threatening situations. The funds would provide a state-of-the-art community 911 communications center to streamline operations, decrease response time, improve accuracy of dispatch calls, and manage homeland security issues.
 
 