FOR NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION HEARING, SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT SUPPORTING NATIONAL ENRICHMENT FACILITY IN LEA COUNTY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today issued the following statement related to two final Nuclear Regulatory Commission public hearings in Hobbs on the planned licensing and construction of a National Enrichment Facility (NEF) in Lea County.  
   (The public hearings are set for 3-5 p.m., Sunday, and 7-9 p.m., Monday, at the New Mexico Junior College, Moran Building, Multi-Purpose Room, 5317 Lovington Highway, Hobbs. http://www.nrc.gov/public-involve/public-meetings/index.cfm) 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, had been an advocate for the $1.4 billion project, which is expected to create an estimated 400 construction jobs and more than 200 permanent jobs. (http://www.nefnm.com/pages/about.php) Domenici was represented at the public hearing by staff from his Washington offices. 
   U.S. Senator Pete Domenici 
   National Enrichment Facility 
   Nuclear Regulatory Commission Public Hearings 
   Hobbs, New Mexico 
   "First, I want to thank the communities of Hobbs and Eunice, and all of Lea County, for their continued devotion to this important project. Your support for the National Enrichment Facility is about to make history in our country. Late in the 1990s I spoke about what I saw as the 'rebirth' of nuclear power in the United States. 
   "I have been talking since then about the coming of a Nuclear Renaissance in commercial nuclear energy in America. I am delighted and proud that an important aspect of this great rebirth will be in my home, in New Mexico. 
   "I wish I was able to be with you today at this historic moment for New Mexico, but I'm stuck in Washington during one of the busiest congressional months of the year. 
   "Second, I would like to commend the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for conducting these final two days of hearings on the National Enrichment Facility (NEF). I have appreciated your professionalism throughout this process. 
   "I had an opportunity last December to travel to Europe where the NEF's sister facility is located. I was impressed by the safety, design, and construction of the facility. The technology developed by Urenco has been in use for over 30 years and has a great reliability record. I look forward to seeing the New Mexico NEF become a reality.
 
 