SEN. DOMENICI PRESSES ENERGY SECRETARY BODMAN ON LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY CLEANUP AGREEMENT, FUNDING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that he has strongly encouraged Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman to work to resolve the untenable budget situation that has delayed environmental cleanup at Los Alamos National Laboratory and subjected it to state fines.  
   Domenici visited with Bodman about the LANL cleanup situation and expressed his displeasure with the FY2007 and FY2008 budgets that are clearly insufficient to meet cleanup milestones set in a consent agreement with the state of New Mexico. 
   "The lab is stuck between a rock and hard place. It must make more progress, but its hands have been tied with insufficient funding and now a steady stream of fines imposed by the state. We need to find an acceptable solution that makes cleanup a priority for all parties, and not simply a stage for excuses and penalties," Domenici said. 
   Domenici, ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, said Bodman acknowledged the problem and will instruct DOE and National Nuclear Security Administration Officials to meet with Governor Bill Richardson and the New Mexico Environment Department to try to set new cleanup responsibilities that are consistent with realistic budget requests. 
   "I am ready to do what I can to close the cleanup shortfall at LANL, but we need cooperation and good faith efforts on the part of DOE and the state to make the cleanup effort a success," Domenici said. 
   Domenici expects to address the LANL cleanup situation when the Energy and Water Subcommittee has a hearing Wednesday on the FY2008 DOE budget. (2 p.m. EST, Wednesday, Dirksen Room 138.) 
   Domenici maintains that the FY2008 budget recommendation for $140 million for cleanup at LANL next year is insufficient. This funding level mirrors the expected FY2007 funding level. The FY2007 and FY2008 funding levels, he said, are inadequate for the laboratory to comply with a DOE-signed 2005 Consent Order with the state of New Mexico on a cleanup strategy to fully remediate the site by 2015.
 
 