N.M. SENATORS PRAISE BIPARTISAN 'AMERICA COMPETES ACT' AS MAJOR STEP TOWARD U.S. COMPETITIVENESS
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici, the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today joined Senate leaders to introduce bipartisan legislation designed to make America more competitive globally. 
   Bingaman and Domenici, along with Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and others introduced the America COMPETES Act, which contains many provisions of the Protecting America's Competitive Edge Through Energy Act (PACE-Energy) approved by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee last year.  
   "The America Competes Act will sustain our vibrant science and technology sector, and with it our nation's well-being, health, environment and security. It will invest in R&D, encourage education and nurture a business environment that transforms new knowledge into new high wage jobs. Passage of this investment initiative will ensure that America remains strong, smart and a world leader in scientific and technological innovation," Bingaman said. 
   "For some time, I have been deeply concerned about the path our nation is on in terms of science and technology, especially when compared to others parts of the world. This bill represents a bipartisan, comprehensive effort to make America a leader in the global marketplace once again by dramatically increasing our investment in education, research and development. I plan on doing my part to see that it gets done this year," Domenici said. 
   The bill combines PACE Act provisions with other competitiveness that were included in the National Competitiveness Investment Act introduced by Senate leadership in September of last year. 
   The new legislation authorizes doubling the funding for the National Science Foundation in five years and sets the Department of Energy's Office of Science on a path to double over 10 years. It creates an Innovation Acceleration Research Program to encourage federal agencies to set aside 8 percent of research and development funding for high-risk, high pay-off research. 
   It also creates science magnet schools where-by each national laboratory "adopts" a school to strengthen its math and science capability. And it creates a broad range of programs to train teachers in math and science education through the Department of Education and Department of Energy while encouraging student participation in advanced placement and international baccalaureate programs. 
   The bill makes a concerted effort to involve DOE's National Laboratories by establishing training and education programs at summer institutes hosted by the labs, and by creating partnerships between labs and high schools to build centers of excellence in math and science education. 
   "Sandia and Los Alamos laboratories already perform essential scientific research, but this bill would give our labs en even greater role in basic R&D. That will be good both for our country and our labs," Bingaman said. 
   "Our DOE national laboratories are the lifeblood of research and development in our country. It makes sense to tap into the outstanding talent there to help train students and teachers in areas where we are falling behind. Through this effort and many others in the bill, such as increased access to advanced programs and grants, I believe that we can improve our educational system, and eventually our competitiveness," Domenici said. 
   The bill also supports other key New Mexico initiatives, including the following: 
   The National Science Foundation science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) program-The New Mexico Alliance for Minority Participation, based at NMSU, is a STEM recipient. Eastern New Mexico University, as well as New Mexico State University-Carlsbad, participates in this New Mexico program. (http://www.nmsu.edu/~nmamp/) 
   NASA's Space Grant College and Fellowship Program-New Mexico participates in this program through a consortium led by NMSU. (http://spacegrant.nmsu.edu/) The Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research program (http://www.nmepscor.org/); 
   Develops "Discovery Science and Engineering Innovation Institutes" which will benefit Sandia Laboratories collaborative efforts with New Mexico Universities to train the engineer of the 21st century in such areas as nanoscience and Microsystems. 
   Complements New Mexico's efforts to strengthen K-12 math and science education, by expanding access to the Summer Institutes for teachers at the National Labs so more New Mexico teachers can participate in these very successful programs. Further, the bill would increase access to Advanced Placement programs, ensuring more New Mexico teachers are trained to teach Advanced Placement and more students have access to these critical courses of study. 
   Bingaman, Domenici, Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), were the authors of the three-part PACE Act legislation that was introduced in January 2006. The bills, which are the basis for the America Competes Act, contain the recommendations contained report by the National Academies of Science titled "Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future."
 
 