SEN. DOMENICI BILL WOULD EXPAND NATIONAL GUARD ROLE ON BORDERS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today introduced legislation to continue Operation Jump Start on the Southwest Border and broaden the overall role of the National Guard in border security activities. 
   The Domenici measure is among 15 border security and immigration-related bills introduced in the Senate Wednesday. Domenici, who serves on the Homeland Security and Defense appropriations subcommittees, has focused his legislation on the role of the National Guard on U.S. borders.
   "The National Guard has proven to be a good partner in working with the Homeland Security Department to secure the border. They have been an invaluable asset in securing the border, and I believe they should be able to continue their work," Domenici said.
   "This bill would build existing efforts in a manner that can benefit both the Guard and the Homeland Security Department," he said.
   The Domenici legislation would give new life to Operation Jump Start, authorizing the program at its 2006 strength of 6,000 Guardsmen deployed along the entire Southwest border to help conduct border security activities like surveillance and vehicle barrier construction. Started as a temporary program, the Bush administration has taken action to phase out the program this year.
   "Despite its successes, Operation Jump Start is being phased out. There are fewer National Guardsmen on the border today than there were a year ago. I believe phasing out this mutually beneficial work between CBP and the National Guard is a mistake, and National Guardsmen should be able to continue helping to secure our border," Domenici said.
   The second part of the bill would expand the authority of state governors to utilize their state's Guard for border control activities, including constructing roads, fences, and vehicle barriers, conducting search and rescue missions, gathering intelligence, repairing infrastructure, and otherwise support the DHS Customs and Border Protection (CPB) directorate. Current law allows the Guard to undertake similar drug interdiction and counter-drug activities.
   The legislation provides that in order to utilize Guardsmen for border activities, governors must submit plans to the Secretary of Defense regarding the use of the Guard, and the plans must be approved by the Secretary of Defense in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security. Additionally, the Secretary of Defense would be required to submit an annual report to Congress regarding the activities carried out as part of work under this bill.
 
 