SENS. DOMENICI, KENNEDY EXPAND MENTAL HEALTH COURT EFFORTS WITH NEW BILL
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today introduced legislation seeking to improve mental health treatment for criminal offenders and reduce crime by fostering cooperation between the criminal justice and mental health care systems. 
   Domenici authored the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2007. The bipartisan measure would reauthorize programs that provide federal support for improving treatment of criminal offenders diagnosed with mental illnesses. It is cosponsored by Senators Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Arlen Specter (R-Pa.)  
   "Many communities are not prepared to meet the needs of individuals with mental illness when they enter the criminal justice system, let alone treat them. Our bill will help provide states and counties with the resources needed to design and implement collaborative efforts between the criminal justice system and mental health care structures. I've witnessed the mental health courts in action and they work. We need this bill to build on the success of this grant program," said Domenici. 
   "In his last public bill signing in 1963, President Kennedy signed a $3 billion authorization bill to create a national network of community mental health facilities across the country. With the escalation of the Vietnam War, not one penny of the $3 billion was ever appropriated. Now, far too often, mentally ill individuals encounter the criminal justice system when what is really needed is treatment and support. It is unconscionable, and may well be unconstitutional, for these vulnerable individuals to be further marginalized once they are incarcerated and, in too many cases, denied even minimal treatment because of inadequate resources. With this bill, Congress can provide significant support to improve and expand cooperation between law enforcement and mental health experts in order to improve our nation's public safety," said Kennedy, the primary cosponsor to the bill. 
   The legislation would reauthorize the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction grant program and reauthorize the Mental Health Courts Program. The bill would also create a new grant program to help law enforcement identify and respond to incidents involving persons with mental illness. Finally, it authorizes funding for a study to examine the prevalence of mentally ill offenders in the criminal justice system. 
   In June, Domenici visited and observed proceedings in the Santa Fe Mental Health Court. The program, administered and presided over by State District Judge Michael E. Vigil, seeks to keep repeat minor offenders with mental illness off of drugs, out of jail, and in treatment and therapy programs. 
   The Santa Fe court, like a successful mental health court program in Bernalillo County, is based on a specialty-court model that utilizes a separate docket, coupled with regular judicial supervision, to respond to individuals with mental illnesses who come in contact with the justice system. 
   "I believe that across New Mexico and the United States, there ought to be funding for these kinds of programs to better equip law enforcement to handle offenders with mental illness," Domenici said. 
   As a veteran member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Domenici helped to secure $200,000 in the FY2008 Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations Bill for the Santa Fe Mental Health Court. In addition, Domenici and Leahy secured $10 million for the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction grant program nationally in the FY2008 bill. The bill is currently undergoing conference negotiations to reconcile differences with similar House-passed legislation. 
   Domenici is a long-time advocate of improved national awareness and services for individuals with mental illness. This year, he and Kennedy also teamed up on the Mental Health Parity Act of 2007. The landmark bicameral legislation, which was passed by the Senate last month, aims to equalize health insurance coverage for the treatment of mental illness. 
   Section-By-Section Summary 
   Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2007 
   Sec. 1. Short Title and Table of Contents. 
   This section cites the short title of the bill as the "Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2007," and includes a table of contents. 
   Sec. 2. Findings. 
   This section sets out findings relating to mentally ill offenders in the criminal justice system. 
   Sec. 3. Reauthorization of the Adult and Juvenile Collaboration Program Grants. 
   This section reauthorizes the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction grant program at an increased authorization of $75 million (from $50 million in existing law) for fiscal years 2008 to 2013. 
   Sec. 4. Law Enforcement Response to Mentally Ill Offenders Improvement Grants. 
   This section creates a new grant program to States, units of local government, Indian Tribes and organizations for: (1) law enforcement training programs to identify and respond to incidents involving persons with mental illness; (2) development of receiving centers to assess individuals in law enforcement custody for mental health and substance abuse needs; (3) improved technology for timely information to law enforcement personnel and criminal justice personnel; (4) cooperative programs by criminal and juvenile justice agencies and mental health agencies to implement effective interventions relating to mentally ill offenders; and (5) for campus security personnel training in procedures to identify and respond to incidents involving mentally ill individuals. The new program is authorized at $10 million for fiscal years 2008 to 2013. 
   Sec. 5. Improving the Mental Health Courts Grant Program. 
   This section reauthorizes the mental health courts grant program for fiscal years 2008 to 2013; expands the permissible uses of funds to include pre-trial services and assessments and alternatives to incarceration. 
   Sec. 6. Study and Report on Prevalence of Mentally Ill Offenders 
   This section directs the Attorney General to study and report to Congress with 18 months of enactment on the rate of occurrence of serious mental illnesses of individuals on probation, in jail, in prison, or on parole. For each population, the Attorney General is required to determine the percentage of individuals who were homeless. The Attorney General is authorized $2 million in fiscal year 2008 to prepare this report.
 
 