NEW MEXICO SENATORS WANT SAWS ROCKIN' AROUND THE CHRISTMAS TREE
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today asked federal authorities be wary of issuing any stop-work orders that could prevent the cutting and delivery of a New Mexico evergreen for this year's Capitol Holiday Tree.  
   The 80-foot spruce in the Santa Fe National Forest was scheduled to be cut in a special ceremony in early November. But the U.S. Forest Service response to a California federal court's ruling on an environmental lawsuit could prevent the cutting of the tree from the Santa Fe National Forest. 
   "We need these reindeer games to stop so New Mexico can stay on schedule with its national holiday tree plans. This ruling and the Forest Service response to it would be like the grinch who stole Christmas for the many New Mexicans who have worked well over a year to prepare for the tree's state tour and eventual trip to the nation's capital, and for school kids and groups who are already creating ornaments to festoon the tree," Domenici said. "On a more serious note, this problem symbolizes the far-reaching consequences of some environmental lawsuits." 
   "We New Mexicans are proud to offer up one of our own spruces from the Santa Fe National Forest to be the nation's Holiday tree this year. It is very clear that there is nothing preventing the Forest Service from moving ahead with plans to cut down the tree, and I urge the agency to stop looking for impediments where there are none," Bingaman said. 
   Domenici and Bingaman today sent a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns asking for their prompt attention to the possibility of a delay, which could impede a statewide tour of the holiday conifer and its delivery to Washington D.C. on schedule. 
   In response to a lawsuit brought against the U.S. Forest Service, the California court ruled against the Forest Service's new policy on how certain projects can move ahead without individual environmental review. As a result, the Forest Service has put on hold plans associated with cutting down the Holiday Tree, pending a 30-day public comment period. 
   "We are troubled that the interpretation of a decision made by a Federal District Court in California may adversely affect these plans. We urge you to redouble your efforts to address concerns regarding the procurement of this year's Capitol Holiday Tree in order to resolve this situation in time for the tree's tour around New Mexico," the letter to Gonzales and Johanns said. 
   The Holiday Tree is scheduled to travel throughout New Mexico in November before being transported to Washington, where it will be lit in a Dec. 8 ceremony at the U.S. Capitol. Sixty five smaller holiday trees from New Mexico are also being delivered for use in other Washington offices. 
   In addition to the Holiday Tree issue, the Forest Service response to the ruling on Earth Island Institute v. Pengilly could affect about 90 outstanding permit and project requests in New Mexico--ranging from recreation area improvements to health forest projects to special use permits.
 
 