SEN. DOMENICI QUESTIONS NEED FOR NEW SERVICE CONTRACT REVIEW AT WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asked the Army to reconsider its order to conduct a review of the contracting policies related to services provided at White Sands Missile Range.  
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, questioned the need for the review in a letter directed to Keith Easin, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations and Environment. 
   The Army's Southwest Regional Office of the Installation Management Agency has directed WSMR to begin planning for a public-private cost competition review of its public works and logistics directorates. The study is authorized under the Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76, which is intended to determine whether commercial activities should be performed with commercial sources or in-house using government personnel. 
   "I agree that government agencies should be as efficient as possible and that A-76 studies are important to achieving this goal. At this time, however, I question the need for such a study at WSMR," Domenici said. "Given the very recent nature of the previous A-76 study and the resulting efficiencies, it seems a new study may be ill-timed and an unnecessary expenditure of tax dollars. I also have concerns regarding the effect of such a study on surrounding communities." 
   "An A-76 study at this time may well prove to be expensive, time consuming, and disruptive to workplace efficiency. Furthermore, it could be very harmful to morale at WSMR," he said. 
   Domenici said the pending A-76 study is raising concerns among civilian workers at WSMR and in the small business community in Do?a Ana and Otero counties. 
   As a result of a 1999-2000 A-76 study there, all WSMR public works contracts are set aside for small businesses. More than half the WSMR Directorate of Public Works and Directorate for Logistics budgets are applied to outside contracts. 
   While noting the regional economic benefits of the current contracting structure, Domenici also noted that a new A-76 review could result in the Army directing WSMR public works and logistics activities to a single bidder, rather than small or local businesses.
 
 