SEN. DOMENICI, REP. WILSON: FOREST SERVICE TO MOVE 300-400 ADDITIONAL WORKERS TO ALBUQUERQUE
  Sen. Pete Domenici and Rep. Heather Wilson today announced that the U.S. Forest Service has decided, once again, to move 300 to 400 human resources personnel to Albuquerque as part of an ongoing agency effort to consolidate its administrative service operations.  
   The move is the second major personnel decision made by the Forest Service to benefit New Mexico. It follows the June announcement that the agency would locate its Consolidated Financial Services Center in Albuquerque. That center will host about 350 budget and accounting service employees. They are expected to be in place by October 2005. 
   The combined personnel announcements will mean that an estimated 650 to 700 Forest Service personnel will be relocated to Albuquerque. As such, the Duke City will become home to a new U.S. Forest Service Albuquerque Administrative Service Center. The Forest Service is expected to make a formal announcement Wednesday on the decision to move its human resources management operations to New Mexico. 
   "Nothing gives me greater pleasure than announcing that new jobs will be coming to New Mexico," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "As a result of that earlier decision and the Forest Services ability to immediately find available office space, we have been able to convince them that the centralized human resources operations should also be located in the Albuquerque. The addition of about 700 families to this region will be a significant economic boost. Finally, these new federal workers will be moving to a wonderful city in a great state with outstanding outdoor opportunities." 
   "This is another great example of New Mexico competing and growing. The Forest Service will offer good paying jobs that will benefit our local economy," Wilson said. "We need steadily expanding job opportunities in New Mexico so that everyone who wants to work can work, and people who have a job can find their next job." 
   The relocation of the 300 to 400 human resources management workers to New Mexico is expected to occur after the financial services personnel are in place. The Forest Service is also expected to hire an unspecified number of support service employees associated with these personnel moves. 
   Domenici and Wilson praised Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman and Forest Service Chief Dale Bosworth for deciding to center the Forest Service's consolidated administrative attention on New Mexico. The New Mexico lawmakers had lobbied for Albuquerque. 
   "I want to thank Secretary Veneman and Chief Bosworth for deciding to locate the centralized human resources management operations in Albuquerque. We have a lot to offer the Forest Service and this move will be advantageous for everyone," Domenici said. 
   In finding a host city, the Forest Service considered such factors as: labor pool (diversity, skill, education), socio-economic (tax rates, labor productivity), infrastructure (office space, transportation and telecommunications), and quality of life (housing costs and cost of living).
 
 