SEN. DOMENICI: $21.6 MILLION USDA RURAL DEVELOPMENT LOAN ISSUED TO EASTERN NEW MEXICO TELEPHONE COOP
  Sen. Pete Domenici today confirmed that Eastern New Mexico Rural Telephone Cooperative, Inc. has been awarded a $21.64 million loan for providing improved telephone service to rural subscribers in fourteen New Mexico counties.  
   The loan was approved today by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development program that supports essential public facilities and services such as water and sewer systems, housing, health clinics, emergency service facilities and electric and telephone service. 
   "Stronger communication networks are essential to growth and prosperity in rural areas like those throughout the northern and eastern areas of the state. This loan will help improve telecommunication lines so that New Mexicans in these areas have greater business and educational opportunities," Domenici said. 
   Plans for the loan include connecting 357 new subscribers and deploy 40 new route miles of fiber and copper for fourteen New Mexico counties as well as two West Texas counties. 
   New Mexico counties helped by this award are: Torrance, Santa Fe, Guadalupe, Socorro, Lincoln, De Baca, Chaves, Curry, Union, San Miguel, Quay, Harding, Roosevelt and Colfax counties. 
   The loan will be maintained for 19 years with variable interest rates. 
   As separate, $2.7 million loan was approved for the Baca Valley Telephone Company, Inc. to improve service to rural subscribers in Colfax and Union counties. 
   This loan will be used to connect 21 new subscribers and install 68 miles of outside plant cable, which will replace the copper cable lines made inadequate by the high demand for DSL. The work will also entail installing three digital loop carriers. 
   Remaining funds will be used to cover an $813,000 outstanding debt in CoBank, and provide for engineering and system improvements. The loan will remain at a 5 percent interest rate for 28 years. 
   Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that sets funding levels for the USDA and Rural Development program, also announced today a $33.2 million electric loan to Navopache Electric Cooperative for Catron County.
 
 