SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN APPLAUD UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD INVESTMENT IN SANTA TERESA
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today applauded news that Union Pacific Corporation will construct a $150 million terminal facility that will bring at least 285 new jobs to southern New Mexico. Last year, the Senators secured $14 million for the project. 
   Union Pacific today announced that they will relocate 285 employees to a new terminal facility located in Strauss, N.M, just west of Santa Teresa. In addition to the new employees based at Santa Teresa, 260 Tucson-based employees that currently work in an away-terminal in El Paso will now be employed at the new Santa Teresa facility, for a total of 545 jobs.
   The company will also construct a new intermodal ramp in Strauss in the next ten years which is expected to process at least 100,000 container units every year.
   "This is excellent news for New Mexico's economy. It is the result of teamwork between the federal and state levels to bring the rail facility to Santa Teresa. The rail yard will be built on BLM land with a federal contribution, along with an investment in infrastructure from the State of New Mexico. Over time, this new facility should help bring economic growth to southern New Mexico," said Domenici, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee.
   "The federal government has an important role to play in making this move possible. Not only have we set aside millions of dollars to help with the relocation, we are also working to expand the hours of operation at the Santa Teresa port of entry," Bingaman said.
   Domenici and Bingaman secured $14 million to relocate rail facilities from El Paso, Texas to the Santa Teresa, New Mexico area. The funds were included in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2005 (H.R.3), which funds transportation projects nationwide. The money was provided after Domenici and Bingaman sought funds in the last days of conference negotiations on the bill.
   The 285 jobs will be made up of 205 engineers and 80 mechanical jobs. The agreement to build the facility in New Mexico is contingent on the removal of New Mexico's gross receipt and compensating tax for locomotive fuel by July 1, 2009.
   The State of New Mexico will construct a $5 million road connecting Pete Domenici Highway in Santa Teresa with the new Union Pacific facilities in Strauss.
 
 