SEN. DOMENICI FORESEES SANDIA LABS LEADING SOLID-STATE LIGHTING PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said that Sandia National Laboratories will once again be leading the way in developing new technology by housing the nation's first solid-state lighting program, a challenge that could revolutionize energy efficient lighting for America. 
   Domenici was joined by Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman at Sandia to highlight the announcement that Sandia's new Center for Integrated Nano-technology (CINT) will house the National Center for Solid State Lighting, which will aim to develop lighting that uses significantly less energy. As chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici provided $5 million for the project.
   "For years now, I've been talking about the public-private partnerships that serve as the economic engine that drives New Mexico's economy. This is another great example. This project will put the brainpower of the new Center for Integrated Nanotechnology to work to help us develop energy efficient lighting that eventually could reduce energy usage by 50 percent and forgo the need for future power plants," Domenici said. "I'm proud that Sandia won the competition to house this program, and I appreciate Secretary Bodman visiting our lab."
   The National Energy Policy Act of 2005 spearheaded by Domenici authorizes a Next Generation Lighting Initiative, which urges public-private development of solid state lighting to cut energy usage and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Twenty two percent of electricity usage nationally is devoted to lighting. The Sandia project is focused on replacing traditional bulbs and fluorescent tube lighting with light-emitting diodes (LEDS).
   Last November, Domenici directed the New Mexico-grown U.S. Capitol Christmas Tree to be adorned with energy efficient LED lights that use 90 percent less electricity than normal holiday lights, and LED lights will beam from Sandia Crest as part of the Albuquerque Tricentennial finale.
   Also at Sandia Thursday, Domenici discussed language he had inserted in the House and Senate-passed Port Security Bill aimed at preventing nuclear material from entering U.S. borders.
   The language directs the Department of Energy and the Department of Homeland Security to coordinate efforts to establish an international screening capability to prevent nuclear material from coming into the country. DOE national labs have working to develop the capability to monitor and detect small amounts of nuclear material.
   "One of the most important parts of my job is to provide support for lab projects that will allow us to stay one step ahead of terrorists and those wishing to do us harm. To that end, the language I authored that was included in the Port Security Bill will push DOE and DHS to use the resources at their disposal to make sure that no nuclear material can enter our country without being detected and contained," Domenici said.
   The Port Security Bill (HR.4954) passed the Senate 98-0 and is expected to be signed into law by President Bush shortly.
 
 