SEN. DOMENICI EARMARK YIELDS SUPPORT FOR 2006 WASTE MANAGEMENT, EDUCATION AND RESEARCH CONSORTIUM DESIGN CONTEST
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that New Mexico State University will use a $106,000 earmark he secured in FY2005 to host a competition to research clean up methods for food contaminated by a microbiological agent.  
   The grant, awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, will support the Waste Management, Education and Research Consortium (WERC)-sponsored Environmental Design Contest that is geared toward designing ways to clean up contaminated food sources. This contest has been held at NMSU since 1991. 
   "It's wonderful to see WERC bringing young people from such a vast number of universities across the nation together at NMSU to demonstrate their knowledge," said Domenici. "This contest works double duty to challenge the minds of participating students and to offer the FDA an insight into possible solutions to food hazards." 
   Domenici last month voted to approve the FY2006 Agriculture Appropriations Bill that includes $100,000 for WERC food safety education and technology and continues language stating the expectation that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), in partnership with NMSU, will continue its support for WERC and its work in food safety technology verification. 
   Students participating in the contest to be held April 2-6, 2006 must formulate a solution to the proposed contamination problem. This solution must contain an identification of the contaminating element and a clean-up method. Winning solutions are then passed on to the FDA to improve the safety of food. 
   Selected winners receive cash prizes, $2,500 for first prize and $1,000 for second prize. Travel stipends through WERC are also available to participants, pending the distance between the origin and Las Cruces. (For more information go to www.werc.net) 
   Domenici helped fuel the creation of WERC in 1990, and now over 2,000 WERC students have completed their degrees and over 12,000 professionals have received various forms of training, fulfilling the objective to solve environmental projects.
 
 