SEN. DOMENICI JOINS COALITION TO STOP LENDERS FROM PREYING ON U.S. SERVICEMEN, WOMEN
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined a growing coalition of lawmakers fighting to protect members of the Armed Forces from predatory lending practices. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today signed a bipartisan letter that outlines strong support for Senate-passed language to limit the amount of interest charged on so-called "payday loans" to 36 percent annually--well below the 390-780 percent interest rates now levied on these loans. States could still set lower interest rates under the Senate language included in the FY2007 Defense Authorization Bill. 
   "It's shameful that these lenders are preying on our servicemen and women. As it stands now, New Mexico is one of only a handful of states that tries to protect consumers. The U.S. Senate has passed legislation that would set a national standard for controlling these interest rates that basically amount to highway robbery," Domenici said. 
   Domenici is among the cosigners of a letter to the Armed Services Committee leadership that will represent the Senate in talks with the House to finalize the FY2007 defense policy legislation. Congress hopes to complete this bill, as well as the FY2007 Defense Appropriations Bill, prior to the Oct. 1 start of the federal fiscal year. 
   These high-interest payday loans today have a negative impact on the credit ratings for almost 20 percent of members in the Armed Forces. These credit problems have been cited by U.S. Navy officials as the leading reason for sailors to lose their security clearance status. 
   "Unfortunately, 'special interest' groups on behalf of the predatory lenders are now actively working behind the scenes to strip out this anti-predatory lending amendment in conference. The Senate clearly did the right thing when it adopted this important protection for our service members and their families. Now we urge you to work with the House to hold this provision in the final conference report," said the letter signed by Domenici. 
   "Military leaders, consumer advocacy groups, and the media have highlighted how predatory lenders target U.S. military personnel, adversely impacting troop readiness and military families' financial well-being. Our troops deserve uniform, national protection against the abusive lending practices that target them," the letter states. 
   The Senate legislation also requires that payday lenders disclose in writing the interest rate they are charging and a description of the borrower's repayment obligation. Failure to comply with these requirements is a misdemeanor. 
   On Aug. 31, the state of New Mexico begain imposing new regulations to make all payday loans interest free, limit fees charged to $15.50 per each $100 borrowed, and limit the amount of outstanding payday loans any consumer has in the state to 25 percent of the consumer's gross monthly income.
 
 