SEN. DOMENICI SAYS SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION TO OFFER FLOOD DISASTER AID TO HOMEOWNERS, BUSINESSES, OTHER GROUPS IN SOUTHERN N.M.
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the Small Business Administration will make assistance available to homeowners and businesses in southern New Mexico for damages sustained in severe storms and floods this summer.  
   The SBA aid is linked to the issuance of presidential disaster declaration for New Mexico last week. The aid is being targeted toward Do?a Ana County and the contiguous counties of Otero, Luna and Sierra in New Mexico, as well as El Paso, Texas. 
   "This SBA aid, when linked to other assistance being offered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, is one avenue residents in these flood damaged areas can use to get help," Domenici said. "The SBA will meet with my staff and we are monitoring the recovery efforts." 
   The SBA will offer low-interest loans to flood victims under the following programs: 
   * Home Disaster Loans for homeowners or renters to repair or replace disaster damaged real estate or personal property. 
   * Business Disaster Loans for businesses to repair or replace disaster-damaged property owned by the business, including real estate, inventories, supplies, machinery and equipment. Businesses of any size are eligible. Nonprofit organizations such as charities, churches, private universities, etc., are also eligible. 
   * Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDL) for working capital to small businesses and small agricultural cooperatives to assist them through the disaster recovery period. EIDL assistance is only available to applicants and their owners who cannot provide for their own recovery from non-government sources. 
   Filing deadlines are Oct. 30 for the home and business assistance, while EIDL applications are due by May 30, 2007. 
   Applications and filing instructions can be obtained by calling the SBA Disaster Assistance Customer Service Center at (800) 659-2955 or visiting http://www.sba.gov/disaster. 
   New Mexico Severe Storms and Flooding information is available at http://www.sba.gov/disaster_recov/nm_storms.html.
 
 