SEN. DOMENICI REVIEWS FY07 NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION BUDGET
  The following are Sen. Pete Domenici's prepared remarks for his Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee hearing to review the FY2007 budget requests for the National Nuclear Security Administration:
   OPENING STATEMENT
  HEARING ON NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION 
   U.S. SENATOR PETE DOMENICI
  Chairman, Senate Energy & Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee
   April 6, 2006
   Good afternoon. The hearing will come to order.
   Today, the subcommittee will hear testimony on the FY07 budget request for the National Nuclear Security Administration.
   I would like to thank Ambassador Linton Brooks for joining us here today to provide testimony.
   The Ambassador is joined by:
   * Jerry Paul, Principal Deputy Administrator (Nuclear Nonproliferation Activities - position is vacant)
   * Tom D'Agostino, Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs
   * Admiral Kirkland Donald, Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors
   I appreciate everyone's participation and thank you for coming.
   Ambassador Brooks will provide the testimony and his three deputies will be available to answer any questions.
   The President's request for the NNSA for FY07 is $9.3 billion, up $211 million from last year's enacted level.
   * Weapons Program -
   Funding for the weapons program is $6.4 billion, up $38 million. In large measure this budget supports the necessary investment in lab infrastructure. However, I am concerned with the declining trend in the science-based stockpile stewardship activities such as Science, Engineering and Inertial Confinement Fusion.
   I couldn't be more disappointed in what the Department has proposed for the Inertial Confinement Fusion budget. The Department continues to put all their resources behind the NIF project at the expense of all other stockpile activities. Funding for NIF research is up over $50 million, while the other high energy density research has been cut by $115 million.
   The NIF-at-all-costs attitude is now undermining balance in the weapons stewardship research activities. Declining budgets for non-NIF related science has put weapons physics research on Z and Omega at risk as well.
   Mr. Ambassador, I believe this strategy is short-sighted and will be corrected in the Senate Energy and Water bill.
   * Complex Consolidation -
   On Monday, Tom D'Agostino briefed me on the NNSA's plan to implement for the Nuclear Complex of the Future. The Department has developed a plan to consolidate its operations in fewer locations, which should reduce security costs and reduce the overall number of facilities the NNSA must maintain by 2030.
   In addition it supports the Reliable Replacement Warhead program and begins to catch up on the dismantlement of weapons no longer in the stockpile.
   What I believe is missing from this plan is a decrease in the overall number of weapon systems the NNSA will be expected to maintain. Under the plan the NNSA will continue to support the same 8 systems plus the RRW through 2030.
   It seems to me that you have traded off facilities, science and people, in exchange for the same number of systems and responsibilities. I'm not sure that makes sense.
   Why doesn't this plan contemplate the elimination of one of the eight existing systems? - Many experts wonder why we continue to maintain the W-80. Maybe it is time to revisit the need for the life extension of this weapon.
   * Nuclear Nonproliferation -
   The non-proliferation budget continues to receive strong support from the President. Funding for Nuclear Nonproliferation activities are up $111 million to $1.73 billion. Funding for MOX, the Global Threat Reduction Initiative, and MPC&A all received increases.
   One notable exception is the funding cut to the Nuclear Detection R&D program. This activity supports research that gives our national security teams the technical advantage over terrorists and countries that attempt to conceal their nuclear programs.
   In 1998, I provided $200 million in funding to encourage the Russians to come to the negotiating table on plutonium disposition. The funding was a good faith offer to the Russians to demonstrate our sincerity and seriousness about nonproliferation.
   The Department of Energy and Department of State have secured $800 million from our G-8 partners to construct the Russian MOX plant.
   Now, I understand the Russians have raised the stakes and are now demanding the G-8 pay for the plant operations, unless we allow them to use the plutonium for their fast reactor program. I am concerned that these fast reactors could be turned into breeder reactors and will create additional plutonium - the very substance we are trying to eliminate.
   We also continue to wait for the final approval of the Russian Government on the liability deal negotiated last July.
   I fear opponents of MOX will use these delays as an excuse to cut funding for this project.
   The Russians' delaying tactics have created a liability for the U.S. program. - I believe we should de-link the construction projects and allow the U.S. effort go forward to create a disposal pathway for our weapons grade plutonium.
   We must live up to our own commitment of reducing our stockpile, even if the Russians will not.
   In the meantime, we should continue to talk with the Russians and see if we can get a deal prior to or during the G-8 meeting in Russia this summer.
   But until we have a final agreement that will guarantee the destruction of 34 tons of Russian weapons-grade plutonium, the U.S. should not fund the Russian construction project, and we must not provide any further designs on the MOX plant to the Russians. 
   * Cost of Operations for LANL -
   In two months the Los Alamos National Security LLC will take over the M&O contract at Los Alamos from the University of California, which has operated the facility for the past 60 years.
   I am concerned about the increased cost of the new contract negotiated by the NNSA. The new contract provides a significant increase in the fee from roughly $8 million to $80 million. It will also require the lab to pay Gross Receipts Tax to the State estimated to be $75 million. I suspect there are several other cost increases that add to the bottom line operations of the lab. Unfortunately, the Los Alamos lab budget doesn't reflect an increase to accommodate these added charges. All of these costs will come out of R&D, science, and operations accounts, putting further strain on an already tight budget.
   I hope to get some answers from Ambassador Brooks as to how these costs will be offset without adversely impacting the lab operations.
   * Naval Reactors -
   I will close in saying how continually impressed I am by the success of the Naval Reactors Program. The U.S. Navy needs nuclear propulsion plants that are capable of responding to the security challenges we face today, and I believe this program accomplishes this goal. The five-year plan includes a small, but steady increase in Naval Reactors, which will prove beneficial in the coming years.
   I will now ask my colleagues to make their opening remarks and then we will proceed with the witness.
   Ambassador Brooks, I ask that you summarize your testimony, as your full statement will be made a part of the record.
 
 