SEN. DOMENICI ADVANCES FUNDING FOR LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY TA-18 PROJECT; LAB LAND TRANSFER, LAND CLAIMS ALSO ADDRESSED
  Sen. Pete Domenici today gained committee approval for providing $26 million in emergency funding to support the transfer of nuclear waste material from Los Alamos National Laboratory.  
   Domenici is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that today approved an $80.4 billion FY2005 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill that is primarily focused on supporting the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan, and providing tsunami relief to Southeast Asia. The full Senate takes up the bill next. 
   Domenici, who chairs the appropriations subcommittee that funds the Energy Department, supported the $26 million appropriation as part of $110 million in supplemental funding approved for DOE National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) activities, including $84 million for nonproliferation activities. 
   The $26 million from the NNSA Weapons Activity account is provided to consolidate and move Category I special nuclear material, from TA-18 at LANL to Nevada. The funding is drawn from nonproliferation megaport accounts that are not expected to be fully used this year. 
   "This $26 million is imperative. Category I special nuclear material is weapons-usable and requires the highest level of security as it possesses a significant proliferation threat. TA-18 is a good example of the need for NNSA to consolidate special nuclear material in safer, better defended areas," Domenici said. "The NNSA did not budget for this activity. Without this infusion of funds, security upgrades throughout the NNSA complex would be drawn down to facilitate this work at TA-18. Both goals are necessary and deserve adequate funding." 
   At today's markup, Domenici also secured approval for a series of technical amendments related to LANL land transfer to Los Alamos and implementation of the Pajarito Plateau Homesteaders Compensation Claims Fund. He explained that the technical corrections are necessary to rectify unintended errors made late last year as the FY2005 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act was merged into an overall omnibus spending package. 
   "These corrections do not add to the overall size of the supplemental, but do clear the way for DOE and Los Alamos to move forward with several important projects," Domenici said. 
   The Domenici correction transfers $10 million from one NNSA account to the Office of the Administrator to support the Pajarito Plateau Homesteaders Compensation Fund that Domenici with Senator Jeff Bingaman had authorized last year in the FY2005 Defense Authorization Act. The correction is necessary to comply with the authorization, which is related to the settlement of two lawsuits in the U.S. District Court in New Mexico that derive from acquisition of land for the 1940s Manhattan Project in Los Alamos County. 
   Domenici also included a correction to restore $4 million from within available NNSA Defense Site Acceleration Completion funding to facilitate a property transfer from NNSA to Los Alamos County. The project was inadvertently dropped from the final FY2005 Energy and Water conference agreement. Today's action will support the cleanup of property transferred from LANL to the Los Alamos school district as authorized in the FY2005 Defense Authorization Act. 
   Overall, the bill provides, among other things: $74.4 billion for expenses related to defense activities in Iraq and Afghanistan, $907.3 million in tsunami relief, and $675.3 million for domestic security and counter-terrorism activities.
 
 