EPA ADMINISTRATOR AGREES WITH DOMENICI ON USING EASIER ARSENIC IMPLEMENTATION RULES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today solicited agreement from Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Stephen Johnson that states can use greater flexibility in their efforts to bring small communities and water systems into compliance with stricter arsenic drinking water standards. 
   At a Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, Domenici and Johnson discussed the federal arsenic standard that went into effect in January. Johnson agreed with Domenici that state agencies, like the New Mexico Environment Department, can use the minimum documentation necessary to meet EPA guidance on compliance extension applications and even receive exemptions for "economic hardship."
   Johnson testified that the use of Bilateral Compliance Agreements are particularly helpful to communities and small water systems that need more time to plan and make important decisions regarding compliance implementation.
   "I appreciate hearing from the top man at EPA that greater flexibility for arsenic standards can, and should be, applied as many poor and small communities in New Mexico and around the country struggle to meet the new arsenic standard. New Mexico communities need realistic and fair compliance standards, and I'm committed to pushing changes that will bring relief," Domenici said.
   As part of his consultation with community leaders and involvement in an arsenic outreach groups, Domenici has written letters to Governor Richardson and tried to pressure the NMED to ease its requirements for communities applying for more time to meet the new 10 parts per billion (ppb) arsenic thresholds.
   Following questions from Domenici, Johnson said the EPA is continuing to review new scientific findings related to the health risks associated with arsenic in drinking water. Domenici has long been critical of the scientific basis that set the current 10 ppb arsenic standard, which is well below the previous 50 ppb standard, and would support a reevaluation of the standard.
   Since the President's budget provides $9 million for the Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS), Johnson assured Domenici that the EPA will keep up with and be open to new science relating to arsenic standards.
   Earlier this week, Domenici hosted a National Rural Water Association briefing to review the implementation impact of the EPA arsenic standard and a study published in March in the National Institutes of Health scientific journal, Environmental Health Perspectives that questions the science behind the standard.
   The EPA in early March published a notice in the Federal Register relating to the 10 ppb standard. Public comments are being accepted through May 1.
   * http://www.epa.gov/safewater/arsenic/index.html
   * http://www.epa.gov/fedrgstr/EPA-WATER/2006/March/Day-02/w1917.htm.
 
 