SEN. DOMENICI, GEN. JUMPER AGREE: AIRSPACE CRITICAL FOR FUTURE U.S. AIR FORCE TRAINING NEEDS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today accepted affirmation from a top U.S. Air Force official that wide-open airspace and training ranges will be critical commodities for near and long-term training needs.  
   Domenici today questioned General John Jumper, Air Force Chief of Staff, about the USAF training and airspace requirements during a Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing to review the FY2006 Air Force budget requests. 
   Domenici received Jumper's testimony on access to and control of large training ranges and airspace as confirmation that New Mexico, especially with the potential for supersonic training space associated with Cannon Air Force Base and the Melrose Bombing Range, can meet future Air Force training requirements. 
   "General Jumper and I agree that airspace for the Air Force will be at a premium in the future," Domenici said. "As we bring the F-22 and F-35 Joint Strike Force aircraft into service, the Air Force will need access to large training ranges and airspace that will allow our pilots to train at supersonic speeds." 
   "We are on the right course in promoting an overland training range associated with Cannon Air Force Base. Airspace, even in the West, is becoming a premium around the country. But New Mexico is offering to provide what our Air Force needs, particularly in terms of space for supersonic training," Domenici said. 
   The Air Force is expected this summer to issue a preliminary final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) on the New Mexico Training Range Initiative (NMTRI) for supersonic flight testing over eastern New Mexico. Domenici is a strong supporter of the NMRTI to provide military training airspace capable of supporting effective and realistic training for the full range of F-16 missions, and eventually the F-22 and F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF). 
   Asked to explain why unfettered access to airspace and training ranges are of growing importance to the Air Force, Jumper testified: "The very speed of the airplanes and the stand off distances of our weapons dictate ever increasing demands for airspace in an environment where that airspace is decreasing. So if you take, for instance, an FA-22 that can super-cruise at 1.5 mach, or a small diameter bomb that when released can glide out 65 miles to its target, those parameters are much different than anything we've seen with legacy airplanes in the past." 
   Domenici asked Jumper to compare live supersonic training with other training regimes, such as simulated tests. 
   "We'll never be able to substitute for all of live training. There's no doubt about it," Jumper told Domenici. "There will be some training with next generation munitions that we'll do in a simulator environment, but in the end you can never substitute. And the matter of fact, the great leverage that our airmen have is training. And the great leverage that we have over other air forces of the world is our ability to go out and do this live training as you describe." 
   Jumper explained why Air Force needs supersonic airspace for F-22 and JSF pilots. 
   "In the modern airplane, quite frankly, and you're in the middle of a fight you don't know when you've gone supersonic. So, if you're having to pay attention to your airspeed indicator all the time to make sure that you don't create that sonic boom and disturb the people on the ground whose support we need, then you're paying attention to artificialities that you don't want to have in your habit patterns," Jumper said.
 
 