SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO CONTINUE BORDER SECURITY DEBATE, BACKS COMPROMISE GUEST WORKER PLAN
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted to allow the Senate to continue debating on a comprehensive border security and immigration reform bill, and signaled his support for a compromise plan on guest workers. 
   Domenici voted with the Senate, 39-60, to defeat a bid to stop debate on the legislation and accept the bill approved by the Judiciary Committee. Allowing the bill to remain in play kept open the prospect that the Senate will produce a new American policy for better securing the border and dealing with the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants already in the United States.
   Domenici, who has been part of a negotiating team on the guest worker issues, subsequently joined the bipartisan Senate leadership to stand behind a so-called Hagel-Martinez compromise on guest workers.
   "I agreed to this compromise because the Senate needs to make progress on a comprehensive border security and immigration reform package. We cannot afford to walk away from our border security problems," Domenici said.
   "Obviously, this bill as a whole needs more work. We must make it as strong as possible, with assured commitments for necessary funding and personnel, to make our borders more secure. Without that, this compromise exercise would prove futile. We can't have guest worker reform without border security," he said.
   "This compromise, like my own proposal, still establishes hurdles that undocumented workers in our country must clear before they can begin to apply for citizenship. Like my plan, it is not a free ride-but an opportunity," he said. "I see this compromise as a good enough offer to convince undocumented workers to come out from hiding and to choose to be in this country legitimately."
   With the Senate bill open to debate, Domenici plans to continue his push to have several of his border security and law enforcement amendments added to the bill.
   Since the start of the Senate debate, Domenici has advocated dividing the undocumented worker population in the United States into groups-separating those who have been here several years and have roots, and those who have been here shorter amounts of time. The Hagel-Martinez compromise does that. Under the compromise:
   * Undocumented workers who have been in the United States more than five years could stay in the country, work, and eventually have the opportunity to become U.S. citizens if they meet certain requirements, including paying a $2000 fine and undergoing background checks;
   * Undocumented workers who have been in the United States less than five years but more than two years would have to undergo medical and background checks and leave the United States, but could come back into the United States through a land port of entry as legal workers with a visa. With that visa, they could eventually have the opportunity to become U.S. citizens.
   * Undocumented workers who have been in the United States less than two years would have no special treatment and would be subject to existing law regarding removal and deportation.
 
 