SEN. DOMENICI-SUPPORTED PROJECTS FOR NEW MEXICO INCLUDED IN NATIONAL WATER RESOURCES LEGISLATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced the inclusion of three priority water projects for New Mexico - including middle Rio Grande bosque restoration - in a major national water infrastructure bill introduced Wednesday.  
   Domenici worked with the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee to have the three New Mexico-specific projects included in the new Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which was introduced today by EWP Chairman James Inhofe. 
   WRDA, which is up for reauthorization, sanctions water resource projects, study authorizations and policy modifications for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. 
   "I am pleased that this year's WRDA bill includes three projects that are so important to New Mexico. The inclusion indicates that the Environment and Public Works Committee recognizes the importance of authorized WRDA projects to New Mexico. Water issues affect all areas of the state in one way or another, whether it's battling the devastating effects of drought or taking precautions against damaging floods. New Mexico needs WRDA authorization to deal with our unique water situations," Domenici said. 
   Domenici said he is especially pleased a bosque restoration project is in the bill, indicating that having it included in the chairman's mark may make it more likely that the project will be enacted after WRDA goes through the legislative process. 
   "I am especially excited that this year's WRDA bill provides for the restoration of Rio Grande bosque. I have been actively involved in restoring the bosque for almost 15 years because the area is one of the most unique ecosystems in the world. Authorizing bosque restoration in the WRDA bill will be an important first step in bosque restoration that will lead to environmental benefits for the river and species in the area, as well as recreational and educational opportunities for the public," Domenici said. 
   The following are brief summaries of the three New Mexico WRDA projects submitted by Domenici, who is chairman of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that has actual funding jurisdiction for the Army Corps on Engineers: 
   * Bosque Restoration: Authorizes a total of $25 million for the implementation of restoration projects in the middle Rio Grande region, from Cochiti Dam to the headwaters of Elephant Butte Reservoir. The program would allow for the removal of unnecessary jetty jacks, reduction of non-native species, increase of cottonwood woodland, removal of dead and down trees, extension of open meadows to reduce fire hazard, and improvement of recreational and educational opportunities throughout the Middle Rio Grande Bosque. Non-Federal interests must provide 35 percent of the total cost of bosque restoration projects. 
   * Rio Grande Environmental Management Program: Authorizes a total of $25 million and establishes a continuing authority for addressing environmental restoration and management on the Rio Grande and its tributaries in New Mexico. The program would support two main components: (1) planning, design and construction of small habitat rehabilitation and enhanced projects and (2) a long-term river data acquisition to assist in managing the Rio Grande watershed. Construction projects approved through this program must be cost-shared on a 65-35 basis with a local entity. 
   * Southwest Valley Flood Damage Reduction Study-Albuquerque: Authorize approximately $19.5 million to support the construction of flood control infrastructure for Albuquerque's Southwest Valley, which is subject to flooding. The federal government will fund 65 percent of the project, with 35 percent of the project coming from non-federal sources. The estimated completion date for the project is 2013.
 
 