SEN. DOMENICI CLEARS WAY FOR SILVERY MINNOW, DESALINATION PROJECTS IN SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today gained committee approval for technical corrections that clear the way for federal funding to support the creation of silvery minnow sanctuaries on the Rio Grande, and to advance Bureau of Reclamation participation in desalination research in New Mexico.  
   Domenici is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that today approved an $80.4 billion FY2005 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill that is primarily focused on supporting the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan, and providing tsunami relief to South Asia. The full Senate takes up the bill next. 
   Domenici, who chairs the appropriations subcommittee that funds the Energy Department, included the technical corrections in the supplemental bill in order to rectify unintended errors made late last year as the FY2005 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act was merged into an overall omnibus spending package. 
   Within accounts for the Bureau of Reclamation, Domenici included technical language to extend authorization to take part in developing "off-channel" sanctuaries on the middle Rio Grande as one means of promoting survival of the endangered silvery minnow. Domenici provided $1.0 million in FY2005 funding for this work, but the Bureau could only use about half that without the new authority approved today. The language will also allow the Bureau to comply with the 2003 Biological Opinion. 
   "I am keenly interested in moving the minnow sanctuary project forward. I believe it will show that the minnow can survive by letting it prosper in regions of the middle Rio Grande that have more stable water levels," Domenici said. 
   Elsewhere, Domenici secured a four-year extension of the Desalination Act in order to allow the Bureau to continue participation in water desalination research. The authorization will give the Bureau access to the $6.5 million Domenici provided in the FY2005 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill for desalination activities. 
   "Desalination is becoming a necessary technology that the United States must advance," Domenici said. "The Bureau is one key agency that must continue to be part of this effort to expand water supplies by finding affordable ways to purify previously unusable water. This authorization is necessary." 
   One other Domenici correction through the Department of Energy National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) frees up $3 million secured by Domenici to continue support for the five-year technology transfer program operated by the Albuquerque-based Technology Ventures Corp. TVC works to promote the transfer of technology developed NNSA labs. 
   Overall, the bill provides, among other things: $74.4 billion for expenses related to defense activities in Iraq and Afghanistan, $907.3 million in tsunami relief, and $675.3 million for domestic security and counter-terrorism activities.
 
 