SEN. DOMENICI: $160,000 USDA LOAN WILL FUND WATER WELL & TANK FOR RURAL TAOS COUNTY WATER COOPERATIVE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said a $160,000 loan issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development will allow the water cooperative at Chamisal to improve its system with a new 80,000-gallon water tank and water supply well.  
   Domenici said the 40-year loan to the Chamisal Mutual Domestic Water Consumers Association will support system improvements that will include the water tank, supply well, and a new pumphouse. The federal funds will also be leveraged to allow the association to install new water lines, water meters, gate valves, and flush and fire hydrants. 
   "The Chamisal association has a plan to ensure that its system is better able to meet the needs of rural residents in Taos County. I am pleased USDA Rural Development has recognized this need and approved this low-interest loan," Domenici said. 
   "I recognized that rural water cooperatives, like the Chamisal system, provide a vital service to rural New Mexicans. Their job is not always easy, particularly with escalating costs and the affects of drought on water supplies in our state," he said. 
   The USDA loan will be issued at a 4.25 percent rate. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee and is ranking member on the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds federal water projects through the Bureau of Reclamation and Army Corps of Engineers. 
   On July 17, Domenici offered the Department of Interior a list of New Mexico communities, water cooperatives and pueblos that could benefit from $10 million in BOR drought-related funding now available for emergency water supply projects. Domenici identified five New Mexico municipalities, one county, a dozen mutual water users associations, and 11 pueblos that could immediately benefit from this assistance. 
   The $10 million in FY2007 BOR Drought Emergency Assistance Program funding will be used to help states, tribes, and some nonprofit organizations hard-hit by drought conditions. Through this program, the BOR may assist in minimizing losses and damages associated with severe drought situations. This work includes on-the-ground relief for states, including well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, and water banking, and conservation.
 
 