SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS VETERANS EYE CARE BILL TO BETTER ADDRESS COMMON COMBAT INJURY
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced that he has cosponsored legislation to enhance eye care for combat veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan who have sustained brain and vision injuries caused by improvised explosive devices (IEDs).  
   The Neuro-Optometric Center of Excellence Bill (S.1999) was introduced late Friday prior to the August congressional recess by Senator John Kerry (D-Mass.), with Senators Domenici, Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and Barak Obama (D-Ill.) as original cosponsors. It would close the gap between traditional optometric practices and increasingly frequent and complicated cases of optometric injuries among service members and veterans of Operation Iraq Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom, and other combat theaters. 
   "We are quickly learning that roadside bombs have long-term and wide-ranging health implications for soldiers in combat, including brain and vision damage. Eye injuries are some of the most common casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan, but they aren't always simple to diagnose or treat," said Domenici. "Our bill seeks to enhance the capabilities of Defense Department and Veterans Affairs health facilities to improve diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of returning warriors who have sustained traumatic head injuries." 
   "With the increasing number of injuries from Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), soldiers are oftentimes seriously wounded without showing any outward signs. This legislation will allow more doctors to be trained to diagnose, treat and rehabilitate soldiers with such injuries," said Kerry. "After the sacrifices these brave men and women have made for our country, it is absolutely essential that we provide them with the care they so desperately need and so justifiably deserve." 
   Prevalent use of IEDs and roadside bombs has caused a spike in this kind of combat injury. Traumatic brain injury, which isn't always evident in cuts or contusions to the eye, can cause lasting brain and vision damage. Direct blast injuries to the eye can also adversely affect long-term sight. 
   The bill would expand and enhance the capabilities of existing Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense medical centers and optometry clinics to better manage the complex cases of direct blast injuries to veterans' eyes and traumatic brain injuries. Over a five year period, the bill would authorize approximately $5.7 million needed to enhance diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation practices related to these complex injuries. 
   Earlier this year, Domenici and Senator Barack Obama (D-Ill.) cosponsored the Veterans' Mental Health Outreach and Access Act, a bipartisan measure that will authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to develop and implement a comprehensive national program to increase the availability of mental health support so that veterans affected by combat-related mental health problems do not go without the care they need. 
   The Blind Veterans Association (BVA), an organization to promote the welfare of blinded veterans, has endorsed the Neuro-Optometric Center of Excellence Bill. The BVA will hold their annual convention in Albuquerque later this month. To learn more about the BVA and its Albuquerque conference, please visit: http://www.bva.org/.
 
 