JUSTICE DEPARTMENT AWARDS FUNDS TO ALBUQUERQUE YMCA
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded the funds recently awarded by the Department of Justice (DOJ) to the YMCA to develop after-school programs for at-risk children in the Albuquerque community.  
   As the only member of the New Mexico delegation to sit on an appropriations committee and a long supporter of the YMCA, Domenici secured these funds within the FY2004 appropriations bill. 
   "The YMCA provides a safe place for kids to interact with each other in a wide range of after school activities. These programs not only keep kids off the streets but also invite community volunteers to accept different coaching and mentoring positions that help foster meaningful relationships," Domenici said. "I am very pleased the DOJ has given these funds to the Albuquerque YMCA so they can continue to expand the positive environment and partnerships that keep kids safe and flourishing." 
   The DOJ awarded $371,054 to the YMCA of Albuquerque to provide services to elementary and middle school youth using a range of age and developmentally appropriate activities. 
   The project is managed by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) which also heads up other programs like the 4-H Youth Development program to give children alternatives to crime and drugs. The OJJDP provides national leadership, coordination, and resources to prevent and respond to juvenile delinquency. 
   Domenici cosponsored a Senate-passed resolution designating April 16 as National Youth Service Day. The National and Global Youth Service Day is the largest service event in the world, drawing upon an active consortium of more than 200 national and global Partners who organize thousands of youth service projects each year in the U.S. and over 100 countries. 
   In addition, every year stand-out youths are given the "Pete V. Domenici Character Counts Citizenship" Awards at the annual YMCA banquet. The YMCA of Albuquerque uses Character Counts, the character education program Domenici launched ten years ago, in all Y programs.
 
 