PRESIDENT BUSH SIGNS 9/11 BILL-NEW LAW INCLUDES SEN. DOMENICI-SUPPORTED PROVISIONS FOR NM TECH TRAINING & LABS' NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE SIMULATION AND ANALYSIS CENTER
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, today welcomed the enactment of a new law that will strengthen two New Mexico-based homeland security projects.  
   President Bush has signed the Improving America's Security Act of 2007 (HR.1/S.4), a law that will further implement the 9/11 recommendations that have not been implemented or fully implemented, and provide other important security enhancements. 
   For New Mexico, Domenici worked to include formal authorization for the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium (NDPC), a training group that includes New Mexico Tech at Socorro. 
   Domenici also supported provisions in the bill that expand the responsibilities of the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC), the Albuquerque-based risk-assessment program run by Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories. 
   "A lot of the technological and scientific expertise located in New Mexico makes our state a strong benefactor for enhancing our homeland security efforts," Domenici said. "The first responder training offered by New Mexico Tech is making local law enforcement officials better prepared for emergency and disaster situations. NISAC can help security officials at all levels of government better understand the threats we face." 
   The bill authorizes the establishment of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium, which has been responsible for identifying, developing, testing and delivering training to State, local, and tribal emergency response providers. 
   Domenici, as a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, consistently supported funding for the NDPC, including the $145 million provided for the consortium in the Senate's FY2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. Under this appropriations bill, New Mexico Tech would receive $22 million as a member of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium. The consortium, headquartered at Fort McClellan, Ala., also includes Texas A&M, Louisiana State University and Nevada Test Site. 
   Related to NISAC, the new law authorizes NISAC to conduct an analysis of release scenarios involving toxic-inhalation materials released from railroad cars. NISAC already works to help decision makers assess preparedness, consequence and risk analysis, policy analysis, investment and mitigation planning, education and training. It also provides near real-time assistance to crisis-response organizations. At Domenici's request, the FY2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill includes $25 million to support NISAC activities, which is an $8.98 million increase over the budget request. 
   Nationally, the new law (PL.110-53) would, among other things, expand screening of air and sea cargo entering the United States. It sets a three-year goal for screening all cargo on passenger planes, and a five-year goal for scanning all container ships for nuclear devices before they leave foreign ports. The law would also work to shift more homeland security funding to high-risk cities and states.
 
 