SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES INCREASE IN BORDER PATROL AGENTS FOR NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today officially announced news that New Mexico will receive a substantial increase in the number of Border Patrol agents assigned to its southern border.  
   Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today was officially informed by DHS officials that 253 additional agents will be deployed in New Mexico. Overall, the El Paso Border Patrol sector, which includes New Mexico, will see a 37 percent increase in agents, from 1,338 to 1,831. 
   The additional agents are provided by funding in the FY2006 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill to allow DHS to hire 1,000 new agents. As a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici helped draft the bill and served on the conference committee that finalized it. Funding for 500 new agents was also included in the FY2005 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill. Overall, 1,700 new Border Patrol Agents are being deployed on the Southwest border. 
   "Today, I received official notification that New Mexico will have over 250 new Border Patrol agents patrolling our southern border. This news is welcome to the people of southern New Mexico. The increase in agents in our Border Patrol sector is one of the largest occurring anywhere. I'm pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has listened to our concerns, but I view this deployment as just the first step in what needs to be comprehensive immigration reform," Domenici said. 
   Domenici, along with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), has introduced the Border Security and Modernization Act of 2005 (S.2049), an authorization bill which addresses four primary needs to begin confronting illegal immigration and the security threats posed by porous borders: personnel, technology, infrastructure and aid to border states. 
   The Domenici-Dorgan bill will authorize an increase in the number of Customs and Border Protection personnel by 5,000, attorneys assigned to immigration cases by 1,000 and immigration judges by 500. It will also allow the Department of Homeland Security to supplant its force with National Guard personnel and volunteer retired law enforcement officers. The actual number of personnel hired will be subject to congressional appropriations. 
   "The additional Border Patrol agents now being deployed are an excellent start towards securing our border. In my judgment, these agents need to be augmented with more facilities to house detainees, and more immigration attorneys and judges to handle their cases. I have introduced legislation that focuses on these needs, and I am also working on a bill that will address the guest worker issue," Domenici said. 
   The agents being deployed on the border are part of a $241 million provision in the DHS Appropriations Bill to hire 1,000 new Border Patrol Agents. The bill also contained $79.5 million to annualize 500 new agents that were hired under the FY2005 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill. 
   Currently, 479 additional Border Patrol agents are being trained in New Mexico at the Border Patrol Academy located at the FLETC-Artesia.
 
 