HOUSE PASSES SEN. DOMENICI BILL ON VALLES CALDERA MINERAL RIGHTS
  The U.S. House of Representatives has passed legislation authored by Sen. Pete Domenici to acquire the remaining mineral rights at the Valles Caldera National Preserve and Trust in north central New Mexico.  
   The House Tuesday approved the Valles Caldera Preservation Act of 2005 (S.212), which had already gained Senate approval. The bill was cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, and supported in the House by Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall, and Steve Pearce. 
   The legislation directs the Agriculture Secretary to negotiate a price for buying the remaining geothermal interests at the Preserve. If negotiations are unsuccessful, the matter would be directed to federal court for resolution. The Department of Agriculture would use available funds to acquire the mineral interests, unless the court sets a higher price, in which case the difference would be paid from the judgment fund. 
   "This legislation lays out a course to resolve the remaining mineral rights issues in the Valles Caldera. It gives all the interested parties a chance to work together to resolve the lengthy dispute over mineral ownership on the Baca Ranch. I am pleased that the House has passed it today, and I look forward to President Bush's signature so it can become law," said Domenici, who chairs the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   This bill lays out a process for settling the ownership of the mineral rights once and for all, while giving the board that governs the Valles Caldera additional authority to raise funds and make management decisions. I believe this will have a very positive impact on the national preserve," said Bingaman, who is ranking member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "The Valles Caldera National Preserve was created to protect New Mexico's natural beauty and the area's history. We're working to expedite purchase of the remaining mineral rights to ensure preservation of this scenic landscape and provide fair compensation to the mineral holders. The Baca Ranch remains in use and a beautiful destination for sightseers, hunters, hikers, sportsmen and others," Wilson said. 
   "This legislation provides a reasonable method for resolving in a timely fashion the sizable differences of opinion regarding the fair market value of the outstanding mineral interests," Udall said. "I am pleased that the bill also addresses several issues with respect to the administration of the Trust. It is my belief that the bill appropriately provides for concerns of the Valles Caldera Trust and the administration of the Baca Ranch in furthering the purposes for which these lands were acquired four years ago." 
   "Today's action enables the preservation of the majestic wonders of the Valles Caldera for future generations," Pearce said. "I commend Sen. Domenici for his exceptional leadership in developing a creative and fair solution that respects private property rights while protecting the natural gifts we all share." 
   Among other things, the bill also clarifies the Valles Caldera National Preservation & Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act of 1999 (S.1892) in terms of employment classifications, and resource management and funding authority.
 
 