SEN. DOMENICI, NFL'S JOHN MADDEN URGE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR DIABETES RESEARCH
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined NFL's John Madden, the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF), and other members of congress on Capitol Hill to advocate passage of federal legislation to promote diabetes research.  
   Domenici is the author of S.1494, a bill that would amend the Public Health Services Act to reauthorize and increase funding for the Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes for another five years. 
   At a news conference today, Domenici, Madden, and a bipartisan group of lawmakers including Senators Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Susan Collins (R-Me.), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), and Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) urged congressional action on renewal of the Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes Research. 
   "Diabetes has become one of the biggest health issues we face, and Congress should do all it can to provide resources for research and prevention," said Domenici. "I am grateful for public advocates like John Madden who are raising public awareness of the disease. We must continue to push to reauthorize funding for federal programs to support research and prevention initiatives." 
   Madden was accompanied by his son, Joseph, and six-year-old grandson Sam, who was recently diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes is an incurable autoimmune disease that affects children, adolescents, and adults, in which the immune system attacks cells in the pancreas that produce insulin, causing those with the disease to be dependent on insulin for the rest of their lives. 
   Legislation introduced by Domenici would reauthorize the Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes Research, as well as the Special Diabetes Program for Indians for another five years, and would also increase the mandatory funding for each program to $200 million annually for each year, providing another $500 million over the next five years for both programs. Without reauthorization, funding for type 1 diabetes will be cut by 35 percent. 
   In 1997, Domenici established the Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes Research alongside the Special Diabetes Program for Indians as part of the 1997 Balanced Budget Act. The Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes Research was initially funded at $30 million, and has grown to its current level of $150 million annually for research including genetic susceptibility, cutting edge therapies, and long term diabetes management and care. 
   The Special Diabetes Program for Indians has allowed Indian Health Services (IHS) to establish 400 new federally supported diabetic treatment and prevention programs in Native communities to provide medication, therapies, clinical exams, and screenings to avert complication. Indian communities have also benefited from physical fitness programs, medical nutrition therapy, and wellness initiatives aimed at preventing the disease.
 
 