SEN. DOMENICI ASKS FOR GOV. RICHARDSON'S HELP ON BEHALF OF COMMUNITIES STRUGGLING TO MEET ARSENIC STANDARDS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asked Gov. Bill Richardson to assist him to help New Mexico communities that are struggling to meet strict new arsenic standards set to take effect next month. 
   The EPA will introduce a substantially lower arsenic standard on January 23. The change, which will move the standard from 50 ppb to 10 ppb, is expected cost New Mexico communities an estimated $440 million to implement.
   Many communities lack the resources to implement the standard and need government assistance, but only 31 of the 95 communities affected have asked the New Mexico Environment Department (NMED) for an extension of the January 23 deadline.
   NMED has been tasked with carrying out the new standard for the state of New Mexico, and established a deadline of last summer for communities to apply for an extension. Many of the applications that were submitted were incomplete.
   Today, Domenici, who chairs the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds arsenic water research programs, sent a letter to Richardson calling for NMED to reopen the application process for communities that did not file extensions but need them. Domenici also asked for the department's help in providing communities information about how to take advantage of federal research and grant programs he has helped set up.
   "I fear that the rural communities of New Mexico are unprepared to meet the new standard. Today I'm asking the Governor to reopen the application period for extensions to the effective date of the new arsenic standard. This is important because, to date, few of the communities impacted by the new standard have applied for an extension. Allowing more communities to seek a delay would allow more time for federal research and development programs to develop more viable, cost-effective technology for impacted areas," Domenici said.
   Domenici has been aggressively pushing several initiatives that will help impacted communities. In his FY2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, he provided $12.5 million to support Water Technology Programs at Sandia National Laboratories, which includes $7 million specifically for desalination and arsenic treatment.
   "The only viable long term way to meet the standard and eradicate arsenic from our water supplies is through additional research. Sandia National Laboratories and its partners are already hard at work developing technology that will make it easier and less expense to remove arsenic from water.
   "In the meantime, we must provide assistance to communities who simply don't have the resources to implement the standard, so I have been working on a number of pieces of legislation that will bring relief. I believe that an extension of the arsenic deadline by the state of New Mexico will benefit many communities because technology is being rapidly advanced," Domenici said.
   Domenici is the author of the Community Drinking Water Assistance Act (S.689), which would create a $1.9 billion grant program to assist disadvantaged communities, tribes and water associations in meeting the new arsenic drinking water standard.
   The Senator also helped craft the arsenic provisions in the Water Infrastructure Financing Act (S.1400), which passed the Environment and Public Works Committee in July. The arsenic provisions in S.1400 would authorize $300 million annually between FY2006-FY2010 to help communities and American Indian tribes meet Safe Drinking Water Act requirements--including the new arsenic standard.
   Primary consideration would be given to disadvantaged rural communities with fewer than 10,000 households. Non-federal entities receiving assistance would be required to provide 45 percent in matching funds. Provisions are included to give aid to other communities - such as Albuquerque or Rio Rancho - if they can show that meeting the new standard would make them "disadvantaged."
   In addition, Domenici is also an original cosponsor of Rural Community Arsenic Relief Act (S.41) which would exempt nonprofit small public water systems from certain drinking water standards related to naturally occurring contaminants like arsenic, radon or radium. Communities granted an exemption would be required, on a graduated scale, to meet the new arsenic standard by 2016.
 
 