SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF U.S. AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today recognized the growing amount of space work being done in New Mexico by becoming an original cosponsor to a Senate resolution commemorating the 25th anniversary of the U.S. Air Force Space Command.  
   The resolution, offered by Colorado Senator Wayne Allard, highlights the 1982 founding of the Air Force Space Command at Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado, and recounts its significant national security work. 
   "The scope of the Space Command is remarkable and reflective of its responsibility to provide the nation with unrivaled space capabilities to defend our great nation. Space will continue to be of increasingly strategic value to our national security This work, whether related to missile defense or GPS capabilities, works to protect not just the country, but our men and women in uniform," Domenici said. 
   "I am pleased that more of the national defense work is being carried out in New Mexico, as Air Force and national laboratory capabilities can aid the Space Command in its next 25 years," he said. 
   In New Mexico, the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) and Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) office at Kirtland support the Air Force's work in space. In addition, Congress is set to provide $42.7 million in BRAC-related to funding for Kirtland which would allow the Department of Defense to transition a space vehicle facility from Hanscom AFB to Albuquerque. This new mission will be part of the AFRL Space Vehicles Directorate at Kirtland. 
   The ORS was placed at Kirtland this year after Domenici, Senator Jeff Bingaman and Congresswoman Heather Wilson pressed the Pentagon to locate it in New Mexico based on the state's ongoing space efforts involving the Space and Missile Systems Center Space and Development Test Wing; AFRL Space Vehicle Directorate; Office of Aerospace Studies; AFRL Directed Energy Directorate; and Sandia National Laboratories.
 
 