SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES USE OF SANDIA LAB EXPERTISE TO PROTECT WATER SUPPLIES
  Protecting American water supplies from the threat of biological or chemical terrorist attacks is the primary focus behind a new research and development agreement that will tap into Sandia National Laboratories' expertise in micro-engineering and nanotechnology, Sen. Pete Domenici announced today.  
   Sandia National Laboratories today signed a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) with two private industry firms to commercially develop the most advanced water quality detection equipment in the world. The agreement was reached with CH2M Hill, a large engineering and management firm based in Englewood, Colo., and the Tenix Corp., an Australian engineering and manufacturing firm. 
   "The detection devices to be developed through this agreement are astounding and a direct result of Sandia's success at discovering cutting-edge applications through directed research funding," Domenici said. "In this case, the payoff will be better security for water sources and the potential to save thousands of lives." 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Energy Departments national laboratories. As such, he has been a leading congressional proponent for directed research and technology transfer partnerships. 
   The technology and prototype for this next generation of sensors was developed at Sandia National Laboratories' offices in Livermore, Calif., using core research funding provided to the lab from DOE. Prototype sensors were developed as part of Sandia's overall microelectronics and nanotechnology efforts. 
   Current sensing systems are known as microchem lab or ?Chemlab sensors, which have the potential to contain a full set of chemical detection laboratory equipment in a palm size unit. It is anticipated that the new generation of sensors resulting from this new Sandia CRADA will primarily have homeland security applications in protecting city water systems or even water supplied to individual buildings. 
   "This is just one of the many ways our national laboratories can assist in keeping us safe. I hope we can expand and strengthen the relationships between our national laboratories immense science and technology capabilities and the mission of our intelligence and homeland security efforts. Our national laboratories should be directly serving the Department of Homeland Security," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that the ?Chemlab sensor systems have the potential to revolutionize water quality detection, adding that the underlying mission behind the CRADA fits within the goals set in his National Laboratory Water Technology Development Act in July of 2004 (S.2658). That bill, which he intends to reintroduce in the 109th Congress, would promote greater laboratory involvement in water resources technologies. 
   "We are seeing a revolution in our ability to detect contaminants and act in ways that protect communities and the environment. I anticipate that these new sensors will become ubiquitous and will play a key role in expanding our available water supplies" Domenici said. "We must expand our water supplies and technology will play a key role. This CRADA shows that federal, private and international collaboration can successfully be used to protect and expand water supplies."
 
 