SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL TO INCREASE WIRELESS & DIGITAL TECH AT HISPANIC-SERVING COLLEGES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced his support for legislation to create a $250 million annual grant program to provide instruction in digital and wireless network instruction at universities and colleges with high minority enrollments.  
   Domenici is cosponsoring the Minority Serving Institution Digital and Wireless Technology Opportunity Act (S.291). The measure, introduced by Senators Gordon Smith (R-Wash.) and John Kerry (D-Mass.), has been referred to the Senate Commerce Committee. 
   The bill would create an Office of Minority Serving Institution Digital and Wireless Technology within the National Science Foundation (NSF). 
   This NSF Office would administer a grant program geared toward helping minority-serving institutions, including Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) and tribal colleges, acquire equipment to enhance digital and wireless networks as a means of improving educational services associated with science, mathematics, engineering or technology instruction. 
   "This bill is closely linked to the American Competitiveness Initiative we are trying to advance in Congress. It would gives schools, including most of universities and colleges in New Mexico, an opportunity to be well equipped to advance math, science and technological instruction," Domenici said. "If our minority-serving universities are to do better at preparing students to pursue careers in math and science, they will need the tools to do so. This bill is one way they can get those tools." 
   The bill would also allow grant funding to be used for professional development for educators in science and technological fields. Grants, authorized from FY2008-FY2012, would be available on a cost-share basis, with awards matched with 25 percent non-federal funding. 
   At least 17 New Mexico universities and colleges qualify as HSIs. There are also three tribal colleges in the state. 
   Last year, Domenici was a key member of a bipartisan Senate group that introduced the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, which was then incorporated into a larger bill, the National Competitiveness Investment Act (NCIA). Similar action is expected in the 110th Congress, and the President's FY2008 budget proposal recommends increased funding to support the NCIA.
 
 