SEN. DOMENICI PRESSES BODMAN FOR SCIENCE FUNDING AT LANL, CRITICIZES LAB CLEANUP FUNDING LEVELS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today pressed Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman to agree to additional funding to support an expanded basic science mission at Los Alamos National Laboratory, including a proposed facility called "MaRIE."  
   Domenici addressed funding needs at LANL as Bodman appeared before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to testify on the Department of Energy's FY2009 budget request. At the hearing, Domenici argued that a stronger science-based mission at LANL should be part of the major push by DOE to increase federal investment in science, and warned Bodman to expect the state of New Mexico to levy more fines against DOE for missed environmental cleanup goals at the lab. 
   Domenici asked Bodman to provide more than the $5.0 million in the FY2009 budget to refurbish the LANSCE facility, which hosts the Los Alamos Linear Accelerator. For the past 25 years, this facility has supported the LANL science capability needed to carry out the stockpile stewardship mission and other scientific research. 
   "It is critically important that we initiate the process of increasing our investment in science at Los Alamos. We need sufficient funding to refurbish the Los Alamos Linear Accelerator, which is badly in need of an upgrade to sustain the laboratory's scientific capability into the future," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that he has supported a LANL and DOE effort to focus on building on the lab's scientific mission by investing in its expertise in "materials under extreme conditions." As such a new science plan known as MaRIE, or Matter Radiation Interactions in Extremes, is being developed. 
   "Since the new management team has been in place, I have encouraged the laboratory to develop a new science plan," Domenici said. "I'm excited about MaRIE. LANL can use the refurbished accelerator to demonstrate and expand this capability service for both the defense mission as well as open scientific research. The first step in the process will be refurbishment of the LANSCE facility." 
   Bodman told Domenici that new grant funding for the DOE Office of Science to support science missions could be used to support LANL science initiatives. The FY2009 DOE budget requests $4.7 billion for the Office of Science, a $748 million increase. 
   At today's hearing, Bodman acknowledged to Domenici that the $164 million requested for environmental cleanup at LANL would probably be insufficient to allow the lab to meet milestones set in a Consent Agreement between DOE and the state of New Mexico. 
   "You will have to explain the missed milestones," Domenici told Bodman, "The state of New Mexico's answer to this is fines, and the Energy Department should be ready for that. I personally think some of the fines are unreasonable and counterproductive. In the end, I hope the department will agree to try to provide sufficient money for cleanup at Los Alamos." 
   Finally, Domenici told Bodman he strongly objected to a proposed $23 million cut for operations at the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant near Carlsbad, which receives defense transuranic waste from LANL and other DOE facilities. Domenici asked Bodman to provide the rationale for the cut, which the Senator says will "put the WIPP mission in a bind."
 
 