N.M. LAWMAKERS SUPPORT CANNON AIR FORCE BASE CONSTRUCTION FUNDS IN FY08 BUDGET PLAN
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Rep. Tom Udall today were each optimistic about the $9.2 million in military construction funding included in the Bush administration's FY2008 budget proposal for Cannon Air Force Base, and pledged to ensure the funding becomes law later this year.  
   The budget plan for the Department of Defense recommends two separate military construction projects for Cannon, including $7.5 million for an MC-130 Flight Simulator facility and $1.7 million to renovate the existing Hangar 109 to accommodate C-130 aircraft. Both projects would support the new Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) mission at the base. 
   "These budget requests are very welcomed and confirmation that the Pentagon is moving forward with Cannon's transition," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "Our job now will be to see that this funding translates into actual funding in FY2008 to advance the Special Ops mission at Cannon." 
   "This budget is an important step forward in ensuring Cannon Air Force Base is prepared for its new mission," Bingaman said. "Having the president's support for these projects will help us as Congress begins consideration of next year's spending bills, and works toward the base's swift transition to Air Force Special Operations Command." 
   "Cannon Air Force Base continues to play a critical role in securing our nation and I'm very pleased to see initially positive signs on the budget portion of the AFSOC transition to Cannon. We will continue to work together to ensure that these initial positive signs are turned into actual funding," said Udall, who was appointed this year to serve on the House Appropriations Committee. 
   Initial design work on the hangar renovation and simulator project is already underway. As an AFSOC base, Cannon will be home to various versions of the C-130, starting with MC-130 variants. 
   All three lawmakers said they would confer with U.S. Air Force, Cannon and local officials to determine whether additional FY2008 military construction projects are warranted in the new fiscal year to support the incoming Special Operations Command mission. 
   Last month, the delegation won the release of $13.2 million secured in FY2005 for a modern fuel storage and distribution system at Cannon. Release of that funding and another $9.5 million for a consolidated airmen's center was stalled during the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. That funding was released after the delegation argued that the funding should have been distributed following the announcement that CAFB would be the new AFSOC base. 
   The President's budget also includes a Defense Logistics Agency request for $1.8 million in military construction funds to replace a fuel unloading facility at Kirtland Air Force Base at Albuquerque.
 
 