SEN. DOMENICI WILL VOTE FOR BROAD SENATE STIMULUS PLAN, ENDORSES HELPING SENIORS & VETERANS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today announced that he will vote for a $158 billion economic stimulus plan that would ensure that veterans and Social Security recipients receive tax rebates, unlike a House-passed plan that the Senator deemed "simply unacceptable." 
   The Senate is attempting to pass the Senate Finance Committee's Economic Growth Act (HR.5140), a substitute plan to a similar $146 billion measure that passed the House of Representatives with the support of the White House.  
   Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Budget Committee, said he has studied various stimulus plans and amendments, but decided the Senate Finance plan has the best hope for benefiting a faltering U.S. economy and more Americans-including some seniors and veterans who are exempted in the House-passed plan. 
   "Clearly, the House-passed package is simply unacceptable," Domenici said in a Senate floor speech. "The Senate Finance Committee bill better spreads the rebates, including veterans and Social Security recipients, and makes sure that no illegal immigrants receive rebates." 
   Domenici said the Senate plan would address the troubled U.S. housing markets by adding Net Operating Loss provisions, as well as raising Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loan limits. 
   "We cannot ignore the weight that the collapsing housing market and homebuilding sector have had on our economy and loss of jobs," Domenici said. "Raising the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loan limits is something I believe will begin to bring the mortgage market and its derivatives stability sooner rather than later." 
   Domenici also endorsed the renewable energy provisions in the Senate plan. 
   "I believe that the energy tax provisions from the Senate Finance Committee proposal, that this time include only incentives and not tax increases, are the right policy and it is important that we act fast," Domenici said. "We could begin that investment in renewable energy now." 
   Following Senate approval, the stimulus package would be sent to a conference committee to reconcile differences with the House-passed plan. 
   U.S. Senator Pete V. Domenici, R-N.M 
   Prepared Remarks 
   Economic Stimulus Statement (HR.5140/Senate Substitute) 
   February 6, 2008 
   I have reviewed various proposals carefully. Clearly, the House-passed package is simply unacceptable. I would predict that the House would not pass that bill again now that its flaws have been revealed. 
   By denying rebates to Social Security recipients and veterans, yet giving them to illegal immigrants, the House has produced something most Americans would reject. I understand that in the rush to produce the package, the House may not have completely vetted each and every provision. 
   Yesterday, the Institute for Supply Management reported that business activity in the non-manufacturing sector of our economy contracted. The level of that key indicator is now at its lowest level since 2001, right after the terrorist attacks of September 11. The stock market dropped 370 points; investors continued to move into ultra-safe areas, like government bonds. Last week and earlier this week, we had more information about a devastated housing industry, and the bankruptcy announcement of a major homebuilding firm. Last Friday, the government reported that the nation suffered a decline in job creation for the first time in four years. 
   In short, we clearly face the possibility of a recession. Worse, this recession may dovetail with the present near-freeze in credit markets. None of us know how those two things may interact. 
   A prudent person would do just as the House has done, and has been proposed by the Senate, and pass a stimulus package that would get money into the economy as soon as possible and would target particular sectors especially hard hit. 
   So, the question isn't whether we should have a stimulus package. The question is, "which do we prefer." 
   The first thing to look at is cost. The Senate Finance Committee package, as amended, will cost $158 billion. The House package is $146 billion. In a $14 trillion economy, a difference of $12 billion is insignificant, almost a rounding error. So, both packages cost about the same. 
   Second, it seems to this Senator that speed is important. Therefore, if we invoke cloture on the Senate Finance Committee package before us, we can most quickly move toward Senate passage. 
   Third, I believe that the Senate Finance Committee bill better spreads the rebates, including veterans and Social Security recipients, and making sure that no illegal immigrants receive rebates. 
   Fourth, the committee recommendation will give a strong boost to housing and homebuilding though its Net Operating Loss provisions. We cannot ignore the weight that the collapsing housing market and homebuilding sector have had on our economy and loss of jobs. 
   Fifth, all proposals raise the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loan limits, something that I believe will begin to bring stability to the mortgage market and its derivatives sooner rather than later. 
   Finally, I believe that the energy tax provisions in the Senate Finance Committee proposal, that this time include only incentives and not tax increases, are the right policy and it is important that we act fast. We can pass those provisions by invoking cloture and not waiting until later in the year to try to pass them. We could begin that investment in renewable energy now. 
   So, Mr. President, I have concluded that I will support cloture on the Senate Finance Committee proposal, recognizing that a conference with the House is likely and that both chambers will be able to fine-tune the ultimate package and get it quickly to President Bush for his signature.
 
 