SEN. DOMENICI SAYS NEW MEXICO WILL GAIN $565,977 MORE TO HELP NEEDY FAMILIES PAY WINTER ENERGY BILLS
  Sen. Pete Domenici confirmed that New Mexico will receive almost $566,000 in federal emergency contingency funding to help needy families and seniors afford higher winter heating and energy bills.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee that helped reach an agreement in December to provide $100 million in emergency funding to support the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has announced the distribution of the emergency funding to states, including $565,977 to New Mexico. 
   "New Mexico is in desperate need of moisture this winter, but the bright side has been that the warm days have mitigated the impact that high energy costs are having on home and business heating bills. Despite the warm weather, demand for LIHEAP funding is increasing and this additional federal funding is needed," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that HHS, which administers LIHEAP, has access to another $101 million in emergency contingency funding for distribution. LIHEAP is a federally-funded program to help eligible low income households meet their home heating needs. States have already received $1.3 billion in annual block grant funds since the start of FY2006 on Oct. 1. 
   Individuals interested in applying for LIHEAP aid should contact their local or state LIHEAP Agency. In New Mexico, the LIHEAP program is managed by the State Human Services Department, which can be reached at www.state.nm.us/hsd/isd.html or 1-800-648-7167. 
   For more information, visit: http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/liheap or http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/liheap/brochure.html. 
   The Congress in December in approved the FY2006 HHS appropriations bill with $2.183 billion for LIHEAP, $183 million more than the budget request. The funding amounts to $2 billion in regular funds (allotted to all states) and $183 million is emergency contingency funds (allotted to one or more states, at the Administration's discretion, and based on emergency need).
 
 