SEN. DOMENICI TO REVIVE EFFORT TO HELP SMALL TOWNS MEET STRICTER EPA ARSENIC STANDARDS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today pledged to revive legislation that would provide assistance to smaller communities in New Mexico struggling to observe new arsenic standards established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).  
   Domenici signaled his intent as Sandia National Laboratories Thursday hosted an event in Socorro to spotlight its pilot arsenic treatment facility. Researchers at the site demonstrate different arsenic removal techniques for contaminated water in an effort to reduce costs to cities striving to meet the recent EPA regulations requiring that drinking water have lower arsenic levels. 
   "I believe that ensuring the safety, dependability and affordability of New Mexico's water supply is a high priority," Domenici said. 
   "However, I remain concerned about the EPA's intention to impose the new, lower arsenic standard for drinking water in 2006. Some of New Mexico's smaller communities simply do not have the capital to convert their systems in time. I will revive the legislation designed to ease the transition and financial burden," he said. 
   Domenici plans to reintroduce his Community Drinking Water Assistance Act (S.1432) and National Water Technology Program Act (S.2658) this year, to assist small communities and develop and disseminate new technologies to the public. 
   The Community Drinking Water Assistance Act would create a six-year, $1.9 billion grant program to assist disadvantaged communities, tribes and water associations in meeting the new arsenic drinking water standards set by the EPA. 
   "I am pleased this pilot test facility is up and running, and I'm looking forward to the information that will be gained from this Socorro plant and others planned in New Mexico, especially as the date for implementation of the new arsenic standard gets closer. 
   "The lower standard issued by the EPA will have a significant cost impact on many New Mexico communities," Domenici said. "I'm resolute in finding economical means of arsenic removal and ways to expand the water supply by treating and using lower quality water. We must make safe water attainable for all New Mexico's communities, so I will reintroduce my National Water Technology Program during this Congress. The arsenic treatment demonstrations in Socorro are clearly a successful example of how this larger program should work in the future." 
   Domenici intends to reintroduce his National Water Technology Program legislation this year. It is designed not only to develop but to test and move new technology into public use in order to generate new water resources.
 
 