SEN. DOMENICI: LAS VEGAS TO GET FEDERAL HELP TO DRILL NEW WATER WELL TO EASE SHORTAGES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the Bureau of Reclamation has reached a second agreement to provide emergency funding to drill a new water well to help ease the water supply problems being experienced by the city of Las Vegas.  
   The Bureau has reached a contract agreement with Rodgers and Company Inc. in Albuquerque to drill a new water well to serve Las Vegas. It is estimated that the work will cost an estimated $1.3 million.
   Domenici said the city of Las Vegas has funded the design, specifications and permits for the well. Drilling of the well, monitoring and records will be funded through the Bureau's Drought Emergency Assistance Program. Work on the Las Vegas well project is expected to begin in late July.
   "Las Vegas leaders are struggling to ensure that the city can provide water, a basic necessity, to its residents. This emergency help from the Bureau should help. I am pleased the Bureau and the city have expedited their interaction so that this project can move forward," Domenici said. "Restrictive water conservation rules will probably remain in place, but this well is intended to give the city new access to water supplies."
   This is the second such contract reached to help drought-stricken New Mexico communities. The Bureau on July 3 signed a contract with the Stewart Brothers Drilling Co. of Milan to drill a water well for the city of Ruidoso Downs, in Lincoln County.
   The funding for the Las Vegas and Ruidoso Downs projects derive from $9.0 million gained by Domenici as part of the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, which became law in mid-June. As part of this action, Domenici gained a five-year reauthorization of the Drought Emergency Assistance Program. Authorization lapsed last September.
   This federal program is designed to allow the Bureau to help states, tribes and some nonprofit organizations find ways to minimize the losses and damages associated with severe drought situations. It provides on-the-ground relief for states including well drilling, temporary water distribution, contingency planning, and water banking, and conservation.
   Since the emergency funding bill was signed June 16, Domenici has been working with mayors in Las Vegas, Ruidoso Downs, Ruidoso, Capitan, and Cloudcroft to coordinate application for the drought aid. These communities are facing water shortages and have imposed water use restrictions on residents. In addition, the Senator has worked with the Bureau and the New Mexico Office of the State Engineer to ensure that reviews and permit processes are streamlined.
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee which has funding jurisdiction over the Bureau of Reclamation. As an appropriator, Domenici has also supported FY2007 funding to help farmers and ranchers survive the ongoing severe drought. This includes $17 million for the USDA Emergency Conservation Program.
 
 