SEN. DOMENICI FOCUSES ON BOSQUE RESTORATION, AGRICULTURE WATER SAVINGS IN SOCORRO COUNTY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said projects being undertaken in Socorro County to preserve the Rio Grande bosque and to increase agriculture water efficiency are examples of work that must be done throughout New Mexico. 
   Domenici on Friday travelled to Socorro to take part in two meetings to highlight conservancy and water savings activities being carried out in the region by the Save Our Bosque Task Force and the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District (MRGCD).  
   At the city's Otero Street Riverine Park, Domenici took part in the official opening of a new handicapped accessible path through the bosque, the latest achievement in a 13-year local effort to save the cottonwood bosque in the region. Domenici, who spearheaded federal efforts to save the Rio Grande bosque in the early 1990s, also met with the MRGCD board to be briefed on irrigation efficiency projects and other work to improve operations. 
   "The Save Our Bosque Task Force is a good example of a successful locally-driven effort to protect an ecosystem and make it an asset for a community. It has taken a lot of work and commendable cooperation among local, state and federal parties, but the result has been great," Domenici said. "The model followed here could be replicated in other areas as a means to improve the environment." 
   Formed in 1994, the Task Force includes local citizens, landowners, and various local, state and federal land management agencies and local governments. It completed its first project, the Socorro Nature Area, in 1995, and has since carried out bosque restoration, trails and signage projects, and salt cedar control. 
   Funding for the group's work has come from a variety of sources, including the Fish and Wildlife Service's Middle Rio Grande Bosque Initiative, which Domenici has funded since its inception in 1994 as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   MRGCD representatives reported on its work to modernize, including concrete lining of irrigation ditches, more efficient gates at San Acacia Dam, and improved water operations within the district that require less water to be diverted from the Rio Grande. This work has been supported, in part, through federal Water 2025 secured by Domenici. 
   "The MRGCD, and those it represents, understands that it can and must do better in terms of water savings and efficiency. The pressure on the Rio Grande will only increase as our state continues to grow. More efficient irrigation is one factor, as is ensuring the health of the bosque and river system," Domenici said. "The District is making progress and I want to help them do more." 
   MRGCD activities are supported by funding provided by the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, on which Domenici is the ranking member. 
   In late June, Domenici helped gain committee-level passage of the FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, which has $750,000 he included in Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) funding for the MRGCD to continue modernization activities, including more efficient irrigation practices. The bill also has $600,000 for the Salt Cedar and Russian Olive Demonstration Program that Domenici successfully secured authorization for in late 2006. 
   The MRGCD is also involved in aspects of the BOR Middle Rio Grande Project, which is funded at more than $39.5 million in the Senate bill. Within this amount, $16.27 million is for the Middle Rio Grande Collaborative Program, a substantial increase over the FY2006 funding level. Another $1 million is provided to continue development of off-channel sanctuaries for the endangered silvery minnow, including one on MRGCD property. The bill provides $4 million in Army Corps funding to continue restoration of the middle Rio Grande bosque. 
   The Senate measure also includes $800,000 in Army Corps of Engineers funding for the Rio Grande Floodway project (San Acacia to Bosque Del Apache).
 
 