SEN. DOMENICI ANNOUNCES HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT TO PROTECT CRITICAL FACILITIES IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is providing $189,000 through the Buffer Zone Protection Program (BZPP) grants to protect critical infrastructure in New Mexico against potential terrorist threats. 
   The DHS funds can be used to purchase equipment to secure areas around critical infrastructures such as sensitive facilities, dams or plants. Specific areas to be targeted for protection are not disclosed for security reasons.
   "There are facilities around New Mexico that could be susceptible to terrorism. We are gaining a better understanding of how the disruption of any critical infrastructure could have a domino effect on other basic services. These funds are necessary to build-up the security around these areas and keep our state safer," Domenici said.
   Federal, state and local jurisdictions of government, law enforcement and the private sector are encouraged to collectively submit Buffer Zone Plans (BZPs) and equipment purchasing plans to DHS's Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP). The ODP will approve plans based on prepared financial and programmatic review, working with state homeland security offices.
   Domenici serves on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee which designates funding limits for DHS programs including the BZPP grant programs.
   Related to protecting critical infrastructures, Domenici has been a staunch supporter of the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC), a joint Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories project based at Kirtland Air Force Base. NISAC studies the link between infrastructure assets (for example the electrical grid, telecommunications, energy and transportation networks) and how best to protect them. As part of the FY2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, Domenici secured $25 million for NISAC, which is $9.0 million above the budget request.
 
 