SEN. DOMENICI APPLAUDS EPA-TAOS ARSENIC REMOVAL PROJECT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the formation of a joint collaboration between the city of Taos and the Environmental Protection Agency to conduct a demonstration program into affordable technologies to remove arsenic from drinking water.  
   The EPA Tuesday named Taos as one of 30 volunteer sites around the nation to take part in an extensive national program to find more cost-effective ways for small cities and towns to meet strict new arsenic water standards that go into effect in 2006. The EPA will now work with Taos to select a technology to be used and evaluated in a full-scale arsenic removal demonstration project for drinking water. 
   "I am very concerned about the 2006 implementation deadline and the very real possibility that few, if any, of our communities will be able to comply with the new standards. At least with programs like this one being launched in Taos, we may get a better grasp on what technologies are out there that might be suitable and affordable," Domenici said. 
   "I hope the findings from these programs will be remarkable. The simple fact is that most of the systems that will not comply will be rural communities that simply do not have the financial resources to dramatically and quickly reconfigure their systems to meet the new standard," he said. 
   The EPA last year announced that it would implement similar demonstration programs in Anthony and at the Namb? Pueblo. In 2006, the EPA will begin imposing its new 10 parts per billion (ppb) arsenic water standards, a level sharply lower than the current 50ppb standard. 
   Domenici, who has been critical of the EPA's move to impose the stricter arsenic standards without sufficient resources to help rural water systems meet compliance costs, welcomed news that another New Mexico community would be used to find more affordable ways to meet the new criteria. 
   It will cost between $370 and $440 million to make New Mexico water systems compliant with the new EPA arsenic standards using existing technologies, and another $18 million per year to maintain the new equipment. 
   Domenici serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funded this EPA demonstration program at $11.7 million for FY2004. As chairman of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, he has also funded arsenic removal research done at the Sandia National Laboratories. 
   Domenici continues to push for Senate consideration of his Community Drinking Water Assistance Act (S.1432) that would authorize $1.9 billion annually for five years for grants to be awarded to disadvantaged communities with less than 200,000 in population. At least 20 percent of grant monies would be directed to towns with less than 50,000 people. The grants would require a 10 percent non-federal cost share. 
   The bill would also assist larger cities that have naturally-occurring arsenic in groundwater by allowing grants to be awarded to: Bernalillo and Sandoval counties, N.M.; El Paso County, Texas; Mesquite and Washoe counties, Nev.; and Scottsdale, Ariz.
 
 