SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES BILL TO PROTECT UNIQUE 'SNOWY RIVER PASSAGE' AT FT. STANTON CAVE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation to provide federal protection to one of the most unique cave formations ever discovered in New Mexico - the Snowy River Passage within the Fort Stanton Cave in Lincoln County. 
   The Fort Stanton-Snowy River National Cave Conservation Area Act would provide permanent protection to the Snowy River passage and secure it for future research and educational purposes. In creating a conservation area for the passage, the Domenici legislation would authorize the Bureau of Land Management to develop a map and legal description of Fort Stanton Cave, and to develop a comprehensive, long-term management plan for the cave area. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, announced the discovery of the Snowy River Passage at an Albuquerque news conference last Tuesday. Mapped at more than two miles long, the Snowy River Passage may be the longest continuous calcite formation in the world. (See http://domenici.senate.gov or http://www.doi.gov for more information and photographs.)
   "The Snowy River Passage may be one of the most significant speleological finds ever. This legislation would see that it is protected for suitable scientific and educational opportunities associated with this magnificent discovery," Domenici said. "There is so much potential for us to learn from this passage, and I hope this legislation will clear the way for us to protect it, study it and find the best means of sharing it on a broader basis." 
   U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman, ranking Democrat on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, is an original cosponsor to the bill. 
   "The discovery of the Snowy River passage is a truly exciting find for our state. The right thing to do now is to ensure there is a conservation plan for the cave area. I look forward to working with Senator Domenici to pass legislation that will do just that," Bingaman said. 
   The bill will create a Fort Stanton-Snowy River National Cave Conservation Area to protect, secure and conserve the natural and unique features of Fort Stanton Cave and the Snowy River passage, including the more than two-mile-long continuous calcite formation. The bill directs BLM to prepare a map and legal description of Fort Stanton Cave, and to develop a comprehensive, long-term management plan for the cave area. 
   The bill would: 
   * Conserve the unique features of the cave for scientific and educational purposes, as well as other public purposes that are deemed safe and appropriate pursuant to a BLM management plan; 
   * Allow the BLM to work with colleges, universities, and scientific institutions to better understand the significance of this discovery; 
   * Protect the caves from mineral leasing and mining operations; and 
   * Protect existing surface uses at Fort Stanton, including recreational opportunities. The conservation area designation would not affect private land owners in the area. 
   The continued scientific research and discoveries in the cave may yield valuable information on the hydrology, geology and microbiology in the region. For instance, investigations of the Snowy River formation may provide information on past water chemistry, weather trends, and flood and drought cycles.
 
 