SEN. DOMENICI SAYS HOUSE FISCAL 2008 PLAN TO UNDERFUND NEW MEXICO LABS 'STUNNINGLY PUNITIVE'
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he is stunned by the drastic funding cuts recommended for the national laboratories in New Mexico, particularly for Los Alamos National Laboratory which is taking the brunt of the cuts in a bill being crafted in the House of Representatives. 
   The House Appropriations Committee today approved its version of the FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, and with it recommended significant funding cuts that could negatively impact both LANL and Sandia National Laboratories. Meanwhile, overall funding for other DOE national labs, including Livermore, Idaho and Oak Ridge, is increased.  
   "I am surprised by the extent to which the House Appropriations Committee has gone out of its way to single out Los Alamos, and to some extent Sandia. The House bill is stunningly punitive in its treatment of Los Alamos. This bill would be devastating for Los Alamos, surrounding communities and New Mexico overall," said Domenici, who is the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds DOE and the national laboratories. 
   "I am disappointed in this approach and know that it will make our job harder to get an acceptable Energy and Water bill to the president this year. I will, of course, continue my practice of working on a Senate funding bill that serves the nation's national defense mission and our labs well. The House plan would cripple that defense mission and leave our nuclear deterrent vulnerable. It is simply unacceptable," he said. "I am also disappointed that the committee rejected modest funding increases for two science facilities including the Z Machine at Sandia and the LANSCE facility at Los Alamos." 
   The Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee is expected to markup its FY2008 appropriations bill during the last week of June. 
   Domenici indicated that he will engage the New Mexico congressional delegation to mount a strong defense of the national laboratories. 
   A $117.9 million cut to the Readiness in Technical Base and Facilities (RTBF), which funds lab operations and pays for salaries, would severely impact Sandia and LANL operations. 
   The House bill calls for a $600 million cut to the DOE weapons program, which would hit LANL and Sandia. The bill eliminates all funding for the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement (CMR-R) project at LANL (-$95.5 million), recommends a nearly 50 percent cut for pit manufacturing (-$131.2 million), and cuts the Nuclear Material Safeguard and Security Upgrade--Phase II (-$50.0 million). 
   The following is a brief review of some of the New Mexico-related funding cuts recommended by the House Appropriations Subcommittee: 
   * CMR-R - The Committee cut all funding, $95.5 million, for this new facility, which would be the only facility able to support the pit mission. The CMR-R would replace an existing facility that will not be operational beyond 2010. 
   * Pit Manufacturing - The Committee recommends a $131.2 million cut, a 48 percent reduction, to the pit mission, which is solely supported by LANL. 
   * Nuclear Material Safeguard and Security Upgrade-Phase II - The committee recommends a $50 million cut to this program to implement security upgrades required to meet the Design Basis Threat around the key nuclear facilities that contain special nuclear material. 
   * Advanced Scientific Computing - The committee approved a $50 million cut, which would block funding needed to support the Roadrunner High Performance Computer acquisition for LANL.
 
 