SEN. DOMENICI APPLAUDS FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING CENTER-ARTESIA EFFORTS TO TRAIN BORDER PATROL AGENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed President Bush to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Artesia, where the Senator lauded the hard work being done to train prospective border patrol agents as quickly as possible. 
   Domenici spearheaded efforts to open FLETC-Artesia in 1989, when the former Artesia Christian College vacated the campus. Over the years, the Senator has used his position as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee to create a top notch training center for federal law enforcement. The Center is home to the Border Patrol Academy, which trains every border patrol agent.
   "Almost two decades after it opened, I'm prouder than ever of FLETC-Artesia. FLETC responded to the call after 9/11 by training pilots and air marshals. Now, it has stepped up once again by hosting the Border Patrol Academy at a time when our nation needs to get serious about enforcing our borders," said Domenici, a member of the Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee.
   Domenici praised efforts to expand the Border Patrol force from 9,000 to 12,000 agents during President Bush's Administration, and has been a vocal advocate of increased funding for border patrol agents through the appropriations process. President Bush has called for a total of 18,000 border patrol agents to be deployed by the end of his term in 2008.
   "Securing the border is the first and most important step toward reforming immigration. We've begun beefing up the infrastructure on the border, and FLETC-Artesia is training newly hired agents as fast as possible. In fact, this facility will train as many as 3000 new agents a year for the next few years as we build up our force. I will work in the Senate to continue strong support for programs to hire more agents and deploy the best and most effective technology as quickly as possible," Domenici said.
   As a result of the increased demands on FLETC-Artesia, Domenici has requested $23 million for construction projects in the FY2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. Among his requests are $12 million to complete construction of a new 600-person dormitory, $10 million for a firearms multi-use complex, and $1 million for a detention operations training center.
 
 