SEN. DOMENICI MEETS ARMY CORPS NOMINEE, DISCUSSES N.M. PROJECTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici met today with Lieutenant General Robert L. Van Antwerp, the new nominee to head the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, to discuss Corps priorities around the country and projects like levee management and bosque restoration in New Mexico.  
   Domenici and Van Antwerp discussed, among other things, the continued integration of the Army Corps with numerous activities in New Mexico. Domenici is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Army Corps. The Corps is the federal agency responsible for several critical activities along the Rio Grande, including bosque restoration, wildfire rehabilitation, and flood protection. 
   "The Army Corps of Engineers has essential responsibilities along the middle Rio Grande related to flood control, environmental restoration, the management of endangered species, and aiding in the recovery of devastating fires," said Domenici. "This meeting was a prime opportunity to discuss these topics with General Van Antwerp and impress upon him New Mexico's need in these areas. I hope the Senate will soon act to confirm him." 
   Domenici has been critical of the administrations FY2008 budget request which eliminates Corps funding for projects Domenici has championed for years, including the Rio Grande Bosque Restoration project, Rio Grande Flood Protection project, Bosque Wildfire Rehabilitation, and the Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Collaborative program. 
   Domenici is also a champion for the Corps engagement with communities in New Mexico under the Section 593 and 595 programs, which support water and wastewater treatment plants across the state. Additionally, he has strongly advocated for the Corps to develop working partnerships with Pueblos and Tribes in New Mexico. 
   "I know we face a difficult budget situation, and I am committed to working with General Van Antwerp to justify continued funding for these flood control and bosque preservation programs," Domenici said. "Bosque restoration cannot happen without the involvement of the Corps. Because of this, I invited General Van Antwerp to visit New Mexico, upon his successful nomination, so that he can assess the situation on his own. He can then better understand what a vital role the Corps must play in successfully undertaking restoration along the Middle Rio Grande Bosque." 
   Last week, Domenici introduced legislation authorizing FY2008 funds to begin carrying out projects and activities related to Bosque and Rio Grande restoration, many of which involve the Army Corps of Engineers. The coordinated projects would focus primarily on the region between the Rio Bravo and Paseo del Norte bridges in Albuquerque. Domenici's legislation would authorize $10 million beginning in FY2008 to begin executing these efforts. 
   Domenici has advocated for a multi-pronged approach to bosque restoration. In 1991, he launched his Rio Grande Bosque Initiative to save the bosque habitat between Cochiti and Elephant Butte and has consistently secured annual funding for the Middle Rio Grande Endangered Species Collaborative Program, a unique multi-agency effort to continue work on the bosque.
 
 