N.M. LAWMAKERS SEEK SIX-MONTH WAIT FOR GAO INVESTIGATION OF LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LAB
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Rep. Tom Udall today formally asked for a six-month delay in initiating a federal investigation of Los Alamos National Laboratory operations in order to allow the lab's new management team to make more progress in implementing new operating and security procedures.  
   The New Mexico lawmakers, joined by Senator Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), issued the request to Representatives John Dingell (D-Mich.) and Joe Barton (R-Texas), who last month requested a Government Accountability Office investigation of LANL. Dingell and Barton are the chairman and ranking member, respectively, of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. 
   The lawmakers argue that a six-month wait would give the new contractor, Los Alamos National Security, LLC (LANS), more opportunity to implement operation and security reforms that it set in motion to correct pre-existing problems. LANS began operations at LANL in June 2006 following 60-years of management under the University of California. 
   "We believe a six month delay will provide a better baseline on which we can judge the progress that has actually been made in improving the operation of the laboratory. Like you, we are interested in seeing significant and verifiable improvements in the area of safety and security," the letter to Dingell and Barton said. 
   "This new team is working to integrate new operational practices, accelerate the consolidation of their classified holdings and increase the level of security to reduce the potential for the theft or diversion of classified material. Nevertheless, these reforms will take time and the new managers should be given the opportunity to implement the needed reforms and support the defense mission they have been charged with," the letter said. 
   "It is our sincere hope that you will support our request for a six month delay in the initiation of the GAO investigation you requested on February 16, 2007 to allow the laboratory to focus on making the reforms they were hired to implement, before the GAO passes judgment," it said. 
   Dorgan and Domenici are chairman and ranking member, respectively, of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds DOE and the national laboratories. Bingaman is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. LANL is within Udall's congressional district.
 
 