SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. DOMENICI'S BILL TO HELP MENTALLY ILL OFFENDERS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today reported committee passage of legislation he introduced that would provide improved treatment for criminal offenders suffering from mental illness.  
   The Senate Judiciary Committee today approved the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2007 (S.2304), which was introduced by Domenici late last year and cosponsored by Senators Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Arlen Specter (R-Pa.). The bill is now ready for consideration by the full Senate. A similar measure in the House of Representatives was approved in January. 
   "Mental health courts work and this is a vehicle for providing broader support for these programs. Too often, law enforcement and communities are ill-prepared to address individuals with mental illness when they enter the criminal justice system, let alone treat them. We need to provide resources so that those with mental illnesses are not just simply incarcerated without addressing the underlying cause of their problem," Domenici said. 
   "Our bill will give local entities resources to work cooperatively to better address mentally ill offenders. I am pleased the committee has acted favorably on this bill and look forward to Senate consideration this year," he said. 
   "Individuals and their loved ones struggle with countless challenges and barriers during a mental health crisis," Kennedy said. "Too often, the current system fails to meet constitutional safeguards, or fails to dedicate resources effectively so that people will get help instead of jail time. With this bill, Congress will authorize significant support for cooperative efforts between law enforcement and mental health experts." 
   The Domenici legislation provides for the reauthorization of both the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction grant program and the Mental Health Courts Program and calls for a new grant program to help law enforcement deal with persons with mental illness. Additionally, it calls for funding for a study regarding the rate of mentally ill offenders in the justice system. 
   The bill authorizes $75 million in grants to address the needs of mentally ill individuals in the justice system. These grants will help state and local governments create or expand mental health courts, treatment and training programs to help address the needs of mentally ill offenders and reduce repeat offenses. It also authorizes an additional $10 million for law enforcement training grants to teach law enforcement how to recognize and react to situations involving mentally ill persons. 
   Last year, Domenici successfully secured nearly $188,000 for the Santa Fe Mental Health Court as part of the FY2008 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. Domenici visited the specialty court last summer, which utilizes a separate docket and judicial supervision to discipline individuals with mental illness who have committed offenses. He has also secured funding in the past to support a similar court in Bernalillo County.
 
 