SEN. DOMENICI WARNS OF IMPENDING ENERGY WORKFORCE SHORTAGE
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today warned that the energy industry is facing impending workforce shortages that must be addressed. 
   In an Energy Committee hearing to discuss energy sector workforce issues, Domenici noted that nearly 500,000 employees who work in the energy industry are expected to retire over the next five to ten years--a staggering figure that represents half of the current workforce.
   "A turnover rate of nearly 50 percent in the energy industry could have a devastating impact on our economy. In order to meet increasing demands, we need to be adding workers, not subtracting them. Workforce shortages could cause significant delays in the delivery of energy, including oil and gas. I'm glad that our committee is receiving testimony from a number of experts today so that we can raise awareness and find out what we need to do to address this problem," Domenici said.
   Domenici also pointed out that workforce shortages are not just a domestic problem, which means that the U.S. can't simply import workers. For instance, the Senator said that analysts predict that over the next five years, the Arab Gulf region will need an extra 700,000 engineers, contractors and construction workers. Already, Canadian companies are recruiting workers from as far away as Mexico and China to join the labor pool.
   "While this is clearly a worldwide problem, I'm pleased that we have passed the America COMPETES Act, which should help us interest more students in science and technology. The key to meeting these challenges over the long term is through education and development of our young people," Domenici said.
   Among those that testified at the hearing were: Ms. Emily DeRocco , U.S. Department of Labor, Ms. Patricia Hoffman , U.S. Department of Energy, Ms. Andra Cornelius , Workforce Florida, Mr. Norm Szydlowski , Colonial Pipeline, Mr. Paul Bowers, Southern Company, Dr. Ray Stults, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Ms. Carol Berrigan , Nuclear Energy Institute, and Mr. Jim Hunter , International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.
 
 