SEN. DOMENICI PRESSES PENTAGON ON EYE INJURIES SUSTAINED BY U.S. MILITARY IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today signed a bipartisan letter asking the Defense Department to provide more comprehensive information on eye injuries suffered by military personnel serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, signed the letter with Senators John Kerry (D-Mass.), Barack Obama (D-Ill.) and Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.). The letter was sent to Assistant Defense Secretary for Health Affairs, Dr. S. Ward Casscells. 
   The letter was prompted because of a lack of comprehensive eye injury data and questions about the accuracy of current available information. According to the President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors, 48 cases of blinded service members have been reported, while other estimates show that the total number of vision-related complications exceeds 1,000-especially when vision impairment resulting from Traumatic Brain Injuries (TBIs) is considered.
   "It is important that we fully understand the extent to which eye injuries are being experienced by our men and women in uniform. Only then can we ensure that we are providing the necessary resources to help address the needs of our veterans," said Domenici, who earlier this introduced the Veterans' Mental Health Outreach and Access Act (S.38).
   "The best military medicine in the world is saving lives on the battlefield, but an antiquated health care system is failing our soldiers when they come home with complex eye and brain injuries, which are the hallmark wounds of this war," Kerry said. "Perfecting the science to treat these wounds means nothing without the planning and resources to get care to our soldiers at home. The military and veterans healthcare system must be capable of diagnosing, treating and providing rehabilitative services for those that need it most."
   "The very least we owe our men and women in uniform is the best health care we can provide," said Obama. "Whether these heroes are suffering from eye injuries or traumatic brain injuries that can lead to vision impairment, we have a commitment to provide them with the highest quality medical care both in combat and once they return home. The fact is, the story of eye injuries in this war has gone largely untold. To fully care for our veterans, we need to have a comprehensive understanding of the number of veterans affected, and I hope we receive this information from the Pentagon in a timely and efficient way."
   In the letter, the Senators ask the Pentagon to provide the total number of eye injuries sustained in combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan; an estimate of the total number of eye injuries sustained that did not result in a medical evacuation; the number of cases of TBIs that also contained a diagnosis of a vision impairment; the number of eye injuries that required surgery in military medical facilities; and the number of blinded service members referred for either outpatient or inpatient Department of Veterans Affairs Blind Rehabilitative Services or private agency rehabilitation.
   "In our continuing efforts to provide the best available care for our wounded warriors, it is imperative that we have an accurate system of accounting for these eye injuries. If we do not understand the magnitude of the problem, it is impossible to properly plan for and invest in adequate treatment," the Senators wrote Casscells.
   The Senate Veterans Affairs Committee recently considered S.38, a bipartisan measure introduced by Domenici and Obama in May. The bill would authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to develop and implement a comprehensive national program to increase the availability of mental health support so that veterans affected by combat-related mental health problems do not go without the care they need.
 
 