SEN. DOMENICI VISITS MIOX CORP., VIEWS PROGRESS OF WATER PURIFICATION TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today visited Albuquerque's MIOX Corp. to tour their new facility, and receive an update on cutting edge water purification projects he funded. 
   MIOX develops water-purification systems that have been utilized on Navy aircraft carriers, at U.S. Forest Service camp sites, and by U.S. soldiers. Over the past two years, Domenici has secured federal funding for further development of the company's products to provide soldiers with individual purification systems while they are in the field.
   "MIOX is an excellent Albuquerque company that is breaking new ground when it comes to water purification technology. I was pleased to tour the MIOX facility and learn more about their products," said Domenici.
   "Finding ways to provide clean water to difficult areas is an ever-present necessity, both on and off the battlefield. I have worked hard to secure the federal funds for MIOX to continue developing their products which have already been proven useful in a variety of environments," he said.
   As a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Committee, Domenici secured $2.275 million for MIOX to provide the military with portable purification systems during FY2007. That follows $4 million the Senator obtained last year.
   Domenici has been a long time supporter of the company, having worked to facilitate the use of its products with the U.S. Forest Service and for those suffering from Hurricane Mitch in Nicaragua in 1998.
   MIOX was founded in 1995 and specializes in manufacturing water treatment products for the disinfection of municipal and industrial water supplies. It has more than 700 systems operating in over 20 countries and is now branching out into consumer and military products, including hand-held ADisinfection Pens@ which were shipped to Marines in Afghanistan.
   MIOX installations are used in municipal drinking water and wastewater systems. Industrial applications include swimming pools, cooling towers, food industry (meat and poultry processing) and water processing for manufacturing plants.
   Technology for water purification that led to the MIOX product was developed by Los Alamos Technical Associates in 1994. The origins of this project are linked to the Technology Transfer Act that Domenici pushed through Congress in the late 1980s.
 
 