NEW MEXICO SENATORS VOICE OPPOSITION TO DAIRY AMENDMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici, joined by Sen. Jeff Bingaman, today encouraged Senate leaders to oppose any effort to tack a $2.4 billion dairy amendment onto a homeland security spending measure.  
   In a letter sent to Senate Appropriations Committee leaders, the Senators voiced their opposition to any effort to extend the controversial USDA Milk Income Loss Contact (MILC) program to the FY2005 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill-which Congress is expected to finalize and approve before recessing later this week. 
   The Senate Appropriations Committee, over Domenici's ardent opposition, has already agreed to add the extension to a spending bill for the Veterans' Affairs Department, accepting an amendment to extend the MILC program through 2007 and increase milk subsidies for primarily smaller dairy operations in Northeast and Midwest. Supporters are now looking for other legislative vehicles for gaining the extension since Congress will not finish the veterans' spending bill until after the fall elections. 
   "It is our understanding that an attempt to add this provision to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill is currently being explored. We respectfully request that you oppose this amendment as well as any attempt to include it as part of an appropriations bill," said a Domenici letter signed by Bingaman and Senators Diane Feinstein (D-Calif.), Larry Craig and Michael Crapo (both R-Idaho), and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas). 
   The letter was delivered Wednesday to Senate Appropriations Chairman Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), ranking member Robert Byrd (D-W.V.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "Only 50 percent of the country's milk qualifies for payments under MILC, leaving the other half at a substantial disadvantage. This program penalizes the entrepreneurship of our nation's large dairy farmers by limiting their ability to compete on a level playing field," the letter said. "This is a very contentious amendment that was added at the last minute without a single hearing being held to discuss the potentially detrimental effects that may be experienced if it is agreed to. Furthermore, extension of the MILC program should be done during reauthorization of the Farm Bill." 
   The Congressional Budget Office has indicated that the MILC extension will cost $2.4 billion. The program is set to expire in September 2005. The program has been consistently opposed by Domenici and Bingaman since it was created in the 2002 Farm Bill. Only 8 percent of the milk produced in New Mexico is eligible for MILC subsidies. 
   "The MILC program has never been fair for our dairy operations in New Mexico. The program favors a certain subset of dairies that are not as efficient as those in our state. It amounts to advocating an unlevel playing field. It is just wrong to try to rush this unfair and expensive program through Congress," Domenici said. 
   "I led the opposition to the dairy subsidy in 2002 and I continue to oppose it. New Mexico's dairies are some of the most efficient milk producers in the nation and they should be free to compete without this unnecessary subsidy program that mostly benefits producers in the Midwest and Northeast," Bingaman said. 
   New Mexico is the seventh largest dairy producing state in the nation, behind California, Wisconsin, New York, Pennsylvania, Idaho, and Minnesota. The dairy industry in New Mexico directly employs more than 8,000 workers, with the leading dairy producing counties being Chaves, Curry, Roosevelt, Do?a Ana, Lea and Eddy. There is also significant production in Bernalillo, Socorro and Valencia counties. 
   There are about 350,000 dairy cows in the state. In addition, the gross income from dairy farming in New Mexico this year will approximate $3,500 per cow or about $1.25 billion in milk sales. This does not include additional income from the sale of heifers, bull calves, or cull cows.
 
 