SENATE PASSES INTELLIGENCE REFORM BILL, ACCEPTS SEN. DOMENICI'S AMENDMENT ON BORDER SURVEILLANCE
  Just prior to overwhelming passage of legislation to reform the nation's intelligence operations, the Senate accepted an amendment authored by U.S. Senator Pete Domenici to dramatically improve border security and surveillance capabilities of the Southwest Border through greater use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). 
   Domenici's amendment is one of three he added to the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 (S.2845). This massive reform bill to enact recommendations of the 9/11 Commission was passed by Senate Wednesday on a 96-2 vote.  
   "The intelligence failures associated with the 9/11 terrorist attacks and subsequent threat-monitoring shortcomings make these reforms necessary. I think this is a good bill that may need some refinement. But it clearly gets to the heart of what our intelligence community needs-a strong coordinator who has the authority to both write and execute intelligence budgets," Domenici said. "Nothing is more important than the security of our country, and in this era of asymmetric warfare, intelligence is the underpinning of all our efforts to better assure the safety of Americans at home and abroad." 
   Domenici's border protection amendment gives the Secretary of Homeland Security six months to develop a comprehensive plan for the systematic surveillance of the Southwest Border by remotely piloted aircraft. 
   The amendment requires the Department of Homeland Security to develop a plan for a pilot program to more fully monitor the U.S.-Mexico border with an unmanned aerial vehicle network to reduce the threat of infiltration by terrorists and other criminal activities. The amendment states the missions the plan should consider, including stopping the illegal movement of people, weapons and contraband across the border, and collecting intelligence against smugglers and criminal networks. 
   "Our border patrol and customs agents do an outstanding job with the resources they have. But given the size of the border that needs protecting and the myriad of threats an open border poses, the job is just too big," Domenici said. 
   "We have the technology to build this kind of system. In fact, the Predator B UAV has proven itself to be a dependable system for these kinds of surveillance and reconnaissance missions. The capabilities of a thorough UAV system would not only add significantly to a more secure border, it could also provide important information for our overall intelligence effort," Domenici said. 
   The report is to include recommendations for establishing command and control centers, operations sites, infrastructure and procurement, as well as an outline detailing the short and long-term aircraft and personnel requirements to carry out the UAV border mission. 
   Domenici, as a member of the Senate appropriations subcommittees that fund the Defense and Homeland Security departments, has long supported a UAV system at the Las Cruces International Airport. 
   Within the FY2005 Defense Appropriations Bill that became law in August, Domenici secured $4.9 million to continue support and development of an UAV Systems and Operations Validation Facility in Las Cruces. The USOVF, developed by the New Mexico State University Sciences Laboratory, is intended to provide the Defense Department with a unique short and long-range UAV operations capability to support testing of UAV platforms and systems in civil airspace. Domenici secured $4.9 million for the UAV project in New Mexico in FY2004. 
   The two other Domenici amendments accepted during debate of the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 would: 
   * Give the National Intelligence Director the authority to establish separate intelligence centers for nuclear, chemical and biological threats; and, 
   * Assign a formal role the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC) in Albuquerque. The NISAC amendment was cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman.
 
 