FRESH FROM TOUR OF ENERGY SITES ON GULF COAST, SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN ASSESS NATIONWIDE IMPACT OF STORMS
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today warned that the entire nation will continue to be affected by the hurricane damage inflicted on the Gulf Coast, and cited their intention to push for solutions to ease energy supply disruptions and accompanying high prices.  
   Domenici and Bingaman, with Senator Daniel Akaka of Hawaii, returned Wednesday evening following a three-day trip to review damage inflicted by recent hurricanes on energy infrastructure along the Gulf Coast. 
   Today the New Mexico lawmakers, who are the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, conducted a hearing with energy and environmental representatives to assess recovery work on damaged oil and natural gas production facilities, pipeline operations, marine transportation, electric utility assets and emergency response infrastructure. 
   "Katrina and Rita did not just hit the Gulf Coast region. These storms impacted our entire energy chain in all regions of the country. The ripple effects of the hurricanes are affecting so many parts of our economy," Domenici said. "We will all suffer as work is done to restore the coastal region. I fear it will not be a quick fix. We must have realistic expectations about how long we should expect high prices and we need to prepare for potential shortages." 
   "Seeing firsthand the devastation these hurricanes did to our energy system along the Gulf Coast made it perfectly clear to me that there are enormous problems to overcome," Bingaman said. "Today's hearing allowed us to begin to identify what we can do to help industry repair its infrastructure and restore supplies. I believe there are steps that the federal government can and should take to help with recovery and rebuilding efforts, and I hope we can act on them in the very near future." 
   Today's hearing focused on the current status of oil and gas production, refining and delivery in the Gulf of Mexico in the wake of the hurricanes. Testimony also covered short-term and long-term energy production and delivery recovery efforts, including oil and gas production restarts, refinery outages and anticipated restarts, pipeline operations and restoration of electricity to affected areas in Texas and Louisiana. 
   Lawmakers and hearing witnesses all noted that consumers will continue to feel the immediate impact on energy supply limitations, with natural gas prices Wednesday reaching a new record of $14.224 MMBtu. Due to refinery shut-downs, gasoline prices remain above pre-Katrina levels at a national average of $2.94 a gallon, according to AAA. 
   The status of oil and gas production in the Gulf region is changing daily. On Wednesday, the Minerals Management Service (MMS) reported that oil and gas production in the Gulf remains shut-in at volumes equivalent to 24 percent and 13 percent of total U.S. oil and natural gas production, respectively. 
   While in the Gulf, the Senators toured an ExxonMobil oil refinery near Baton Rouge and the Colonial Pipeline, which were both affected by Hurricane Katrina. They also visited downtown New Orleans, including the 17th Street Canal, 9th Ward, and Hydrogen Plant. In addition, Domenici visited the Entergy electric power plant in Baton Rouge.
 
 