CLOVIS CHEESE PLANT OPENING IS MILESTONE FOR DAIRY INDUSTRY IN NEW MEXICO, SAYS SEN. DOMENICI
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined the Clovis community in celebrating the opening of one of the largest cheese production plants in the nation, giving New Mexico's fast-growing dairy industry two large cheese production facilities. 
   Domenici praised the cooperative effort that went into making the Southwest Cheese LLC plant a reality, from the joint private-sector partnership to the local, state and federal government investment to support construction of the $200 million plant that directly employs more than 200 workers.
   "This plant is truly a modern marvel and demonstrates what can be accomplished when the entrepreneurship of dairy farmers combines with innovative corporate thinking. The opening of this massive plant culminates a decade-long effort to develop the dairy industry in New Mexico and diversify the workforce," Domenici said. "Direct employment and the support network associated with this plant will have a lasting and beneficial impact on our economy."
   "The cooperative effort taken at all levels to solidify the dairy industry in our state has been a continual but great success, and I'm proud to have been able to play a role in paving the way for the Southwest Cheese plant to call Curry County home," he said.
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee, secured more than $2.3 million in 2004 to support Curry County transportation infrastructure upgrades to support construction and operation of the plant. This federal transportation funding was designated for the construction the roadway from Highway 70 to the plant, as well as acceleration lanes on Highway 70 itself to allow for trucks to safely enter and exit the highway.
   The cheese plant is a joint venture between Glanbia Foods, Dairy Farmers of America, and Select Milk Producers. The Curry County cheese plant gives New Mexico two of the largest cheese production facilities in the nation. Luprino Foods operates America's largest mozzarella production plant in Roswell.
   "We now have two great plants in eastern New Mexico to stand as anchors to a vibrant and growing part of our state's economy. I am committed to seeing the dairy industry continue to expand," Domenici said.
   The estimated 170 dairies in New Mexico have the largest herd sizes in the nation, and since 1990 milk production has increased 400 percent. Ranking seventh nationally in milk production, milk sales have a $2.7 billion economic impact on the state. The Southwest Cheese plant is expected to use 6.5 million pounds of milk from local dairies on a daily basis.
   Domenici is currently promoting bipartisan legislation (S.3681) related to dairy operations that would clarify a federal environmental laws to ensure that industrial standards are not wrongly applied to dairy and livestock operations. It would spell out that livestock emissions-already regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency through the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and other laws-may not be classified as industrial pollutants under CERCLA (the Superfund law) and the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act.
 
 