SEN. DOMENICI PLEASED WITH LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY-IBM PARTNERSHIP TO BUILD POWERHOUSE SUPERCOMPUTER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed news that IBM has been awarded a contract to partner with Los Alamos National Laboratory to build what will eventually be the world's fastest computing supercomputer, starting with construction of a new "Roadrunner" supercomputer.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, provided $35 million in FY2006 funding to begin a three-phase program that could culminate in the creation of a supercomputer that is able to run at a sustained performance level of 1 petaflop, or a billion million computations per second. LANL, through the National Nuclear Security Administration, today announced that IBM has been selected through a competitive bid to build a new supercomputer and collaborate on the petaflop project. 
   "It's time to restore LANL to the forefront of computing technology. Together with IBM, the lab will undertake an exciting goal of creating the world's fastest supercomputer. This project will begin with creation of the Roadrunner supercomputer at LANL, which will be able to run calculations that are ten times as detailed as any existing computer. From there, the lab and our state will be in a position to construct the petaflop using new accelerator technology" Domenici said. 
   "More than ever, it is important that we develop the world's best technology here at home. Through the NNSA's stockpile stewardship campaign, NNSA labs have pioneered the high speed computer architecture that operates on the world's fastest computers. The national laboratories like LANL have led the way in computing and should be challenged to take the next step and breakthrough the petaflop barrier," he continued. 
   Roadrunner is based on Linux platform and is named for the state bird of New Mexico. While the computer will greatly increase capabilities at LANL, the purpose for development is also to challenge LANL and the NNSA complex to develop the world's fastest computers. 
   "Building a petaflop computer capable of a million billion calculations is am ambitious and complicated undertaking, but I have confidence in the top-notch scientists at Los Alamos, especially now that they are teamed with IBM," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that the Roadrunner should also facilitate the deployment of other high speed machines within DOE to solve complex scientific challenges considered as part of the President's American Competitiveness Initiative and the Global Nuclear Energy Partnership as part of the Advanced Energy Initiative.
 
 