SEN. DOMENICI: COLLAPSE OF BORDER SECURITY-IMMIGRATION BILL DENIES NEW MEXICO NEEDED PROTECTION, BENEFITS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today called the collapse of the Senate debate on comprehensive border security and immigration reform legislation "tragic" and an outcome that will deny New Mexico-and the nation-the protection and benefits the plan would have provided. 
   Domenici, who serves on Senate panels overseeing homeland security policy and funding, voted with the Senate again Friday to continue debate and allow votes on amendments to S.2454, the Securing America's Border Act that included immigration reform. When that effort failed, he voted to support the underlying border security only legislation. That too was stymied, and the Senate leadership shelved the reform effort for now.
   "We have a crisis on our borders and the status quo is not acceptable. The collapse of this effort is tragic and caused by a single fact: the Democratic refusal to allow votes on amendments, including a number of them important and very much wanted by New Mexicans," Domenici said.
   "As it stands now, we won't see any needed comprehensive border security improvements in our states. Our law enforcement won't get any new and sustained help. We won't be adding any new federal judges in New Mexico to take on the immigration cases that are overwhelming our courts. We will not, as I proposed, be able to better cooperate with Mexico on border security, immigration and crime. Because of the Democratic leadership we didn't even have a chance to debate or vote on those items. I couldn't be more disappointed," Domenici said.
   Domenici entered the Senate debate clearly stating his belief that a two-pronged approach was needed-that the borders be made more secure and that Congress realistically establish a policy for dealing with undocumented workers in the United States. He authored two bills dealing with border security (S.2049) and immigration reform (S.2326).
   Democratic floor maneuvers this week prohibited any agreement to act on amendments including five authored by Domenici that were based on his earlier legislation. Among these was:
   * A $585 million border infrastructure improvement plan-the first since the 1986 DeConcini-Domenici plan;
   * A bid to add 250 Deputy U.S. Marshals over five years; and,
   * Authorization to add nine permanent and two temporary federal judgeships for Southwest Border states-including one permanent and one temporary for New Mexico.
   "We should have been able to consider these amendments," Domenici said. "For instance, we desperately need new federal judges assigned to the Southwest to handle our immigration caseload. I've heard from several judges in the District of New Mexico on this issue, including the Chief Judge, and judges on the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals. The refusal to allow the Senate to debate and vote on meeting this need is wholly irresponsible."
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, said he will continue to use that position to improve border enforcement in New Mexico. For FY2007, Domenici has already requested funding for new Customs Service inspectors, Border Patrol aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles for the New Mexico border region.
 
 