SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEXICO SETTING RIGHT EXAMPLE FOR DEVELOPMENT OF EMERGING ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources committee, today said that a secure energy future for America depends on developing new energy technologies.  
   Domenici's comments came as the Energy Committee held a field hearing in Albuquerque to receive testimony about ways to reduce barriers to growth of emerging energy technologies. In a statement submitted for the hearing record, the Senator sent a strong message of support and noted that New Mexico is leading the way in public-private partnerships to develop technology. 
   "I'm glad that the committee is once again focusing on the need to develop energy technology. New Mexico is the perfect place to hold a hearing on this topic, and Mayor Chavez has helped make Albuquerque a welcoming place for such businesses. We have tremendous depth of talent and entrepreneurship that we can tap into to build new companies and create new jobs based on advanced energy technologies," said Domenici, whose advocacy of technology transfer from the national laboratories over the past two decades has spurred broader cooperative work on issues like advanced energy technologies. 
   "There is no question that our nation faces huge challenges when it comes to energy. We must find ways to become less reliant on traditional sources of energy, particularly when they come from overseas. I have faith in America's scientists and leaders to develop new technology. Federal, state and local governments can play a role by working with innovative companies on our common goal of bringing advanced energy technologies out of the laboratory and into the marketplace," he continued. 
   Domenici has long been an advocate for an increased emphasis on public-private partnerships to bring technologies to market. The Senator was the chief Senate author of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and played a leading role in passing the America COMPETES Act, both of which if fully enacted should boost research and development of emerging energy technologies. 
   Domenici has also been calling for a strong federal loan guarantee program, which would help companies gain financing to build new technologies. Last week, the Senator gained a commitment from the White House Office of Management and Budget to operate a robust program that matches his vision as set forth in the 2005 Energy Bill.
 
 