SEN. DOMENICI TRIES TO HEAD OFF POTENTIAL CLOSURE OF VERY LONG BASELINE ARRAY IN NEW MEXICO
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said a tentative budget proposal that would result in the closure of the Very Long Baseline Array in Socorro County makes little sense in light of congressional efforts to double National Science Foundation (NSF) funding in the near future.  
   Domenici issued a letter to NSF Director Arden Bement that was sharply critical of preliminary budget instructions for FY2009 that would severely constrain budgets for the National Astronomy Radio Observatories (NRAO), which oversees the operation of U.S. radio astronomy facilities like the VLBA and Very Large Array. 
   Under guidelines submitted by NSF for approval by the White House Office of Management and Budget, the NRAO would be forced to implement personnel layoffs in FY2008 and close the VLBA and Green Bank Telescope in West Virginia in 2010. 
   "It has recently come to my attention that the National Science Foundation (NSF) continues to push forward to constrain the operations of its astronomy facilities with guidance that most certainly anticipates the closure of some of our world-class U.S. radio astronomy facilities," Domenici wrote Bement. "It makes no sense to me that the agency would proceed with an internal budgeting exercise that risks future U.S. leadership in radio astronomy, and moreover the closure of at least two of our premier U.S. facilities, at a time when the future looks very bright for NSF." 
   "To keep its competitive edge globally, and to continue to innovate in science and technology, the U.S. needs its world-class facilities, such as the VLA and the VLBA," continued Domenici. "Without exception, both facilities carry out cutting edge research in radio astronomy that is not duplicated elsewhere in the world." 
   Domenici, who serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the NSF, pointed out to Bement that the America COMPETES Act (HR.2272/S.761) that President Bush is expected to sign into law this week includes a provision to more than double NSF funding over the next five to 10 years. 
   Domenici asked to meet with Bement to discuss the NSF and NRAO budget outlook. 
   The Senate Appropriations Committee, on which Domenici serves, has approved the FY2008 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill that increases funding for NSF next year, providing $6.55 billion. This funding level is $125 million over the budget request and $636 million above the FY2007 funding level. The bill fully funds the President's American Competitiveness Initiative, and increases the NSF budget by more than seven percent. 
   Related to the VLA and VLBA, $52.74 million in NSF funding within the Senate bill would go to the NRAO. The bill contains funding to continue the development and construction of the Atacama Millimeter Array (ALMA) astronomy facility in Chile. The VLA at Socorro is involved in this new project.
 
 