SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL REQUIRING REPORTS ON WAIT TIMES AT BORDER CROSSINGS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, has cosponsored legislation to require reports on the wait times experienced by commercial and passenger vehicles at New Mexico's border crossings.  
   Domenici is an original cosponsor of the Border Wait Times Act, legislation introduced Thursday by Texas Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison to more closely monitor and address long wait times at U.S. ports of entry. New Mexico has border crossings at Santa Teresa, Columbus and Antelope Wells, and is also affected by the major crossing at El Paso. 
   "We expect to see steady growth in the use of New Mexico border crossings as both southern Do?a Ana County and Luna County continue to grow." Domenici said. "This bill asks federal agencies to look at the time it typically takes to cross the border and provide us with information that can be used to improve the efficiency of these crossings." 
   The bill will require the federal Department of Transportation and Department of Commerce to analyze traffic patterns at U.S. ports of entry on the borders with Mexico and Canada from 2000 to the present. Subsequent reports to Congress would include assessments on the efficiency of traffic movement through border crossings and the economic impact of delays at these border facilities. 
   The bill directs the secretaries of Transportation and Commerce to consult with the Department of Homeland Security during their reviews and in making their reports to Congress. 
   The new Hutchison legislation fits with Domenici's ongoing efforts to improve border crossings, particularly on the Southwest Border. In September, the DHS Customs and Border Protection began an extended hours pilot program at the Santa Teresa port of entry, a move advocated by Domenici. 
   Domenici and Senator Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.) continue to push for Congress to implement a new comprehensive assessment of border crossing infrastructure on U.S. borders with Mexico and Canada and to develop a comprehensive plan to systematically improve border crossings. Such provisions are included in the Senate's FY2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. 
   The last comprehensive border improvement effort was in 1986, with a $237 million border improvement plan sponsored by Domenici and former Arizona Senator Dennis DeConcini.
 
 