ON ANNIVERSARY OF ATTACK, SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES NEW MEXICANS WHO SERVED AT PEARL HARBOR
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today encouraged New Mexicans to remember the 66th anniversary of events at Pearl Harbor, and honor those who served, including Roswell veteran John Anderson. 
   In a statement submitted to the Congressional Record to commemorate Pearl Harbor Day, Domenici honored former long-time KBIM-TV weatherman John Anderson for his valiant efforts to save fellow service members on the USS Arizona during the attack on Pearl Harbor. John's twin brother, Jake, who also served on the USS Arizona, was killed during the day's attack.  
   "Pearl Harbor will always hold a prominent place in the history of the United States, not only for the destruction that triggered our entry into World War II, but as a shining example of American heroism and courage in the face of adversity," said Domenici. "I would like to thank John for his brave service and would like to personally honor all the New Mexicans like Jake Anderson who fought and lost their lives that day." 
   Following his efforts at Pearl Harbor, Anderson was awarded with the Presidential Unit Citation for liberation. He served 35 years in the Navy, married his wife Karolyn, and had three sons, and was also a familiar face in the Roswell area for many years as the weatherman for KBIM-TV. His experience was included in a new History Channel documentary set to air in the future (http://www.metacafe.com/watch/937854/john_anderson_pearl_harbor_survivor/). 
   Domenici's statement also paid tribute to the Navajo Code Talkers, who transmitted messages in the Navajo language that the enemy was unable to decipher, as well as members of the New Mexico Brigade who suffered during the Bataan Death March. 
   The following remarks were printed in their entirety in the Congressional Record: 
   Mr. President. I would like to speak for a moment in remembrance of the 66th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor and pay tribute to all the Americans who lost their lives that day. 
   On December 7, 1941 our nation was brutally attacked at Pearl Harbor, and over 2,400 Americans were killed. Though surprised and overwhelmed by wave after wave of Japanese planes, the members of our armed forces valiantly defended their ships, the naval base and the surrounding army air fields. 
   I believe Pearl Harbor will all always hold a prominent place in the history of the United States, not only for the destruction that day which triggered our entry into the Second World War, but as a shining example of American heroism and courage in the face of adversity. I know Americans will never forget the American servicemen and women who were at Pearl Harbor 66 years ago today. 
   One of those servicemen was John Anderson of Roswell, New Mexico. John had only recently been assigned to the USS Arizona along with his twin brother Jake when the Japanese attacked on December 7th. Though burned himself, John worked to recue other survivors from the badly damaged and sinking Arizona until the small boat he and other servicemen were using to pull drowning men from the water of the harbor was also sunk. Terribly, 1,177 sailors from the Arizona, including John's brother Jake, did not survive. 
   John went on to serve 35 years in the Navy, marry his wife, Karolyn, have three sons and later become the long time weatherman for KBIM -TV in Roswell. I would like to thank John for his brave service and would like to personally honor all the New Mexicans like Jake Anderson who fought and lost their lives that day. 
   Pearl Harbor, of course, was just the beginning of several long years of war during which millions of Americans would answer the call of duty. I would like to take this opportunity to mention the service and sacrifice of two such groups of individuals. 
   One of these groups is the Navajo Code Talkers, many of whom were from my home state. The Code Talkers were Marines who used their native language to quickly transmit messages across the battlefields of the Pacific Theater and served in every Marine division from 1942 to the end of the war. Though the Japanese were able to break many American codes during the war, they were never able to decipher the system used by the Code Talkers. Their contribution to victory cannot be underestimated. There is no doubt that their efforts saved countless American lives, and it has even been said that without the Code Talkers the battle of Iwo Jima could not have been won. 
   I would also like to talk about the Solders of the 200th and 515th Coastal Artillery units of the New Mexico National Guard, also known as the New Mexico Brigade, who soon after the attack on Pearl Harbor played a prominent and heroic role in the fierce fighting in the Philippines. For four months the men of the New Mexico Brigade helped hold off the Japanese only to be defeated by disease, starvation and a lack of ammunition. Sadly, the Survivors of the Battle of Bataan from the New Mexico Brigade were subjected to the horrors and atrocities of the 65 mile "Death March," as well as years of hardship and forced labor in Japanese prisoner of war camps. Tragically, of the 1800 men of the New Mexico Brigade more than 900 never returned home. 
   In closing, I hope New Mexicans will take a moment to honor the individuals who fought so gallantly 66 years ago today as well as all those who served throughout the Second World War, and remember those who paid the ultimate price for our nation.
 
 