SENATE APPROVES OJITO WILDERNESS BILL, OTHER NM LANDS BILLS, SENDS PACKAGE TO HOUSE
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today announced that a package of bills that passed the Senate today contains a measure that would create a new wilderness area on Bureau of Land Management Land in Sandoval County.  
   The House of Representatives has yet to act on the package, which also contains a measure that would resolve outstanding mineral interests related to the Valles Caldera National Preserve, another that creates a heritage area in Northern New Mexico, and a third that reduces the potash royalty from 2 percent to 1 percent. If the package of bills passes, it can be sent to the president for signature. 
   If it doesn't pass this year, the senators are confident all the bills that benefit New Mexico are on track to pass early next year. 
   The proposal to designate the 11,000-acre site just south of San Ysidro -- known as Ojito -- as a wilderness area was first put forth by then-Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr. in 1991. The Ojito Wilderness Act, introduced last year in both the U.S. Senate and the House of Representatives, recognizes that the area's dramatic landforms and rock structures, multicolored badlands, and rare plants are worthy of permanent protection. 
   "I'm glad we were able to get Senate support for the creation of this new wilderness area. I hope House leaders will allow a vote on this measure before Congress adjourns this week so that we can get it to the president's desk soon," Bingaman said. "But if the House doesn't act this year, we will waste no time in trying to move the bill as soon as Congress comes back in January." 
   "I'm very pleased that we were able to pass this bill out of the Senate. This bill will protect the natural resources associated with the Ojito wilderness, while also making clear that the federal government does not have a right to usurp state water rights. The standard that we are setting on this matter will benefit New Mexico and the West. I'm hopeful that the House of Representatives will also pass this bill, but if that body is unable to do so, rest assured it will be a priority of mine when Congress returns for the 109th session," Domenici said. 
   The Ojito Wilderness Act also would add protections to lands buffering the proposed Ojito Wilderness that are largely surrounded by the Pueblo of Zia. The Pueblo will be allowed to purchase these lands for public open space, so long as they remain open to the public for continued recreational, scenic, scientific, educational, paleontological, and conservation uses, and so long as their natural characteristics are preserved. In doing so, the Pueblo will be able to unite the two separate parts of its Reservation with aboriginal lands that have important religious, cultural, and historical value to the Pueblo. 
   The package of bills that passed today also contains the following two bills, both of which passed the Senate earlier this year. 
   ** Valles Caldera Preservation Act of 2003 (S.1582): This legislation, introduced by Domenici and cosponsored by Bingaman, among other things directs the Secretary of Agriculture to negotiate a price for buying the remaining geothermal interests at the Valles Caldera Preserve. If negotiations are unsuccessful, the matter would be directed to federal court for resolution. The Department of Agriculture would use available funds to acquire the mineral interests, unless the court sets a higher price, in which case the difference would be paid from the judgment fund. 
   "Resolving these geothermal interests is important for the long-range future of the Valles Caldera. This legislation is intended to prompt all the parties to work diligently to reach a suitable settlement," Domenici said. 
   "This bill establishes the guidelines for resolving the outstanding mineral rights ownership issue," Bingaman said. 
   ** Northern Rio Grande National Heritage Area (S. 211) This legislation, introduced by Bingaman and cosponsored by Domenici, would highlight the region's cultural heritage and boost tourism. Specifically the bill designates the counties of Santa Fe, Taos and Rio Arriba as a National Heritage Area - which opens the door for federal funds to protect and maintain culturally and historically significant lands and properties through strictly voluntary activities. The National Heritage Area designation does not involve any new acquisitions of federal land. 
   "Creating a heritage area would be a great way to showcase Northern New Mexico's rich cultural tradition," Bingaman said. "The Senate has cleared this bill in the past. It's my hope that the House of Representatives will act quickly on this measure so it can be signed into law." 
   "The north central corridor of New Mexico is a great place to explore. It features remarkable natural beauty and diverse cultures. I'm glad that the Senate has given final passage to this legislation, which will recognize the northern Rio Grande area through conservation and tourism while protecting private property owners," said Domenici. 
   Finally, the package contains legislation that would reduce the amount of royalties to be paid to the federal government on potash from 2 percent to 1 percent over the next five year - a move that would benefit the potash mines of Eddy County.
 
 