SEN. DOMENICI WANTS ARMY CORPS FUNDS DIRECTED TOWARD GILA RIVER BASIN STUDY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today endorsed a New Mexico Interstate Stream Commission (NMISC) and Army Corps of Engineers New Mexico District Office effort to direct funds for water resources analysis of the Gila River Basin.  
   The New Mexico based agencies are asking the Army Corps of Engineers in Washington to direct some of the $4.5 million appropriated for water resources studies in last year's Energy and Water Appropriations Bill to the Upper Gila River area. Domenici is chairman of the Senate's Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee which drafted the bill and has funding jurisdiction over the Army Corps of Engineers. 
   NMISC and the Army Corps NM office have submitted a Proposal for Characterization of the Upper Gila Watershed, which would direct funds for hydrological modeling, land use, and species analysis in the Gila River basin. Domenici sent a letter to John Paul Woodley, Assistant Secretary of the Army, supporting the effort. 
   "When I set aside funds for water resource projects in the last year's Energy and Water bill, this is exactly the kind of project I had in mind. Implementing the Arizona Water Settlements Act in New Mexico will require a better understanding of the Gila River Basin. I applaud the Interstate Stream Commission and the Army Corps' New Mexico Office for their initiative in requesting these funds, and I urge the Army Corps to seriously consider their requests," Domenici said. 
   The Arizona Water Settlement will provide New Mexico with an annual entitlement of 14,000 acre feet of water and provides much greater certainty in the supply. The bill also guarantees New Mexico at least $66 million to address future water supply needs and potentially as much as $128 million if new infrastructure is needed. 
   The law also holds interest for northwest New Mexico because the Navajo Nation is a Colorado River water user, and water could be used in Arizona as part of the Navajo-Gallup pipeline project that is currently in the feasibility study phase. 
   Domenici is the author of the New Mexico Water Assistance Planning Act (S.178), which passed the Senate, and the Water Supply Technology Program Act (S.1860), which boosts research and development of technology to solve the water crisis.
 
 