SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES BUDGET FOCUS ON NONPROLIFERATION, RECOMMENDED 15 PERCENT INCREASE
  Sen. Pete Domenici, a leading congressional advocate for controlling materials and weapons of mass destruction, today praised President Bush's budget proposal to greatly increase funding for U.S. nonproliferation activities.  
   President Bush today rolled out his FY2006 Budget requests, which included a proposal to provide $1.637 billion for the Department of Energy's Office of Nonproliferation. This funding level represents a 15 percent increase over current funding levels. 
   "I am very pleased that President Bush is making nonproliferation a priority in this budget. These programs are vital to our national and global security. Last year we enacted provisions giving the administration greater power to expand American nonproliferation activities around the world," Domenici said. 
   "This budget takes advantage of that authorization, and I hope Congress will heed these responsible budget requests," said Domenici, who chairs the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   Within the recommended funding for the Office of Nonproliferation, the budget seeks: $653 million (a 6.5 percent increase) for the plutonium disposition program; $272 million (a 21.5 percent increase) for nonproliferation research and development; $132 million (a 200 percent increase) for a program to decommission and dismantle Russian plutonium reactors; and a $59 million increase for the Megaports project to place radiation detectors in seaports around the world. 
   "These programs are specifically aimed at addressing the danger that hostile nations or terrorist groups might acquire weapons of mass destruction or weapon-usable material, technology or expertise," Domenici said. 
   As part of the FY2006 Defense Authorization Act, Domenici last year authored two major provisions to expand and accelerate U.S. nonproliferation programs. The first authorized an extensive array of programs - all with a global reach - to accelerate the removal or improve the security of fissile materials, radiological materials, and equipment. 
   The second allowed DOE to accept international payments and apply them directly toward the U.S.-led effort to shutdown Russia's remaining plutonium reactors in Seversk and Zheleznogorsk. Without the Domenici proposal, international contributions would go into a general fund without any assurances they would be put toward decommissioning costs, which have escalated from $460 million to $1.1 billion. 
   The Domenici amendments expanded the scope of a nonproliferation initiative he authored in the FY2003 Defense Authorization Act that built on existing programs and created new cooperative initiatives for the United States and Russia to control, protect and neutralize materials and weapons of mass destruction. It also reauthorized the First Responder training program to improve domestic preparedness. 
   The DOE national labs in New Mexico - Sandia and Los Alamos - are involved in U.S. nonproliferation programs. As such, both would see increased nonproliferation funding under the Bush budget plan.
 
 