SEN. DOMENICI VOTES FOR COMPROMISE SENATE ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today joined the Senate in passing a compromise economic stimulus package that will provide tax rebates to families, seniors and disabled veterans.  
   The Senate passed the Economic Growth Act (HR.5140) on an 81-16 vote. The bill now returns to the House of Representatives for consideration, and indications are that the House and White House will accept the Senate changes. 
   The compromise plan builds on a House-passed plan by ensuring tax rebates are allowed for seniors, disabled veterans and widows of disabled veterans--all of whom would not have received benefits under the original House plan. The Senate bill also includes provisions to exclude illegal immigrants from receiving tax rebates or a $300 per child bonus rebate. 
   "This is a compromise bill that I hope can be enacted soon so that this money can be sent to families and seniors as soon as possible. I believe a vast majority of New Mexican households will benefit from the package. Our intent is for them to use this money to ease their own financial burdens and at the same time invigorate the economy," Domenici said. 
   "I thought a somewhat larger package would have been better suited to countering recessionary indicators, but this is as good as we can offer right now," he said. 
   The Senate package adds $9.0 billion to allow seniors, disabled veterans and widows of disabled veterans to qualify for the rebate checks by counting Social Security benefits and VA disability payments towards the $3,000 earned income test. This benefit would help an estimated 20 million seniors and 250,000 disabled veterans. 
   The plan passed by the Senate continues to include provisions to help employers and the faltering U.S. housing market, including: 
   * Bonus Depreciation: A 50 percent bonus deduction on new equipment in the year it is placed in service, with certain exceptions for equipment with a "long life." 
   * Section 179 Expensing: Allow employers, including small businesses, to fully expense $250,000 in both new and used tangible property in the year it is purchased up to an overall investment limit of $750,000. 
   * Increase in Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSE)/Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Conforming Loan Limit: The conforming loan limits for both FHA and GSE (such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) loans would be increased from $362,000 to $725,000 and from $417,000 to $625,000 respectively.
 
 