SEN. DOMENICI PRODS ENERGY SECRETARY BODMAN TO ACCELERATE ENERGY LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM, SAYS FY08 BUDGET 'CAN DO BETTER' BY LABS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today strongly encouraged Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman to accelerate the implementation of a loan guarantee program that will spur greater private investment in alternative, nuclear and other energy sources.  
   Domenici is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that today conducted a hearing on the FY2008 budget proposal for the Department of Energy. The budget recommends $24.26 billion for DOE discretionary programs. The request represents an increase of $686.64 million, or roughly 3 percent, above the FY 2006 level, and is an increase of $705 million from the FY 2007 request. 
   The DOE Loan Guarantee Program came under bipartisan scrutiny, particularly due to what is viewed as insufficient administration support to implement the program that was authorized under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct). 
   "Implementing EPAct is the most significant near-term step we can take in strengthening our nation's energy security. This work is essential," Domenici said. 
   "I'm pleased this budget allows for $9 billion in loan guarantees for clean energy and innovative technologies. This is a step in the right direction, but a much bigger step is needed to make a real difference in the development of clean energy technologies. The fact is three or four times that amount could be used to help break through the old technologies and bring in new ways to give the country the energy it needs," he said. 
   FY2008 budget requests $8.4 million to operate a "Loan Guarantee Office" with a proposed loan volume limitation of $9 billion: "$4 billion for centralized power generation facilities, $4 billion for projects to promote biofuels and clean transportation fuels and $1 billion for projects using new technologies for electric facilities or renewable power generation systems." 
   "When Congress created this loan guarantee program in EPAct 2005, we envisioned a significantly more ambitious scope for the loan guarantees," Domenici said. "This program provides incentives for clean energy projects that are critical in the fight against pollution or global emissions of greenhouse gases. Implementation of this program at the scale envisioned in EPAct 2005 could be a significant step toward addressing the challenge of global climate change, with little or no cost to the federal treasury." 
   At the hearing, Domenici also noted that he intends to work with Bodman on improving the budget recommendation for the nuclear weapons laboratories, including Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories. Overall, weapons funding would drop by 6 percent at LANL and 8 percent at both Sandia and Lawrence Livermore national laboratories. 
   "I am troubled by the reduction in funding for NNSA's weapons program and all of our NNSA labs," Domenici told Bodman. "I have fought to integrate the nation's weapons labs and science infrastructure into a more cohesive research unit. I hope you will work with me to advance our capabilities in this area, because I believe we can do better than what this budget proposes."
 
 