SEN. DOMENICI DISCUSSES DO?A ANA LANDS PROPOSAL
  Sen. Pete Domenici on Monday discussed the proposed Do?a Ana County Lands Conservation and Development Act during his regular "Access" radio show with New Mexico broadcast journalists. The following is a review of his remarks:  
   "The proposal that has been shown is a draft of a proposed bill that would convert substantial acreage that is currently called Wilderness Study Area--WSA--Wilderness Study Areas. That means for about 15 years this acreage has been treated as if it were wilderness, but it isn't. 
   "It has been the desire of many, including within the BLM and me and others, that we decide whether it should be wilderness or not. So we have put together a bill with a substantial amount of WSA, Wilderness Study Area, being converted to wilderness. 
   "Second, around the Organ Mountains there is a desire to create some conservation areas. We do propose a substantial conservation area, and we're willing to discuss with people what that ought to be, and how much it should be and should it be changed from the draft. 
   "Now the third and one we should discuss most right now is a proposal that a very large piece of property that is not wilderness and not recreation and found on the BLM planning to be what is called surplus, meaning not needed for the ordinary uses of BLM. The question is what should we do with that? There is a statute that says when you have that kind of property, the United States government can sell it or trade it. And it was proposed, and in that draft, it was proposed that that land, which is about 65,000 acres, over time--and it could be a very long period of time--be sold at public bid for use as Las Cruces needs it for growth. 
   "Now, let's repeat. Some people are of the opinion that this proposal says dump, sell, get rid of all this land now. Not so. It says that land will remain surplus and made available over time, as needed, on a bid basis--no preference to anybody--for use as the city grows. We are going to have to come down there and meet with people and talk about that. That is certainly subject to discourse, dialogue, discussion. And we're going to do that. 
   "But overall, the federal government has to make some decisions about the future of the federal government's vast land resources as it pertains to Las Cruces' and Do?a Ana's future. We're trying to do that. Not trying to do it all alone either. We're working with other people--mayor, councilmen, citizens, hopefully, the county commission. Although I don't think in their resolution, which they passed, that they are indicating that they are opposed. They are just indicating a concern about this surplus property sale. And we're willing to talk about that."
 
 