SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES BILL TO PRESERVE RIO GRANDE BOSQUE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation to authorize a 10-year initiative to rehabilitate and restore the middle Rio Grande bosque in the Albuquerque area to a more sound ecosystem that is more open to the public.  
   Domenici, who has promoted bosque preservation since 1991, builds off previous legislation he authored to preserve the bosque within the increasingly cosmopolitan Albuquerque area. 
   The new bill (S.2254) would authorize $10 million in FY2007 to begin carrying out coordinated projects and activities related to substantial ecosystem restoration and preservation, as well as creating recreational facilities along the middle Rio Grande. 
   The Army Corps of Engineers is developing a preliminary bosque restoration plan for the Albuquerque area, focusing on the riparian region between the Rio Bravo and Paseo del Norte bridges. The plan is being developed in cooperation with the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District (MRGCD), which owns the property. 
   Beyond FY2007, the bill would authorize "such sums as are necessary" for the next nine years to conduct preservation and protection activities within the bosque. 
   "The bosque can, and should, be more of a natural asset for the Albuquerque area. A lot of good work has been done over the past 15 years, but much more should be done to protect the bosque and make it a place for New Mexicans to truly enjoy," Domenici said. "This bill represents a rare opportunity to help usher in a visionary project that can potentially transform communities, both of man and of nature." 
   "Despite its problems, the middle Rio Grande bosque remains one of the most biologically diverse ecosystems in the Southwest. My goal is to restore the Bosque and create a space that is open and attractive to the public," he said. 
   The Domenici bill would address the removal of dead and downed wood, non-native vegetation and undergrowth to protect the bosque from fires. It would encourage the restoration of native trees, shrubs, and grasses, in addition to reestablishing the hydrologic connection between the Rio Grande and the bosque that will ensure permanent, healthy growth and reproduction of native vegetation. 
   "Having grown up along the Rio Grande in Albuquerque, the bosque is something I treasure, and I lament the degradation that has occurred," Domenici said. "I commend the efforts of groups like the Bosque Coalition for the work they have done, and will continue to do, along the river. I propose to build on their efforts with this legislation." 
   Domenici last April gained Senate Environment and Public Works Committee approval to have similar legislation included in the reauthorization of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA, S.728). However, Domenici decided to introduce stand-alone legislation because of uncertainty as to whether the Senate will act on WRDA this year. 
   In 1991, Domenici launched his Rio Grande Bosque Initiative to save the bosque habitat between Cochiti and Elephant Butte. Domenici consistently secures annual funding for the bosque consortium, a unique multi-agency effort to continue work on the bosque.
 
 