REPS. PEARCE, WILSON, SEN. DOMENICI ENCOURAGE GOVERNOR TO KEEP PROMISE ON CAMP SIERRA BLANCA
  Reps. Steve Pearce (NM-02) and Heather Wilson (NM-01), with Sen. Pete Domenici (NM), today encouraged Governor Bill Richardson to stick to his promise to keep Camp Sierra Blanca (CSB) open as a rehabilitation program for delinquent boys.  
   The lawmakers addressed the future of CSB in a letter to Richardson, who last July announced in Lincoln County that the facility should remain open. But Children, Youth and Families Secretary Mary Dale Bolson is proceeding with plans that will ultimately close CSB for delinquent youth and convert the camp into a group foster home for neglected and abused boys and girls. Bolton has justified her efforts by claiming there are excessive vacant beds in State juvenile correctional facilities. 
   "We hope the Governor will oppose any efforts to close Camp Sierra Blanca as a resource for delinquent youth in New Mexico. Last summer, he made the promise to keep the camp open and we feel he should fulfill that promise," said Pearce, Wilson and Domenici. 
   The federal lawmakers noted that CSB has continually proven to be an incomparable option for enhancing juvenile delinquents' chances for success. CSB has a recidivism rate of only 10 percent, a GED graduation rate of 83 percent, and a college entry rate of 76 percent. These success rates compare favorably with many New Mexico high schools that do not deal with incarcerated teenagers. 
   "The logic of closing the most successful juvenile rehabilitation center in the State, when less successful facilities will continue to remain in use, is flawed," Pearce, Wilson and Domenici wrote Richardson. "We strongly believe a decision by the State to close its most effective juvenile delinquent program would be irresponsible and unwise." 
   Children, Youth and Families Department received $1,294,100 in U.S. Department of Justice grants in 2004 specifically for State and local juvenile delinquency programs. Additionally, the New Mexico Legislature appropriated funding to allow up to 50 children to be served at CSB at any given time, which has apparently not been utilized for that purpose. 
   The CYFD recently signed a contract with the Federal Bureau of Prisons to refer boys from the federal juvenile justice system to CSB. This could increase the number of occupied beds and bring additional federal dollars to the State.
 
 