SEN. DOMENICI WELCOMES CONTINUED U.S. JOB GROWTH, ENCOURAGES NEW MEXICO COMMUNITY COLLEGES TO APPLY FOR WORKFORCE TRAINING GRANTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today welcomed news that the U.S. economy continues to create new jobs, and encouraged New Mexico community colleges to consider applying for grants under a $125 million federal job training program. 
   The Bureau of Labor Statistics, an agency within the U.S. Department of Labor, today reported that 120,000 new non-agriculture jobs were created nationally in June. With these jobs, the U.S. economy has helped produce more than 1.85 million new positions over the past year, while unemployment rates held steady at 4.6 percent.
   "The economy continues to plug along nicely, as evidenced by the thousands of new jobs created in the past month. A lot of pundits like to be down in the mouth about the American economy, but the numbers indicate steady growth and a healthy economy," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Budget Committee.
   "More, of course, can be done to create jobs. Congress should maintain and expand on pro-growth policies, and at home I would encourage New Mexico's community colleges to look at tapping in the workforce training support offered through the Community-Based Job Training Grants program," he said.
   "The Department of Labor is now offering grants to community colleges that can help train workers needed for growing industries in a region. New Mexico's community college system is already doing workforce training, and these resources could help them expand on their efforts," he said.
   The Labor Department's Employment and Training Administration (ETA) will accept applications for FY2006 Community-Based Job Training Grants (CBJTG) through Aug. 29. It will distribute $125 million provided by Congress to promote demand-driven workforce training at community colleges. ETA anticipates awarding about 75 grants worth between $2.0 million to $500,000.
   Additional information about the CBJTG is available at:
   * http://www.doleta.gov/business/SGA-DFA_PY_05-11.cfm
   * http://a257.g.akamaitech.net/7/257/2422/01jan20061800/edocket.access.gpo.gov/2006/pdf/06-5951.pdf
 
 