SEN. DOMENICI VISITS TAOS HOMELESS TEEN PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today visited newly opened transitional apartments for homeless youth from northern New Mexico that were built in part with federal funds he obtained. 
   The Senator toured the new DreamTree Casitas, which provide a more independent living situation for homeless youth. The Casitas are operated the Dream Tree Project, based in Taos.
   In FY2004, Domenici obtained a $360,000 Economic Development Initiative (EDI) grant through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the project.
   "It is a sad reality that in our society there are young people who are homeless and not well cared for. The DreamTree Project has made it their mission to get these kids off the streets and able to build themselves a better life," Domenici said.
   "Federal funds are well invested in projects like this one. I'm pleased that DreamTree was able to use the HUD money to build these Casitas, which will allow more youths in need to benefit from the program. Also, through Taos County Youth Build and the Rocky Mountain Youth Corps, many area youths were able to help in the construction of these facilities and learn important job skills," he continued.
   Young people between the ages of 16-24 are eligible for the housing, and a minimum six-month commitment is required. The program is designed to provide them with skills and support that will enable them to live independently.
   The Casitas were designed to meet the U.S. Green Building Council's LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification. LEED certification requires rigorous environmental standards and efficient use of heating and energy. The Casitas will use harvested roof water for landscape irrigation and trombe walls for solar heat storage.
   In addition to providing apartment-style housing, DreamTree's Transitional Living Project provides life skill classes, educational support services, job coaching and career development and referrals for community resources.
 
 