SEN. DOMENICI HELPS BREAK GROUND FOR NEW HEADQUARTERS FOR LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY FOUNDATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today helped break ground on a new headquarters building for the Los Alamos National Laboratory Foundation, a group dedicated to providing resources and assistance to the region's educational and public service organizations. 
   The LANL Foundation will be constructing a new facility that will provide administrative space, as well as meeting areas, a computer training room, and a conference room that will be available for use by the public. The new building will be part of an office park environment that is being developed along Industrial Park Road.
   Since the foundation was established in 1997, Domenici used his position as chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee to secure more than $35 million for the Foundation.
   "When I worked to pass legislation creating the LANL Foundation, my goal was to create an endowment that would be the basis for enrichment funding for public schools in northern New Mexico. As it stands today, we have met that goal and then some. The LANL Foundation is able to provide millions for educational and community outreach every year. Having a new headquarters building in Espa?ola with facilities available for the community is another way to reach out," Domenici said.
   "If we want to continue to attract resources and top-notch personnel to Los Alamos, educational and community excellence must be a priority. The LANL Foundation's efforts to improve the school system and quality of life are an important part of the overall success of the lab itself because the lab and the region are interdependent," he continued.
   The LANL Foundation has established four giving programs, including $2 million annually for educational enrichment grants, $500,000 annually for educational outreach grants, $500,000 annually for community/non-profit outreach grants, and a LANL Employee scholarship fund. Their latest effort is a First Born program to improve wellness of newly expanding families.
 
 