SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON STALLED IMMIGRATION BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici late Thursday night issued the following statement regarding his repeated votes Thursday to allow the Senate to continue debating the Border Security and Immigration Reform Bill. 
   Senator Majority Leader Harry Reid late Thursday decided to withdraw the bill from further consideration following the failure of another vote to limit debate on the comprehensive measure.  
   Statement of Senator Pete V. Domenici Regarding Border Security and Immigration Reform 
   June 7, 2007 
   MR. DOMENICI: Mr. President, I rise today to discuss why I voted against cloture this morning on S.1348, the border security and immigration reform bill currently being debated by the Senate. 
   As a border state Senator, I know first-hand the need to secure our international borders because every day I hear from constituents who must deal with illegal entries into our country. We have a crisis on our borders and the status quo is not acceptable. I support many of the provisions in S.1348 because we must address this border crisis. However, I was forced to vote no on the motion to invoke cloture on S.1348 because Democrats are refusing to allow votes on amendments to the legislation on the Senate floor. 
   More than three hundred amendments have been filed to this bill. Only about ten percent of those amendments have been dealt with. Clearly the Senate, which is known for its deliberative nature, has not had an adequate opportunity to improve upon this bill on the floor. What's more, this bill did not go through the Committee process and so there was no opportunity to improve the bill there. 
   Mr. President, I was here in 1977 and 1978 when the Senate debated the Natural Gas Policy Act. That debate went on for weeks and hundreds of amendments were considered. There is no reason to avoid that process in this situation. The issues of border security and immigration are some of the most important issues facing America today, and those issues deserve full and fair debate. 
   The Democrats' refusal to allow votes on amendments means that my amendments, which are very important to New Mexico, the southwest border, and the nation, cannot be considered. Those amendments would have provided two more Federal judges in New Mexico to deal with immigration cases, ensured that small businesses have access to temporary workers they need, provided more personnel for Federal land agencies that must help secure Federal land on the international border, allowed New Mexico to reap the economic benefits of Mexican nationals coming legally to the United States for a short period of time for tourism and travel, called for Mexico's cooperation on border security and border crime, addressed the lack of law enforcement radio coverage on remote parts of the international border, strengthened and improved the Border Patrol Academy at Artesia, New Mexico, and called for coordination between the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense on aerial surveillance efforts along the border. 
   My amendments are based on needs that are imperative to border security, and many of them were suggested specifically by New Mexicans to help New Mexico. I would like to discuss a few of those amendments in more detail. 
   First, I have heard from many Federal judges from the District of New Mexico and the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals about the crisis New Mexico faces from an overloaded immigration docket. 71 percent of Federal criminal cases filed in New Mexico are immigration cases. This is the highest percentage of immigration cases anywhere in the United States, and New Mexico needs more judges to handle that caseload. 
   Unfortunately, I was not allowed to address this crisis by offering an amendment to S. 1348 that would have provided New Mexico with two new Federal judges. 
   Second, I have heard from New Mexico small businesses about their need for temporary workers in the food processing, construction, oil and gas, and restaurant industries. These small businesses were concerned that they would not have access to the temporary workers they need under S. 1348 as it is written, so I offered an amendment to set-aside a number of temporary worker visas to only be used by small businesses. Unfortunately, I was not allowed to address New Mexico small businesses' needs. 
   Third, some of the land on New Mexico's international border is Federal land. The Bureau of Land Management, Forest Service, and Park Service are working with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to secure these lands, but these Federal land agencies need more personnel to work on these issues. I offered an amendment to provide this personnel, but that amendment has not been considered. 
   Fourth, remote parts of the New Mexico/Mexico border do not have radio coverage, which prevents DHS and law enforcement from communicating. I have filed an amendment that would enhance radio communications capabilities in these areas, but this amendment has not been considered. 
   Fifth, New Mexico is at an economic disadvantage over neighboring border states because there are no border towns in New Mexico that Mexican nationals can access when they legally enter the U.S. on a laser visa. This is because such nationals can only travel 25 miles into New Mexico. I have filed an amendment to expand the limit laser visa holders can travel into New Mexico so that laser visa holders can legally visit Las Cruces and other towns near the New Mexico/Mexico border. Unfortunately, this amendment, which would bring economic benefits to southern New Mexico, has not been considered. The refusal of Democrats to allow consideration of these and my other amendments is nothing short of irresponsible behavior towards the security of America and the needs of New Mexico, and I cannot support cloture on S.1348 without assurances that these measures will be considered. 
   Additionally, many of the provisions that I have supported in S.1348 have been amended to the point that the bill no longer has its initial impact. For example, the temporary worker program that is critical to so many industries in my State does not meet those industries' needs. Further, the bill as amended calls into question some laws and customs of my home State. Because of Democrats' refusal to consider important amendments to this bill, we will not see any of the comprehensive border security improvements that New Mexico and other border states desperately need, and I could not be more disappointed. 
   I support efforts to address border security and immigration reform legislation, and I applaud Senators Kyl, Kennedy, Specter, Salazar, Martinez, Graham, and others who have worked long and hard on this bill. However, I cannot support cloture on the bill at this time. I ask unanimous consent that my statement be printed in the RECORD.
 
 