SEN. DOMENICI VOTES FOR ENGLISH AS 'COMMON LANGUAGE' OF U.S.
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he supports English as the official language of the United States, but not to the extent of infringing on the constitutional rights of New Mexico's multilingual diversity. 
   Domenici late Wednesday evening voted for an amendment to the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act that would promote English as the "common language" of the United States. Domenici cosponsored the "common language" amendment, which was authored by Senator Ken Salazar (D-Colo.). (Passed 58-39)  
   "I fully support English as the official language of the United States, and have long promoted the notion that everyone in the United States should have a working knowledge of the English language. I voted for an amendment that would identify the United States as an English-speaking nation, but without infringing on multilingual states like New Mexico where the use of Spanish and native languages is common," Domenici said. "In addition, it is worth noting that under this reform bill, immigrants to the United States are required to learn English." 
   In supporting English as the nation's common language, Domenici voted against an amendment offered by Senator James Inhofe (R-Okla.) making English the "national language" of the United States and restricting individuals' ability to receive communications from the federal government or its employees in languages other than English. (Passed, 64-33) 
   "I could not support a proposal that would cast in doubt the laws and rights afforded to all of the citizens of New Mexico. The Inhofe amendment would chill and infringe on the rights of our diverse citizenship and would stand in direct contradiction to the state constitution of New Mexico. I believe the Inhofe amendment was overreaching," Domenici said. 
   In arguing for the Salazar amendment, Domenici cited the Spanish influence in New Mexico, including provisions written into the state's constitution. 
   The New Mexico state constitution guarantees certain rights of Spanish speakers, including the right to vote, hold office, and sit on juries. Specifically, the state constitution says "[t]he right of any citizen of the state to vote, hold office or sit upon juries, shall never be restricted, abridged or impaired on account of religion, race, language or color, or inability to speak, read or write the English or Spanish languages except as may be otherwise provided in this constitution. . ." 
   "The Spanish influence in New Mexico dates so far back that for the first twenty years of New Mexico's statehood, all laws passed by the state legislature were required to be printed in both English and Spanish," Domenici said. 
   "I am always interested to hear others discuss their family histories, some of which date back at least 200 years in this country. However, I think that there is a misconception that the adoption of a national language is strictly in response to illegal immigrants. That is not true. The declaration of a national language directly impacts the history, customs, and traditions of our American families. The family histories that can be heard throughout New Mexico date back over 400 years. These are not illegal immigrants. These are the first inhabitants of the land that is now called New Mexico," he said. 
   Domenici also pointed out that in 1911 as part of the statehood effort, the U.S. Supreme Court found that Congress could not place such language conditions on newly admitted states and forced Congress to remove English language mandates from the New Mexico Enabling Act.
 
 