SEN. DOMENICI: APLOMADO FALCON CHICKS SIGN NEW MEXICO REINTRODUTION PROGRAM WORKING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he is excited that new chicks hatched to endangered northern aplomado falcons released in New Mexico last summer are an indication that the reintroduction of this endangered species is proving to be a success.  
   The Fish and Wildlife Service today reported to Domenici that two chicks had been sired by some of the 11 falcons released on the private Armendaris Ranch in central New Mexico last August. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, has supported specific federal funds for aplomado falcon recovery work by the Peregrine Fund for more than a decade. 
   "I am very happy with news that aplomado falcon chicks have hatched in New Mexico. It took these endangered birds of prey less than a year to increase the falcon population in New Mexico. They hadn't nested in our state for the previous 50 years, so these chicks are an indication that reintroducing the falcons was the right thing to do," Domenici said. 
   "I commend the Fish and Wildlife Service, BLM, the state and private parties that have worked to ensure that the reintroduction program for the falcons is a success," he said. 
   The Fish and Wildlife Service reported that chicks are the product of a pair of one-year-old northern aplomado falcons released last August. It also indicated that additional falcons are scheduled for release in New Mexico this July on public lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management, New Mexico State lands, and White Sands Missile Range. 
   Domenici has encouraged the public to learn more about falcon recovery efforts. The first falcons released in New Mexico were part of a "non-essential experimental population" designated under a special provision of the Endangered Species Act. 
   The reintroduction initiative in New Mexico follows the Fish and Wildlife Service release of more than 1,000 falcon in national wildlife refuges and private lands in Texas. The northern aplomado falcon has been on the endangered species list since 1986. 
   * http://www.fws.gov/ifw2es/NewMexico/ 
   * http://www.peregrinefund.org/default.asp
 
 