SEN. DOMENICI, CALLING WALTER REED CONDITIONS OUTRAGEOUS, CALLS FOR GREATER ATTENTION TO BATTLEFIELD BRAIN INJURIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said the top-to-bottom review of medical and outpatient care offered to American servicemen and women wounded in battles in Iraq and Afghanistan must include greater attention to traumatic brain injuries and post-traumatic stress disorder.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee that today conducted a review of budget requests for Defense Department Medical Programs for FY2008. Attention to these programs intensified following the disclosure of poor conditions and treatment of wounded servicemen and women at outpatient facilities at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. 
   Domenici, who has been outraged by the Walter Reed situation, said he is encouraged by new administration and Pentagon reviews of all Defense Medical Programs and stressed the need for broader attention to brain injuries and mental disorders associated with combat duty. 
   "The Walter Reed outpatient situation is outrageous. Correcting the problem must go beyond the best intentions of the Defense Secretary and Army and Navy leadership. Our wounded service members deserve the best possible care," Domenici said. 
   Domenici, a longtime mental health advocate, said he wants more attention paid to the brain injuries sustained on the battlefield. He has asked the Surgeons General of the military services to report on what is being done to screen, identify and treat traumatic brain injury (TBI) and post-traumatic stress, including care offered to service members after they transfer from military care to Veterans' Affairs or civilian care. Domenici noted that some doctors are calling TBI the "signature injury" of the Iraq campaign. Body armor helps many soldiers survive bomb and rocket attacks, but they are suffering brain injury and brain damage as a result of the blasts. 
   "I am very worried about the number of our men and women who are suffering traumatic head and brain injuries on the battlefield," Domenici said. "Traumatic brain injury and post traumatic stress disorder are often times very difficult to identify and diagnose. These injuries may manifest themselves months after troops have returned home from battle or have recovered from other injuries. They can also be among the most difficult injuries to treat, frequently requiring months or years of rehabilitation and therapy."
 
 