SEN. DOMENICI: GAP BETWEEN FUNDING & COMMITMENTS MEANS ENVIRO CLEANUP DELAYS, ADDED COSTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said a steady decline in Department of Energy funding for environmental cleanup activities is adding billions of dollars to the bottom line cleanup at contaminated sites, including more than $660 million more at Los Alamos National Laboratory alone.  
   Domenici is ranking Republican on the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that Wednesday reviewed the FY2008 budget requests for the DOE Office of Environmental Management and Office of Civilian Nuclear Waste. These offices oversee environmental cleanup, as well as the administration of such programs as Yucca Mountain and the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant at Carlsbad. 
   "DOE has attempted to prioritize cleanups based on risk in order to fit within the budget constraints. But the facts paint a very different picture. The erosion of funding is undermining the department's existing cleanup obligations and will push back completion dates," Domenici said. "Secretary Bodman knows my frustration with the lack of funding consistency. DOE needs to set budget baselines that match our cleanup goals and then deliver on these commitments year after year." 
   The FY2008 budget request for DOE Environmental Management (EM) cleanup is $5.6 billion, which is nearly 25 percent lower than the $7.3 billion provided in FY2005. At the same time, DOE claims the life-cycle cost of cleanup costs has increased $50 billion over the $173 billion baseline set in 2005. Of that increase, LANL represents $664 million. 
   The FY2008 budget recommends $140 million for LANL EM activities, roughly equal to FY2007 funding levels, but less than what is needed at LANL, Domenici said. 
   "Cleanup at Los Alamos is a casualty of this reduction," Domenici said. "I am particularly concerned about what this means for Los Alamos. The budget requests to cleanup at the lab have been wildly inconsistent and put the lab in the untenable situation of being unable to meet cleanup milestones." 
   Two years ago, DOE entered into a Consent Agreement with the state of New Mexico to clean up the LANL site by 2015. At the current rate of funding, cleanup milestones will be missed and the clean up will be delayed by two years beyond the Consent Order's 2015 deadline. 
   Domenici asked James Rispoli, DOE Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management, to justify the budget requests that force DOE to miss milestones and incur fines and other penalties assessed by the state. 
   Domenici expressed skepticism with testimony that increased onsite efficiencies could get the LANL cleanup on an adequate timetable. 
   "Increased efficiencies are not the sole answer, and a $140 million request for FY2008 is unsustainable when we know that is far short of the $283 million to keep in compliance this year," Domenici said. 
   Domenici also released a table outlining the gap between cleanup funding and the five-year plan targets for cleanup at LANL.
 
 