SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS, ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, May 7, 2007. 
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Steve Shadley, KUNM Albuquerque
   * John McBreen, KYVA Gallup
   * Bill Dupuy - KSFR Santa Fe
   TOPICS: Natural Disasters and National Guard Equipment Shortage; Navajo Water Settlement; 75th Birthday; Prescription Drug Imports; Upcoming Senate Immigration Reform Debate; Iraq War Funding; Mexican Trucking in the United States; New President of France.
   REVIEW:
   00:19 Domenici discusses the problem of National Guard equipment shortages and the impact on domestic disaster responses. He talks about the devastating weekend tornado in Kansas.
   03:47 Domenici remains disappointed in the Bush administration's lack of attention to helping fund the Navajo water settlement and two other Indian water rights agreements in New Mexico. He reiterates his commitment to authorizing and funding the settlements, which could cost the federal government an estimated $1.1 billion.
   06:02 Domenici says he believes there will be Senate support to approve the New Mexico water settlements, but says it will take more time to find the resources to pay for the pacts.
   06:48 Domenici discusses his 75th birthday.
   07:30 Domenici explains his concern about the safety and reliability of prescription drugs that are imported into the United States. He discusses the Food and Drug Administration's ability to monitor imported drugs.
   10:32 Domenici reviews his recent meetings with administration officials and Senator Jon Kyl to discuss development of a comprehensive immigration reform bill. He says there are serious difficulties facing the passage of this legislation, including the contentious issue of how to treat almost 12 million undocumented immigrants in the United States. He says blanket deportation and automatic citizenship are not realistic options, and that a guest worker program could be a solution.
   15:48 Domenici predicts that President Bush and the Democratic leadership in Congress will eventually come to an agreement on how to fund war efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan and provide more time for General David Petraeus to try to improve the situation in Iraq. He acknowledges public dissatisfaction with the war, which he agrees has not gone well.
   17:57 Domenici believes more Americans, while disliking the war in Iraq, are beginning to understand that a rapid exit from Iraq is not ideal to United States interests.
   18:57 Domenici says any plan to allow Mexican trucks to travel more extensively within the United States must make safety the top priority. He says the Mexican government has a chance to work with the United States to implement safety inspections to see if this program will work.
   21:30 Domenici says that the election of Nicolas Sarkozy as president of France is perhaps an indication that the French are ready for a "reality check." He says he hope Sarkozy will improve relations with the United States, particularly since he is a friend to President Bush.
 
 