SEN. DOMENICI WELCOMES ALBUQUERQUE JOURNAL AS CHARACTER COUNTS 'COOL YULE' SPONSOR
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today welcomed the Albuquerque Journal to the coalition of local businesses that will produce the Character Counts "Cool Yule" holiday party on Dec. 8 for area youngsters. 
   The Journal joins the New Mexico National Guard, Panda Restaurants and Wal-Mart in the drive to collect new toys for 2007 "Cool Yule," which will treat youth to games, food, visits with Santa, and entertainment that includes Orbit of the Albuquerque Isotopes and Stanley the Scorpion.
   "The Albuquerque Journal is now a partner with some of the most caring group of civic leaders I know," Domenici said. "They are committed to giving 500 needy kids Christmas memories they will always treasure."
   The toy drive kicks off with festivities at 11:30 a.m., Wednesday, Nov. 21, at the Panda Express at Eubank and Montgomery. Youngsters from area schools will be the first in line to donate new toys so other children can have a merry holiday season. The toy drive runs Nov. 21 to Dec. 5 with collection boxes at all Albuquerque Panda Restaurants, the Wal-Mart at 400 Eubank NE, and the lobby of the Albuquerque Journal at 7777 Jefferson NE.
   The Cool Yule celebration is set for Dec. 8 with the National Guard teaming with Albuquerque Public Schools, Hinkle Family Fun Center, YMCA of Central New Mexico, The Boys and Girls Clubs of Albuquerque/Rio Rancho, KKSS-FM & KJFA-FM, Sandia National Laboratories, and many other associations, business, and volunteers coordinating the annual event.
   Cool Yule is the outgrowth of a holiday party produced yearly by the late Albuquerque Dukes manager Pat McKernan. After McKernan died, Domenici and Character Counts leadership council members agreed to carry on the McKernan tradition, with the New Mexico National Guard as the new home base for Cool Yule.
   In 1994, Domenici helped launch Character Counts in New Mexico and the nation. The character education initiative focuses on lessons built around the pillars of Respect, Responsibility, Trustworthiness, Fairness, Citizenship, and Caring.
   For more information on Character Counts "Cool Yule" sponsored by the Albuquerque Journal, contact Lisa Breeden, (505) 346-6771, or lisa_breeden@domenici.senate.gov
 
 