SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES DOE PLAN TO REDUCE AVAILABILITY OF WEAPONS-GRADE URANIUM
  Sen. Pete Domenici applauded the Energy Department's decision to begin a long-term effort to take up to 200 metric tons of highly enriched uranium (HEU) out of circulation for use in nuclear warheads, a goal he has long advocated as part of a global nonproliferation effort.  
   Domenici today assessed Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman's plan to convert the HEU taken from dismantled U.S. nuclear weapons into a form that can be used for non-weapon activities, including fuel for nuclear power plants. Bodman made the announcement Monday at the 2005 Carnegie International Nonproliferation Conference in Washington. 
   "This is great news toward meeting our overall international nonproliferation goals, and signals to the world that we are serious about this issue. I applaud the DOE for taking this action. It reiterates our policy of reducing the stockpile to the lowest number consistent with American national security requirements. I hope it will spur a more active global effort to control and reduce the level of material available for use in weapons of mass destruction," said Domenici. 
   The Senator is a leader in nonproliferation issues and is chairman of the Senate subcommittee that funds the DOE, the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) and the DOE national laboratories. 
   "With this action, we should also understand that significant facility upgrades will be required for the long-term consolidation and storage of HEU. In these times of significant pressure on the nuclear weapons program funding, the DOE and NNSA will need to assure the Congress that they have pursued all options, including the potential of lower cost storage at existing facilities, so that critical nuclear weapons program priorities do not suffer," Domenici said. 
   The HEU announcement is linked to a directive issued by President Bush in May 2004 to make significant reductions in the nuclear weapons stockpile. www.energy.gov/engine/content.do 
   Last year, Congress enacted a Domenici initiative as part of the FY2005 Defense Authorization Bill to accelerate the removal or improve the security of fissile materials, radiological materials, and equipment around the world. One aspect of this measure authorized greater U.S. support to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and moves to accelerate the development of alternative fuels and radiation targets to replace reactor systems that rely on highly enriched uranium (HEU). It authorizes programs to hasten the conversion of reactor systems, including many research reactors that are fueled by HEU, to alternative fuels. 
   Domenici has also sponsored and funded the Initiative for Proliferation Prevention, an HEU purchase agreement with Russia, and MOX which removes plutonium from weapons use.
 
 