SEN. DOMENICI PREPARES FOR CELEBRATION OF 2005 NATIONAL CHARACTER COUNTS WEEK
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced Senate passage of the 2005 National Character Counts Week resolution that makes Oct. 16- 21 as a week dedicated to emphasizing the importance of strong character in today's youth.  
   The Senate Friday approved Domenici's National Character Counts Week Resolution, designating the week for special events to highlight character education and the achievements of Character Counts in promoting the six pillars of good character: trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring and citizenship. 
   "Character Counts remains one of the most successful and wide-spread initiatives in the state. This program will not work without the dedication of schools, businesses, churches, governments and citizens. And the benefits reaped by the cooperation of these groups to instill these core values can be seen all over New Mexico and the country," Domenici said. 
   "The seven days designated as Character Counts Weeks should serve as a reminder to each one of us of the role we play in being an example of strong values. It is a lesson that we should employ every single day in every single activity," he said. 
   Domenici began the program with then Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) in 1994, calling for greater national attention to character-building. Character Counts is a program designed to incorporate character education into the public, private and parochial classrooms around the country. 
   Schools and communities throughout New Mexico have set a national example in embracing the six pillars of good character, incorporating it into education and community activities. 
   Congress passed a Domenici amendment cosponsored by Sen. Dodd in 2002 that made permanent a 1994 demonstration program they created to promote character education programs at the state and local level, providing three-year grants of at least $500,000 to eligible entities. The $25 million program led to character education programming in 36 states using federal and state funds.
 
 