SENATE APPROVES SENS. DOMENICI-BINGAMAN PROVISION KEEPING ASSETS AT CANNON AIR FORCE BASE, OPENING MISSION SEARCH
  The Senate early Friday approved a bill that includes language authored by Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman that will keep assets at Cannon Air Force Base and provide impetus for the Defense Department to actively search for a new mission for the eastern New Mexico facility.  
   The Senate passed (97-0) the FY2006 Defense Appropriations Bill (HR.2863), which includes the Domenici-Bingaman language that will prohibit the Pentagon from withdrawing any assets from Cannon until the Secretary of Defense certifies to Congress that he has sought a new mission for the eastern New Mexico base. 
   "This is the result of a comprehensive and extensive legislative initiative to find a new mission for Cannon. Our task now is to ensure that this directive stays in the final bill we send to the President. This provision will, by law, keep the F-16s at Cannon and trigger a process wherein the Pentagon must steadfastly search for a new use for the base," said Domenici, who as a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee will serve on the conference committee to reconcile differences in the Senate and House versions of this bill. 
   "This legislation sets up a plan for finding a new mission for Cannon and ensures that none of the base's assets will be moved during that search process," Bingaman said. "I am very glad the Senate is on record supporting this initiative and I have high hopes that it will end up in the bill that will be signed into law." 
   Because similar language is not included in the House version of this bill, the Domenici-Bingaman provision could be a debatable issue during conference negotiations. The directive, the Senators noted, fits within the intent of the BRAC Commission recommendation for Cannon. 
   The Senate action was developed after the BRAC Commission in August voted to put Cannon into a unique "enclave status" and giving the Secretary of Defense until 2009 to try to find a suitable new mission for the base. If a new mission is not found by then, the base would close. In the meantime, the BRAC Commission approved the Pentagon's request to reassign all F-16 aircraft now at Cannon to other bases. 
   The language included by Domenici and Bingaman states: "None of the funds provided in this Act may be obligated to realign or relocate forces or operational assets from bases to be converted to enclave status until the Secretary of Defense certifies that he has sought new missions for these bases as mandated by the 2005 Base Closure and Realignment Commission: Provided, that the Secretary of Defense shall report his findings to the congressional defense committees not later than October 1, 2006."
 
 