SEN. DOMENICI'S CHIMAYO-ESPANOLA WATER BILL READY FOR BUSH SIGNATURE
  Legislation authored by Sen. Pete Domenici to provide federal assistance for improving water systems for Chimayo and Espa?ola has been given final congressional approval and is now ready for President Bush to sign into law.  
   The House of Representatives late Wednesday approved the Chimayo Water Supply System and Espa?ola Water Filtration Facility Act of 2004 (S.2511), which was cosponsored by U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman. Having passed the Senate in September, the bill will now be sent to the White House. 
   Introduced in June by Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Domenici, the bill directs the Interior Secretary to conduct a feasibility study of a Chimayo water supply system. It also directs the Interior Department to aid in the planning, design, and construction of a water supply, reclamation, and filtration facility for Espa?ola. 
   "I am very pleased that the Congress expedited consideration of this bill to assist a region of New Mexico where water supplies are tainted and in desperate need of modernization. This area continues to grow and there is a direct need to move away from the old septic tank systems that have had damaging affects on water resources in the area. This bill authorizes the federal government to help develop solid plans for resolving these problems," Domenici said. 
   "This legislation will help Chimayo and Espa?ola access additional water to meet their long-term needs, solving problems associated with their current unreliable groundwater sources," said Bingaman, the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "I hope the president enacts this legislation quickly." 
   For Chimayo, the Domenici bill authorizes the Department of Interior to conduct an extensive study on the feasibility of establishing a water supply system to serve residents of this unincorporated town. Chimayo residents have been forced to rely on potable water deliveries from the National Guard since 2001. The bill also authorizes up to $3 million for the Interior Department to provide emergency water supply development assistance. 
   The Chimayo water supply system study would determine the feasibility of linking with the planned Espa?ola Water Filtration Facility. Studies have determined that up to 75 percent of the water in individual wells and irrigation ditches in Chimayo are contaminated. 
   For Espa?ola, the legislation authorizes the Interior Department to provide $3 million to assist the city in planning, designing and constructing a regional water filtration facility that will allow the community to access its allotment of the San Juan-Chama project water settlement. It also contains provisions aiding the San Juan and Santa Clara pueblos as part of the regional water system.
 
 