SEN. DOMENICI CELEBRATES HISPANIC LEGACY IN NEW MEXICO FOR NATIONAL HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH
  As the nation winds down its month-long commemoration of National Hispanic Heritage Month, Sen. Pete Domenici today paid tribute to the many New Mexicans doing their part to fulfill over 400 years of culture and history.  
   Domenici heaped praise on New Mexican Maria Hines for her commitment to the education of young Hispanics. Hines was honored today at the White House in celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month. 
   "Hispanics make up the fastest growing part of the nation's public school system, but there is a distinct lag in these students continuing learning through higher education. For years Maria has worked deliberately and devotedly to improve relationships between students and parents," Domenici said. 
   Hines, a Hispanic and Albuquerque native, co-founded ENLACE family centers first in three Albuquerque high schools with many more popping up in middle schools and elsewhere across the state. Hines also started the "Knock and Talk" program that takes volunteer parents out into the community to engage them in their child's schooling. 
   "As an involved and concerned mother, Maria has turned her attention toward bridging this gap through outreach and has started a movement that is overhauling student and parent interaction," Domenici said. "The success rates of these programs are outstanding and neighborhoods with high crime and dropout numbers are turning around because of her work." 
   Domenici noted many more Hispanic achievements in New Mexico, including Hispanic Business Magazine naming the University of New Mexico as one of the nation's top three medical schools for Hispanics. New Mexico leads the nation with the highest Hispanic percentage of population of any state, 43 percent. 
   Domenici who lauded the many Hispanic men and women who have been recognized for their valiant service in the armed forces, including Marine Pfc. Robert Lopez who was buried Friday at Arlington National Cemetery after being missing in action for 37 years. Lopez was killed during a ten-hour fight in Vietnam in 1968, but his remains were only identified this year. 
   "When we consider the contribution Hispanics have made to this great nation we cannot forget the sacrifices they have made to protect our country's freedom. Our nation's Hispanic veterans have distinguished themselves in battle at Bataan, Attu, North Africa, Europe, and the Pacific and are continuing to distinguish themselves in our battle against violent extremism around the world," he said. 
   Many New Mexicans have been awarded for valor in combat, including Daniel Fernandez of Albuquerque who forfeited his life for the lives of his fellow soldiers by shielding them from a grenade in Vietnam and Joseph P. Martinez who faced a hailstorm of machine gun, rifle, and mortar fire as he led troops in a dangerous advance on the island of Attu during World War II. 
   "I am exceedingly proud to call Maria, Robert, Daniel and Joseph New Mexico's own and this month has been the opportune time to commend their noble deeds," Domenici said. "I call on the American people to observe the rest of the month with pride, appreciation and celebration." 
   Congress began the tradition of celebrating the contributions of Hispanic Americans with a designated week in 1968. Since then, the period of celebration has extended to a month.
 
 