SEN. DOMENICI: BUSH TO GET BILL THAT STRENGTHENS SOUTHWEST BORDER SECURITY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today joined the Senate to give final congressional approval and to send President Bush a bill which will impact New Mexico and the nation's border security by adding another 1,000 Border Patrol agents.  
   As a member of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici served on the conference committee that put together the final FY2006 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. With the Senate's vote today, the $30.8 billion measure now will head to President Bush for his signature. 
   For New Mexico, Domenici worked to finalize funding for the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC) in Albuquerque, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Facility (FLETC) at Artesia, and First Responder training carried out by New Mexico Tech. The bill also has border construction funding for the Deming-Columbus area. 
   "Senate passage of this bill is good news for our nation's border. Congress has clearly gotten serious about immigration reform. We've provided the funding to hire 1,000 new Border Patrol Agents to deploy at our borders. We must come up with a comprehensive immigration reform plan, but any plan starts with securing our nation's borders. With passage of this bill, we'll be much closer," Domenici said. 
   The final agreement places heavy emphasis on securing the nation's borders, with resources to support a total of 12,449 Border Patrol agents. The bill has $79.5 million to annualize the 500 agents funded in an emergency supplemental bill this spring, as well as $241 million to hire 1,000 additional Border Patrol agents. 
   Because all Border Patrol agents are now trained at FLETC-Artesia, Domenici fought to increase funding for construction projects needed at the southeast New Mexico campus to accommodate new training demands. The bill provides a total of $44.327 million for new facilities, including $33 million for two new dormitories at FLETC-Artesia to accommodate the training of new Border Patrol agents, $5 million for temporary Border Patrol facilities, $3 million for an aquatics training facility, and additional funding for instructors and staff at Artesia. 
   The final bill includes $270 million devoted to construction, renovation and maintenance of border facilities nationwide, including more than $3.0 million for vehicle barriers and fencing within the Border Patrol's Deming field office jurisdiction in Luna County. 
   Domenici successfully secured $20.0 million to support NISAC, a $1.0 million increase over FY2005. NISAC is a Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories collaboration that utilizes their computing expertise to discover better ways to protect interdependent critical U.S. infrastructures, such as electrical grids and telecommunications, energy and transportation networks. In FY2003, Domenici gained $7.0 million to construct a separate facility for NISAC at Kirltand AFB. 
   "NISAC has proven to be a very valuable tool worthy of federal support. The destruction that occurred as a result of the recent hurricanes in the Gulf region was predicted by NISAC, which shows to me that the program will be a big part of efforts by the Homeland Security Department to deal with future catastrophic events," Domenici said. 
   Finally, Domenici supported increased funding for New Mexico Tech's First Responder training program. This bill provides $22 million, a $2 million increase over FY2005, for this work in New Mexico, which is part of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium. Overall, the bill provides $145 million for the five members of the consortium.
 
 