SEN. DOMENICI: NEW MEXICO HIGHLANDS UNIVERSITY GETS GRANT TO EXPAND BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today congratulated New Mexico Highlands University for securing a five-year grant from the National Institute of Health (NIH) that will help enhance the biomedical research department.  
   The grant was awarded through NIH's National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities. The initial, first-year award of $955,399 to NMHU is part of a total award amount of $4.5 million over the next five years to complete the project. 
   "NMHU is a leader in minority education, and is one of New Mexico's Hispanic-Serving Institutions," Domenici said. "These funds will allow the university to expand its biomedical research program by offering new programs and additional training for instructors. The ability to increase the amount, as well as the quality, of research done by both faculty and students strengthens the legacy NMHU has created as an outstanding university." 
   With these funds, NMHU will offer training opportunities to faculty and sabbatical programs to help them stay more competitive in the research community. NMHU will also hire post-doctoral fellows to conduct full-time research in the labs. 
   Through the establishment of this program, NMHU will be able to give faculty and students the opportunity to initiate and pursue novel biomedical research programs to keep NMHU among the most competitive researchers. 
   Domenici will be in Las Vegas Sunday to speak at the inaugural ceremonies for new NMHU President Manny Aragon. (1 p.m., Oct. 10, NMHU Wilson Center.) 
   NMHU recently dedicated its new Ivan Hilton Center for Science and Technology at New Mexico Highlands University-a facility for which Domenici obtained federal funds in hopes of expanding opportunities for Hispanic and minority students in technical fields. 
   Domenici, as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, worked extensively to secure $5.3 million in federal funding to make the center possible. The facility, at a cost of more than $14 million, contains more than 63,000 square feet of classroom space, in addition to office and lab space that gives the school capacity for studies in natural resource management, biochemistry, and cell biology.
 
 