SENATE CONFIRMS HALL OF ALBUQUERQUE TO BE U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE DIRECTOR
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the Senate has unanimously confirmed Dale Hall of Albuquerque to be the next Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS).  
   Domenici was the lead sponsor of Hall's nomination, and recommended him to President Bush, who chose him to take over the service. His nomination was approved by unanimous consent Friday. With Senate confirmation, Hall can now be formally sworn in by President Bush. 
   Hall served as the Southwest Regional Director for the Fish and Wildlife Service in Albuquerque for the past four years. 
   "Today, I'm very excited to report that Dale Hall has been confirmed as the new Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Dale's nomination was carefully vetted, first by the White House and then by the Senate, and it is clear that he is extremely well qualified for the job. I believe that his experience in New Mexico will serve him well at the national stage, and I look forward to working with him over the coming years," said Domenici, who sits on the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Fish and Wildlife Service. 
   In 1994, the Fish and Wildlife Service listed the Rio Grande silvery minnow as an endangered species, which impacted the use of the river for water. Domenici created a group that includes FWS representatives to find collaborative solutions to the problem that protected the minnow while providing enough water to meet the needs of citizens. 
   "I have been impressed with Dale's work on the unique challenges that the silvery minnow and Middle Rio Grande have presented us over the years. He worked very closely with me to find a solution that strikes a balance between protecting our ecosystem and providing water to people that badly need it," Domenici said. 
   Hall previously served as Deputy Director of the USFWS Southeast Region. He received his bachelor's degree from Cumberland College and a master's degree with Louisiana State University.
 
 