NEW MEXICO LAWMAKERS DEMAND STRONGER FED COMMITMENT TO NEW MEXICO-MEXICO BORDER SECURITY
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Rep. Steve Pearce, today demanded that the federal Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) embark on a more comprehensive and sustained plan to improve security along New Mexico's border with Mexico.  
   The lawmakers Wednesday responded to a CBP reply to their June 8 letter to CBP Commissioner Robert C. Bonner seeking an increased federal presence on the border to lessen the threats posed to New Mexicans by illegal immigration and criminal activities in the state's border counties. 
   In its response, the CBP outlines a series of general efforts being undertaken and planned in New Mexico, including increasing Border Patrol manpower, creating a plan for permanent vehicle barriers and better fencing, improving border facilities, and increasing cooperation with local and state law enforcement agencies. 
   The New Mexico lawmakers indicated that CPB's incremental approach-rather than a broad comprehensive initiative-is insufficient toward alleviating the criminal, social and humanitarian problems created by increased illegal immigration in the region. 
   "The simple truth is that much more is needed on our border. It's apparent that the current situation is untenable. So while I appreciate that the New Mexico border situation is getting more attention at the Homeland Security Department, we need a more comprehensive and sustained approach to border security," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, as well as the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "CPB's response to our letter offers further evidence that the administration is not in tune with the needs of border states. The White House is taking small steps when it is clear that sweeping changes are required," Bingaman said. "We will continue pressing the administration to take action." 
   Pearce, who serves on the House Homeland Security Committee, and is the only member of that committee who represents a congressional district on the Mexican border, said that "the best of intentions notwithstanding, it's clear that the Department of Homeland Security doesn't yet understand the scope or severity of the crisis on our border. This letter states that the few modest improvements it proposes 'received positive feedback from enthusiastic residents.' These 'enthusiastic residents' certainly aren't the same ranchers I've heard from during the past few weeks. We will not rest until we have secured our southern border. The safety of our nation demands nothing less than our absolute commitment to this objective." 
   "I understand that the Border Patrol has limited resources - but that doesn't mean that it has to engage in limited thinking. Working together, we must find a way to place significantly more manpower and technology on the border, while ensuring that illegal activity meets with real consequences. Most of all, we need to relieve the pressure at the border through a common sense guest worker program that prohibits amnesty," Pearce continued. 
   The New Mexico lawmakers have each consistently advocated a comprehensive reform of U.S. immigration laws, especially those addressing guest worker statues. In addition, they have sited the need for infrastructure improvements throughout the Southwest Border. 
   The lawmakers also said it's important to take a border-wide approach in addressing illegal immigration, deploying adequate resources to all border states rather than sending resources to states only after serious problems arise.
 
 