SEN. DOMENICI NOTES PROGRESS ON NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY-GENERAL ELECTRIC WATER COLLABORATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he is pleased with progress made by New Mexico State University and the General Electric Company to launch a joint water technology research collaboration to discover more affordable water purification techniques.  
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, has been apprised that NMSU and GE are finalizing a memorandum of understanding (MOU) on the collaborative effort, which will include student internships and senior GE scientists serving as adjunct professors at the university. It is also anticipated that the initiative will result in NMSU students being recruited to work at GE. 
   "Experts in this country and around the world agree that water availability will be a looming challenge in the 21st century, and that is certainly the case in New Mexico," Domenici said. "The NMSU-GE collaboration will give us another opportunity to find the breakthrough that could mean greater water availability and management in arid areas like New Mexico and the Southwest." 
   "I look forward to the signing of this MOU and the launch of this partnership, which will undoubtedly benefit students and researchers at New Mexico State," he said. 
   The NMSU-GE partnership will concentrate on further developing advanced water treatment technologies aimed at reducing stress placed on current water supplies, as well as overall consumption, energy use, and costs associated with creating and recycling water. The NMSU-GE partnership will involve R&D at both NMSU and at the GE Global Research Center in Niskayuna, N.Y. It will also focus on water treatment technologies capable of removing harmful source water contaminants often responsible for making human consumption, irrigation and industrial plant production impossible. 
   "The NMSU partnership with GE has the potential to be a unique and powerful arrangement which holds great promise for solving real problems, creating real jobs and protecting the environment. We greatly appreciate the confidence placed in us by Senator Domenici. When this initiative comes to fruition, he and his staff will have been central to making the exciting relationship and initiative happen. We're committed to making this a success of the first order," NMSU President Dr. Michael V. Martin said. 
   "GE looks forward to working hand-in-hand with New Mexico State University's students, researchers and faculty on this pioneering partnership," said Jeff Garwood, president and CEO of GE Water & Process Technologies. "Through innovation, research and hard work, the partnership will examine how to best tackle water quality and water scarcity issues that effect many communities and businesses in New Mexico and throughout the globe." 
   The Senate has yet to consider the FY2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill in which Domenici provided $3.0 million to support the NMSU-GE collaboration. At Domenici's request, an additional $1 million is included in the FY2007 Defense Appropriations Bill in Navy R&D funds for NMSU and GE to undertake this water work. These funds would also build on existing water quality and availability research at the NMSU College of Engineering, the New Mexico Water Resources Research Institute, and the Institute of Energy and Environment.
 
 