SEN. DOMENICI GETS FEMA DIRECTOR'S ASSURANCES ON N.M. FLOOD AID
  Sen. Pete Domenici today got personal assurances from the head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that the federal government is familiar with the flooding disaster situation in New Mexico and will provide aid. 
   Domenici discussed the New Mexico flood situation with Homeland Security Undersecretary for Federal Emergency Management R. David Paulison during a Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee hearing on lessons learned from last year's Hurricane Katrina.
   Domenici today also said he will back the state of New Mexico's latest request for federal disaster assistance for nine additional counties (Grant, Guadalupe, Harding, Hidalgo, Mora, Sandoval, San Miguel, Sierra and Torrance), and at the hearing asked Paulison to consider the cumulative effect of the summer storm season rather than individual instances of severe storms or flooding.
   "In evaluating requests for federal assistance from the state of New Mexico that relate to this summer's floods, I believe FEMA should consider that rainfall did not cease for weeks on end and consider the cumulative effect of these intense storms in evaluating such requests," Domenici said.
   "I am pleased that FEMA Director Paulison is familiar with the situation in New Mexico," he said. "New Mexicans have seen a positive response from FEMA this year in response to wildfires and some flooding but there remains some concern about a perceived lack of action in response to the rains since June that have ravaged much of the state."
   Paulison testified that FEMA is working closely with the state of New Mexico and that the agency would do everything it can legally do to assist the impacted communities.
   On Monday, Domenici reported that the Small Business Administration is making assistance available to homeowners and businesses in Do?a Ana, Otero, Luna and Sierra counties--all covered in the initial presidential disaster declaration issued by the White House. (Applications and filing instructions can be obtained by calling the SBA Disaster Assistance Customer Service Center at (800) 659-2955 or visiting http://www.sba.gov/disaster.)
 
 