SEN. DOMENICI: SANDIA TECHNOLOGY PARK IN ALBUQUERQUE WINS MAJOR U.S. COMMERCE DEPARTMENT HONOR
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the Sandia Science and Technology Park in Albuquerque is being recognized by the federal government for excellence in generating economic development through technology.  
   Domenici said the Economic Development Administration (EDA) has selected the Sandia Tech Park to receive its 2005 Excellence in Technology-led Economic Development award. The honor is among those chosen as part of the Department of Commerce's 2005 Excellence in Economic Development Award program. 
   "The Sandia Science and Technology Park is one of the most dynamic areas in the state in terms of job creation, research opportunities, and sheer potential high-tech breakthroughs. This honor is well deserved and highlights how well a technology park can, and should, work," Domenici said. 
   Excellence Award winners will be formally honored at the EDA "Symposium for 21st Century Economic Development" on Sept. 22, 2005 in Arlington, Va. (http://www.eda.gov) 
   The Sandia Science and Technology Park (http://www.sstp.org/) was created to attract high-tech jobs to the Albuquerque area, and is ideally positioned to tap into the resources of the entire New Mexico Technology Corridor that stretches from Los Alamos National Laboratory to New Mexico State University. About one-third of the buildings at the tech park are facilities associated with Sandia National Laboratories. 
   In August, for example, Domenici helped break ground for the Computer Science Research Institute (CSRI) at the technology park-the fifth new tenant to locate at the Sandia Science and Technology Park during the last 90 days alone. 
   Domenici, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, was instrumental in the development of the park. In 2000, he gained a $1 million federal Economic Development Initiative grant to construct a state of the art fiber optic network at the Sandia Science and Technology Park, which has been a major reason why the park has been successful. 
   The development of the park is a direct spin-off from the National Competitiveness Technology and Transfer Act of 1989, which Domenici authored. That act was written to allow the national laboratories to work closely with industry and universities to share research technology for job creation. It authorized the labs to enter into cooperative research and development agreements (CRADAs) with industry. Sandia National Laboratories is a leader in the utilization of this law.
 
 