SEN. DOMENICI OFFERS DOE COMPLEX TRANSFORMATION ASSESSMENT
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today formally submitted his official public comments on the Department of Energy's plan to transform the nuclear weapons complex, including Los Alamos and Sandia national laboratories in New Mexico.
   Domenici, who has for years played a major role in the shape and scope of the weapons laboratories, offered his comments as part of the public comment period for the National Nuclear Security Administration's Draft Complex Transformation Supplemental Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (SPEIS). The Senator's input was delivered Tuesday to Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman and NNSA Administrator Thomas D'Agostino. 
   Domenici endorsed the "preferred alternative" transformation plan. But he also outlined areas of the proposal that should be improved before the plan is implemented, including enhancing the science base at the weapons laboratories.
   "Correctly, the NNSA has proposed an aggressive strategy to consolidate and dispose of excess special nuclear material that consumes an extraordinary amount of federal resources to meet security requirements," said Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds DOE and NNSA.
   "As the complex is transformed, it must not measure success only in terms of floor space and manpower reductions but also in terms of enhancements to the science base that is the lifeblood of stockpile stewardship. The preferred alternative falls short in this regard," he said.
   In his comprehensive statement, Domenici was critical of the plan's lack of specific commitment to high performance computing at Sandia National Laboratories, as well as scientific facilities like LANSCE at Los Alamos. He advised DOE to reject attempts to limit advanced computing capabilities at only two of the three weapons labs.
   Domenici endorsed pit manufacturing capabilities at LANL, the completion of all three phases of LANL's Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement (CMR-R), continued feasibility study of the Reliable Replacement Weapon, and ongoing progress to build the MOX facility at the Savannah River Site.
   "Complex transformation under the 'preferred alternative' will be a major undertaking. During its implementation, care must be taken to avoid unintended consequences. Job reductions of the magnitude contemplated could cripple key mission areas and must be managed carefully," Domenici said.
   Domenici's submission to the SPEIS will be considered by the NNSA as it moves forward with its complex transformation objective. The 90-day comment period on SPEIS ends April 10. As part of the process to solicit public comment, the NNSA doubled the comment period and conducted 20 community meetings nationwide, including seven in New Mexico.
   "I believe the Department has met its obligations in this regard and has been highly accommodating in its pursuit of public input to date. As such, there is no need to extend the comment period beyond a week or two which would only serve to delay the review process," Domenici said.
   The following is a review of Domenici's comments on Complex Transformation:
   * CHEMISTRY & METALLURGY RESEARCH REPLACEMENT (CMR-R)
   Domenici supports consolidating remaining plutonium operations at LANL, and completion of CMR-R as "the most cost-effective solution." He also outlines the CMR-R in relation to future pit production at LANL.
   "Worker safety and security are two areas where we must not cut corners. It is unacceptable to continue to utilize the existing CMR facility any longer than absolutely necessary."
   "Opponents have incorrectly argued that the CMR-R facility constitutes a new pit production facility at Los Alamos. This is not accurate, and I believe a deliberate attempt to confuse the issue. NNSA has been very clear that the only location in the complex that will manufacture nuclear pits will be Technical Area 55 and not CMR-R. The new facility will provide essential chemistry and analytical support to the existing production mission in Technical Area 55 behind the security perimeter."
   * RELIABLE REPLACEMENT WEAPON (RRW)
   Domenici states his belief that the RRW feasibility study can lead to design changes that "can reduce the complexity of the stockpile and the national infrastructure that supports it."
   "Completion of the RRW feasibility study will enable policy makers to make informed, rather than emotional, decisions about the nuclear deterrent."
   * HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING
   Domenici recommends rejecting the consolidation of computing capabilities at two sites (Sandia and Lawrence Livermore), and embracing a joint research and development program between NNSA, the DOE Office of Science and U.S. industrial partners that involves all three nuclear weapons laboratories.
   "I find no scientific or economic justification for discontinuing the investment in high performance computing and simulation capability at each of the three national security laboratories. Despite its claim to support a capability based approach, the SPIES undermines Sandia National Laboratories computing capability without any explanation of how the lab will compensate for this loss."
   "Moreover, there is no strategy within any of the supporting documents that provides a long-term vision for advanced computing architecture and algorithm development necessary to sustain NNSA's leadership in world class computing and simulation."
   * LANSCE 
   While other facilities (Z Machine, National Ignition Facility, DAHRT and MESA) have NNSA support, Domenici says a similar long-term investment commitment is needed for LANSCE, which supports both weapons and non-weapons missions.
   "I believe that Los Alamos is well positioned to lead advanced research and development efforts focused on evaluating material behavior in extreme environments including high radiation and pressures."
   "I suggest that the NNSA develop and implement a long-term science strategy for each of the three laboratories, similar to the 20 year investment strategy developed by the Office of Science, including a specific plan to invest in near term science capabilities at Los Alamos."
   * MOX 
   Domenici endorses the timely implementation of the MOX project to fulfill international nonproliferation agreements. 
   "The Department should do all it can to ensure that MOX facility is completed and the plutonium disposition program proceeds on schedule." 
   * SANDIA CALIFORNIA SITE 
   Domenici says NNSA must better define the mission for its Sandia California Site "to ensure its sustainability through the joint efforts of NNSA and DOE."
   * COMMENT PERIOD
   Domenici commends DOE-NNSA public comment process. 
   "Based on the high degree of public engagement that has been achieved, evidenced by the large number of comments received during the comment period on the Notice of Intent and the well attended meetings conducted across New Mexico on the SPEIS, I believe the NNSA has provided adequate time for public comment and review and should not extend the comment period beyond a week or two."
 
 