SEN. DOMENICI MOVED BY FUNERAL MASS FOR POPE JOHN PAUL II
  Sen. Pete Domenici today recounted his moving experience as part of the official U.S. Senate delegation at the funeral mass for Pope John Paul II.  
   Domenici, accompanied by his wife Nancy, was one of 14 Senators chosen to attend the funeral services for the Pope. The following is a transcript of his thoughts on his time in Rome and at the Vatican for the papal services. 
   "We arrived in Rome Thursday afternoon to beautiful weather, and were escorted into St. Peter's Basilica through a side door and up to a railing where our delegation was allowed to spend about 20 minutes paying our respects to Pope John Paul II. We stood or knelt there in view of the Pope, a wonderful choir sang Ave Maria, and the Swiss Guard watched over everything. It was truly memorable. It was beautiful, serene and calm. We were surrounded by gracious people and everyone there looked on the body of the Pope with real sorrow and grief. While his vitality was gone, his presence was felt. Nancy and I were truly blessed to have been given this opportunity. 
   "We stayed at a hotel, a Holiday Inn, about 20 miles outside of the city. But from our sixth floor window, we could see St. Peter's Basilica and its dome off in the distance. 
   "This morning we left the hotel about 8 a.m. and were escorted by what seems to have been an all-knowing guide into the city and right to our seats in St. Peter's Square. Our seats were in front of the altar at the top of the steps where the mass took place. When the coffin was carried out, I was struck at how what appeared as a small, unadorned wooden box contained the remains of this huge man. The scene was incredible. While most of the ceremony was in foreign languages, mostly Latin, we were given an English translation of the homily. But even though the mass was not in English, or even the languages of most of the people there, there was absolute and rapt attention to the service. I repeatedly thought of how this great and powerful man was in this small wooden box, but his spirit and all the good things he did for people was everywhere. 
   "I hope I will be able to remember this day forever. I am so grateful that Nancy and I had a chance to participate in the rites of earthly passing for Pope John Paul, who was truly a great, great man." 
   The Senate delegation will return to the United States late Friday evening. The delegation included Senators: Frist, Biden, Bunning, Collins, DeWine, Dodd, Domenici, Durbin, Kennedy, Kerry, Leahy, Martinez, Mikulski and Santorum.
 
 