SEN. DOMENICI SALUTES SOCORRO & BELEN STUDENTS AS STANDOUTS IN MATH, SCIENCE & ENGINEERING
  With the President set to sign into law a bill that will boost math and science education, U.S. Senator Pete Domenici called attention to students from Socorro and Belen who recently excelled in a Mathematics, Engineering, Science and Achievement (MESA) USA competition.  
   Domenici will attend the White House signing ceremony on Thursday for the America COMPETES Act, the bipartisan legislation he and Senator Jeff Bingaman helped write to improve the United States' competitiveness by increasing federal investments in education, science and research. (The White House signing ceremony is currently set for 11:55 a.m. Eastern, Thursday.) 
   The America COMPETES Act would invest in K-12 math and science education, which is expected to benefit programs like New Mexico MESA. Students from Socorro's Saracino Middle School and Belen High School recently won their divisions at the state level and then took part in a national MESA USA competition. The Saracino Middle School youth took third place in the national middle school competition. 
   Domenici honored the Socorro and Belen teams in a Congressional Record statement. 
   "The students in New Mexico MESA are taking what they learn in the classroom to another level. These sorts of competitions allow students to think outside the box and come up with new solutions to old problems. Problem solving skills, such as those displayed during the competition, are invaluable to our nation's future," Domenici said. 
   "It is this type of dynamic K-12 education that we need more of if we are to ensure we have new generations of youth who will fuel American technological breakthroughs and keep our nation competitive. The America COMPETES Act will be an important law for doing just that," he said. 
   The Socorro team included eighth grade students Sam Hale, Daniel Jaramillo, Tyler Lam, and Jordan Vinson. The Belen High School team consisted of Samantha Huynh and Matthew Swanson. 
   Each team at the national level made a Trebuchet, or catapult with a weight on one end and a projectile on the other. The teams were judged on accuracy, distance and design. 
   The America COMPETES Act increases federal investments in science and technology, and puts a new, heavy emphasis on mathematics and science education. It will double the authorized funding for the National Science Foundation in seven years and set the Department of Energy's Office of Science on a path to double over seven years. It also creates a broad range of programs to strengthen the skills of math and science teachers and encourages mathematicians and scientists to become teachers. 
   Both Domenici and Bingaman were part of a core bipartisan group that began the push for passage of an American competitiveness bill nearly two years ago, and they negotiated the final version of the bill. 
   New Mexico MESA: www.nmmesa.org
 
 