SEN. DOMENICI HELPS GAIN FUNDS FOR NORTHERN N.M. GEAR UP PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici announced today that the Department of Education (DoED) has awarded $807,935 to New Mexico Highlands University (NMHU) for a program aimed at increasing college enrollment among students in northern New Mexico.  
   The funding was awarded following a letter from Domenici last September on behalf of the school regarding its previous rejection. NMHU received the grant on behalf of the Rural Northern New Mexico GEAR UP (RRNNM GEAR UP) program, which works to increase high school graduation rates and subsequent college attendance by addressing issues including English deficiency, as well as a lack of tutoring, teacher experience, and other factors beneficial to a successful higher education. 
   "GEAR UP is doing great things in northern New Mexico by improving the conditions that contribute to students educational success," said Domenici. "I was pleased to advocate in favor of these federal education funds, and I look forward to seeing them put to good use." 
   RRNM GEAR UP consists of a partnership of 23 school districts, two educational alliances, and NMHU. The targeted area represents one of the highest poverty rates in the country, with 95 percent of students in the schools being either Native American or Hispanic. 
   The grant is expected to contribute to the project's services, which include professional development, instructional support, tutoring, Saturday and summer programs, mentoring, college planning, and financial aid planning. 
   Current GEAR UP efforts have increased the number of students who meet state testing requirements and who are enrolled in advanced classes by 10 percent. Additionally, the program also cites a 20 percent increase in graduation and enrollment rates among cohorts. 
   Domenici is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which plays a large role in the delegation of funds for federal programs, including those administered by the Department of Education.
 
 