DELEGATION CELEBRATES LIGHTING OF CAPITOL CHRISTMAS TREE, NEW MEXICO'S GIFT TO NATION
  After more than a year of planning and months of anticipation, the 2005 U.S. Capitol Christmas Tree-a gift to the nation from the people of New Mexico-was lighted today on the Capitol grounds.  
   U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, along with Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall, and Steve Pearce, joined House Speaker Dennis Hastert in a ceremony to light the tree. The group was joined by Steven Castillo, an eight year old student from Santa Fe, who is the winner of a contest among students who submitted handmade ornaments to decorate the tree. 
   The tree is an Engelmann spruce from the Santa Fe National Forest. Since it arrived at the U.S. Capitol on Nov. 28, Architect of the Capitol (AOC) employees have been working to decorate the tree with ornaments handmade by New Mexico schoolchildren. At Domenici's request, the tree also includes new low emissions (LED) lights. 
   "Now that it is has been illuminated, the Capitol Christmas Tree stands here in Washington as a shining beacon of Christmas cheer from the people of New Mexico. So many New Mexicans have been involved in bringing the tree to Washington, and our children have worked hard to make ornaments to decorate it. The tree will be enjoyed by those of us who work in Washington and by visitors from around the world who come to our nation's capital. I wish all New Mexicans a Merry Christmas, and I thank everyone who helped in this celebration," Domenici said. 
   "This Christmas tree is a gift from New Mexicans to the nation. It is adorned with wonderful art work from school children from across New Mexico, ornaments that highlight the rich culture and talent of the young people in our state," Bingaman said. "I congratulate our state on this wonderful honor." 
   "This is a proud day for New Mexico to present this gift to the nation. This beautiful tree was decorated with handmade ornaments from thousands of New Mexico children and grew tall in our Santa Fe National Forest. This will be a great memory for Steven Castillo who joined Speaker Hastert to light the 'People's Tree' for Capitol Hill," Wilson said. 
   "I'm sure all New Mexicans are proud that the Capitol will be filled with New Mexico's unique holiday spirit," Udall said. "Visitors to Washington during the holidays will look at the Christmas tree, and get a glimpse of the beauty of our state." 
   "The journey of 'The People's Tree' uniquely engaged the diversity and spirit of our state, uniting New Mexicans in an amazing display of spirit and energy," Pearce said. "I salute everyone who participated in providing the nation with this gift of New Mexico's unsurpassed natural beauty. Particularly during these challenging times, may this beacon of hope renew our faith in our unlimited potential as a people." 
   The tree will illuminated each night on the west lawn of the U.S. Capitol until Jan. 1.
 
 