SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN LAUD AIR FORCE COMMITMENT TO FIND NEW MISSION FOR CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today lauded news from the highest ranking Air Force General that a new candidate mission has been identified for Cannon Air Force Base in Clovis, and that he has committed to keeping the base's assets intact until the search process is completed.  
   In a letter today, U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff General Michael Moseley said he and his staff are focused on Cannon's future. 
   "With regard to Cannon AFB, a thorough and comprehensive reuse study is underway and will be accomplished with all appropriate speed. I believe it is possible the Air Force may establish a new mission for Cannon AFB in due course. My staff is exploring options and I am personally monitoring their progress," wrote Moseley, who stressed the Air Force intent to follow the directives given it by the BRAC Commission. 
   The letter is in response to language Domenici and Bingaman inserted into the Senate's FY2006 Defense Appropriations Bill that would have required the Pentagon to find a new mission for Cannon and prevented assets from being moved during the search. 
   "The assurances provided by the Air Force Chief of Staff in this letter are extremely significant, and a very positive sign for the future of Cannon Air Force Base. The Air Force Chief of Staff has pledged to find a new mission for Cannon as soon as possible, and in fact his staff has already identified a potential new mission. We appreciate General Moseley's willingness to personally monitor the progress of the analytical team that visited Cannon," said Domenici and Bingaman. 
   In compliance with the Domenici-Bingaman language, Moseley also assured Senators that no units or aircraft will be transferred from Cannon Air Force Base until the Secretary of Defense has formally certified that every possible military mission has been explored. He also stated that there will be no transfer of fixed wing aircraft during FY2006. 
   "The Air Force appreciates the close ties the people of New Mexico enjoy with Cannon AFB. THe Air Force will work with the local community to develop a plan that incorporates their desires and expectations. I assure you no units or aircraft will be transferred from Cannon AFB prior to Secretary of Defense certification as specified in Section 8067. At present, I do not envision transfer of any 27th Fighter Wing aircraft in FY06," Moseley wrote. 
   "General Moseley has also informed us that no units or aircraft will be transferred from Cannon before every last option is scrutinized, as outlined in the BRAC report on Cannon. That news is very welcome for the community, as is his judgment that none of the 27th fighter wing aircraft at Cannon will be transferred in FY 2006," Domenici and Bingaman said. 
   The Senators visited Clovis last week to participate in a forum with an eight-person Air Force evaluation team, which toured the base and spoke with community leaders. That team will report to Moseley and other Air Force officials. 
   "This is the time of year we count our blessings, let's hope we can count on this one," Domenici said. 
   "When we were in Clovis last week for the presentation, I felt very good about the future of Cannon Air Force Base. Those positive feelings are further justified by this letter from the general," Bingaman said. House and Senate negotiators are working on final details of the 2006 Defense Appropriations Bill. As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Domenici is part of the team negotiating a final version of the bill. Bingaman is working with senior Democrats on the negotiating team.
 
 