SEN. DOMENICI VOTES FOR FINAL 9-11 COMMISSION BILL, MEASURE INCLUDES NISAC, BORDER INITIATIVES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today voted to give final approval to an important measure to enact intelligence reforms largely recommended by the 9/11 Commission, but also including two key provisions he wrote dealing with Southwest Border security and tapping into the expertise of the national laboratories to better protect the nation.  
   The Senate today approved (89-2) the National Intelligence Reform Bill (S.2845), completing congressional work on the reform measure. It now goes to President Bush who worked to tear down final hurdles obstructing its final passage in the House of Representatives. 
   "I believe this legislation, while perhaps not perfect, is historic. Nothing is more important than the security of our country and intelligence is the underpinning of success in the war on terror," Domenici said. "Objective, timely, accurate intelligence is what our policymakers need to make the right decisions affecting the safety of Americans at home and abroad. This legislation takes an important step toward invigorating our intelligence gathering as we confront 21st century threats to our nation." 
   The final bill contains a Senate-adopted Domenici provision that directs the Department of Homeland Security to report on development of an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle border surveillance capability. 
   "This legislation recognizes the need to exploit emerging technologies for securing the homeland. The porous nature of our borders, particularly in remote areas of the Southwest, is vulnerable to terrorists, drug smugglers and other criminal activity. My language begins to seek new solutions to this significant security concern," Domenici said. "New Mexico is an emerging focal point for UAV development and testing, and this provision will help expand this growing field." 
   Related to Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, the final bill also includes Domenici language recognizing the value of the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center (NISAC) in Albuquerque. The bill authorizes the National Director of Intelligence to access the capabilities of NISAC to better understand critical infrastructure vulnerabilities. 
   "NISAC can give our intelligence community the very best understanding of the vulnerabilities to critical infrastructures," Domenici said. "This is just another great opportunity for our national labs to contribute to the overall homeland security effort." 
   NISAC was developed by Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories to simulate and analyze various events and the possible cascading effects on critical infrastructures-electric power grids, for example-should they come under attack or face other catastrophic failures. 
   Domenici strongly supported the National Intelligence Reform Act, which creates a National Intelligence Director that has authority to write and execute intelligence budgets and adopts many of the 9/11 Commission's recommendations. It also establishes a National Counterterrorism Center to achieve an integrated approach to counterterrorism intelligence and strategic operational planning.
 
 