BUSH SENT BILL NAMING ROSWELL COURTHOUSE FOR LATE REP. JOE SKEEN
  The bill honoring Joe Skeen's life of service to New Mexico was passed late yesterday in the Senate and sent to the President to be signed into law.  
   The legislation, H.R. 3734, designates the Federal Building at Fifth and Richardson Avenues in Roswell as the "Joe Skeen Federal Building." The legislation was sponsored by the entire New Mexico delegation: Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall, and Steve Pearce. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the measure in September. 
   Joe Skeen passed away Dec. 7, 2003. He served 22 years in the U.S. House of Representatives before his retirement at the end of the 107th Congress. The bill had the strong support of Joe Skeen's longtime friends and colleagues in Congress. 
   "This is a very nice tribute to the memory of Joe Skeen and all he did for his district and New Mexico. He was a friend and a very good representative for the people of southern New Mexico. This building will now bear his name as a reminder of his remarkable career and service," Domenici said. 
   "I was proud to call Joe a friend for many years. I've never met a more dedicated public servant, and I believe it is only fitting that we honor and remember him in this way," Bingaman said. 
   "Joe Skeen honored us with his life of service to New Mexico," Wilson said. "Today we are honoring his memory with this simple indication of deep respect. Joe was a great New Mexican, a gentleman, a statesman, an able legislator and an advocate for the people of New Mexico. It was a blessing to serve with him." 
   "While Joe and I served on opposite sides of the aisle, I had a genuine respect for the service he gave the citizens of the Second Congressional District of New Mexico," Udall said. "He served his constituents with distinction, and we should honor his life's work. As New Mexico's longest-serving U.S. Representative, it is fitting that the Federal Building in Roswell bear his name." 
   "Joe Skeen was a man of deep convictions, a true statesman and a dedicated public servant to his state and his country," Pearce said. "The naming of this federal building will serve as a reminder of his hard work and dedication to his constituents. It's an honor to his legacy and to his wife Mary, his kids and grandkids."
 
 