SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS 2006 SUMMER INTERNS, APPLICATIONS DUE MARCH 1
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported his Washington, D.C. office is accepting summer internship applications through March 1 and encouraged interested students to apply.  
   Domenici's 2006 program will have two sessions, with the first running from May 17 to June 28 and a second from June 29 to Aug. 11. College-age students, who are either New Mexico residents or attending a two or four-year school in the state, are eligible to apply. Those selected to work in Washington will receive a $2,100 stipend for their internship. 
   "I believe my internship program gives young leaders from New Mexico opportunities to experience how the Senate and the federal government operate. We give our interns chances to work in various areas of my Washington office so they can experience how my legislative, constituent service and public outreach efforts are designed to serve New Mexico's interests." 
   Applicants must have completed as least one year of study at an institution of higher learning. New Mexico residents and/or students will receive priority in the selection process. Students participating in the program during past years have come from a wide variety of backgrounds and schools, including universities, community colleges, and vocational schools from inside and outside New Mexico. 
   Applications are available on Domenici's website, which may be accessed at http://domenici.senate.gov in the "Student Section." 
   For more information about the program and intern responsibilities, email internships@domenici.senate.gov or call (202) 224-6621. 
   Applications must be postmarked by March 1. Interviews and selections will take place during the month of March and notification of acceptance by April 1. 
   Domenici, a Republican, is New Mexico's longest-serving U.S. Senator and is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. He also has senior memberships on the Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee, and is a member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and the Indian Affairs Committee.
 
 