SEN. DOMENICI REVITALIZES BILL TO END CHRONIC HOMELESSNESS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reintroduced legislation to ensure more federal support for countering homelessness and mental health inequalities in New Mexico's rural and urban communities.  
   Domenici authored the 1991 legislation creating the Projects for Assistance in Transition for Homelessness (PATH) program, and has remained instrumental in raising overall funding for the program over the years. In the new bill, Domenici and Senator Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) propose changing the PATH funding formula. 
   The current formula emphasizes urban areas, placing rural states like New Mexico at a disadvantage. The maximum amount states could receive under Domenici's bill would be increased from $300,000 to $600,000, subject to appropriations. 
   "The PATH program is a key element in the plan to end chronic homelessness, but services need to go beyond just helping urban areas. The problem isn't isolated in cities and an alarming number of the displaced suffer from mental illnesses that require additional services," Domenici said. "Because homelessness isn't just an urban issue, this bill raises the maximum amount states can receive so rural parts of New Mexico aren't left out in the cold." 
   Currently, New Mexico is eligible to receive $300,000 in PATH funds, with the state of New Mexico required to provide matching funds of at least $100,000. There are an estimated 15,000 homeless people in New Mexico, of which 35 percent are believed to suffer from mental illnesses. 
   Run by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the PATH Program funds community-based outreach, mental health, substance abuse, case management and other support services, as well as a limited set of housing services for people who are homeless and have serious mental illnesses. 
   While Congress has increased overall PATH funding to $55 million, it has not changed the formula to distribute the funds since the programs inception in 1991. In fact, under the formula, 25 states and territories will never see an increase PATH funding. 
   PATH program services are provided in a variety of different settings, including clinic sites, shelter-based clinics, and mobile units. In addition, the PATH program takes health care services to locations where homeless individuals are found, such as streets, parks, and soup kitchens.
 
 