SEN. DOMENICI ACCEPTING 2005 SUMMER INTERNSHIP APPLICATIONS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that his Washington, D.C. office is accepting applications for summer internship positions in his office. The deadline to apply is March 1.  
   Domenici's 2005 program will have two sessions, with the first running from May 31 to July 1 and a second from July 5 until Aug. 5. Students who are either New Mexico residents or attending a two or four-year school in the state are eligible to apply. Those selected to work in Washington will receive a $1,500 stipend for their internship. 
   "Interning in my Washington office is a great opportunity for New Mexico students to see first hand how their government operates," Domenici said. 
   "My internship program is designed to allow students to work in all aspects of my office, including my legislative staff, my press office and with constituent service. I believe that those students who are selected will have an enjoyable, educational, and valuable experience," he said. 
   Applicants must have completed as least one year of study at an institution of higher learning. New Mexico residents and/or students will receive priority in the selection process. Students participating in the program during past years have come from a wide variety of backgrounds and schools, including universities, community colleges, and vocational schools from inside and outside New Mexico. 
   Applications are available on Domenici's website, which may be accessed at http://domenici.senate.gov. For more information about the program and intern responsibilities, contact Lynden Armstrong at 202-224-6621. 
   In addition to the application, candidates must submit a cover letter, resume, and two letters of recommendation. This information should be mailed to: U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, c/o Lynden Armstrong, 201 Third Street NW Suite 710, Albuquerque, NM 87102. 
   Applications must be postmarked by March 1. Interviews and selections will take place during the month of March and notification of acceptance by April 1. 
   Domenici, a Republican, is New Mexico's senior Senator and serves as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. He also has senior memberships on the Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee, and is a member of the Indian Affairs Committee and the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee.
 
 