SEN. DOMENICI SAYS FEDERAL BUDGET SQUEEZE WILL ONLY WORSEN WITHOUT ENTITLEMENT REFORM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today concurred with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson that there will be fewer and fewer dollars to spend on government spending without a bipartisan effort to reform entitlement programs, primarily Social Security and Medicare.  
   Domenici discussed the pending entitlement program crisis with Paulson during a Senate Budget Committee hearing Thursday to review President Bush's FY2008 Budget, which has been criticized for its overall spending reductions. Paulson was the sole witness at the hearing. 
   "We are to a point where we cannot produce and pass a budget because of the fiscal constraints we now face. It will only get more difficult if we stay on our present course of only talking about cutting spending or increasing taxes. We must look at mandatory spending. Medicare and Social Security have spiraling costs that will only grow as the Baby Boom generation begins retiring. The problem is that no one will touch the issue," Domenici said. 
   "I have given up on Congress finding the backbone to modify Social Security and Medicare in any significant way. Fixing these programs is doable, but I don't think this Congress will do it. The entitlement commission that Senator Feinstein and I propose will force us to address what it will take to save Social Security and Medicare," he said. "I want the administration to give our bill a careful review, and see that this is a workable plan for doing what's right for the country's long-term fiscal health." 
   Paulson concurred that spending on Social Security, Medicare and other entitlement programs are one of the biggest economic issues facing the country, and agreed to review the Domenici-Feinstein Social Security and Medicare Solvency Commission Act (S.355). 
   S.355 would create a permanent, 15-member, bipartisan commission to make recommendations on how best to save Social Security and Medicare. The committee would make recommendations and propose legislation to ensure the solvency of both Social Security and Medicare. In developing the recommendations, the independent commission would also be required to conduct public hearings around the country. The bill includes provisions to force Congress to act within a fixed timeframe to provide for the long-term financial stability of these programs. 
   Mandatory entitlement spending in FY2008 is expected to account for about 62 percent of total federal spending. By 2012, mandatory spending would grow to 68 percent of total federal spending--an annual growth rate of 5.3 percent, more than double the rate of inflation. Without congressional action, Social Security and Medicare costs are projected to rise from about 7 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to about 18 percent in 2080.
 
 