SEN. DOMENICI EXPECTS FY 2006 BUDGET BENEFITS FOR FLETC-ARTESIA
  Sen. Pete Domenici today indicated that he expects the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia to fare well under President Bush's FY2006 budget, particularly as the southeast New Mexico campus continues to be the nexus of U.S. border patrol training.  
   Domenici is a veteran member of the Senate Budget Committee and the Senate Appropriations Committee, and will play an active role in the development of a FY2006 Budget Resolution and the spending bills that will fund the federal government next year. 
   Within more than $29.3 billion recommended for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the administration is seeking almost $224 million for FLETC operations in New Mexico, Georgia, South Carolina and Maryland. 
   The overall FLETC funding recommendation includes $183 million (up from $177 million in FY2005) for salaries, materials and support costs of basic training, purchase of up to 117 vehicles for police-type use; and $40.6 million (down from $45 million in FY2005) to acquire necessary real property/facilities and to construct and maintain training centers. 
   "In general homeland security and defense programs are not squeezed as much under the President's budget. As a result, the FLETC program in Artesia and at the other campuses should fare well as we move forward with the federal budget process," said Domenici, who serves on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "I fully expect to see increased federal funding and activity at FLETC-Artesia as the Border Patrol training program is fully implemented there," he said. 
   Domenici noted that FLETC is in the process of revising its master plan to take into account that all U.S. Border Patrol training now takes place in Artesia. The plan is expected to call for the use of part of the FY2006 proposed $40.6 million construction funds to build an aquatic facility, expand the physical training facility and construct administrative space for the Border Patrol Academy at FLETC-Artesia. 
   In addition, the President's budget requests $37 million to hire an additional 210 Border Patrol agents, who will be trained at FLETC-Artesia, and at all FLETC sites an inflationary increase (1.8 percent non-pay and 2.3 percent pay over FY2005 levels) is expected. 
   The President's $2.5 trillion budget package recommends various means for controlling federal spending, including the elimination or reduction of 150 non-defense programs. The budget would limit overall discretionary spending, which makes up about 16 percent of the overall federal budget, to 2.1 percent-less than the expected rate of inflation. Overall spending not associated with defense or homeland security would fall 1 percent under the budget. 
   In the current FY2005 budget, $222.4 million is available for FLETC. This includes a $5.0 million earmark Domenici gained last year for necessary renovation and construction at FLETC-Artesia to accommodate the Border Patrol mission to carry out a 19-week training program for new Border Patrol agents. 
   Domenici, as a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, was instrumental in the 1988 establishment of the FLETC campus in Artesia and its subsequent growth as a pivotal law enforcement training center.
 
 