SEN. DOMENICI TOUTS GRANT TO CREATE SMALLER LEARNING COMMUNITIES AT THREE APS HIGH SCHOOLS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that public schools in Albuquerque will establish Smaller Learning Communities for three local high schools with over $1.1 million authorized by the Department of Education.  
   The federal funds are authorized by the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 through the Smaller Learning Communities program. 
   "Highlands, Manzano and Valley High Schools have students from diverse cultures and financial status, and together they make up the largest school district in New Mexico," Domenici said. "I'm pleased that these three schools will now be on the same page with the rest of Albuquerque's public schools and to provide services to their diverse group of students." 
   Albuquerque Public Schools will receive $1,149,585 to establish Smaller Learning Communities at Highlands, Manzano and Valley High Schools that will take special steps with incoming ninth-graders, such as required portfolios and preparation for upper-level classes, and offer advanced thematic courses for tenth through twelfth graders. 
   Highlands High School will offer arts and communications, business and marketing, health and human services, and science, research and technology. 
   Manzano High School will offer health occupations, international business, and performing arts and visual arts. 
   Valley High School will offer health and medical sciences, engineering and industrial occupations, human resources, agricultural and natural resources, business and marketing, and arts and communications. 
   Students can take advantage of block scheduling, having a specific advisor for all four years, mentorships, career internships, service learning, and concurrent enrollment in classes at the University of New Mexico or the Albuquerque Technical-Vocational Institute. 
   Highlands, Manzano and Valley together serve more than 5,800 students in grades nine through 12, 50 percent of which are Latinos, 36 percent Caucasian, five percent Native Americans, five percent African-Americans, and three percent Asians and ranging from distressed to affluent backgrounds.
 
 