NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY AWARDED $3.0 MILLION TO ENCOURAGE BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that New Mexico State University in Las Cruces has received a $3.3 million grant which will provide funding for the Idea Network of Biomedical Research Excellence (NM-INBRE) project that aims to encourage students to pursue graduate work in biomedical fields.  
   Domenici worked directly to establish the National Center for Genome Resources in Santa Fe which opened the door for more biomedical research opportunities and will be a partner in this project. 
   "The biomedical field requires continued research and development. It's crucial that New Mexico takes part in the efforts to promote the development of tools and information to increase our knowledge in this area. I'm pleased that effort to boost biomedical recruiting will also foster collaboration and communication between institutions which will enrich the work of New Mexico faculty and students," said Domenici, who is a member of the VA-HUD-Independent Agencies Subcommittee that funds the National Science Foundation. 
   The purpose of the NM-INBRE is to strengthen the opportunities for biomedical research in New Mexico's educational institutions. The program initiates a partnership with the National Center for Genome Resources in Santa Fe and includes an outreach program for undergraduate students attending other New Mexico schools to increase participants in graduate biomedical research programs. NM-INBRE encourages faculty and students to continue their in-field training while also increasing students' awareness of opportunities in research careers. 
   The NM-INBRE is a continuation of the New Mexico Biomedical Research Infrastructure Network program (NM-BRIN) that was funded from Sept. 2001 to June 30, 2004. 
   NM-INBRE, directed by NMSU professor Dr. Jeffrey Arterburn, is based at the Las Cruces campus of NMSU. The partner institutions across the state include: University of New Mexico; Eastern New Mexico University; New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology; and New Mexico Highlands University.
 
 