SEN. DOMENICI SUPPORTS ZUNI WATER SETTLEMENT SIGNING
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he is pleased that the Zuni Indian Tribe and the Interior Department have now signed the documents needed to formalize a water rights settlement related to ancestral religious lands in northeast Arizona.  
   Zuni officials joined Interior Secretary Gale Norton and others Thursday afternoon for the signing ceremony in Washington. The signing formalizes the Zuni Indian Rights Settlement Agreement Act, which was passed by the Senate last June and supported by Domenici. 
   "I am pleased we've reached this point in resolving long-standing water rights issues related to the Zunis. The tribe has been diligent in working with the federal government over the years on their property and water rights. Because it has been such a long haul for the Zunis, this formalization of the water rights agreement is all the more appreciated," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   The Zuni agreement deals with the Arizona branch of the Zuni Tribe and its claims to waters on the Little Colorado River. The agreement provides the Zuni Tribe with the resources and protections to acquire water rights from willing sellers and to restore wetlands. The tribe also waives its claim in the Little Colorado River Adjudication. 
   Domenici also serves on the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee that has approved $14 million in FY2005 funding to support the settlement, which will provide $19.2 million for Zuni tribal riparian and wetlands restoration activities. The FY2005 Interior Appropriations Bill has been approved by the subcommittee but awaits further Senate action. 
   The agreement finds its basis on two previous laws, the Zuni Heaven Reservation Act of 1984 and the Zuni Land Conservation Act of 1990. The 1990 law was authored by Domenici to allow the Zuni Indian Tribe of New Mexico to rehabilitate and reclaim natural resources damaged or lost due to federal government mismanagement. It also included provisions dealing with the Zuni Heaven Reservation.
 
 