NEW MEXICO DELEGATION SEEKS ADDITIONAL BIOTERRORISM PREPAREDNESS FUNDING
  The New Mexico congressional delegation is urging Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tommy Thompson to increase funding directed to the state for bioterrorism preparedness.  
   In a letter, Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici, and Reps. Heather Wilson, Tom Udall and Stevan Pearce told Thompson that the formula HHS uses to distribute the $4 million in bioterrorism preparedness funding set aside for border states is unfair and shortchanges the state. 
   Currently, HHS sets funding levels for border states in part by calculating the number of legal border crossings into the state. In their letter, the delegation points out that this formula is unfair because many people who cross the border at El Paso are destined for New Mexico and therefore border crossings into the state are undercounted. 
   Based on the border crossings formula, New Mexico receives $23,442 in bioterrorism preparedness funding while Arizona is awarded $439,378, California receives $1.05 million, and Texas gets $1.5 million. 
   "The way funding is distributed is patently unfair. Our state gets a tiny slice of the bioterrorism preparedness funding made available to border states, and that is wrong. I hope the Bush administration agrees to take steps that will make the distribution of funding more equitable," Bingaman said. 
   "New Mexico's international border with Mexico presents a unique situation, which Secretary Thompson should recognize as bioterrorism security monies are distributed. Adhering to a strict formula could work against our homeland security needs as the forces of terrorism look for soft spots in our border defenses," said Domenici, a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "New Mexico's border is key to our security efforts and the funding formula should fully recognize that. Improving the funding for New Mexico would strengthen the effort to prepare for bioterrorism threats and protect our country," Wilson said. 
   "The current funding formula is shortchanging New Mexico, and needs to be amended," Udall said. "Bioterrorism presents unique challenges to border states because of the relative ease with which it can be transported. As such, it is critically important that we correct this unfair distribution of funding to help ensure New Mexico is adequately protected." 
   "Those who want to harm Americans through acts of bioterrorism will not discriminate among the border states through which they choose to attack. We must remain equally vigilant across the entire border," Pearce said. 
   In their letter, the delegation wrote, "We are writing to express our deep concerns about the inequities in funding for the state of New Mexico to prepare for bioterrorism through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention grant 'Preparedness and Response to Bioterrorism.' 
   "As a result of this unfair formula, New Mexico received a small fraction of the money, in comparison to comparable border regions. 
   "We urge you to consider a more fair and equitable formula for distributing funds to states for border-related bioterrorism preparedness." 
   In addition to bioterrorism preparedness funding shared between border states, New Mexico this year received an $8.8 million from Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Arizona and Texas received $16.4 million and $51.8 million, respectively.
 
 