SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES BILL TO RELIEVE CHIMAYO, ESPA?OLA WATER WOES
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today introduced legislation to increase federal involvement in projects to relieve water supply and quality problems in Chimayo and Espa?ola. 
   The Chimayo Water Supply System and Espa?ola Water Filtration Facility Act of 2004 (S.2511) has been referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee for consideration. The bill is cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, the ranking member on the committee.
   "Water problems in New Mexico are escalating, especially in north-central areas of the state where water supply shortages and contamination of existing resources has reached a crisis point," Domenici said. "I wrote this legislation to authorize federal agencies to offer Chimayo and Espa?ola more help in overcoming these problems. Our ability to do so is important to the future health and well-being of both communities."
   "The communities of Chimayo and Espa?ola have significant water supply needs. This legislation would enable the federal government to assist in meeting those needs in the short term and in the long term," Bingaman said.
   The Chimayo provisions would authorize the Department of Interior to conduct an extensive study on the feasibility of establishing a water supply system in the unincorporated town of Chimayo, a centuries-old community that since 2001 has relied on potable water deliveries from the National Guard. The bill would also authorize up to $3.0 million for the Interior Department to provide emergency water supply development assistance to the region.
   The Chimayo water supply system study would determine the feasibility of linking such a system that would operate in connection with the planned Espa?ola Water Filtration Facility. Hydrologists have determined that 75 percent of the samples taken from individual wells and irrigation ditches in the Chimayo area have total coli form and fecal coli form contamination.
   The Espa?ola-area water provisions would authorize $3.0 million for the Interior Department to assist the city of Espa?ola in planning, designing and constructing a regional water filtration facility that will allow the community to access its allotment of the San Juan-Chama water settlement. The new system would enhance water availability to the growing community, which is now beset with a water system that is insufficient to meet current needs.
   The bill also includes provisions allowing the Interior Department to offer assistance to the San Juan and Santa Clara pueblos as part of a regional water system.
   In introducing the bill, Domenici praised successful efforts by Espa?ola to secure funding for the infrastructure needed to make use of its 1,000 acre-fee per annum of the San Juan-Chama Project water. The city has secured funding and identified a site for a diversion project, in addition to raising state, local and federal resources to build a water filtration facility to treat its San Juan-Chama Project water.
   LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY
   CHIMAYO WATER SUPPLY
   The bill directs the Secretary of the Interior, through the Bureau of Reclamation, to conduct a feasibility study on the construction of a Chimayo water supply system in the Santa Cruz River Valley in the eastern margin of the Espanola Basin, and to provide emergency water supply development assistance.
   The study, conducted in cooperation with state and local authorities, would consider:
   * Various options for supplying water to Chimayo, including connection to a regional water source, local sources, sources distributed throughout the town, and sources located on adjacent Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land;
   * Reusing or recycling water from local or regional sources;
   * Using alternative water supplies such as surface water or deep aquifer groundwater; and,
   * Determining the total lifecycle costs of the system, including long-term operation, maintenance and treatment, and personnel costs.
   The study is to be completed not later than three yeas after enactment of the bill. The bill authorizes $2.0 million, on a 75-25 federal cost-share ratio, for the study.
   The bill authorizes $3.0 million, again on a 75-25 federal cost-share ratio, to allow the Interior Department to enter into contracts with water authorities in the study area to provide emergency water supply development assistance. Eligible activities include: hauling water; installation of water purification technology at the community wells or individual point-of-use; drilling of wells; installation of pump stations and storage reservoirs; installation of transmission and distribution pipelines to bring water to individual residential service connections; the engineering, design, and installation of an emergency water supply system. This funding, however, may not be available for the construction of water infrastructure for the system.
   ESPANOLA WATER FILTRATION FACILITY
   The bill authorized a total of $3.0 million between FY2005 and FY2009 for the Interior Department, through the Bureau of Reclamation, to assistance to the city of Espa?ola for the construction of a water filtration facility consisting of projects to divert and fully reuse imported water to meet future demands in the greater Espanola region.
   The project would include construction of pre-sedimentation basins for sediment removal; an influent pump station to supply water into treatment facilities; a pretreatment facility; filtration facilities; finished water storage facilities; a finished water booster pump station; sludge dewatering facilities; and potable water transmission lines to connect into the city's water distribution facilities.
   The bill allows the Interior Secretary to provide financial assistance to the Santa Clara and San Juan pueblos and the nonfederal sponsors of the facility for the study, planning, design, and construction of a water delivery resource and infrastructure development for the two pueblos as a component of the Espa?ola facility.
   The bill states that federal contributions to the Espa?ola project and any components may not exceed 25 percent. Funds may not be used for the operation or maintenance of the facility or any component.
 
 