SEN. DOMENICI PAYS TRIBUTE TO REAGAN, RECALLS PRESIDENT'S STRENGTH, HUMOR, TEMPER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed his appreciation and warmth for former President Ronald Reagan, recalling their work together to implement the tax and budget changes that lit a fire under the American economy and helped build the nation's defenses. 
   Domenici, who served as chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, acknowledged in remarks to the Senate that he and Reagan sometimes locked horns on fiscal matters, but that the two always ended up at a resolution that moved the country forward.
   Recalling a contentious defense budget dispute in the early 1980s, Domenici remarked, "He was absolutely wonderful to me soon after. He campaigned for me, he turned his budgets over to me for implementation, and we had a great relationship."
   The following are excerpts of Domenici's tribute to President Reagan:
   "I suspect that I saw President Reagan exhibit all of his legendary traits: the man of principle, the man of strength, the man of strong conviction, the man of humor, and, in one famous case, a man with an Irish temper on occasion.
   "I was impressed by the three principles that Reagan insisted on in any budget: restraint of domestic spending, long-overdue increases in defense spending, and tax cuts to stimulate a dormant economy. Those three principles guided every discussion I had with the President and his senior staff. Reagan was not going to compromise those three principles.
   "He made a stronger America. Our economy grew between 18 million to 20 million jobs. Just think of that. We're talking about two million jobs today. But then he took an economy that was in terrible shape-high interest rates and rampant inflation. Back then we had to wait for something else to work. That something else was Ronald Reagan and his policies. It was his approach to lower taxes that stimulated this economy.
   "What a great President, what a great American, what a great man. It was truly my privilege to work with him. I think history will record that our work was of historic importance as the President moved toward making this economy stronger than ever, this nation more secure than ever, and the world safer then ever."
 
 