SEN. DOMENICI COSPONSORS BILL REQUIRING BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR LONG-TERM CARE WORKERS, BUILDS ON NEW MEXICO PILOT PROGRAM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today cosponsored legislation that will launch a national program to require background checks on people hired to provide long-term care for senior citizens and the disabled in order to reduce the incidence of abuse-an effort that will build on demonstration programs carried out in New Mexico and six other states.  
   Domenici is an original cosponsor to the Patient Safety and Abuse Prevention Act of 2007, a bipartisan measure introduced Thursday by Senator Herb Kohl (D-Wis.), chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Aging. 
   The bill would authorize a three-year grant program to help states implement a program for screening applicants for employment in long-term health care facilities. The bill would prevent those with criminal histories from working within long-term care settings-such as nursing homes, home health care and hospice-by establishing a nationwide system of background checks. 
   "We have a responsibility to protect the most vulnerable from abuse by those hired to care for them. Those who have a propensity to prey on the elderly, the chronically ill and the disabled must be restricted from working with these people," Domenici said. 
   "If enacted, this legislation could help to prevent many of the tragic tales of physical and financial elder abuse that we hear about from our constituents and read about in our local newspapers," said Kohl. "This bill would close gaping loopholes in our current system of background checks by expanding nationwide a pilot program that has already proven successful in many states." 
   New Mexico has been part of a demonstration for such screening, as authorized under the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. That law established a seven-state pilot program that also included Alaska, Idaho, Illinois, Michigan, Nevada and Wisconsin. 
   "The pilot programs implemented in New Mexico and other states have shown that background checks can help ensure that those in long-term care are not exposed to people who would do them harm. I am pleased to co-sponsor this bill which will strengthen this program and help protect the most susceptible populations," Domenici said. 
   Under the bill, original pilot states like New Mexico, which have implemented pilot programs that aren't yet statewide, would be eligible to receive additional funding to expand their programs. (The New Mexico Department of Health received $1.1 million to enhance its Caregivers Criminal History Screening Program. http://dhi.health.state.nm.us/cchsp/grant_pactproject.php) 
   Starting in 2011, long-term care providers would be prohibited from hiring workers with a record of abuse or a disqualifying criminal history. Providers would also be able to bill Medicare and Medicaid for the cost of the national (FBI) checks. 
   The bill would prevent those with criminal histories from working within long-term care settings by establishing a nationwide system of background checks. This new system of background checks would coordinate abuse and neglect registries with state law enforcement registries, and also add a federal component to the background check by cross-referencing potential employees with the FBI's national database of criminal history records. 
   The Senate bill is supported by the Elder Justice Coalition, the National Citizen's Coalition for Nursing Home Reform, the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging, the AARP and other organizations.
 
 