SEN. DOMENICI ADDRESSES FISCAL 2008 DOE LAB BUDGET OUTLOOK ON KRSN RADIO-LOS ALAMOS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today assured New Mexicans that he will work to avoid the massive budget cuts to the national laboratories in New Mexico that were recommended this week by the House Appropriations Committee, especially the estimated $500 million in reductions targeted at Los Alamos National Laboratory.  
   Domenici today addressed the FY2008 funding outlook in an interview with David Sutton of KRSN-AM Radio in Los Alamos. 
   Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, said he is working with Subcommittee Chairman Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.) to ensure that the Senate's FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill does not follow the plan set out by the House of Representatives. 
   "It will be a real tough problem if they [the House] are able to pull this one off. I stand in the way of them pulling it off, I tell you," Domenici said. "We have got to do better than the House did. I'm going to try to my very best to do better. We have always done better. And we will probably, with hard work and the help of experts, do better." 
   Domenici predicted that the Department of Energy and Pentagon will analyze the House funding bill and determine that the House bill is not the right plan for maintaining the nation's nuclear deterrent. 
   "The [House] committee, if they go their way, we're going to have some very serious problems in the big areas of defense that Los Alamos has been a part of," Domenici said. "I'm sure we'll get support from the Secretary of Energy on that on the basis that without a viable pit capacity our nuclear deterrent is very vulnerable." 
   "This is about as serious a problem as we've seen, and it has the potential for affecting all New Mexico. It is a very big blow at Los Alamos. It's not the end, obviously. We have to go to work and make something come out of this that is different. But those who work ought to be working together up here because this is as very big New Mexico issue," he said. 
   The Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee is expected to markup its FY2008 appropriations bill during the week of June 25.
 
 