N.M. SENS. WORKING TO IMPROVE COMPENSATION PROGRAM FOR LAB WORKERS
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici have joined in introducing a measure that makes substantial improvements to a federal program that compensates former nuclear complex employees for work-related illnesses. 
   In 2000, Bingaman teamed up with then-Senator Fred Thompson (R-TN) to design the compensation program, called the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA). EEOICPA provides a one-time lump sum payment of $150,000 and continuing medical benefits to former DOE workers suffering from beryllium disease and radiation-induced cancers. It also requires DOE to determine whether former DOE employees exposed to other toxic substances were made ill, and to assist those workers in making cases to state workers' compensation boards.
   Currently, the Department of Labor (DOL) administers the program for employees who qualify for the lump sum payment, and DOE administers the program for all others. While DOL has steadily reviewed applications and issued checks, DOE has been making very slow progress.
   The senators have introduced an amendment with Jim Bunning (R-KY) and others that would shift the responsibility for processing all claims to DOL. Under the amendment, in addition to providing lump-sum payments to eligible workers as before, the federal government would begin compensating workers exposed to other toxic substances. The compensation amounts would be determined according to state compensation laws.
   "Congress created this program to compensate victims of the cold war. Unfortunately, DOE from the start has done a poor job processing claims and over the past four years it has not been able to iron out its problems. By contrast, the Department of Labor has developed a good track record. It makes sense to let that agency take on the processing of all claims," Bingaman said.
   "I am pleased to be able to help fix deficiencies in the original law intended to help DOE employees receive compensation for exposure to toxic substances," Domenici said. "As originally drafted, the dependence on state workers' compensation practices meant that many deserving claimants would find no 'willing payer' for their injuries. This new legislation will guarantee that workers' compensation benefits are promptly paid. The changes we are advocating should make the Energy Employment Occupational Illness Compensation Act work as originally intended."
   The amendment also aims to streamline the claims process by creating an Office of Ombudsman with DOL to assist with all matters ranging from claims to appeals; ensuring claimants have the opportunity to appeal negative decisions to a doctor; requiring DOE to continue gathering employment, exposure, facility and medical records; and requiring DOE to provide all data needed by DOL for claims processing.
   The amendment will be debated as part of the fiscal year 2005 Defense Authorization Bill.
 
 