SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES LONG-AWAITED AGREEMENT ON SAN ILDEFONSO PUEBLO LEGAL CLAIM
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised the successful culmination of a long-awaited settlement agreement between the San Ildefonso Pueblo and the U.S. Forest Service that involves a federal payment to the pueblo and securing Los Alamos County access to primary sources of water.  
   Parties to the agreement, including the U.S. Forest Service and Justice Department, signed the agreement Tuesday. The settlement to the San Ildefonso Pueblo's 7,700-acre ancestral land claim against the federal government-dating back to 1951-also involves agreements with the Santa Clara Pueblo and Los Alamos County. 
   The pact will require federal legislation to implement. Domenici, as a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, said he will file the necessary legislation and will push for its enactment. 
   "The San Ildefonso settlement has been a long time in getting here, but I am very pleased that all parties have reached a satisfactory conclusion to these talks. The agreement meets the needs of the Pueblo and it addresses many concerns related to Los Alamos County and its future," Domenici said. 
   "I applaud San Ildefonso and the Forest Service for working through these contentious talks and compromising to reach an agreement that is good for the future of the entire region," he said. 
   The agreement is the final settlement of the San Ildefonso claim that was filed under the 1946 Indian Claims Commission Act, which nationally involved more than 600 claims by tribes. 
   In general, the agreement will give the San Ildefonso Pueblo a payment that recognizes traditional and cultural values on federal property adjacent to pueblo lands, and that gives the pueblo an opportunity to gain other property from the Santa Fe National Forest. Santa Clara Pueblo has also negotiated the right to acquire certain properties. 
   For Los Alamos County, the pact is designed to guarantee it access to water wells and infrastructure, allow the county to purchase property for future economic development, and increase right-of-way passage during emergency situations. 
   The following is the text of a news announcement issued today by the U.S. Forest Service Southwestern Region: 
   Federal Government and Pueblo of San Ildefonso Reach Accord 
   Southwestern Regional Forester, Harv Forsgren announced that the Federal Government and the Pueblo of San Ildefonso, in New Mexico, have reached an historic settlement of longstanding litigation. The Pueblo had sued the Federal Government for taking over 63,000 acres of aboriginal lands, as well as other claims arising from historical dealings between the Pueblo and the Federal Government. The case, first brought in 1951, was the last pending litigation under the Indian Claims Commission Act of 1946. 
   If approved by the Congress and the United States Court of Federal Claims, the settlement would award the Pueblo with $6.9 million in damages in a global settlement of all the Pueblo's claims. Ratifying legislation would authorize several land transactions affecting the Pueblos of San Ildefonso and Santa Clara, Los Alamos County, and the Forest Service. The Pueblo of San Ildefonso would acquire approximately 7700 acres of Santa Fe National Forest lands adjacent to the Pueblo's current western boundary at a price based on market value. In addition, the Pueblo of Santa Clara would have an option to purchase 740 acres of land from the Santa Fe National Forest, adjacent to the Santa Clara Reservation. The money received from those sales would then be available to the Forest Service to buy replacement lands within New Mexico. 
   Under the proposed legislation ratifying the settlement, Los Alamos County would be able to purchase 6 tracts of land from the Santa Fe National Forest totaling approximately 422 acres. The County would acquire rights to the approximately 555 acres where its water wells are located, and would also secure a permanent right of way easement for State Highway 4 through Pueblo lands, as well as emergency access over the lower Guaje Canyon Road. 
   The legislation would permit Forest Service administrative access and private property access over portions of the Santa Clara Reservation. Long disputed boundaries between the Pueblos of Santa Clara and Ildefonso would also be resolved. 
   "This settlement will not only end a longstanding dispute between an Indian community and the Federal Government, but will also resolve issues among various public stakeholders including the County of Los Alamos, the Pueblo of Santa Clara, the Forest Service and the Department of Interior," said Forsgren. "That such a far reaching settlement can be reached among so many disparate parties is a tribute to the good faith efforts of all involved."
 
 