N.M. LAWMAKERS SEEK BETTER SECURITY ON STATE'S BORDER WITH MEXICO
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, with Rep. Steve Pearce, today strongly recommended that the federal Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) take action to increase security along New Mexico's international border, especially in the Luna County region.  
   The New Mexico lawmakers addressed growing constituent concerns about personal and property security on the border in a letter to CBP Commissioner Robert C. Bonner. The letter cites constituent claims that pleas for relief from the CBP have proven futile. 
   The request also follows a recent visit by congressional staff members to the Columbus area to review damaged areas. 
   "Daily, our constituents along New Mexico's southern border deal with illegal aliens who travel across their land, cutting their fences and damaging their property. Our constituents, who have first-hand knowledge of the situation, believe hundreds of illegal aliens cross into New Mexico this way every day," the letter to Bonner said. 
   "Our staffs traveled to Columbus, New Mexico, to review this situation and found that these concerns are valid. They noticed much destruction on private property along the border and were told by a U.S. rancher that he had been held at gunpoint by illegal immigrants one day," the lawmakers went on. "Despite their calls to local Customs and Border Protection (CBP) offices about these problems, our constituents rarely see border patrol agents canvassing this part of the state. This concerns us." 
   Despite the CBP plan to deploy about half the 244 new Border Patrol agents to be assigned to the El Paso Sector to New Mexico's southern border, the federal lawmakers recommended additional attention to the situation along the border. 
   "We believe this increase in manpower will help with this problem, but alone it is not enough," the letter said. "We ask that you fully investigate these reports and take whatever actions you deem necessary, such as increasing patrols in problem areas to protect private property and reduce the flow of illegal immigration, so that we can fully protect our international borders and secure our homeland." 
   Domenici serves on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, as well as the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   Pearce serves on the House Homeland Security Committee, and is the only member of that committee who represents a congressional district on the Mexican border.
 
 