SEN. DOMENICI WANTS SAFETY & PERSONNEL ASSURANCES WITH NEW MEXICAN TRUCK POLICIES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today sought assurances that safety will be a priority as the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) moves to implement a new policy to allow greater Mexican commercial truck traffic within the United States.  
   Domenici sought the assurances as the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee today conducted an oversight hearing regarding the DOT plan to broaden the scope of Mexican commercial trucking outside the existing 25-mile commercial zones on the Southwest Border. 
   "Commercial truck traffic is increasingly vital to cross border trade in New Mexico and across the Southwest Border. Allowing Mexican trucking companies that comply with all U.S. requirements to operate outside the 25-mile zone may bring greater benefits to both sides of the border," Domenici said. 
   "For this policy to work, all our coordinating federal agencies must ensure us that safety comes first, and that will mean certifiable and regular safety audits," Domenici said. "Ensuring safety on American highways must continue to be of the utmost importance." 
   Domenici has asked Mary E. Peters, U.S. Secretary of Transportation, to provide the subcommittee with information on how her department will ensure the safety of Mexican commercial trucks, the frequency of safety audits on Mexican trucks, and the number of Motor Carrier Safety Administration inspection teams that will be assigned to carry out safety audits. 
   The Senator also sought information on when the DOT would complete on-site safety audits of Mexican trucking companies. As part of this policy change, the U.S. Motor Carrier Safety Administration is being allowed access to Mexican trucking companies to conduct extensive inspections of Mexican trucking companies. The safety audits will include verification that Mexican trucks and truckers meet the same insurance and licensing requirements as American commercial trucks. 
   Under current law, Mexican trucks can only operate within the existing commercial zone. Cargo destined beyond that zone must be off-loaded and transferred, which results in higher costs for consumers.
 
 