SEN. DOMENICI SAYS EXPAND RENEWABLE ENERGY PORTFOLIO STANDARD TO INCLUDE NUCLEAR, OTHER RESOURCES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today affirmed his interest in including a clean and renewable portfolio standard in a bipartisan energy policy bill his Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will craft later this spring.  
   Domenici is chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee that today received testimony regarding diversification of power generation resources, including reviews of renewable portfolio standards (RPS) among separate states, and the cost and benefits of a federal RPS program. 
   At the hearing, Domenici advocated a broader view of the federal RPS issue, noting opposition in the House and within the Bush administration to a federally-mandated RPS that requires retail suppliers of electricity to obtain up to 10 percent of their electricity from renewable resources like wind, solar, geothermal and other traditional renewable energies. 
   "I think it's time to explore an expanded portfolio standard that would mandate a broader array of clean fuels. I think a portfolio standard should go beyond wind, solar and geothermal energy to include renewable energy like hydropower and clean alternatives such as coal gasification, clean coal, nuclear energy and, finally, credits for achieving new levels of efficiency and conservation," Domenici said. 
   "A National Generation Resource Diversity Standard should go beyond a special subset of traditional renewable energies. I want to aim higher. Let's capture the benefits of fuel diversification, technology development, climate change mitigation, energy independence, and overall energy savings because these benefits do not belong only to an RPS," he said. 
   Domenici noted that any new attempt at a federal standard must take into account the variant resources available in different regions of the country. While wind resources are abundant in states like New Mexico or Texas, they are scarce and costly in the southeast. A mandate that heavily favors wind could sharply drive up energy costs in that region. 
   "I consider unacceptable any federal program that forces ratepayers in one region to subsidize specially-favored resources from another region. I expect an energy bill to increase and diversify supply and stabilize energy prices-not drive up energy costs in one part of the country to subsidize energy in another region," Domenici said. "I also want to see a portfolio standard that balances fuel diversification and states' rights." 
   Nineteen states, including New Mexico, currently have their own RPS program tailored to their region. The New Mexico plan, for instance, requires that 6 percent of its power generation be from renewable sources, increasing to 10 percent by 2011. 
   Among those testifying today was Wayne Brunetti, chairman and CEO of Xcel Energy, a firm that is supporting the development of a new 120 megawatt wind farm near Elida.
 
 