SEN. DOMENICI: FED ANTI-DRUG OFFICE SHOULD HELP NEW MEXICO REGAIN ACCESS TO DRUG CONTROL FUNDS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today encouraged the Office of National Drug Control Policy to work with New Mexico to regain access to federal funds intended to help local law enforcement battle drug crimes associated with the Southwest Border. The ONDCP has suspended funding for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area program in New Mexico for repeatedly failing to comply with multiple federal guidelines over the past three years. These reportedly non-criminal infractions are related to not using HIDTA funding for core HIDTA purposes.  
   "This is a serious situation. Given its proximity to the U.S.-Mexico border, New Mexico is a primary gateway for international drug traffickers entering our country. That being the case, I have asked the Drug Control Policy Office to work with New Mexico HIDTA to resolve this situation as soon as possible," Domenici said. 
   The ONDCP has provided New Mexico HIDTA officials with a list of instructions with corrective action required within 90 days. If the state complies, the New Mexico program will not face a loss of funding. 
   "It is important that our HIDTA program gets back on track. Illicit drug trafficking severely impacts many of our communities and destroys the lives of hundreds of New Mexicans," Domenici said. 
   Currently, 16 counties are part of the HIDTA program in New Mexico, which is part of the Southwest Border HIDTA that also includes counties in Texas, Arizona and California. Last year, Domenici successfully convinced the ONDCP to add Sandoval, Valencia and Torrance counties--all surrounding the Albuquerque metropolitan area--to the HIDTA program. Other counties include: Bernalillo, Chaves, Do?a Ana, Eddy, Grant, Hidalgo, Lea, Lincoln, Luna, Otero, Rio Arriba, San Juan and Santa Fe. 
   The overall national HIDTA funding level for FY2007 is uncertain at this point under the continuing resolution funding plan approved by Congress in February. However, HIDTA has generally received about $220 million annually, and the New Mexico HIDTA has been allotted between $5.0 million and $7.0 million a year.
 
 