SEN. DOMENICI PLEDGES PUSH FOR NEW ORLEANS LEVEE FUNDING, AUTHORIZATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate subcommittee that will fund the Army Corps of Engineers reconstruction of the failed levees around New Orleans, today pledged to push for authorization and funding for the work as part of an overall supplemental appropriations package now making its way through Congress.  
   Domenici today took part in a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing to review President Bush's request for nearly $1.5 billion in supplemental funding for flood control and coastal restoration in southern Louisiana areas ravaged by Hurricane Katrina last August. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that has funding jurisdiction for the Army Corps of Engineers. 
   "I've studied the options and I will push the Senate to fully authorize and fund levee rebuilding work requested by the administration in the supplemental for Katrina recovery. Rebuilding this area is going to be a long process, but we must be diligent in doing our duty to see that the levee system is repaired and done right," Domenici said. 
   "There is a growing unease about the upcoming hurricane season and rightly so. But Congress should not be an impediment to this work," he said. 
   Domenici advised Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works John Paul Woodley to give the public accurate assessments about the state of the levee systems in areas damaged by Katrina, particularly following a critical National Academies of Science report that repairs are built on substandard soils. 
   "Congress and the public need to know what level of protection there will be in the New Orleans area as we enter the new storm season. At a minimum we need to restore the existing level of protection where possible. Congress provided an additional $544 million in the last supplemental to complete unfinished levees," Domenici said. 
   In the six months since Katrina slammed into the northern Gulf Coast, Congress has provided $3.3 billion for Army Corps of Engineers hurricane recovery efforts. About $2.7 billion of this funding has been directed toward Louisiana. 
   The new request for $1.5 billion for flood control work in the Louisiana area is part of an overall $92 billion supplemental package sought by the Bush administration to support the war in Iraq and global anti-terrorism activities.
 
 