SEN. DOMENICI JOINS BILL TO PROTECT DAIRIES & LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS FROM FRIVOLOUS SUPERFUND LAWSUITS
  Sen. Pete Domenici joined with Sen. Blanche Lincoln to introduce bipartisan legislation to clarify that livestock waste--already regulated by existing federal law--will not be subject to federal rules as toxic wastes.  
   Domenici said the Agricultural Protection and Prosperity Act of 2007 will clarify the intent of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA, more commonly known as the Superfund law) and its potential application to farms, dairies and other livestock operations. It is similar to legislation he introduced last July, and continues to be an important issue for New Mexico's growing dairy industry. 
   "This clarifies the original intent of CERCLA, and does nothing to change the current environmental laws that regulate agriculture, including livestock waste. Agriculture operations will still be subject to full scrutiny and strict standards set in the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts," Domenici said. "We offer this measure to protect the viability and competitiveness of our nation's livestock industry, including the burgeoning dairy industries in New Mexico and the Southwest." 
   "Farmers and ranchers have always been responsible stewards of the land and make great strides to preserve a healthy environment for food production as well as for their families and communities," said Lincoln, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "There is a growing understanding in this country, however, that without the clarification provided by our legislation, requirements and liability under CERCLA could be unfairly applied to America's farmers and ranchers both large and small." 
   The Lincoln-Domenici measure would clarify that CERCLA industrial and toxic pollutant standards are not applied to livestock operations. It would spell out that livestock emissions--already regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency through the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and other laws--may not be classified as industrial pollutants under CERCLA and the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA). 
   The Senate bill, just as a House counterpart bill also introduced today, would not affect state and local permitting and regulatory standards for farm and livestock operations. Instead, it would clarify that animal manure is not a toxic waste that would necessitate emergency response and the creation of a Superfund site under CERCLA and EPCRA. Domenici noted that this clarification is important to the growing dairy industry in New Mexico, and that applying CERCLA to these operations could have significant economic ramifications to dairy producers, alfalfa growers and implement suppliers. 
   New Mexico currently ranks seventh in the nation for milk production and eighth in cheese production. The states' approximately 180 dairies have the largest average herd size--1,600 to 1,700 cattle--in the nation. Dairies in 12 New Mexico counties (Chaves, Roosevelt, Curry, Do?a Ana, Lea, Eddy, Valencia, Socorro, Sierra, Bernalillo, Torrance and Luna) have an estimated $1.15 billion annual impact on the state's economy and generate about 17,000 dairy-related jobs in the state. (http://spectre.nmsu.edu/dept/docs/DAIR/NM_Dairy.pdf) 
   The Agricultural Protection and Prosperity Act of 2007 is cosponsored by a bipartisan group of nine Senators and 59 Representatives.
 
 