SEN. DOMENICI: ETHANOL KEY COMPONENT TO SHORT-TERM ANSWER TO U.S. ENERGY NEEDS
  In meeting with sorghum growers representing New Mexico, Sen. Pete Domenici today reiterated his message that expanding the use of ethanol is one of the near-term goals that can ease American dependence on foreign oil.  
   Domenici today met with Toby Bostwick of Melrose, N.M., and Tim Lust of Lubbock, Texas, the CEO of the National Sorghum Producers following an Energy and Natural Resources Committee business meeting during which the panel approved legislation allowing oil and gas exploration in Lease Sale 181 of the Gulf of Mexico. 
   Domenici indicated that Lease Sale 181 - with the potential for 930 million barrels of oil and 5-6 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of natural gas - and the expansion of ethanol use are realistic actions that nation can take to help itself out of reliance on Middle East energy. 
   "In the short term and over the next few years, most experts agree that the United States should quickly put as much private and public-sector resources as we can muster in the areas of ethanol and cellulosic ethanol. It could be the quickest way to convert from using gasoline derived from crude oil," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that Congress must now fund the National Energy Policy Act policies that would expand of the research into and use of ethanol. He said such initiatives could be useful in overcoming problems facing the ethanol industry, including infrastructure needs (E85 fueling pumps) and the development of more vehicles that use this fuel. 
   The Energy Policy Act established a new renewable fuel standard that requires the annual use of 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol and biomass by 2012. It also expanded the small ethanol producer tax credit and created a similar agri-biodiesel credit. The law authorized over $2 billion for biofuels development and established several programs to create and expand the market for cellulosic ethanol. 
   "I'm pleased that the expanded ethanol plant in Portales is part of this answer to our national need for more domestic energy. It is a very positive force for the economy of the High Plains, and ethanol overall should continue to be in High Plains region," Domenici said. 
   Domenici last August attended the grand opening of the expanded Abengoa Bioenergy Corp. ethanol plant in Portales that can produce 30 million gallons of ethanol annually. The plant is projected to require $28 million in sorghum and grain purchases a year and adds millions to the local economy through grain deliveries, co-product sales, supplies and services. 
   New Mexico farmers in 2004 produced about 4.23 million bushels of grain sorghum worth nearly $8.3 million. A single bushel of grain sorghum or corn will produce 2.8 gallons of ethanol. Unlike corn however, it takes about a third less water to produce a bushel of grain sorghum, which is important in arid states like New Mexico. Leading grain sorghum counties in New Mexico include Curry, Roosevelt, Quay, Union, Chaves, Do?a Ana and Luna.
 
 