SEN. DOMENICI 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW-QUESTIONS, ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, May 8, 2006.
   PARTICIPANTS:
   * Larry Moehlenbrink, KKOB Albuquerque
   * John McBreen, KYVA Gallup
   * Dennis Domzralski, KAGM Albuquerque 
   * Bill Donati, KRTN Raton
   * Angie Vigil, KNMX Las Vegas
   REVIEW:
   00:00 - Domenici says that based on what he knows now he believes Gen. Michael Hayden, the President's nominee to lead the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is well qualified to lead the agency. He says he looks forward to learning more during the confirmation process.
   01:19 - Domenici says he says CIA directors have been described as "being great" and says this position is important for keeping the United States ahead of the intelligence gathering race.
   02:27 - Domenici says he believed former CIA Director Porter Goss was doing a good job, but has not heard much speculation on why Goss resigned the position. He says the reason may be related to reasons not associated with the placement of the CIA under National Director of Intelligence.
   03:43 - Domenici says he initially thought the Porter Goss resignation was an indication that the CIA-NID merger wasn't going well, but he says he is not hearing that the merge has been a huge problem.
   05:26 - Domenici says he wants the Senate to pass strong border control and immigration reform legislation. He says that under a plan being considered, all the illegal immigrants now rushing across the border will be forced to go home. He says the federal government should not delay in acting now to control the border.
   06:57 - Domenici says he supports giving the President the authority to get with automobile manufactures and other technical experts to set new CAFE standards to improve vehicle mileage. He said it should be done as part of a new energy conservation and production package and not as a stand-alone measure.
   08:47 - Domenici says he and Senator Bingaman have a very good argument to oppose a legislative effort to give the Massachusetts governor the right to block wind energy projects off the coast. He says the standard set in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 is fair to everyone and no one state should be given preferential or special treatment is wrong.
   11:04 - Domenici outlines the drought assistance aid approved by the Senate as part of a large emergency supplemental appropriations bill, including $5.0 million in USDA funding to help drought-affected communities haul water and carry out other projects. 
  13:10 - Domenici says the source of water to supply communities will determined if Congress enacts the bill with the drought money. He says that the drought aid could be cut from the bill during House-Senate talks to finalize the bill. He says the drought aid needed and would directly benefit New Mexico.
   14:45 - Domenici says he is ready to pressure new Interior Secretary-nominee Dirk Kempthorne to be more involved in resolving three pending Indian water settlements in New Mexico-the Aamodt, Abeyta, and Navajo settlements. He says the federal government is in a tough situation in terms of helping pay the estimated $1.0 billion needed to settle the cases. He says the state and other parties must also be more realistic about their contributions.
   17:38 - Domenici says he does not believe the United States should build one wall along the Mexican border, but reiterates that the U.S. government can and should take action to do other work to secure the border. He notes that he cosponsored a $1.9 billion border security amendment to the emergency supplemental appropriations bill that should direct new funding to the El Paso Sector for new equipment, targeted fencing and other activities.
   20:31 - Domenici says new filibuster threats against federal judicial nominees could fizzle if the so-called "Gang of 14" Senators determines that these nominations should move forward.
   Audio Clip at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
   (Audio also available at 1-800-545-1267 ext. 309).
 
 