BILL TO IMPROVE LAB WORKER COMPSENATION PROGRAM IS NOW LAW, MEASURE ALSO BOLSTERS RECA
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today reported that a plan they helped write to substantially improve a compensation program for former Department of Energy (DOE) nuclear complex workers suffering from work-related illnesses is now law.  
   Four years ago, Bingaman teamed up with then-Senator Fred Thompson (R-Tenn.) to design the plan, called Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA). EEOICPA provides one-time lump sum payments of $150,000 and continuing medical coverage to former DOE workers suffering from beryllium disease and radiation-induced cancers. Until now it required DOE to determine whether former DOE employees exposed to other toxic substances were made ill, and to assist those workers in making cases to state workers' compensation boards. 
   Under the current law, the Department of Labor (DOL) administers the program for employees who qualify for the lump sum payment, and DOE administers the program for all others. While DOL has steadily reviewed applications and issued checks, DOE has been making very slow progress. 
   The fiscal year 2005 Defense Authorization Bill, which was signed into law on Oct. 28, contains an amendment written by the New Mexico's senators, Senator Jim Bunning (R-Ky.) and others that shifts the responsibility for processing all claims to DOL. Under the amendment, in addition to providing lump-sum payments to eligible workers as before, the federal government would begin compensating workers exposed to other toxic substances, instead of being routed to state compensation boards for a lengthy hearing. 
   Under the new proposal, the entire EEOICPA program is now considered an entitlement program. That means, along with Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, it will automatically be funded to cover all the program's expenses and will no longer be subject to the annual appropriations process. 
   "Under this new law, it will be easier for former DOE workers to apply for compensation, and easier for the federal government to issue compensation checks. Finally, former DOE workers whose service to the country made them sick will get the compensation they deserve," Bingaman said. 
   "Because the Defense Authorization Bill has now been signed into law by President Bush, former DOE workers and their families who suffered work-related illnesses will be compensated swiftly and accordingly. For too long now these payments have been stalled and hindered by bureaucratic red tape," Domenici said. "With the enactment of this law, New Mexico will benefit from many special provisions such as the provisions for RECA and EEOICPA." 
   The proposal streamlines the claims process by creating an Office of Ombudsman within DOL to assist with all matters ranging from claims to appeals; ensures claimants have the opportunity to appeal negative decisions to a doctor; requires DOE to continue gathering employment, exposure, facility and medical records; and requires DOE to provide all data needed by DOL for claims processing. In addition, compensation is provided according to a uniform schedule based on the degree of disability and lost wages, which will speed up the process. 
   Additionally, the plan will allow surviving spouses and children who were minor at the time of death to apply for compensation in the amount of $125,000, $150,000 or $175,000, depending on the degree of work-related illness. 
   Recognizing that millers, miners and transporters also suffered serious illness from their exposure to the uranium needed to make nuclear weapons during the cold war, the federal government in 1990 set up a compensation program called the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA). Originally, eligible workers were entitled to $100,000. When Congress created EEOICPA in 2000, Bingaman and others fought to increase RECA payments $150to,000 to be on par with EEOICPA payments. 
   Unfortunately, the RECA fund has been plagued by a shortage of funding, and has had to resort to issuing IOUs instead of checks. To avoid that problem, RECA has been moved under the umbrella of EEOICPA, which guarantees it will automatically have enough funding to cover all compensation checks. 
   "RECA has not worked as well as it should have. In the past, when the program has run out of funding, the federal government has resorted to issuing IOUs instead of compensation checks. Because of the changes made in the law, that will thankfully no longer be the case," Bingaman said. 
   "DOE workers living with the effects of years of health hazards will not have to worry about delayed checks or IOUs any longer. This law ensures that funds will be available when New Mexicans are ready for their checks," said Domenici, who was instrumental in the creation and funding of the RECA program, legislation to pay all the IOUs, and a 2001 amendment that made RECA payments "mandatory."
 
 