SEN. DOMENICI TO CO-CHAIR JOINT HEARING ON ENERGY PRICES, CORPORATE PROFITS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said he wants a "frank and open exchange" when the energy company executives appear before a joint Senate committee hearing Wednesday to give testimony on energy prices and corporate profits.  
   Domenici will co-chair the hearing as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) is chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee and will also preside over the hearing. 
   The hearing is slated for 9:30 a.m. (EST), Wednesday, Nov. 9, in Dirksen Room 106. 
   "The American people need answers. I hope this hearing is a frank and open exchange, and that we get some answers," Domenici said. 
   The first panel will hear testimony from the chief executive officers of major integrated oil and gas companies. The CEOs will discuss the record prices of oil, gasoline and natural gas and factors affecting those prices. They will discuss third-quarter 2005 corporate profits and are expected to answer questions on a variety of issues including global demand, resource development strategies and windfall profits taxes. 
   The Energy and Commerce committees will recess for lunch at approximately 12:30 p.m. and reconvene the joint hearing at 2:00 p.m. The second panel will hear testimony from the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. These witnesses will discuss the effectiveness of federal and state consumer protection laws designed to prevent occurrences of price gouging during supply disruptions. 
   Invited Witnesses Include: 
   * PANEL I: Lee Raymond, chairman and CEO, Exxon Mobile Corp.; David O'Reilly, chairman and CEO, Chevron Corp.; James Mulva, chairman and CEO, ConocoPhillips; Ross Pillari, president and CEO, BP America; and, John Hofmeister, president and U.S. Country chair, Shell Oil Co. 
   * PANEL II: Deborah Platt Majoras, chairman, Federal Trade Commission, New Jersey Attorney General Peter C. Harvey, South Carolina Attorney General Henry McMaster, and, Arizona Attorney General Terry Goddard.
 
 