SEN. DOMENICI VOTES TO OVERRIDE WATER BILL VETO, BRING RESOURCES TO N.M. FOR WATER PROJECTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today voted with the Senate to override President Bush's veto of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), a bill that will direct federal dollars to New Mexico for water and environmental projects on the Rio Grande in New Mexico. 
   The Senate today voted 79-14, exceeding the two-thirds majority vote needed to override the veto and enact the bill over the President's objections. The House took similar action Tuesday.
   WRDA (HR.1495) authorizes appropriations for water resource projects and studies for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. It has been seven years since WRDA was last renewed.
   "Overriding this veto was the right thing to do. A new WRDA law is needed in New Mexico and around the country. This new law, for which we've waited years and years, will clear the way for federal funding to move ahead with bosque restoration and flood control in the greater Albuquerque area," said Domenici, who is ranking member on the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds WRDA-authorized projects.
   Domenici included provisions in WRDA authorizing the Corps to continue its participation in:
   * Middle Rio Grande bosque restoration ($25 million federal);
   * Albuquerque South Valley flood control projects ($16.15 million federal, $8.69 million nonfederal); and
   * Overall Rio Grande environmental restoration in New Mexico, Colorado and Texas ($15 million federal).
   "I have long envisioned the rehabilitation and restoration of the bosque. I want to ensure that this extraordinary riparian corridor is preserved for generations to come--not only for generations of humans, but for the diverse plant and animal species that reside in the bosque as well," continued Domenici, who began pushing for federal bosque restoration work in 1991.
   Within the Senate's FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, Domenici included $10.0 million for WRDA Section 595 projects like the North and South Valley flood control works, and $4.0 million for Rio Grande bosque restoration.
 
 