NEW MEXICO SENATORS GAIN APPROVAL FOR $10 MILLION FUND TO COMPENSATE NORTHERN NEW MEXICO HISPANIC HOMESTEADERS
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman have gained authorization for a $10 million program to settle outstanding claims by Hispanic homesteaders in the Los Alamos areas whose lands were acquired during World War II for the Manhattan Project.  
   The New Mexico lawmakers authored language in the Senate-passed version of the FY2005 Defense Authorization Bill to create the program. A conference committee convened to reconcile differences in the Senate and House versions of the bill agreed to keep the Domenici-Bingaman language in the final bill. 
   The language authorizes $10 million for a Pajarito Plateau Homesteaders Compensation Fund dedicated to the settlement of the two lawsuits in the U.S. District Court in New Mexico. 
   "The plight of the homesteaders has been long and troublesome. Because of language and cultural barriers, they were not dealt with fairly when their lands were taken for a project that would ultimately change the world. We want to settle outstanding claims and provide a measure of closure to the hurts caused by those land transactions so many years ago," Domenici said. "I'm pleased the House negotiators have agreed to our Senate language. The authorization of this program now allows me to fund the program through the Energy Department." 
   "This settlement resolves years of litigation, recognizing the special circumstances under which these families were removed from their land to make way for the top-secret Manhattan Project," Bingaman said. "I am pleased that we can finally close this case after all of these years." 
   The Pajarito Plateau fund is intended to be used to settle outstanding claims derived from acquisition of land for the Manhattan Project in what is now Los Alamos County. Land owned by Hispanic homesteaders made up about 70 percent of property bought for Los Alamos National Laboratory. However, the federal government underpaid the homesteaders for their property at the time, especially in comparison to payments made to property owners represented by legal counsel. 
   The history of underpayment in the initial offers from the U.S. government for lands taken in the Manhattan Project is extensive. The legacy of the homesteaders' buyout has festered in New Mexico for six decades and has resulted in suits which are now consolidated in U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico as Civ. No. 00-60. 
   Of the total $414,000 funds appropriated for lands take to create Los Alamos National Laboratory in the 1940s, the Ranch School and Anchor Ranch received $367,000. The Ranch School was paid $225 per acre for land alone, while the Hispanic homesteaders received between $7 and $15 for land and personal property. 
   The FY2005 Defense Authorization Bill now requires final approval in both the House and Senate before it can be forwarded to President Bush. It is unknown whether final votes will occur before Congress recesses for the fall elections or during a subsequent lame duck session. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Energy Department and will be responsible for providing the actual monies to fund the settlement program. Work to complete the FY2005 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill is expected later this year.
 
 