SENS. BINGAMAN, DOMENICI PLAN TO IMPROVE LAB WORKER COMPENSATION BILL FINALIZED; MEASURE ALSO BOLSTERS RECA PROGRAM
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today won final Congressional support for a plan that substantially improves a compensation program for former Department of Energy (DOE) nuclear complex workers suffering from work-related illnesses.  
   Four years ago, Bingaman teamed up with then-Senator Fred Thompson (R-Tenn.) to design the plan, called Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA). EEOICPA provides one-time lump sum payments of $150,000 and continuing medical coverage to former DOE workers suffering from beryllium disease and radiation-induced cancers. Until now it required DOE to determine whether former DOE employees exposed to other toxic substances were made ill, and to assist those workers in making cases to state workers' compensation boards. 
   Under the current law, the Department of Labor (DOL) administers the program for employees who qualify for the lump sum payment, and DOE administers the program for all others. While DOL has steadily reviewed applications and issued checks, DOE has been making very slow progress. 
   The fiscal year 2005 Defense Authorization Bill, which now requires final congressional approval before it can be forwarded to the President, contains an amendment written by the New Mexico's senators, Senator Jim Bunning (R-Ky.) and others that shifts the responsibility for processing all claims to DOL. Under the amendment, in addition to providing lump-sum payments to eligible workers as before, the federal government would begin compensating workers exposed to other toxic substances, instead of being routed to state compensation boards for a lengthy hearing. 
   Under the new proposal, the entire EEOICPA program is now considered an entitlement program. That means, along with Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, it will automatically be funded to cover all the program's expenses and will no longer be subject to the annual appropriations process. 
   "The changes approved today will make a big difference in the lives of former DOE workers whose jobs at DOE made them ill. This proposal was written to streamline the application process, and to make it easier for the federal government to write compensation checks," Bingaman said. "This is good news for the former lab workers who helped get us through the cold war. I believe it will go a long way toward accomplishing the goal set out by former state Rep. Ray Ruiz." 
   "Congress established this program to help those workers whose lives have been damaged through their high-risk work with DOE. It has been unacceptable that the program has been managed in such a dysfunctional manner. This change should correct that problem so that these workers can be compensated as Congress intended," Domenici said. 
   The proposal streamlines the claims process by creating an Office of Ombudsman within DOL to assist with all matters ranging from claims to appeals; ensures claimants have the opportunity to appeal negative decisions to a doctor; requires DOE to continue gathering employment, exposure, facility and medical records; and requires DOE to provide all data needed by DOL for claims processing. In addition, compensation is provided according to a uniform schedule based on the degree of disability and lost wages, which will speed up the process. 
   Additionally, the plan will allow surviving spouses and children who were minor at the time of death to apply for compensation in the amount of $125,000, $150,000 or $175,000, depending on the degree of work-related illness. 
   Recognizing that millers, miners and transporters also suffered serious illness from their exposure to the uranium needed to make nuclear weapons, the federal government in 1990 set up a compensation program called the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA). Originally, eligible workers were entitled to $100,000. When Congress created EEOICPA in 2000, Bingaman and others fought to increase RECA payments $150to,000 to be on par with EEOICPA payments. 
   Unfortunately, the RECA fund has been plagued by a shortage of funding, and has had to resort to issuing IOUs instead of checks. To avoid that problem, RECA has been moved under the umbrella of EEOICPA, which guarantees it will automatically have enough funding to cover all compensation checks. 
   "This is a major improvement to RECA because the program is on the verge of running out of funding once again. Under this plan, eligible millers, miners and transporters will be getting compensation checks, not excuses, from the federal government," Bingaman said. 
   "This is a wonderful change for our miners in New Mexico, who will not longer have to worry about IOUs. This effectively ensures that the money needed to cut RECA checks will be there," said Domenici, who was instrumental in the creation and funding of the RECA program, legislation to pay all the IOUs, and a 2001 amendment that made RECA payments "mandatory."
 
 