NEW MEXICO CELEBRATES HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH
  From Sept. 15 - Oct. 15, Hispanic Americans in New Mexico and across the United States are celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month. I cosponsored a resolution in the Senate, which was unanimously passed, to designate this time of recognition, and to celebrate the contributions the Hispanic community has made to American life and culture. 
   There is no denying the strength and impact of Hispanic Americans, who are now more than forty million strong. In New Mexico, forty-four percent of the total population is made up of people of Hispanic decent, which according to the Census Bureau, is the largest proportion of any state in the Union. What has truly been remarkable to me over the years is the extent to which the Hispanic community has thrived in every facet of civic life.
   In the areas of science, medicine, sport, art, business, and public service, the various achievements of the Hispanic community are immeasurable. This year, Hispanic Business magazine celebrated its 25th anniversary by profiling 500 of the largest Hispanic-owned companies in the United States, a nearly tenfold increase from the magazine's initial listing in 1982. These companies boast total revenues of $36.6 billion, which is a sizable contribution to the American economy.
   Twenty-five of these top-ranked companies join me in calling New Mexico their home. In fact, Hispanics in New Mexico today lead a growing number of firms that help set the pace for a growing economy in our state, and many of them are firms involving high technology, construction, and service industries.
   Hispanics are also leaving their imprint on the world of entertainment through sports and the arts. Of the athletes currently playing in the National Football League, 24 players are of Hispanic descent. These players are represented on 16 teams across the country, and during a recent football matchup, Grammy winners Gloria Estefan and the musical group Ozomatli performed the national anthem at the halftime show in honor of this month's celebration.
   I encourage all New Mexicans to take this opportunity to remember all of the areas of our society that have been influenced by the Hispanic community. I would also like you to recall the sacrifices Hispanics have made to preserve the liberties and freedom that make America a beacon of hope to millions around the world. These men and women have stood up as proud Americans and volunteered to protect their families and communities during the global war on terror. Our Nation is stronger because of these men and women. They deserve the gratitude of the Nation for their sacrifices.
   The tradition of Hispanic Heritage Month dates back almost 40 years. In 1968, Congress started by designating a week to celebrate Hispanic heritage. I call on the American people to join with all children, families, organizations, communities, churches, cities, and States across the Nation to observe the month with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
 
 