FINAL DEFENSE POLICY BILL INCLUDES SEN. DOMENICI'S PROVISIONS ADDRESSING LOS ALAMOS SCHOOL FUNDING, LAND TRANSFER
  Negotiators working to finalize a defense policy bill have agreed to include a provision authored by Sen. Pete Domenici authorizing continued Energy Department funding to the Los Alamos Public School District.  
   Senate and House negotiators have finalized the FY2005 Defense Authorization Bill, agreeing to keep the Los Alamos schools amendment-cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman-which the Senate accepted last May. Conferees also agreed to keep another Domenici amendment directing the DOE to transfer two parcels within TA-21, amounting to 32.5 acres, to the school district. 
   The language directs the Department of Energy to modify the management and operating contract for Los Alamos National Laboratory to permanently provide $8.0 million annually to the Los Alamos Public School District to support public elementary and secondary education. The directive applied to the existing contract and any future contracts. 
   "I am very happy that we are now giving the Los Alamos schools certainty in knowing that DOE will consistently provide funding to support public education. The lab relies on the Los Alamos schools to provide its workers with a solid education. It's a selling point for ensuring that the best scientists will work in Los Alamos," Domenici said. "I am pleased the House conferees agreed to accept my language to provide ensure this support into the future." 
   "These proposals will ensure that Los Alamos schools maintain their standard of excellence, which in turn helps the laboratory continue attracting top talent," Bingaman said. 
   The conferees also accepted a Domenici amendment that will effectively accelerate the development of DOE property in Los Alamos, as originally authorized in a 1998 law. The amendment would give the Los Alamos schools parcel A-8 (25 acres) and A-15-1 (7.5 acres) within TA-21. The property was originally intended for Los Alamos County. 
   "It is my expectation that the school district will be motivated to expedite development of this property. It will be good for the schools and the county to see this property developed as quickly as possible," Domenici said. "Los Alamos desperately needs more commercial development and this property is well suited for that purpose." 
   Parcel A-8 is expected to be used by the schools and county as a site for a joint warehouse and school administrative offices, with room for commercial development. The development of A-8 will free up prime real estate on Trinity Drive, now occupied by the schools' administrative offices, for development. Parcel A-15-1 is zoned light-industry and could be of interest for a variety of uses, including office space. 
   The FY2005 Defense Authorization Bill now requires final approval in both the House and Senate before it can be forwarded to President Bush. It is unknown whether final votes will occur before Congress recesses for the fall elections or during a subsequent lame duck session. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Energy Department. Work to complete the FY2005 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill is expected later this year.
 
 