FEMA DIRECTOR TO SEN. DOMENICI: OTERO COUNTY FLOOD VICTIMS ELIBIGLE FOR INDIVIDUAL AID; NINE MORE COUNTIES ADDED TO DISASTER AREA
  A day after getting personal assurances from the head of FEMA, Sen. Pete Domenici today learned that the agency has agreed to provide individual assistance to flood disaster victims in Otero County, as well as extend the presidential disaster declaration to nine new counties across the state. 
   Homeland Security Undersecretary for Federal Emergency Management R. David Paulison informed Domenici by telephone Friday of the decision to amend the disaster designation initially issued Aug. 30. FEMA's decision will make individual business and homeowners in Otero County eligible for federal aid for damage caused by severe storms and flooding since late June. Under the original presidential declaration issued Aug. 30, Otero County was eligible for public assistance, which is awarded to governmental entities.
   In addition, FEMA today granted the state of New Mexico's request for FEMA public assistance to the following nine counties: Grant, Guadalupe, Harding, Hidalgo, Mora, Sandoval, San Miguel, Sierra and Torrance. The original Aug. 30 declaration covered Do?a Ana, Luna, Valencia, Otero, Socorro, Lincoln and Cibola counties.
   "The seemingly relentless monsoon season we've experienced this summer has caused significant cumulative damage throughout the state, and FEMA's decision to expand the disaster declaration is very much welcomed and appreciated," Domenici said. "This is very good news for flood victims in Otero County, as well as for residents in counties stretching across the state."
   "I am very grateful to FEMA Director Paulison for his prompt attention to our needs in New Mexico, and I hope that his action will speed our recovery from these storms," he said.
   Paulison gave Domenici his personal assurance that he would look into New Mexico's onoing flood recovery needs when he testified Thursday before the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. At the hearing, Domenici had asked Paulison to consider the cumulative effect of the summer storm season rather than individual instances of severe storms or flooding.
   Paulison testified that FEMA is working closely with the state of New Mexico and that the agency would do everything it can legally do to assist the impacted communities.
 
 