SEN. DOMENICI PRESENTS LIFETIME ACHIEVEMENT AWARD TO DR. CRISTINA BEATO, FORMER UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO MEDICAL SCHOOL OFFICIAL
  As part of a summit here to study health issues among Hispanic women, Sen. Pete Domenici this week presented Rear Admiral Cristina V. Beato, M.D., formerly with the University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center, with a "Lifetime Achievement in Health Award."  
   Beato is the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Health for the Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Domenici, who initially recommended Beato to the Bush administration in 2001, presented Beato the award at a National Health Summit hosted by the National Latina Health Network (NLHN). 
   "I am very proud of my friend, Dr. Cristina Beato, and what she has accomplished. She has dedicated her entire career to working to improve the health and well being of individuals, families and communities. Cristina has been a tireless advocate in the battle to eliminate health disparities among the poor and uninsured," Domenici said. 
   "Her contributions as a medical doctor, a community leader, and a public servant have improved our society and inspired others," he said. 
   The "Latina Leaders for Health" summit, which ends today, gathered public, private and direct service providers of healthcare from across the country to develop recommendations for advancing public policies to improve Hispanic health care and quality of life. (http://www.nlhn.net/) 
   Before joining the Bush administration, Beato was the Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs and Medical Director at the University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center. At UNM, Beato also served as medical director for the New Mexico Youth Diagnostic and Development Center, Department of Children, Youth, and Families, and as an emergency room physician at the Veteran's Administration Hospital in Albuquerque. 
   Beato earned a Bachelor of Science in Chemistry and Biology from UNM and a Doctor of Medicine from the UNM School of Medicine in 1984. She is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Family Physicians.
 
 