SEN. DOMENICI ASKS JUSTICE DEPARTMENT TO HELP ENSURE FAIR, HONEST ELECTION IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today asked the U.S. Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights R. Alexander Acosta to look into ways that the federal government might help insure a fair and honest election in New Mexico this November.  
   Domenici said he was "dismayed and disappointed" in a decision by a New Mexico judge to dismiss a lawsuit on illegal voter registration and voter identification requirements earlier this week. In his letter to the Justice Department, Domenici cited growing concerns about questionable practices to register new voters in New Mexico. 
   "The 2004 General Election is quickly approaching, and I write to request your assistance to ensure that when the legally registered voters of New Mexico cast their ballots, they will do so with the knowledge that the United States and the State of New Mexico have done everything possible to ensure the fall election will be fair," Domenici wrote Acosta. 
   "While no one can argue against the laudable goal of increasing voter registration, legally registered voters must be assured that they are not being disenfranchised in the process," he wrote. "I know you share my concern for ensuring that all New Mexicans and their families can participate in our democracy with ease. Consequently, I would request that you take all legal and appropriate measures available to ensure a smooth and fair election." 
   In his correspondence, Domenici cited accounts detailing problematic voter registrations including thousands of incomplete forms in Bernalillo County alone and accounts that minors have received registered voter cards in the mail. 
   He also called attention to the New Mexico Secretary of State's recent interpretation of a new state law to address the potential of "fraud against legally registered voters." The law in question pertains to first time voter registration and in particular requires applicants to present identification if they do not register in person. 
   "The New Mexico Secretary of State has inexplicably turned this clear and unambiguous requirement on its head. The Secretary has created an exception to the law that can only be described as an open invitation for trouble," Domenici wrote. 
   Under the Secretary of State's interpretation, Domenici said "individuals not registering in person, no longer must present identification. Instead, any third party registering voters may now submit one voter registration or hundreds of voter registrations simply by acting as surrogates." 
   A state judge on Tuesday moved to uphold the Secretary of State's interpretation of the law. 
   "I am dismayed and disappointed with this ruling. It clearly keeps open the prospect that New Mexicans may not be assured that this fall's election will be fair," Domenici said.
 
 