SEN. DOMENICI, REP. PEARCE URGE FOREST SERVICE TO MOVE PAST LANEY CASE, REBUILD COOPERATIVE RELATIONSHIP WITH RANCHERS
  With a final resolution to the Kit Laney case in sight, Sen. Pete Domenici and Rep. Steve Pearce today urged the U.S. Forest Service to position itself toward rebuilding a working and cooperative relationship with New Mexico livestock producers.  
   The two New Mexico lawmakers Wednesday issued statements related to the case of Kit Laney, the southwest New Mexico rancher who has butted heads for years with the Forest Service over cattle allotments permitted within portions of the Gila National Wilderness. Legal advisers earlier this month indicated that Laney will admit guilt to misdemeanor charges related to a March incident with Forest Service officials. 
   Domenici and Pearce today said the Forest Service should advocate leniency for Laney as this case is resolved as a means of rebuilding a strong relationship with livestock producers throughout the state who have grazing permits on federal forest lands. 
   "The end of the Laney case gives the Forest Service a window of opportunity to begin improving its relationship with permitees. The acrimonious atmosphere generated by the Laney situation is not helpful to the Forest Service or livestock producers. All parties are under a lot of stress. The Forest Service is under pressure to manage the forests better and catch up with its permit renewal process. Ranching has never been easy, and the drought has only made it harder," Domenici said. 
   "It should not have come to this point, but now let's put this sad ordeal behind us and move on. I'm certain there are more important cases for the U.S. Attorney's office to be working on that are affecting our community," Pearce said. 
   On March 31, Pearce requested an investigation by the U.S. Department of Agriculture into the handling of this matter by the U.S. Forest Service. The Forest Service is expected to conduct an internal investigation into the handling of the Laney grazing case. 
   Under existing law through 2008-based on language originally authored by Domenici-the Secretaries of Interior and Agriculture are required to renew expiring grazing permits under existing terms and conditions until the processing of a permit or lease is complete. The pending Senate version of the FY2005 Interior Appropriations Bill provides an additional $6.6 million to the Forest Service for a total of $50 million for grazing management activities.
 
 