SEN. DOMENICI ACKNOWLEDGES HARDSHIP IN MAKING UP $100 MILLION LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY CLEANUP BUDGET SHORTFALL
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today acknowledged the uphill battle to make up the estimated $100 million in environmental cleanup funding needed at Los Alamos National Laboratory in FY2009, but said he still intends to try to boost the Department of Energy's Environmental Management (EM) budget. 
   Domenici is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that today conducted a hearing to review the FY2009 budget requests for the DOE Office of Environmental Management and Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management.
   Domenici has been critical of the proposed $5.53 billion EM budget offered by the White House in February, which is $167 million lower than FY2008 funding. Within this budget, $162.4 million, a $10 million increase is recommended for defense cleanup work at LANL. Another $1.9 million was outlined for non-defense cleanup activities.
   "This budget again fails to provide adequate funding to meet the milestones negotiated between DOE and the state of New Mexico for cleanup at Los Alamos. Each year, the gap grows and I must seek funding to close it. This year, I am not confident that I will be able to find $100 million needed to keep the cleanup in compliance with the agreement you negotiated," Domenici said.
   James Rispoli, DOE Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management, testified that DOE expects to miss at least three of the cleanup milestones established in a Consent Agreement with the state of New Mexico, and that subsequent fines assessed by the New Mexico Environment Department would be paid by either DOE or a contractor.
   "I encourage DOE and the state of New Mexico to work closely and in a productive fashion to identify and prioritize cleanup projects under the difficult budget scenario that might not get better. And because the milestones will be missed because of ongoing budget shortfalls, DOE and not LANL should pay the subsequent fines," Domenici said.
   Asked by Domenici about concerns within NMED that DOE may want to renegotiate or weaken the terms of the Consent Agreement, Rispoli said DOE regularly confers with states when it is apparent that cleanup goals will be missed and that the department works with states to negotiate "risk reprioritization" of cleanup projects to address the most critically important within funding limitations.
   The FY2009 defense EM budget request for LANL would continue shipments of contact-handled transuranic waste to the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant and the start of field work to retrieve remote-handled waste, as well as groundwater and soil investigations and remediation activities per the New Mexico Consent Order. The increase supports development of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Facility Investigations and begins decontamination and decommissioning of three facilities at Technical Area-21 and Material Disposal Area T.
   The $1.9 million non-defense EM request for LANL, the same level as FY2008, would be used to continue surveillance and maintenance at the Tritium System Test Facility.
 
 