SEN. DOMENICI CHASTISES DOE FOR PROPOSED 10 PERCENT BUDGET CUT AT WASTE ISOLATION PILOT PLANT
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today chastised the Department of Energy for its proposed 10 percent cut to the operating budget at the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant near Carlsbad, asserting that the $23 million cutback will ultimately affect the ability of other DOE sites to meet environmental cleanup goals. 
   Domenici is ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee which today conducted a hearing to review the FY2009 budget requests for the DOE Office of Environmental Management (EM) and Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management.
   Domenici pledged to try to fully fund WIPP within the FY2009 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill the subcommittee will soon begin to develop. The White House has proposed $5.53 billion overall for EM, $167 million lower than FY2008 funding. Within this budget, the administration's budget outlined $211.5 million for WIPP, compared to the $234.5 million provided by Congress for FY2008.
   "I believe DOE has underfunded the critical operations at WIPP," Domenici said. "The proposed 10 percent cut will reduce the rate of waste shipments to WIPP. Slowing waste transfers to WIPP means that the material will remain where it was created and delivery milestones will be missed. I am concerned that it will make it harder for facilities like Los Alamos National Laboratory to meet their cleanup milestones."
   Domenici noted that WIPP is operating at full capacity, processing an average of 26 waste shipments per week. As of this month, WIPP has received over 6,500 waste shipments. Transuranic (TRU) waste removal has been completed at 13 sites, most recently the Brookhaven National Laboratory in New York.
   "This level of activity helps to ensure that sites such as Idaho National Laboratory and LANL meet state-mandated milestones for the removal of TRU waste," Domenici said. "This budget cuts the number of waste shipments, reduces investment in groundwater monitoring upgrades and results in the layoff of as many as 70 employees. Given the limited progress in waste management efforts in the complex, the Department should be looking for ways to expand successful efforts like WIPP, not cut them back."
   The FY2009 budget funding would support the National Transuranic Waste Program managed by the Carlsbad Field Office, including the operation of WIPP for storing defense-generated TRU waste.
   The reduced FY 2009 request would support 21 shipments of contact-handled waste and up to five shipments of remote-handled waste per week. DOE indicates that the budget request reduction is based on the deferral of some groundwater well drilling and plugging activities, equipment purchases, as well as a reduction of characterization services at some sites. The budget request also does not reflect congressionally-directed projects included in the FY2008 appropriations process.
 
 