SEN. DOMENICI'S HISTORIC PRESERVATION BILL RECEIVES SENATE HEARING
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today said he is pleased at Senate subcommittee action on a bill he authored to permanently authorize two historic preservation programs used to protect American treasures, including an array of New Mexico cultural resources. 
   The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Natural Parks today heard testimony relating to several bills, including the Preserve America and Save America's Treasures Act (S.2262). The legislation would formally codify the Preserve America and Save America's Treasures programs, both of which were originally created through presidential executive orders.
   "This bill would result in long-term establishment of these important programs. Pieces of our past tell us a story about those who came before us. New Mexico's rich and diverse past has been well-served by both of these preservation programs, and I will do all I can to see this bill's final passage," said Domenici.
   Domenici joined Senator Hillary Clinton (D-N.Y.) and First Lady Laura Bush last October to unveil the legislation.
   Witnesses at the hearing included Interior Deputy Secretary Lynn Scarlett, as well as National Trust for Historic Preservation President Richard Moe. Both witnesses spoke in support of S.2262.
   Both programs are currently administered by the Department of the Interior with the cooperation of other federal agencies, but have operated without congressional authorization since their inception. The legislation would ensure their long-term viability.
   In New Mexico, Las Vegas and Silver City have been designated Preserve America communities, and 15 Save America's Treasure grants worth almost $5.0 million have been issued for historic preservation work throughout the state.
   Preserve America grants (http://www.preserveamerica.gov) complement the Save America's Treasures grant program (http://www.saveamericastreasures.org), which funds "bricks and mortar" improvements to historic structures and assets, by providing competitive grants to encourage sustainable historic resource management through heritage tourism. Both build on preservation goals set in the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966.
 
 