PRESIDENT ENACTS 'AMERICA COMPETES ACT,' N.M. SENATORS LEAD AUTHORS OF NEW LAW
  U.S. Senators Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici, the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today announced that their legislation to ensure the nation retains its competitive edge has been signed into law. 
   The America Competes Act, legislation dramatically increases the nation's investment in science and technology, and puts a new, heavy emphasis on mathematics and science education. Both New Mexico Senators were part of a core bipartisan group that began the push for passage of an American competitiveness bill nearly two years ago, and they negotiated the final version of the bill.  
   Both lawmakers also attended the White House ceremony at which President Bush signed the bill into law. 
   "The America Competes Act is one of the most important pieces of legislation we've enacted this year. It makes a major investment in education, and in scientific research and development to ensure we create and retain the best jobs of the future," Bingaman said. "Now that this legislation is enacted, we have put our nation it the position to keep its competitive edge for decades to come." 
   "This new law will put America on a path toward being more competitive in the global marketplace. Passing this bill has been a long road, but I'm pleased that many of the provisions we wrote last year in the Energy Committee are in the final bill. I believe this law will be considered as one the most important enacted to add to the brainpower of the American people. From tapping into the expertise of our national labs to doubling key research programs, this comprehensive new law represents the good things that can happen when Congress puts aside partisan squabbling and works together," Domenici said. 
   The America Competes Act would double the authorized funding for the National Science Foundation in seven years and sets the Department of Energy's Office of Science on a path to double over seven years. 
   It also provides grants of up to $6 million to help states create specialty math and science schools. Department of Energy laboratories will be partners in this effort in several ways, including "adopting" schools to strengthen their math and science capability. It also creates a broad range of programs to strengthen the skills of math and science teacher and encourages mathematicians and scientists to become teachers. And it provides resources to encourage students to enroll in Advanced Placement international baccalaureate programs. 
   The bill also supports other key New Mexico initiatives, including the following: 
   The National Science Foundation science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) program-The New Mexico Alliance for Minority Participation, based at NMSU, is a STEM recipient. Eastern New Mexico University, as well as New Mexico State University-Carlsbad, participates in this New Mexico program. (http://www.nmsu.edu/~nmamp/) 
   NASA's Space Grant College and Fellowship Program-New Mexico participates in this program through a consortium led by NMSU. (http://spacegrant.nmsu.edu/) 
   New Mexico MESA (Mathematics, Engineering, and Science Achievement)--A program designed to prepare students, particularly minority youth, for college and careers in technical fields through tutoring, independent studies, academic and career counseling, field trips, competitions, summer programs, scholarship incentives, and teacher professional development. The program involves New Mexico Tech and the DOE national laboratories. (www.nmmesa.org/) 
   The Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research program (http://www.nmepscor.org/) 
   Develops "Discovery Science and Engineering Innovation Institutes" which will benefit Sandia Laboratories collaborative efforts with New Mexico Universities to train the engineer of the 21st century in such areas as nanoscience and Microsystems. 
   Complements New Mexico's efforts to strengthen K-12 math and science education, by expanding access to the Summer Institutes for teachers at the National Labs so more New Mexico teachers can participate in these very successful programs. Further, the bill would increase access to Advanced Placement programs, ensuring more New Mexico teachers are trained to teach Advanced Placement and more students have access to these critical courses of study.
   To view Audio Clip please visit http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/domenicilaw08_09_07.mp3
 
 