SEN. DOMENICI ASKS FOREST SERVICE TO SUSPEND FIREWOOD FEE FOR HISPANIC LAND GRANT MEMBERS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today asked the Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to immediately stop charging firewood fees to northern New Mexico land grant heirs until the U.S. Forest Service clarifies whether a fee is allowable under the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo.  
   Domenici, ranking member on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today made the request to Johanns in a letter that was highly critical of the $20 per five cords fee charged to members of the Juan José Lobato Land Grant for personal-use firewood collected in the Carson National Forest. Land Grant heirs have petitioned the Forest Service to drop the fee. 
   "Since questions have now been raised among Carson National personnel about the interpretation of the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo, I would like you to direct the Region and Forest Service to stop charging a fee for the personal-use firewood until such time as you have an opinion from your Solicitor that clearly indicates what the treaty rights of the Juan José Lobato and other Pueblos and Grantees are," Domenici wrote Johanns. 
   "I would like to know on what basis the Carson National Forest changed its interpretation of the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo and concluded that it was proper to abrogate the Federal Government's treaty responsibilities?" the Senator said. "I would like to know what administrative steps you can take to permanently re-instate the free personal-use fuel wood program for those whom the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo protects." 
   Domenici said he believes the rights of Hispanic land grant heirs in New Mexico to collect personal-use firewood without fees should be viewed in the same light as the nearly century-long Forest Service program allowing 10,000 board feet per year per Alaska resident for personal use. 
   "I believe that the federal government has a sacred responsibility to administer our Treaties in the same manner it administers our laws," Domenici wrote. "If the Treaty or law allows for this, it is not the right of the Forest or the Region to change its implementation of how it administers the programs that affect the treaty rights. Unless you have a valid Solicitor's opinion that states the Forest Service is allowed to charge these fees the citizens shouldn't have to go to the courts to enforce those rights. If such a document exists please provide me a copy as soon as possible." 
   Domenici also cited a 2005 Forest Insect and Disease Conditions Report noting that over 1,200 acres of New Mexico has been infested with Spruce Bud Worm since 2000. Many of the affected areas are located in northern New Mexico's national forests. 
   "For decades the citizens in the area have helped remove hazardous fuels and utilize them for personal-use fire wood. To start charging them for this service, given the Treaty rights involved and the clear insect and disease problem facing the Carson National Forest, makes absolutely no sense to me," said Domenici, who also serves on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Forest Service. 
   The Domenici correspondence was also copied to USDA Undersecretary Mark Rey, USFS Chief Gail Kimbell, and Southwest Regional Forester Harv Forsgren.
 
 