USDA INITIATIVE WILL CONSOLIDATE PARK SERVICES FOR PUBLIC
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has proceeded with plans to create a one-stop website that will process camping reservations for national parks around the country.  
   The USDA selected New York-based ReserveAmerica to take up the three and a half-year contract to develop one-stop shopping that will offer a wider range of federal recreation areas, facilities and opportunities. ReserveAmerica currently processes over three million camping reservations per year for access to over 140,000 campsites in 44 states. 
   "This contract will give our tourist industry an additional boost and make it easier for Americans wanting to visit the beautiful parks we have in New Mexico," Domenici said. "A one-stop system will simplify the process making it possible to submit reservations on-line, giving the public a large selection of campgrounds and outdoor activities to plan their vacation." 
   The project is part of President Bush's E-Gov Recreation One-Stop Initiative that USDA Secretary Ann Veneman announced today after conducting a full and open competition for the award. ReserveAmerica will partner with the Forest Service, the National Park Service, Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of Reclamation and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 
   The site will provide a comprehensive source of information about more than 57,000 campgrounds, cabins, parks, forests, lakes, and tours of national sites, museums, historic homes, and caves. Reservations can be made over the telephone, on location, or on-line. Currently more than 50 percent of reservations are now made by over the Internet. 
   Interactive maps and text searches will allow customers to discover which parks, forests, lakes, museums, and other recreations sites managed by government agencies are located near a particular area or offer specific recreational opportunities. The site will launch in late 2004 at www.recreation.gov 
   The two current reservation services-the existing National Recreation Reservation Service (NRRS) at www.reserveusa.com and the National Park Reservation Service (NPRS) at http://reservations.nps.gov will continue to be operational for making reservations until the integration is final and NRRS serves as the sole reservation outlet.
 
 