SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES SANDIA NATIONAL LABS CONTRACT EXTENSION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised a decision by the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) to grant a one year contract extension to Lockheed Martin's Sandia Corporation for the management and operation of Sandia National Laboratories. With the extension, Lockheed Martin's contract now runs through September 2009.  
   The extension was granted through a new provision negotiated in the current contract which permits the NNSA to reward good performance by executing incremental extensions up to a maximum of 10 years. 
   "I'm pleased that the NNSA has recognized the outstanding job that Lockheed Martin's Sandia Corporation has done in the past year. In fact, Sandia National Laboratory has been run extremely well since Lockheed Martin first took over in 1993, and the company has been a friend to the Albuquerque area and New Mexico. This extension is great news for the lab and its employees," said Domenici, who serves as Chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that sets funding levels for Sandia and the Department of Energy. 
   Under terms of the contract, Sandia's overall performance is evaluated every year on a four-tier scale. For FY2004, Sandia earned a score of 90 (outstanding), which triggered the one-year contract extension. 
   Sandia plays an important role in research and development, particularly with regard to national security and energy technology. NNSA is a semi-autonomous agency with the U.S. Department of Energy responsible for enhancing national security through the military application of nuclear energy. 
   In the FY2005 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill, Domenici secured $91.1 million to continue construction of the Microsystems and Engineering Sciences Applications (MESA) Complex at Sandia National Laboratories. He also obtained $30.9 million for the Center for Integrated Nanotechnology, a joint venture of Sandia and Los Alamos located at Kirtland Air Force Base.
 
 