SEN. DOMENICI AGAIN SEEKS WHITE HOUSE INPUT ON NEW MEXICO WATER SETTLEMENT CASES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today submitted hearing questions to the head of the White House budget operation, seeking information on how the Bush administration will deal with pending water settlements in New Mexico.  
   Domenici made the inquiries to Joshua Bolten, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB), who testified before the Senate Budget Committee today. The questions submitted for Bolten to answer are in direct relation to a letter Domenici sent him to encourage more administration involvement in pending water settlements involving American Indian tribes. 
   "Un-adjudicated Indian water rights claims are a source of great uncertainty regarding future water supplies for the West. Resolving these claims will require the administration's involvement in the settlement negotiations and a significant financial contribution by the federal government," Domenici said. 
   In light of the President's budget submission to Congress this week, Domenici asked Bolten to explain how any New Mexico Indian water rights settlements might be accommodated in the FY2006 budget. In New Mexico, settlement activities continue concerning the Rio Pojoaque Basin (Aamodt), the Navajo Nation Water Settlement and the Taos Valley Water Settlement (Abeyta case). 
   Domenici also asked Bolten to discern whether there are sufficient resources available in the budget to ensure that the administration and American Indian parties are adequately represented in settlement negotiations. 
   Domenici was very critical of the Justice Department in January for indicating that the federal liability on the Aamodt settlement would be an estimated $11 million. Domenici considered that level unrealistic, and now-with the administration and congressional focus on deficit reduction-wants a clear budgetary assessment of the fiscal landscape for possible resolution of the Aamodt and other New Mexico water settlement cases. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has dedicated extensive staff resources toward aiding the parties in concluding a settlement on the Aamodt case. The New Mexico lawmaker also serves on the Senate appropriations committees with funding jurisdiction over the Interior Department and other federal water projects.
 
 