SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES BILL TO BLOCK RETIREMENT OF F-117 STEALTH FIGHTERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation that would block the retirement of F-117 Stealth aircraft. The bill is in response to the Pentagon's request in the FY2006 proposed budget to retire 10 F-117 aircraft, which are based at Holloman Air Force Base in Alamogordo.  
   Domenici, a senior member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee which funds military programs, used his position last year to successfully block a similar effort by the Department of Defense. Domenici inserted language into the FY2005 Defense Appropriations Bill prohibiting the retirement of the aircraft. The New Mexico Congressional delegation also added the language to the FY2005 Defense Authorization Bill. 
   "I am strongly opposed to the retirement of F-117s. They are vital to the overall Air Force mission, and the cost benefits to retiring 10 aircraft are simply not enough to justify taking this step. By introducing this bill right away, I want to send a message to the Pentagon that there is strong opposition in Congress to this proposed retirement and I intend to do everything in my power to see that it does not happen. 
   "As former chairman of the Budget Committee, I understand and support the President's desire to reduce the deficit and curb spending. However, I believe that we must take pains to refrain from cutting programs which are working and contributing to our national security. The F-117 is such a program. As a result, I will seek to attach this legislation to the first available bill to move through the Senate-most likely the FY2006 Defense Authorization Bill-and work for its eventual adoption," Domenici said. 
   U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman is a cosponsor of the bill. 
   "The Pentagon has not made a credible case for wanting to retire these stealth fighters. In my view the 10 F-117s remain an important part of the Air Force's fleet, and there is no good reason to retire them," Bingaman said. "With the support of the Congressional delegation, we were able to prevent the Pentagon from cutting the fleet last year, and I think we'll have the support we need to do the same this year." 
   The bill introduced by Domenici reads "No F-117 aircraft in use by the Air Force during fiscal year 2006 may be retired during fiscal year 2006."
 
 