SEN. DOMENICI: WHITE HOUSE SHOULD PRESSURE CONGRESS ON CUTTING DUPLICATIVE PROGRAMS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today suggested that it may take direct pressure on Congress from President Bush and his administration to ever successfully eliminate duplicative federal programs.  
   Domenici, a senior member of the Senate Budget Committee, addressed President Bush's budget plan to eliminate 150 programs during a hearing that featured Joshua Bolten, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget. The hearing was the first of two that the committee is conducting this week to review the administration's $2.6 trillion budget plan submitted to Congress Monday. 
   "The President is on the right track in saying the government should get rid of programs that have outlived their usefulness or that are duplicative. But Congress does not have a stellar record in cutting programs. The problem is that we don't have a process for getting this done, unless we use the appropriations process to simply stop funding," Domenici said. 
   "The President's recommendation to do away with 150 programs could face the same fate unless the administration makes a point of pressuring us in Congress to take action. That might even mean not accepting appropriations bills that continue to fund these duplicative programs," he said. 
   Bolten indicated that the administration is ready to justify the President's request and is willing to work with Congress to begin removing duplicative programs. 
   At a budget hearing Monday, Domenici asked David Walker, comptroller general of the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to provide the committee with a comparison of the President's new list of programs to terminate with a "trade up/trade out" analysis done several years ago of government programs. This report studied the prospect of "trading out" old redundant or duplicative programs in order to "trade up" new programs to meet current needs. 
   "If we're serious about eliminating programs as one means of reducing the deficit, I think it is worth taking another look at the trade in/trade out concept," Domenici said. 
   On Thursday, the committee will receive FY2006 budget testimony from Treasury Secretary John Snow (10 am EST, Room 608, Dirksen Senate Office Building).
 
 