VALLES CALDERA MINERAL RIGHTS BILL CLEARS ENERGY COMMITTEE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced committee approval of legislation to acquire the remaining mineral rights at the Valles Caldera National Preserve and Trust, signifying an important step in the effort to further protect the area.  
   Domenici reported that the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today passed the Valles Caldera Preservation Act of 2005. The measure is authored by Domenici, chairman of the committee. The bill, cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, is now available for consideration by the full Senate. 
   Like the bill he introduced last year, the new legislation directs the Agriculture Secretary to negotiate a price for buying the remaining geothermal interests at the Preserve. 
   If negotiations are unsuccessful, the matter would be directed to federal court for resolution. The Department of Agriculture would use available funds to acquire the mineral interests, unless the court sets a higher price, in which case the difference would be paid from the judgment fund. 
   "We have another chance to positively resolve the long-standing dispute over mineral rights ownership on the Valles Caldera National Preserve. Though we were unable to pass this bill in the previous Congress, I am confident that the Senate will take swift action to promote an equitable decision while preserving the integrity of the area," Domenici said. 
   "The law that created the Valles Caldera National Preserve was enacted more than four years ago. It's time to finally resolve the mineral rights issue, and this bill lays out a plan to achieve that goal," said Bingaman, who is the highest ranking Democrat on the Senate Energy Committee. 
   Among other things, the bill also clarifies the Valles Caldera National Preservation & Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act of 1999 (S.1892) in terms of employment classifications, and resource management and funding authority. 
   In 2000, Congress passed S.1892 authorizing the federal purchase of the 95,000-acre Baca Ranch and provided $101 million to buy the property.
 
 