SEN. DOMENICI'S SALT CEDAR ERADICATION BILL READY FOR SENATE CONSIDERATION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today gained committee approval for a bill that is focused on discovering the best way to eradicate water-depleting Tamarix and other nonnative species that thrive along the river banks and exhaust already parched waterways.  
   Domenici serves as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which today passed the Salt Cedar and Russian Olive Control Demonstration Act (S.177). The bill authorizes a research and demonstration program to accelerate the eradication of the non-native species thriving along rivers in the western United States. Domenici initially introduced the bill in July 2003. 
   "I am pleased to see action on this pressing issue. The negative impact of each mature salt cedar, which can consume 200 gallons of water a day, serves as a drain on an already drought-ridden New Mexico. I hope that the Senate will act quickly so that a means of dealing with this problem can be discovered to diminish the strain on our water sources," Domenici said. 
   The Domenici legislation, cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, was amended last Congress to incorporate aspects of a similar bill introduced by former Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell. It passed the Senate last year but did not clear the House of Representatives before the end of the 108th Congress. 
   "Salt cedar and Russian olive trees are not native to the arid Southwest, and it shows - they drink up more than their share of water, depriving natural habitats of our state's most precious resource. They also increase the risk of fire in areas like the bosque. This legislation will help communities determine the best way to get rid of these non-native trees and improve watersheds across the West," said Bingaman, who is the highest ranking Democrat on the Senate Energy Committee. 
   The Domenici bill directs the Secretary of the Interior, working with other federal agencies, to complete an assessment of the extent of salt cedar and Russian olive infestation in the western United States, undertake a minimum of five eradication demonstration projects, and analyze possible beneficial uses of the resulting bio-mass. 
   The bill authorizes $20 million in FY2006, and $15 million each fiscal year thereafter. Each demonstration project can utilize up to $7 million in federal funding, and would be subject to a non-federal cost share match on non-federal lands. The bill does not specify demonstration project locations, but does encourage them to be paired with existing programs where possible. 
   The Domenici bill is similar to a bill introduced by New Mexico Congressman Steve Pearce, in the House. The primary difference between the Senate and House bills is that the Domenici bill makes the Interior Department the lead agency, while the Pearce bill would have the U.S. Department of Agriculture administer the program. 
   Estimates show that one mature salt cedar tree can consume as much as 200 gallons of water per day. At that rate, a single acre of salt cedar could consume as much as seven acre-feet of water annually. An acre foot is enough water to cover one acre with one foot of water, about 325,851 gallons. In addition, salt cedars increase fire potential and flood frequency, as well as salinity along the river. Studies indicate that eradication of the salt cedar could increase river flows. 
   Domenici, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds federal water programs, has worked to secure funding for existing Bureau of Reclamation salt cedar removal work like the Pecos River Basin Salvage project.
 
 