SEN. DOMENICI SEEKS SUMMER '07 INTERNS; APPLICATIONS DUE MARCH 1
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that he is accepting applications for his 2007 Summer Internship Program in Washington, D.C. Applications are due March 1.  
   The summer internship program will take place in six-week sessions, with the first session running from the end of May to the end of June, and the second from the beginning of July through the middle of August. College-aged students, who are either New Mexico residents or attending school in the state, are eligible to apply. 
   "I enjoy offering internship opportunities to students because I believe it provides them with an educational experience that you simply cannot receive in the classroom," said Domenici. "I believe students from almost any area of study, not just political science, could benefit from a stint in Washington. Interns have the opportunity to work under my legislative, administrative, and press staff in order to gain valuable insight into the political and legislative experience at the federal level." 
   Applications are available on Domenici's website and can be accessed at http://domenici.senate.gov in the "Student's Corner." For more information about the program and intern responsibilities, email internships@domenici.senate.gov or call (202)224-6621. Applications must be postmarked by March 1. 
   Applicants must have completed at least one year of study at an institution of higher learning. New Mexico residents and/or students will receive priority in the selection process. 
   Students participating in the program during past years have come from a wide variety of backgrounds and schools, including universities, community colleges, and vocational schools from inside and outside of New Mexico. Domenici's spring 2007 interns, for example, come from Eastern New Mexico University, New Mexico State University and Notre Dame University. 
   Domenici, a Republican, is New Mexico's longest-serving U.S. senator. He is the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and has senior memberships on the Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee. He is also a member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, as well as the Indian Affairs Committee.
 
 