ENERGY COMMITTEE PASSES SEN. DOMENICI BILL TO GIVE NEW MEXICO STATE ENGINEER FED HELP ON WATER ASSESSMENTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today gained committee approval of his bill that would give the New Mexico Office of the State Engineer (OSE) federal help to carry out its work to assess New Mexico's water inventory and its future use.  
   The New Mexico Water Planning Assistance Act today passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which Domenici chairs. The bill was authored last year by Domenici and cosponsored by U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman and cleared the Senate but did not clear the House before they ended the 108th Congress. 
   The new bill (S.178) authorizes the state of New Mexico to receive technical assistance from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). It also authorizes a total of $12.5 million ($2.5 million per year for 2006-2010) for the OSE to perform hydrologic models of New Mexico's most important water systems, basins and tributaries. 
   "With the current water shortage plaguing New Mexico, it is essential to get a broader understanding of our water supplies. The better we evaluate our resources, the better we can plan for future water conservation," Domenici said. "I hope for swift action on this bill in the Senate so that the State Engineer can assess our current status and we can alleviate chronic water problems in New Mexico." 
   "The magnitude of the water issues facing New Mexico is daunting. Addressing those issues requires working in partnership with the federal government, an approach fostered by this bill," said Bingaman, who is the highest ranking Democrat on the Senate Energy Committee. 
   The federal agencies aiding the OSE will provide technical assistance, such as acquiring hydrologic data, assessing existing water resources, coordinating efforts with federal water management initiatives, and assisting with numerical analysis and modeling to provide an integrated understanding of water management options.
 
 