SEN. DOMENICI INTRODUCES BILL TO NAME ALBUQUERQUE VA MEDICAL CENTER FOR MEDAL OF HONOR RECIPIENT JERRY MURPHY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation to name the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Albuquerque for Raymond "Jerry" Murphy, a Korean War veteran who earned the Medal of Honor.  
   The legislation, cosponsored by U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman, would designate the Albuquerque VA facility as the "Raymond G. Murphy Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center." The legislation is supported by the VA Department as well as the New Mexico Department of Veterans' Services. 
   Murphy, who is now seriously ill, retired in 1997 from a 23-year career as director of Veterans Services in the Albuquerque VA Regional Office, and became a volunteer at the VA afterward. 
   "Jerry Murphy is a true American hero who in war and peace dedicated himself to others. I think it is only right that the medical center in Albuquerque bear his name in recognition of his great service to this country and its men and women in uniform," Domenici said. "His service is a shining example to civilians and veterans alike of a life dedicated to service." 
   "Jerry Murphy bravely served our nation in uniform and then returned to serve New Mexico as a powerful voice for veterans. His military service has already garnered him the Congressional Medal of Honor, but I believe we should take the additional step of honoring his civilian service this way," Bingaman said. 
   Murphy is one of fewer than 3,500 Americans who have ever been awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. He was given the honor following his heroic actions Korea in February 1953, when as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps he organized and led--against orders--a daring mission to rescue wounded Marines pinned down by enemy fire on Ungok Hill. He was wounded himself, but refused treatment until all his fellow Marines were accounted for and treated. In addition to the Medal of Honor, Murphy also earned a Silver Star for bravery in 1952.
 
 