SEN. DOMENICI-COSPONSORED BILL TO PREVENT YOUTH SUICIDES APPROVED BY U.S. SENATE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed gratitude for Senate passage of legislation that authorizes a new grant program to combat youth suicides, a growing problem that is linked to mental illness.  
   Domenici, a leading advocate on mental health issues, cosponsored the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act (S.2634) that was passed by unanimous consent late Thursday. The bill is named for the late son of the bill's author, Senator Gordon Smith (R-Ore.). 
   The bill authorizes grant funding-$60 million over the next three years-to states for development of youth suicide prevention and intervention strategies that would involve the schools, law enforcement, local governments, and nonprofit organizations. The funding would advance mental health outreach and treatment, and suicide prevention and intervention activities. 
   The bill also authorizes a second program to provide grants to colleges and universities to establish or enhance mental health outreach and treatment centers, and improve their focus on youth suicide prevention and intervention. 
   "For those who suffer from severe mental illnesses and their families, the grief and pain they endure is tremendous. When those diseases lead to suicides, the tremendous sense of sorrow, grief and loss is overwhelming. I am proud of Senator Smith for writing this bill in honor of his son. With it, we hope to help troubled youth so that they can find help and not become another tragic story," Domenici said. 
   Suicide is the third leading cause of death for people aged 10 to 24. Annually, more than 30,000 Americans kill themselves each year. 
   In a speech to the Senate during debate on S.2634, Domenici pointed to the direct link between many suicide deaths and severe mental illnesses. He again called on opponents to set aside the objections to his bipartisan bill to expand on the Domenici-Wellstone Mental Health Parity Act of 1996. The new bill (S.486) is cosponsored by 68 Senators, but Senate debate has not been scheduled. 
   "If we do not have a new mental health parity bill that forces group insurance policies to cover mental illness the same as physical illnesses, the effect of this suicide bill is going to be minimized to the extent that families will still be unable to afford the help their children need," Domenici said. 
   "Our policies should recognize that mental illnesses are diseases of the brain and should be treated the same as other serious physical illnesses, like heart disease or cancer. Claims that parity will break businesses just don't hold water. I hope our quick passage of Senator Smith's bill will help us move to pass the mental health parity bill soon," he said. 
   The Senator Paul Wellstone Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act of 2003 (S.486) represents a renewed effort to ensure greater parity in the coverage of mental health benefits. It would prohibit a group health plan from treating mental health benefits differently from the coverage of medical and surgical benefits. It is modeled on the mental health benefits program for federal employees and expands the Mental Health Parity Act of 1996. 
   S.486 is named in honor of the late Senator Paul Wellstone, who partnered with Domenici in the 1990s to promote mental health legislation. Wellstone perished in a plane crash in October 2002.
 
 