SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO NEWS SESSION, JULY 9
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Monday, July 9, 2007. 
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Nick Layman - KUNM Albuquerque  
   * Whitney Jones - KRWG/NMSU Las Cruces 
   * Bill Dupuy - KSFR Santa Fe 
   * Tim Keithly - KRUI Ruidoso 
   TOPICS: 
   a. Presidential Commutation of Scooter Libby's Jail Sentence 
   b. Southern New Mexico Levee Conditions 
   c. S.1545 Goals and Solutions for a New Iraq Strategy 
   d. Suggested Role of Foreign Relations on Search for Bin-Laden; Balance of Executive Privilege and Congressional Inquiries 
   e. Constituent and Party Feedback on Iraq Strategy 
   f. Conversation with President Bush on Domenici's Support for a Change in Course for Iraq 
   REVIEW: 
   00:05 - Domenici explains that, while he personally disagreed with the decision to commute Scooter Libby's jail sentence, it was not out of line for President Bush to do so. Domenici notes that granting executive commutation is within the President's power and should be done so according to the President's discretion. 
   03:29 - Domenici says that he will work through the Senate appropriations process to secure funding and begin repairs on levees impacting southern New Mexico. He notes that Hurricane Katrina called attention to the deterioration of levees nationwide, but good will come out of the disaster as we seek to repair levees, such as the one in Do?a Ana county. 
   05:54 - Domenici says that, under S.1545, the projected drawdown of troops by March 2008 is not a deadline, but a goal. He says that the bill creates conditions that could allow for such a drawdown, but does not force it. 
   07:22 - Domenici states that the bipartisan sponsors of S. 1545 could take no more of the Iraqi government's failure to do what it had agreed and committed to do for its own country. He adds that instead of things getting better in Iraq, they are getting "discernibly worse." 
   09:44 - Domenici says that we cannot leave American troops dying in Iraq because Iraqis aren't doing their share to win the war. Domenici states that a U.S. goal must be to eventually limit the involvement of U.S. military forces to training, equipping, and advising Iraqi forces to defend their country. 
   11:59 - Domenici explains his decision to announce his support for a new strategy in Iraq in advance of General Petraeus's planned September report because of the Defense Authorization bill coming to the Senate floor this week. Domenici hopes that he and his cosponsors can offer S.1545 as an amendment to the bill. 
   13:32 - Domenici expresses the need to wait for full briefing prior to speculating on a report that Bin-Laden's whereabouts were known but not pursued due to U.S. ties with Pakistan. Domenici says, generally, the U.S. has binding relationships and recognizes it can't necessarily do anything it wants, wherever it wants without limitation. 
   15:24 - Domenici discusses traditional "tug-of-war" between the legislative and executive branches. 
   19:09 - Domenici says that after the volume of comments he received on immigration, feedback on his call for a new Iraq strategy has been comparatively limited. Domenici shares that, while he was in New Mexico the week before, he was stopped on the street a number of times and many citizens expressed agreement in the need for a shift in the Iraq mission. 
   20:20 - Domenici states that, regarding the call for a new Iraq strategy, he did not want to "sit on the sideline and do nothing," adding that people "expect more" of him than that. 
   21:13 - Domenici clarifies that the proposed drawdown of troops, as recommended by the Baker/Hamilton-led Iraq Study Group report, does not include privately armed forces. 
   23:19 - Domenici characterizes the conversation he had with President Bush regarding the Senator's call for a change in Iraq strategy as "serious," but marked by understanding. Domenici says the President acknowledged Domenici's prerogative and responsibilities in his role as Senator.
 
 