SEN. DOMENICI: CODE TALKER RECEIVES DAR MEDAL OF HONOR
  Sen. Pete Domenici today met with Dr. Samuel W. Billison of Window Rock, who is in Washington to receive the 2004 National Medal of Honor from the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) in a ceremony tonight in recognition of his exceptional role during World War II.  
   Dr. Billison was accompanied by his wife, Patsy; Lois-Faye Lampson of Albuquerque, the DAR New Mexico State Regent; Lanita Rasak of Corona, the DAR New Mexico State Historian; and Jean Falck of Albuquerque. 
   "To say the least, this award is well-deserved. Dr. Billison's achievements exceed every requirement that the DAR has for the award. I am thankful for his significant involvement in America's past and I'm so pleased that the DAR has decided to offer their greatest honor to him for his valuable contributions," said Domenici in praise of Billison. 
   Dr. Billison is the president of the Navajo Code Talkers Association and has served as a school administrator for over 40 years. 
   During their visit, Billison spoke with Domenici about his service in the Marine Corps and also explained how the code that helped win World War II was developed. 
   The Code Talkers participated in every assault that the U.S. Marine Corps undertook in the Pacific during World War II. They transmitted messages by telephone and radio in their native language of Navajo-a code that the Japanese never broke. Due to security reasons and the continued value of the unbreakable code, the Code Talkers have only recently been publicly recognized for their invaluable service. 
   New Mexico DAR representatives also informed Domenici that they have pushed the organization to recognize and promote the history and contributions of the Code Talkers. The group has also recently discussed the efforts to have Spanish contributions to the American Revolution acknowledged. There are about 800 DAR members in 17 chapters across New Mexico. 
   The Medal of Honor is the most prestigious award that the DAR gives. The award is given to a native born American who has demonstrated exemplary leadership, trustworthiness, patriotism and service to the United States. The recipient must have made a unique and lasting contribution to American heritage by exceptionally giving of himself to his community, state, country, and fellow man. 
   The honor will be presented during the Society's 113th Annual Continental Congress, National Defense Evening. 
   The DAR, founded in 1890, is a women's volunteer service organization dedicated to promoting patriotism, preserving American history, and improving children's education through scholarships and donations.
 
 