SEN. DOMENICI APPLAUDS EFFORT TO SHIELD NEW MEXICO BORDER REGION FROM DRUGS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that two southern counties will benefit from Department of Justice funding that strengthens a coalition New Mexico developed with Mexico to curb substance abuse among youth.  
   Domenici is a member of the Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary Senate Appropriations Subcommittee that sets funding levels for DOJ programs, including the Continuation Drug-Free Communities Support program that helps deter youth from drug use. 
   "Because New Mexico shares a border with Mexico, there is a greater possibility for illegal substances to be exchanged back and forth. Solidifying our efforts with Mexico and strengthening the partnership we have with their agencies allows us to put together a better offensive against drug and alcohol use," Domenici said. "I am pleased the DOJ allotted funds for this important program." 
   Southern New Mexico Human Development, Inc. in Las Cruces was awarded $75,000 for the Border Initiative Grant (BIG) Avanzar Coalition that particularly targets Luna and Do?a Ana counties. These funds reduce the prevalence of substance abuse among youth in southern New Mexico and Chihuahua. 
   This agency will assess underage drinking risks and develop interventions to reduce underage drinking. In addition, it will create and promote drug-free activities and programs, expand the capacity of the existing binational youth group to distribute educational materials, and provide ongoing educational opportunities for BIG Council members to increase their knowledge of prevention. 
   In addition, the city of Las Vegas was awarded $46,484 for this same program. These funds will help organize and implement youth activities, support and guide the Youth Commission that provides a youth voice in the community, increase community awareness and the effectiveness of community parenting programs, and collaborate with law enforcement agencies to support school programs.
 
 