SEN. DOMENICI PRAISES DOE INITIATIVE TO HELP NEW MEXICO FAMILIES CONSERVE ENERGY
  Sen. Pete Domenici today praised a $1.7 million grant from the Department of Energy (DOE) that will help low-income families reduce their electric bills by making their homes more efficient with better insulation and appliances.  
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee which has funding jurisdiction over DOE's Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy office and its Weatherization Assistance Program. 
   "Even during the sweltering summer months, this partnership with the DOE can make household improvements that reduce monthly bills for New Mexicans. Homes with the proper insulation, air conditioning and heating use less energy so bills are easier to pay," Domenici said. "This is a common-sense program for New Mexico families who want help in eliminating the need for aid to pay their bills." 
   The New Mexico Mortgage Finance Authority (MFA) will receive a total of over $7.1 million to help low-income families permanently reduce their energy bills by making their homes more energy efficient. To date, MFA has reaped over $5.3 million for this program. The MFA contracts a network of local, community-based agencies that deliver weatherization services throughout the state. 
   Crews will install blower doors, air sealing, windows, heating, water heaters, air conditioning, and electrical appliances. The Weatherization Assistance Program is the country's longest running energy efficiency program and has provided weatherization services to more than 5.2 million low-income families for the last 27 years. 
   "In addition to saving New Mexico families money every month, the weatherization program brings job opportunities to the local level and increases real estate values," Domenici said. 
   Weatherization will make these homes more affordable and more attractive in the market by reducing long-term energy costs. The growing program also provides jobs in the home improvement industry. In addition, saving low-income families dollars every month increases their spending power. 
   Weatherization technologies include a wide range of energy efficiency measures for retrofitting homes and apartment buildings. Weatherization service providers choose the best package of efficiency measures for each home based on an energy audit of the home. 
   In the 27 years experience of the Weatherization Assistance Program, these technologies have grown from measures like caulking and weather-stripping to addressing the whole spectrum of energy-consuming systems in low-income homes. 
   The New Mexico Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department will also receive a $412,000 award from DOE for the state's energy program. The total value of the contract is worth over $3.3 million.
 
 