SENATE PASSES SEN. DOMENICI'S RESOLUTION DECLARING 'NATIONAL HISPANIC MEDIA WEEK'
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that a resolution he introduced designating June 5-11 as "National Hispanic Media Week" has unanimously passed the Senate.  
   The Domenici resolution acknowledges that contributions of Hispanic media sources across the country. Currently, over 600 Hispanic publications circulate over 20 million copies every week in the United States. 
   "The Hispanic media play an important and unique role in the daily lives of millions of Hispanic-Americans. Many citizens appreciate having publications that are bilingual or in Spanish to give them a greater understanding of our world. I'm pleased the Senate has acted quickly to pass my resolution and declare this 'National Hispanic Media Week,' Domenici said. 
   Senator Ken Salazar (D-Colo.) is the original cosponsor to the Domenici resolution. Senator Jeff Bingaman is also a cosponsor. 
   "The resolution provides an opportunity to recognize the vital contribution the Hispanic media makes not only to the Hispanic community but to the entire country. Hispanic communities are growing in numbers, business influence, and political power, and an integral part of their success has been the Hispanic media," Bingaman said. 
   The text of the resolution reads as follows: 
   "Whereas for almost 470 years the United States has benfitted from the work of Hispanic writers and publishers; 
   "Whereas over 600 Hispanic publications circulate over 20,000,000 copies every week in the United States; 
   "Whereas 1 in 8 Americans is served by a Hispanic publication; 
   "Whereas the Hispanic press informs many Americans about great political, economic, and social issues of our day; 
   "Whereas the Hispanic press in the United State focuses in particular on informing and promoting the well being of our country's Hispanic community; and 
   "Whereas commemorating the achievements of the Hispanic press acknowledges the important role the Hispanic press has played in United States history: 
   "Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Senate (1) designates June 5 through June 11, 2005, as "National Hispanic Media Week," in honor of the Hispanic Media of America: and (2) encourages the people of the United States to observe the week with appropriate programs and activities."
 
 