SEN. DOMENICI: RISING OIL AND GAS PRICES HIGHLIGHT NEED FOR NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY
  Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources, today said escalating gasoline prices amount to more evidence that should spur Congress into finally passing a national energy plan.  
   Following President Bush's renewed push today for Congress to craft a comprehensive energy plan, Domenici agreed and advocated congressional approval to develop the United States' largest onshore oil reserve. Domenici also reiterated his willingness to include a CAFE provision in the bipartisan energy bill he is crafting. 
   "President Bush has repeatedly called on Congress to pass a comprehensive energy bill that helps us produce more energy, conserve more of what we produce, and move us toward a hydrogen society. President Bush is absolutely right. Today, American consumers continue to pay for our failure to act. They pay every time they pull into a gas station or open a utility bill," Domenici said. 
   Domenici noted that the Senate Budget Committee, on which he serves, is producing a FY2006 Budget Resolution that instructs the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to develop the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), which holds the nation's largest onshore oil reserves. That instruction is likely to be challenged when the full Senate considers the Budget Resolution next week. 
   "Instead of begging OPEC to drop its oil prices, let's use American leadership and ingenuity to solve our own energy problems," Domenici said. "I will fight for the ANWR instructions both in committee and on the floor. I believe increased production should go in tandem with increased conservation and supply diversity. My last energy bill did a great deal for both conservation and supply diversity, but I am happy to do more. I would be delighted to include a viable CAFE provision in the energy bill. But let's stop stalling and get a bill done this year. I agree with President Bush-four years of debate is long enough." 
   President Bush today visited Battelle Memorial Institute in Columbus, Ohio, to view the energy technologies of the future and to reiterate his call for Congress to pass a sound national energy policy that meets four major objectives: promoting conservation and efficiency, increasing domestic production, diversifying the nation's energy supply, and modernizing the nation's energy infrastructure. 
   "I applaud the President's remarks today in Ohio regarding energy. His call to produce and conserve more energy comes at a critical time for our economy. Today, oil prices fell a few pennies short of the record. More troubling, some U.S. oil analysts are predicting oil could reach $70 a barrel by fall. Demand in China and India is driving these prices. That demand will continue to grow and I fear our energy prices will continue to climb unless we act," Domenici said. 
   The federal government yesterday announced that average gas prices could reach $2.15 this spring. 
   (Domenici will lead a noon news conference on Thursday, March 10, to discuss the official Senate trip he led to ANWR last weekend. The event will be in Room 366 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.)
 
 