SEN. DOMENICI-OPPOSED MILK INCOME LOSS CONTRACT DAIRY EXTENSION DROPPED FROM SENATE'S FY 2006 BUDGET RESOLUTION
  Amidst vocal opposition from Sen. Pete Domenici and other Western Senators, a controversial provision to extend the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program has been dropped from the FY2006 Budget Resolution drafted by the Senate Budget Committee.  
   Domenici, a former chairman of the Committee, argued that the costly program was inefficient and discriminated against dairy farmers in the West, including New Mexico where only 8 percent of the milk produced is eligible for MILC support. An extension of the program was included in the administration's FY2006 budget request. 
   The Budget Committee on Thursday will begin a day-long effort to approve its Budget Resolution and forward it to the full Senate for consideration next week. Domenici cautioned that supporters of the program will likely try to attach a MILC extension to the budget at a later date. 
   "The decision to exclude a MILC extension in the chairman's mark is a victory, but we must still work hard to educate our colleagues about the cost overruns and unfairness of this program. This is an unnecessary, mismanaged program that puts New Mexico dairy farmers at a disadvantage, and I will continue to do whatever I can to protect their interests," Domenici said. 
   Last year, Domenici led a successful effort to stop a plan to expand the program as part of the FY2005 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bills. 
   Among the arguments against expanding the MILC program is the negative impact it has on the budget. The original estimated cost of the program for three years at its inception was $1.3 billion, but MILC has already cost $2 billion with seven more months left before it expires. Groups such as Citizens Against Government Waste and the National Taxpayers Union have expressed strong opposition to the program. 
   "Reducing the deficit must be a priority for this Congress. It is always difficult to find places to cut spending, but to me, it is obvious that this should be one of them. The Congressional Budget Office has indicated that extending MILC will cost $2.4 billion. That's money that we simply don't need to spend-there are better and fairer ways of supporting milk production," Domenici said. 
   New Mexico is the seventh largest dairy producing state in the nation, behind California, Wisconsin, New York, Pennsylvania, Idaho, and Minnesota. The dairy industry in New Mexico directly employs more than 8,000 workers, with the leading dairy producing counties being Chaves, Curry, Roosevelt, Do?a Ana, Lea and Eddy. There is also significant production in Bernalillo, Socorro and Valencia counties. 
   There are about 350,000 dairy cows in the state. In addition, the gross income from dairy farming in New Mexico this year will approximate $3,500 per cow or about $1.25 billion in milk sales. This does not include additional income from the sale of heifers, bull calves, or cull cows.
 
 