SEN. DOMENICI WANTS ARMY ASSESSMENT OF FLAGGING RECRUITMENT, RETENTION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today addressed growing concerns about recruitment and retention in the Armed Forces, formally submitting questions to the Secretary of the Army on how the Pentagon plans to meet its personnel goals.  
   Domenici submitted the inquiries as part of a Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing on the FY2006 budget request for the Army. The Pentagon is proposing $98.6 billion for the Army in FY2006, which represents level funding with FY2005-not including $57 billion FY2005 supplemental appropriations requested to fund operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and the war on terror. 
   Domenici has asked Army Secretary Dr. Francis J. Harvey and Army Chief of Staff Gen. Peter J. Schoomaker to judge whether enhanced enlistment bonuses, additional recruiters and other incentives for individual soldiers will be enough to overcome Army recruiting difficulties. 
   "I am concerned about the effects of prolonged overseas operations on our recruiting and retention efforts. I can understand why our men and women in arms might pause before re-upping and why potential recruits may hesitate before enlisting," Domenici said. 
   "The men and women of the U.S. Army have been nothing short of spectacular in defending our nation against a range of threats since the attacks of September 11. They performed with valor as a maneuvering force in both Iraq and Afghanistan, and have since taken on the dangerous mission of operating in hostile urban environments. Not surprisingly, it appears the dangers of this latter mission are impacting recruiting for active duty, the Guard and Reserve," he said. 
   Domenici also asked whether an ongoing force restructuring initiative to put more soldiers in combat roles rather than administrative jobs will be adequate to overcome "end strength" concerns, and whether Congress may be required to consider a legislative fix. 
   The Army is implementing a transformation project aimed at delivering force packages that are more rapidly deployable and more capable of independent action without the overhead and support previously provided by higher commands. This will increase the total number of available brigades, and stabilize units by generating a rotation that supports two years at home following each year deployed for active forces, four years at home following each year deployed for Reservists, and five years at home following each year deployed for the National Guard. 
   As he did when Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz appeared before the Budget Committee, Domenici also asked Harvey and Schoomaker to reverse the Army's request to zero out funding for the U.S./Israeli Mobile Tactical High Energy Laser (MTHEL) project at White Sands Missile Range. The program, for which $38.6 million was requested last year, is building a chemical laser capable of destroying enemy rockets and mortars (RAM). 
   "MTHEL has proven successful against RAM threats. I believe we have an obligation to our troops to accelerate MTHEL operational capabilities to achieve better force protection through directed energy technology," Domenici said. 
   The Army's major presence in New Mexico includes management of the WSMR, which supports testing and evaluation of military systems for the Pentagon, the services and private industry.
 
 