SEN. DOMENICI SAYS PERSISTENT FILIBUSTERS ON JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS ARE AFFRONT TO CONSTITUTIONAL PRECEDENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today strongly encouraged Senate Democrats to desist from filibustering President Bush's judicial nominees, saying their persistent threats to block confirmation of several nominees are an affront to two centuries of Constitutional precedence.  
   In a speech to the Senate Wednesday, Domenici addressed his growing concern about the relatively new practice of filibustering judicial nominations-action virtually unheard of until Senate Democrats wielded it repeatedly during the 108th Congress. There are indications that the Senate minority may continue judicial filibusters in the new 109th Congress. 
   Citing constitutional and Senate history, Domenici made a case as to why filibusters-which require a super-majority, or 60 votes, to overcome-run counter to Constitutional principles and the Senate's "advice and consent" responsibilities. 
   "Filibustering judicial nominees prevents the majority of the Senate from giving the advice to the President that the Constitution requires. More importantly, the Constitution does not require the consent of a super-majority of Senators when considering judicial nominees," Domenici said. 
   The Constitution, Domenici pointed out, only requires super-majority votes for such actions as overriding presidential vetoes, approving Constitutional amendments, convicting impeached federal officials or ratifying treaties. 
   "The fact that the framers of the Constitution specifically laid out these super-majority requirements leads to the inevitable conclusion that in all other cases, a simple majority rules," Domenici said. "In the last two Congresses, my friends on the other side of the aisle have ignored our founding fathers' wise intentions, our Constitution's clear requirements, and the Senate's long-standing precedent." 
   Prior to the 108th Congress that ended last December, no judicial nominee that had majority support was defeated due to a filibuster. The first ever cloture vote - the super-majority vote needed to end debate on a filibuster - on a judicial nominee occurred in 1968. Cloture was only sought on 13 nominees between 1968 and 2000. 
   Three cloture votes on judicial nominees occurred during the first two years of President Bush's term, but they escalated to at least 20 such votes in the 108th Congress (2003-2004). 
   "The bell will toll if this continues," Domenici warned. "I have been a member of this body for more than 30 years. The vast majority of that time, my colleagues and I have given judicial nominees a straight up or down vote. I strongly urge that we return to doing what the Constitution asks of us and follow precedent set in this chamber. We need to return to the Senate's long-standing policy of actually voting on judicial nominees." 
   "The Constitution gives this body the authority to provide advice and consent regarding judicial nominees. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle often point out that this constitutional provision does not require Senate confirmation of nominees. I agree. If a member of this body does not believe that a judicial nominee is fit to serve on the federal bench, that member should vote against the nominee," he said. "But there should be a vote."
 
 