TAOS, COLFAX AND GRANT COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENTS GET HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced that three fire departments will receive a total of $90,188 in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to augment their local fire stations and equipment cache.  
   The funds will be made available through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to improve operations and firefighter safety for Raton Fire and Emergency Services, and Hurley and Latir Volunteer Fire Departments. 
   "I applaud these funds that help New Mexico's fire stations remain alert and ready with the proper tools and necessary training," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. "Raton's emergency providers are operating out of a decades old building without safety features. These funds will help them install the necessary systems and upgrade their equipment." 
   Raton Fire and Emergency Services will receive $72,270 through the Operations and Firefighter Safety Program to outfit the 100 year old station with fire and sprinkler systems as well as a diesel exhaust system. The funds will also help procure health and fitness equipment and personal safety gear, including personal alert safety systems. 
   Latir Volunteer Fire in Taos County will receive $13,140 through the Operations and Firefighter Safety Program which helps procure equipment, training, wellness and fitness equipment, and modifications to stations and facilities. 
   Hurley Volunteer Fire Department in Grant County will receive $4,778 also through the Operation and Firefighter Safety Program which helps procure equipment, training, wellness and fitness equipment, and modifications to stations and facilities. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program was created by the U.S. Congress to enhance basic fire service delivery across the country. Volunteer and combination departments must receive a proportion of the total grant funding that is at least equal to the proportion of the population those firefighting departments protect. According to the statistics provided by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), volunteer and combination departments protect 55 percent of the population.
 
 