INDIAN COMMITTEE APPROVES BILL TO END PROSECUTION-FREE ZONES ON NEW MEXICO PUEBLO LANDS
  The Senate Indian Affairs Committee today approved legislation authored by Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman to more clearly specify prosecutorial jurisdiction on pueblo lands.  
   The Domenici-Bingaman legislation (S.279) was rolled into the Native American Omnibus Act of 2005 (S.536) and approved Wednesday by the Indian Affairs Committee, on which Domenici serves. The pueblo legislation would eliminate the possibility of "prosecution-free zones" in New Mexico. The omnibus bill now goes to the full Senate for consideration. 
   "It is critical that we eliminate any sort of safe haven for criminals. Our carefully crafted bill should eliminate any confusion as to who is responsible for fully prosecuting those who commit heinous crimes in these prosecution-free zones," Domenici said. "I appreciate the committee's progress on the pueblo jurisdiction bill, and expect that it will move forward in a timely manner as part of this omnibus legislation." 
   "We don't want crimes committed in New Mexico falling through the cracks. This legislation ensures that there is no area of our state where crimes can be committed without consequence," Bingaman said. 
   S.279, first offered last year, pertains to serious criminal acts committed within the exterior boundaries of a pueblo. The legislation would amend the Indian Pueblo Land Act to clarify when a crime should be prosecuted in federal, tribal or state court. Recent federal and state criminal cases have left open the question of who prosecutes serious crimes committed on private lands within Indian Country. 
   The bill recognizes the pueblos' inherent power over certain criminal offenses committed by a member of the pueblo or another federally-recognized Indian tribe or entity. Federal prosecution would occur for serious criminal acts-as described in chapter 53 of title 18, U.S. Code*. The state of New Mexico retains jurisdiction over offenses not covered under federal jurisdiction. 
   * (a) Any Indian who commits against the person or property of another Indian or other person any of the following offenses, namely, murder, manslaughter, kidnapping, maiming, a felony under chapter 109A, incest, assault with intent to commit murder, assault with a dangerous weapon, assault resulting in serious bodily injury (as defined in section 1365 of this title), an assault against an individual who has not attained the age of 16 years, arson, burglary, robbery, and a felony under section 661 of this title within the Indian country, shall be subject to the same law and penalties as all other persons committing any of the above offenses, within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. 
   The Indian Country prosecution provisions were crafted in consultation with pueblo leaders, the U.S. Attorney's office, and others. They were also included in a larger technical corrections bill cleared by the Senate Indian Affairs Committee but not acted on by the full Senate. 
   A companion bill to S.279 has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Representative Tom Udall, with Representatives Heather Wilson and Steve Pearce as cosponsors. This bill, HR.600, has been referred to the House Committee on Resources.
 
 