SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN, GOV. RICHARDSON PROMOTE NEW MEXICO BASES TO BRAC COMMISSION CHAIRMAN
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, with Gov. Bill Richardson, today moved to promote the positive aspects of military installations in New Mexico with the chairman of the commission that will soon undertake the process of closing or realigning bases around the country.  
   The Senators, with Richardson linked by teleconference from Santa Fe, on Monday met with Anthony Principi, chairman of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission on Capitol Hill. They provided to Principi their views on New Mexico's military bases and, in turn, learned about the processes Principi intends the commission to follow in the impending BRAC exercise. 
   In the meeting, Principi assured the state's leaders that the commission is working toward total objectivity and independence as it prepares to receive the Defense Department's list of targeted facilities. The commission will formally receive the list May 16. 
   "We are reaching a critical point in this process, and New Mexicans should be assured that a lot of work is already happening to try to make sure our bases are not on the BRAC list. If the Pentagon adheres to the criteria outlined by Congress, I am confident that our bases will be seen as important assets to the Pentagon now, and well into the future," Domenici said. "I appreciate Secretary Principi agreeing to meet with us, and I was impressed with how knowledgeable he was about the process and what our state has to offer." 
   "Each of our military installations is unique, and each plays a key role in our nation's ability to protect and defend itself. I am glad we had the opportunity to meet with Secretary Principi to discuss all the ways in which New Mexico's Air Force bases and White Sands Missile Range are important to the country," Bingaman said. 
   "Retaining our four military bases is a critically important statewide issue. I am very pleased that chairman Principi told us that the process would be decided on merit and not on political considerations. I will continue to work with the Congressional delegation and the entire New Mexico base closure team to make sure the contributions and value of our four military bases to our national security is conveyed to the BRAC Commission," Richardson said. 
   During the meeting, the lawmakers stressed to Principi how well New Mexico's military installations-Kirtland, Cannon and Holloman Air Force Bases, as well as White Sands Missile Range-exceed the criteria that will assess the availability of land and airspace for joint training, the cost of operations, and the potential of existing facilities to receive new and diverse military missions. 
   The lawmakers stressed that any review of bases, like Cannon, also include variables such as the proposed New Mexico Training Range Initiative (NMTRI), which is expected to gain final approval by the end of the year. The NMTRI would establish expanded supersonic flight training from Cannon. Domenici and Bingaman recently met with Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. John Jumper to discuss ongoing NMTRI developments, including Air Force negotiations with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) on an airspace agreement. 
   The congressional delegation has been working to try to ensure that the Pentagon does not repeat its error in the 1995 BRAC process in which it overlooked key assets and targeted Kirtland Air Force Base for closure. That bid was successfully overturned.
 
 