SEN. DOMENICI TO DEFENSE SECRETARY: A PLEA FOR $72 MILLION FOR SEAMLESS CANNON AIR FORCE BASE TRANSITION
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed frustration with the Defense Department for not providing the funding that will allow the Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) to make a seamless transition at Cannon Air Force Base. 
   Domenici on Wednesday asked Defense Secretary Robert Gates for an update on current Pentagon plans to make up a $72 million shortfall in military construction needs for FY2008 to support the AFSOC takeover of Cannon. Domenici brought the issue to Gates' attention during a personal telephone call last week and again at a Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing today.
   "As the days go by, my concern grows about the seeming lack of plans to build up Cannon to meet the Special Operations Command's needs in the near term. We want the transfer of the base to be as seamless as possible and that will require the Defense Department working with us to fund these unmet requirements," Domenici said.
   Gates, who testified with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Peter Pace, indicated that he would respond to a series of Cannon-related questions submitted by Domenici.
   The Senator asked Gates to explain why the projects are not included in the FY2008 Department of Defense budget, what is needed from Congress to ensure Cannon has the assets and facilities to support AFSOC, and how the lack of funding could affect operational capabilities and personnel once AFSOC assumes control of Cannon in October.
   The communications with Gates follow public and private meetings between Domenici and Lt. Gen. Michael Wooley, AFSOC Commander, to address the needs at Cannon. Domenici has already requested $68.5 million of the $72 million in FY2008 military construction project funding for the transition. (The remaining funding needed is related to planning and design work, which Domenici believes the Defense Department should provide within its budget.)
   The Domenici requests are in addition to the two military construction projects requested for Cannon in the FY2008 budget presented by President Bush to Congress in February. That budget plan recommended $7.5 million to construct an MC-130 Flight Simulator Facility at Cannon, and $1.7 million to alter an existing hangar to accommodate C-130s.
 
 