SEN. DOMENICI: WHITE HOUSE TO NAME THREE NEW VALLES CALDERA BOARD MEMBERS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today announced the selection of three new members of the Valles Caldera Trust board of directors who are expected to be named by the White House Thursday.
   Domenici said President Bush is expected to name Stephen E. Henry of Las Cruces, James D. Range of Washington, D.C., and Ed Tinsley of Capitan to the board that oversees the Valles Caldera National Preserve and Trust in northern New Mexico. 
   "I am pleased to learn that the White House intends to nominate these three individuals. They are each well-educated in their areas of expertise and bring a wide range of backgrounds and experiences," said Domenici. "The board faces challenges as it looks to improve management of the Valles Caldera, including making it more accessible to the public and increasing the drive toward greater self-sufficiency. I believe these choices, based on their backgrounds, should improve the board and its workings."
   By law, the President names seven board members. The remaining two trustees of the nine-member board are the supervisor of the Santa Fe National Forest and the superintendent of the Bandelier National Monument. The board will administer, operate and maintain the ranch under a unique management plan with appropriate public input and governmental oversight.
   Henry spent 25 years at the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish. His positions at the department include: Wildlife District Officer, Statewide Wildlife Specialist, Statewide Fisheries Management Division Director, Southwest Area Field Operations Division Director, and Legislative Lobbyist. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Biology from New Mexico State University, and a Master of Science in Veterinary Pathology from Colorado State University.
   Range is a senior policy advisor specializing in environmental, regulatory, and legislative policy in the law firm of Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell & Berkowitz in Washington DC and chairman of the board of directors for the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership (TRCP). He was former counsel to former Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker, as well as the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. Outdoor Life magazine presented him with its 2002 Conservation Award for developing the TRCP.
   Tinsley is CEO of Tinsley Hospitality Group, LLC in Santa Fe, which oversees K-BOB's franchises in four states. He is a member of the 4-H Hall of Fame and has served on the board of the National Rifle Association. Tinsley, who has a law degree from Texas Tech University, operates a cattle ranch in southern New Mexico.
   Domenici has served as a proponent of the Valles Caldera National Preserve. Earlier this year, he and Senator Bingaman gained a guarantee by the U.S. Forest Service to fund the preserve with $3.5 million through 2007. Both senators signaled a commitment to ensuring continued adequate funding throughout the FY2008 appropriations process.
   The Valles Caldera Trust oversees the Valles Caldera National Preserve, formerly the privately owned Baca Ranch. The 88,900 acre property is located in the Jemez Mountains in northern New Mexico. It was purchased by the federal government in 2000 under the Valles Caldera National Preservation Act. For more information go to: www.vallescaldera.gov
   The new trustees will be named in accordance with the law that created the Valles Caldera Preserve and Trust (Public Law No: 106-248). This law instituted a unique trustee arrangement for managing the property, formerly known as the Baca Ranch. The law also set management goals that included resource protection and preservation, multiple use and sustained yield, and public access. The board is entrusted with moving the management of the ranch toward financial self-sufficiency without violating other management goals.
 
 