SBA OFFERS DISASTER LOAN AID FOR QUAY COUNTY BUSINESSES
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said small businesses in Quay County are eligible for loans to help meet normal operating expenses that cannot be met due to the excessive rains that have afflicted New Mexico this since late last year.  
   Domenici confirmed that the Small Business Administration (SBA) is offering "Economic Injury Disaster Assistance" loans to businesses that have suffered financially as a result of excessive rains that have plagued Quay County along with several West Texas counties. 
   "This SBA opportunity gives businesses in Quay County an opportunity to recoup income that might have been forfeited when farmers and ranchers lost produce due to heavy rains. Although most parts of New Mexico are battling drought condition, severe rains can do just as much damage. I am pleased small businesses in Tucumcari and elsewhere in the county have a financial conduit to sustain the economy," Domenici said. 
   Excessive rains beginning in November 2004 caused many farmers and ranchers to experience reduced incomes which may have had an adverse economic effect on businesses depending upon these producers. 
   Applications and additional information on the SBA offer are available by calling the SBA toll-free at (800) 366-6303 or TDD (817) 267-4688 for the hearing impaired. Businesses have until Dec. 14, 2005 to apply. 
   Due to the weather, many producers experienced crop losses and were not able to purchase goods and services at normal levels. Businesses that are dependent upon these producers may have experienced decreased sales, reduced gross profit margins, increased accounts receivable or difficulty in moving inventories at normal levels. 
   SBA loans can help a business meet installments on long-term debt, accounts payable and overhead expenses that would have been met had the disaster not occurred. Loans may be approved for up to $1.5 million for actual disaster-related needs of a business. Businesses must meet SBA's size standard to qualify. 
   For FY2006, the President proposed $25 billion in guaranteed business and direct disaster loans. For general business loans, the administration proposed no credit subsidy and would offset the cost of the program through new loan fees.
 
 