SEN. DOMENICI AIRS LACK OF EQUIPMENT CONCERNS AS N.M. GUARD UNITES PREPARE FOR IRAQ DEPLOYMENT
  Sen. Pete Domenici today aired concerns being raised about low-levels of available equipment as New Mexico National Guard units prepare for new deployments to Iraq. 
   Domenici addressed the dual-use equipment needs of the New Mexico National Guard during a Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing with Defense Secretary Robert Gates to review the FY2008 Pentagon budget. Domenici raised the dual-use equipment readiness issue-the New Mexico Army National Guard, at only 33.8 percent, has the lowest level nationally of available dual-use equipment-as several guard units have been put on alert or have already been given orders to deploy to Iraq.
   "New Mexicans are aware of the equipment needed by our National Guard, and they are especially concerned now that units are being deployed. They want assurances that these men and women will be well-equipped in combat zones and that our needs at home can and will be taken care of," Domenici said. Gates noted that overall National Guard equipment supplies are being taxed by ongoing combat requirements, but the Defense Department wants Congress to provide $22 billion between FY2008-2013 for the Army National Guard. He also said more immediate funding should be available for equipment needs in the FY2007 Supplemental Appropriations Bill.
   "There's no question that there's been a drawdown of equipment in the National Guard," Gates told Domenici. "Clearly, we need to follow through with this program to rebuild the stocks of equipment that are available to the National Guard."
   Lt. Gen. H. Steven Blum, chief of the National Guard Bureau, told Domenici last month that the FY2008 budget request should allow about 2,200 pieces of equipment to be delivered to the New Mexico National Guard by the end of FY2008 which would bring its equipment ratio over a 40 percent threshold.
   Finally, Domenici called Gates' attention to the New Mexico congressional delegation's request for a "prompt and full" investigation by Acting Army Secretary Pete Geren into allegations made by members of the New Mexico National Guard asserting that they were subjected to race-based discrimination while on duty in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom last year.
   "We have asked Secretary Geren to promptly and fully investigate these claims, but I would like to know what you can do to also help us get to the bottom of this problem," Domenici told Gates. "These are serious allegations of racism and this situation needs to be cleared up as quickly as possible."
 
 