DOE APPROVES $16.3 MILLION FOR NM LABS, WIPP, NM TECH PROJECTS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today reported that the Department of Energy has approved $16.3 million in FY2007 funding for projects at Sandia and Los Alamos national laboratories, as well as work associated with the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP) and New Mexico Tech. 
   Domenici, ranking member of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds DOE, said the release of the funding is part of the ongoing DOE process to distribute FY2007 funding approved by Congress. The department has the latitude to determine funding distribution because the appropriations process last year was short, eliminating directed earmark funding.
   Domenici noted that the funding amounts are generally less than the levels he was working to secure in the FY2007 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill.
   "We're in a situation where DOE is making its own judgments on where to put the funding we provided earlier this year. I am grateful for the resources being released by DOE and hope they will be enough to keep these programs viable as we look to improve the situation for our labs and WIPP in the FY2008 appropriations process," Domenici said.
   New Mexico projects approved through a DOE "merit review" of FY2007 Supported Congressionally Directed Activities include:
   Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability ? System Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) - $2.985 million to perform R&D on electricity infrastructure Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy ? Megawatt Demonstration Concerting Solar Power - $1.5 million
   Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, Carlsbad Environmental Management ? Community Impact: $1.0 million for infrastructure improvements, and acceleration impact funding for the Carlsbad community ? Remote Handled Center of Excellence: $2 million for continued development of the Center of Excellence for Hazardous Materials Management ? WIPP Records Center: $2.5 million for this project
   Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos Fossil Energy ? Center for Zero Emissions Research and Technology - $2.0 million Nuclear Energy ? Materials Test Station - $4.0 million to support materials and fuels experiments using fast neutron spectrum systems
   New Mexico Tech, Socorro Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability ? Hawaii/New Mexico Sustainable Energy Project - $400,000 for joint project involving Tech and the University of Hawaii.
 
 