SEN. DOMENICI ENCOURAGES NEW MEXICANS TO HONOR AMERICA'S VETS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today urged New Mexicans to take advantage of Veterans Day on Mon., Nov. 12, to thank America's past and present members of the U.S. military for their commitment and service to the nation.  
   "On this Veterans Day I hope New Mexicans will honor all the veterans of our great nation, but I would like them to think particularly about our servicemen and women who are right this moment in harm's way. They like all veterans have left behind the comfort of home, family and friends to defend our country and its countless blessings. For this, many have paid an immense price, emotionally and physically. I know our thoughts and prayers are with these outstanding individuals," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   The following remarks regarding Veterans Day were printed in their entirety in the Congressional Record: 
   "We as a Nation should never forget the debt we owe to the generations of Americans who have served as soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines. From the First and Second World Wars, to Korea, Vietnam and the Persian Gulf War, millions of Americans have answered the call of duty to preserve the freedom we all hold so dear. This is also true for our servicemen and women who are right now doing an amazing job in Iraq and the War on Terror, and throughout the world. 
   "Sadly, many Americans have paid the ultimate price and have given their lives for our country. No praise can be too great for the courage, valor and patriotism of these men and women and their sacrifice will never be forgotten. 
   "I think it is also important to remember the service of veterans to our country has never ended with their departure from the armed forces. They have enriched every community in which they reside with their strength of character, hard work and devotion to family. For this we must also be grateful. 
   "On this Veterans Day I hope New Mexicans will honor all the veterans of our great nation, but I would like them to think particularly about our servicemen and women who are right this moment in harm's way. They like all veterans have left behind the comfort of home, family and friends to defend our country and its countless blessings. For this, many have paid an immense price, emotionally and physically. I know our thoughts and prayers are with these outstanding individuals." 
   In honor of the Veterans Day holiday, Domenici's offices in Washington D.C., Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Las Cruces, and Roswell will be closed.
 
 