SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON ENERGY PRICES, CORPORATE PROFITS
  The following is Sen. Pete Domenici's prepared statement for the opening of the joint Senate committee hearing to examine energy prices and corporate profits. 
   Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, is co-chairing the hearing with energy company executives. The hearing is also being led by Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-Alaska). The hearing on Capitol Hill is expected to take most of the day.  
   U.S. Senator Pete Domenici (R-N.M) 
   Energy Prices & Corporate Profits 
   "I know that a number of Senators have asked that we swear in the witnesses. 
   "That decision is up to the Chairmen of the Committees, and Chairman Stevens and I agree that we are not going to do that. 
   "We are going to conduct this hearing in exactly the same manner as we conduct our regular oversight hearings. 
   "Senators can get as tough as they want when they ask questions, but these witnesses came here voluntarily and we are going to listen to them. 
   "This hearing is about issues, not just getting a picture of all the CEOs taking the oath - I know the political value of that sort of picture, but I am going to do all I can to make this a hearing about substance and not about pictures. 
   "I want to thank Leader Frist for requesting this hearing. He has articulated very clearly the frustration that we all share right now about high oil, gasoline and natural gas prices. 
   * Americans have been experiencing painful prices at the gasoline pump. 
   * Americans are seeing a lack of refinery capacity in this country. 
   * Americans are facing dramatically increased winter heating fuel prices, especially for natural gas. 
   "Americans are seeing all this at the same time major oil companies are enjoying record profits. 
   "According to polls, there is a growing suspicion that oil companies are taking unfair advantage of the current market conditions to line their coffers. 
   "Some Senators have proposed a Windfall Profits Tax with various uses for the revenues. 
   "The 1980 Windfall Profits Tax reduced domestic oil production between 3 and 6 percent, and increased oil imports between 8 and 16 percent. 
   "From all I know, a Windfall Profits Tax won't solve the problems we are addressing today. Still, I expect the oil company witnesses to provide some assurances about how you plan to use your recent profits to provide a stable source of energy to the United States. 
   "The oil company witnesses owe the public a better explanation of what it takes to run their companies and how much time and money it takes to bring oil to the market. 
   "I expect the witnesses to answer whether their current profits are excessive and to talk about what they intend to do with their flush cash reserves. I am interested to hear the witnesses' views on where they think global supply and demand are heading. 
   "There are a variety of factors experts have pointed to as reasons for recent high oil, gasoline and natural gas prices. Increased demand from China and India, increased geo-political risks and, of course, the Hurricanes that hit our Gulf Coast states are some examples. These factors are not under the control of the witness oil companies. 
   "There are other factors, however, such as the lack of refinery capacity in the U.S., which these oil company witnesses can affect and need to address today. 
   "It is time-urgent-that we address issues like expanding refinery capacity, increasing domestic supply through access to the OCS and a streamlined permitting process onshore in designated areas, and reducing demand by improving CAFE standards. Congress needs to resolve these matters. 
   "To close, I want to say that as we are recovering from the one-two punch of the Gulf Coast hurricanes and a general atmosphere of high energy prices, we need to keep two facts in mind: 
   1. Prices are coming down as we allow markets to work. For example: 
   * Retail price of regular gasoline has declined nationwide over 60 cents per gallon from its peak of $3.05 per gallon in the week of September 5th. 
   * Oil prices closed last night at $59.71; they have steadily come down from the high of $70 that hit us after Hurricane Katrina. 
   * The price of natural gas has also fallen from a recent high of around $16 after the Hurricanes to $11.79 at the close of the market yesterday. 
   2. Our economy has been and continues to move in a positive direction. 
   * According to Chairman Greenspan's testimony before the Joint Economic Committee last week, the U.S. real gross domestic product (GDP) growth averaged 3-1/2 percent at an annual rate over the first half of the year. Chairman Greenspan also noted that despite a challenging autumn, economic fundamentals remain firm, and the U.S. economy appears to retain important forward momentum. 
   "I want to make sure that high energy prices are not an obstacle to our good economic momentum."
 
 