SEN. DOMENICI: UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO WILL BENEFIT AS MEMBER OF NUCLEAR ENERGY RESEARCH ALLIANCE
  Sen. Pete Domenici today said opportunities for students and researchers at the University of New Mexico will benefit from the school's membership in a partnership selected by the Department of Energy to spearhead national nuclear energy research.  
   Domenici today praised the DOE award of a 10-year, $4.8 billion contract to the Battelle Energy Alliance - which sought out UNM as a member - to lead in establishing the Idaho National Laboratory as the country's lead facility for nuclear energy research and development. 
   "This is a great opportunity for our nation to more intently focus on its future energy requirements and for the University of New Mexico to increase its prowess in the field of nuclear energy research and technology," Domenici said. 
   The Idaho National Laboratory will combine the research and development components of the Idaho Engineering and Environmental Laboratory and Argonne National Laboratory West. The Idaho National Laboratory will be officially launched Feb. 1. 
   As part of the Battelle Energy Alliance, UNM will gain an endowed chair in nuclear engineering, and the university's School of Engineering - including its nuclear engineering and space nuclear programs - is expected to be enhanced. UNM undergraduate and graduate students will have opportunities to study nuclear engineering, research and development at the Idaho laboratory. 
   "I place great hope in this new initiative to find better technologies to give nuclear energy a more prominent role in the U.S. energy portfolio and at the same time open up new avenues for tapping into the potential of hydrogen," Domenici said. "The fact that UNM, its staff and students have an open door to be part of this great endeavor is gratifying to me." 
   The Idaho National Laboratory will lead a concerted international effort to create an advanced nuclear energy technology called the Next Generation Nuclear Plant (NGNP), which will be a Generation IV nuclear system. NGNP is expected to be able to produce nuclear energy more efficiently, while also developing a cost-effective source of hydrogen to support President Bush's National Hydrogen Fuel Initiative. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds DOE, its national laboratory system and projects like the NGNP. In addition Domenici has been an outspoken advocate for nuclear energy technology and development as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   In addition to UNM, other Battelle Energy Alliance partners include the Washington Group International, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Battelle Memorial Institute, BWXT Services Inc., and the Electric Power Research Institute.
 
 