SEN. DOMENICI HONORS LEGACY, SACRIFICE OF AMERICAN VETERANS
  Sen. Pete Domenici today urged New Mexicans to take the opportunity offered by Veterans Day activities to thank U.S. military veterans for their service to this nation. Veterans Day is Friday, Nov. 10. 
   Domenici, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement in advance of Veterans Day 2006:
   "American service members have served the United States with extraordinary courage since our nation's founding. It is fitting that we take this day to honor their commitment and sacrifice.
   "In a new day and age, our voluntary military plays a more pivotal role than ever in defending our nation and its interests. As I look to our veterans, I am reminded of their dedication to the United States, even when it has meant laying their lives on the line. At a recent veterans' celebration in Bernalillo, I was touched by the generations of families there to commemorate the New Mexico veterans. Young and old, they all recognized the sacrifices made for our great nation not only by those who served but also by the families who give them unwavering support.
   "New Mexico's diverse history contains the stories of many veterans. They include the Navajo code talkers of World War II, those stationed at one of the state's military bases, and some of our brightest men and women who have fought and given their lives in the on-going Global War on Terror.
   "It is good that as Americans we have a day to honor our veterans and thank them for all that they have done and continue to do. I encourage all New Mexicans to take a few moments this Veterans Day to remember and thank past and present members of our armed forces. It is truly to them that we owe our freedom and lives as Americans."
   On Saturday, Domenici ushered in Veterans Day commemoration activities in Sandoval County at the Bernalillo Veterans Day Commemoration Ceremony.
   In honor of the Veterans Day holiday, Domenici's offices in Washington D.C., Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Las Cruces, and Roswell will be closed.
   Audio Clip available at: http://src.senate.gov/public/senators/domenici/
 
 