SEN. DOMENICI'S 'ACCESS' RADIO SHOW - QUESTIONS & ANSWERS WITH NEW MEXICO RADIO JOURNALISTS
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici recorded his "ACCESS" radio news conference Tuesday, October 9, 2007. 
   PARTICIPANTS: 
   * Laura McCallum, KKOB Albuquerque 
   * Gillian Sutton, KRSN Los Alamos  
   * Mike Jaxson, KSVP Artesia 
   * Marco Grajeda, KRWG Las Cruces 
   TOPICS: 
   Open Senate Seat 
   Domenici Legislative Goals 
   Funding Outlook for DOE National Laboratories 
   Future of FLETC-Artesia 
   U.S. Aid to Mexico to Fight Drug Cartels 
   Economic Impact of Proposed LANL Cuts 
   Securing New Mexico Programs in Future 
   SCHIP Alternative 
   REVIEW: 
   00:00 Domenici says he believes there will be a number of candidates, both Republican and Democratic, who will battle it out for their party's nomination to run for his Senate seat. He says he expected Albuquerque Mayor Martin Ch?vez would run if he got out of the race. 
   03:56 Domenici discusses some of the legislative goals he wants to accomplish before his term ends in 2009, including: resolving the funding problem facing the national laboratories; authorization of Indian water rights settlements; enactment of mental health parity legislation and others. He discusses the need for more people to understand the ramifications of the House-passed cuts for Los Alamos and Sandia labs. 
   06:29 Domenici discusses the hardship of resolving the funding disparities between the House and Senate on funding for the DOE national laboratories. He says maintaining the current FY2007 funding for the labs is preferable to the House-passed cuts, and admits he is worried about the disparity between the House and Senate over the labs. 
   08:01 Domenici says the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee seems to be focused on making a priority of cutting defense spending at the national laboratories, and questions the rationale behind the House-passed cuts within the nuclear weapons complex. 
   10:52 Domenici predicts that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Artesia will have a solid future, and says the $117 million he has helped direct to the campus makes it an important and well established program. He says he will work to retain congressional directives that mandate full use of FLETC-Artesia. 
   14:37 Domenici says he must study the details of a proposed $1.0 billion U.S. aid package to Mexico to fight drug cartels. He says he could only support such a package if it is clear that the expenditure would be advantageous to the United States and requires Mexican cooperation. 
   17:00 Domenici discussed the potential economic impact on New Mexico if the national laboratories, particularly Los Alamos, are dramatically cut. He notes that about half of the LANL workforce commutes to the lab from areas outside of Los Alamos County. 
   18:55 Domenici says it will be important for the public to demand more than lip service from congressional candidates for their support for FLETC-Artesia or LANL. He says the public must demand that candidates commit to learning how to ensure that such facilities are adequately funded and prepared to grow in the future. He says "none of it happened easy" in terms of the work he has done over the years to secure additional funding for LANL, FLETC and other New Mexico programs. He says it takes more work than just saying you're "for" any program. 
   25:07 Domenici says he would have to look at the details of a proposed alternative to the vetoed State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). He discusses the likely failure by Congress to override the vetoed SCHIP program he supported.
 
 