BUSH SENT SEN. DOMENICI'S PLAN EXPANDING U.S. NONPROLIFERATION WORK TO GLOBAL STAGE
  Congress has completed work on a bill that will greatly expand the scope of U.S. nonproliferation activities through proposals authored by Sen. Pete Domenici to accelerate work to control nuclear materials and equipment wherever they are in the world.  
   Senate and House negotiators gave final approval to the FY2005 Defense Authorization Bill with two major provisions authored by Domenici related to expansion and acceleration of the United States nonproliferation program. The bill now goes to President Bush. 
   One Domenici effort authorizes an extensive array of programs-all with a global reach-to accelerate the removal or improve the security of fissile materials, radiological materials, and equipment. 
   The second allows the Department of Energy to accept international payments and apply them directly toward the U.S.-led effort to shutdown Russia's remaining plutonium reactors in Seversk and Zheleznogorsk. These activities were proposed and initiated through President Bush's Global Threat Reduction Initiative. Without the Domenici proposal, international contributions would go into a general fund without any assurances they would be put toward decommissioning costs, which have escalated from $460 million to $1.1 billion. 
   "The threat of nuclear materials spreading around the world makes this a global problem, and responsible governments around the world recognize this. However, the American taxpayer does not have to shoulder all costs for this work just because the United States is the world leader in nonproliferation activities. My amendment will help defray U.S. costs and encourage international cooperation," Domenici said. 
   "These Russian plutonium reactors produce enough plutonium each year to create as many as 300 nuclear weapons. We need to move quickly to shut these down," he said. 
   Allowing direct international payments to DOE will also give partner countries legal protections under the Plutonium Production Reactor Agreement. Giving DOE greater capacity to use international contributions should also help complete shutdown of the Russian reactors by the 2011 target date. 
   House conferees agreed to accept Domenici's Senate-passed amendment to accelerate work to secure, remove or eliminate proliferation attractive fissile or radiological materials anywhere in the world. The amendment had broad bipartisan support in the Senate, including Senator Jeff Bingaman who cosponsored it. 
   "We are effectively giving DOE, in coordination with other federal agencies, the tools it needs to minimize proliferation risks from nuclear materials anywhere in the world. While our U.S.-Russian focus is important, it is important that we make this a global cause," Domenici said. "There are too many threats developing all over the world that we must face now." 
   "We cannot be successful in our efforts to defeat global terrorism if we don't have a comprehensive plan in place to prevent nuclear materials from ending up in the wrong hands. This amendment makes securing and safely storing these materials a national priority," Bingaman said. 
   The Domenici plan, among other things, authorizes arrangements to provide secure shipment and storage of such materials either in the United States or abroad. It addresses improving security at sites by upgrading protections at functional sites or improving security at vulnerable or decommissioned sites. Other aspects of the amendment authorize programs to assist displaced employees and convert sties to new activities. 
   The legislation authorizes support to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and moves to accelerate the development of alternative fuels and radiation targets to replace reactor systems that rely on highly enriched uranium (HEU). It authorizes programs to hasten the conversion of reactor systems, including many research reactors that are fueled by HEU, to alternative fuels. 
   The Domenici amendments expand the scope of a nonproliferation initiative he authored in the FY2003 Defense Authorization Act that built on existing programs and created new cooperative initiatives for the United States and Russia to control, protect and neutralize materials and weapons of mass destruction. It also reauthorized the First Responder training program to improve domestic preparedness. 
   The FY2005 Defense Authorization Bill now requires final approval in both the House and Senate before it can be forwarded to President Bush. It is unknown whether final votes will occur before Congress recesses for the fall elections or during a subsequent lame duck session. 
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Energy Department and its nonproliferation activities. Work to complete the FY2005 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill, which will fund the nonproliferation activities covered in the Defense Authorization Bill, is expected later this year. 
   The DOE national labs in New Mexico-Sandia and Los Alamos-are involved in U.S. nonproliferation programs.
 
 