SEN. DOMENICI LOOKS TO CHARACTER COUNTS WEEK ACTIVITIES IN NEW MEXICO, KICKS OFF WITH BALLOON RIDES IN ABQ
  U.S. Senator Pete Domenici today offered a review of activities scheduled to celebrate the 2007 National Character Counts Week, which in New Mexico will be launched with hot air balloon rides for Character Counts students at the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta.  
   Domenici, who has promoted Character Counts both nationally and in New Mexico since 1994, sponsors the annual bipartisan Senate resolution declaring National Character Counts Week. This year the character education initiative will be celebrated Oct. 21-27. 
   "Character Counts is a successful program because it involves everyone. Schools and whole communities can be improved by embracing the pillars of good character, and I am proud that so many in New Mexico are active in this good work," Domenici said. 
   Character Counts activities in New Mexico will start Oct. 11-12 with tethered hot air balloon rides offered by Northrop Grumman for selected students at the Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta. The rides are scheduled for around 10:30 a.m. for some Character Counts students from Duranes Elementary School, the YMCA of Central New Mexico, and the Albuquerque/Rio Rancho Boys and Girls Clubs. Lunch follows at the media tent. 
   "Every year, Northrop Grumman teams with the Balloon Fiesta to give groups of kids a once in the lifetime thrill. Then Meals on Wheels feeds the youngsters. It is a great example of community giving," Domenici said.
   Throughout New Mexico, young people will spend October celebrating how the character education program enriches their lives. Some of the hallmark events this year include: 
   * Oct. 19 - Albuquerque: Duranes Elementary "Character is the Heart of New Mexico" Parade, 10:00 a.m., Old Town Plaza and the Albuquerque Museum 
   * Oct .25 - Roswell: Super Celebration of Character Counts Week, 6 p.m., Roswell High School Commons 
   * Oct. 27 - Gallup: Character Counts Week Parade, 10 a.m., Fourth and Coal to Lincoln Elementary School 
   Character Counts is an initiative built around the pillars of Respect, Responsibility, Fairness, Citizenship, Trustworthiness, and Caring. Character Counts is used by every New Mexico school district, and the New Mexico Activities Association has extended Character Counts training through the sportsmanship program "Pursuing Victory with Honor."
 
 