SEN. DOMENICI ISSUES STATEMENT ON INAUGURATION OF NEW MEXICO HIGHLANDS UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT ARAGON
  Despite being forced by a weekend Senate session to cancel his trip to Las Vegas, Sen. Pete Domenici today issued his statement expressing his hopes for Manny Aragon, who will be formally inaugurated Sunday as president of New Mexico Highlands University.  
   Domenici was scheduled to speak at the inaugural ceremony scheduled for 1 p.m., Oct. 10, at the NMHU Wilson Center. However, the U.S. Senate has remained in session over the weekend in hopes of completing legislation related to reforming intelligence operations, funding homeland security and setting defense policies. 
   In his statement to Aragon, Domenici expresses his hope that under the Aragon administration, NMHU will make great strides in expanding its curriculum to encourage more Hispanic and minority students gain degrees in technical fields of study. The following is Domenici's address: 
   "Congratulations, President Aragon. This is a time for renewal and new starts-not only for you but for Highlands and all it represents to the students who enter its doors. 
   "For more than a century, New Mexico Highlands has been a portal of opportunity for students who otherwise might not otherwise have had a chance at higher education. 
   "I believe Highlands today stands at the start of the new 21st Century poised for growth and excellence. This university has a strong history of preparing legions of teachers and social workers to serve the people. But the greater challenge for you and your administration is to bring about greater diversity in the curriculums offered to new generations of Highlands students. 
   "In this new era, it will be important for you to find new and exciting possibilities for the University and its future. This includes moving forward, developing your resources and expanding programs to better serve the students. 
   "We live in an age of revolutionary scientific and technological advances. I wholeheartedly embrace efforts here to encourage more students to get degrees in math, science and high technologies-particularly Hispanic and minority students. 
   "New Mexico Highlands now has a beautiful new technology building for students to delve into these disciplines and earn degrees. I am more than happy that I was able to secure $5.3 million in federal funding to help build the state-of-the-art Center for Science and Technology. 
   "There is no reason why more Hispanic and minority students shouldn't take a more prominent place among the ranks of America's great scientists and researchers. I believe this center is where those dreams can start coming true. 
   "As Congress addresses renewing the federal higher education law, I believe we should consider the possibility of giving more emphasis and resources into promoting this type of technical education within Hispanic-Serving Institutions. President Aragon, I would appreciate your input in trying to develop this idea. 
   "Manny, as you know, I have never hesitated to reach out to you to work together. Throughout your long career as a leader in the New Mexico State Senate, we have always been able to work together for the betterment of those we serve. 
   "I have every confidence that you will excel in your new role leading this fine university. You undoubtedly have the energy, experience and tenaciousness to lead and get things done. 
   "I congratulate you and look forward to a new era in Las Vegas as you build on your life's work to improve education and opportunities for our youth."
 
 