SEN. DOMENICI HELPS HALT $2.4 BILLION EXPANSION OF DAIRY SUBSIDY PROGRAM THAT IS UNFAIR TO NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Pete Domenici today expressed gratitude that an effort to expand and extend a federal milk subsidy program within the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill has been rejected-following his very stern threat to delay progress on the bill if the $2.4 billion dairy provision advanced.  
   Domenici serves on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and was among the negotiators working with their House counterparts to finalize the FY2005 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. 
   During negotiations Thursday, an amendment was offered to expand and extend the controversial USDA Milk Income Loss Contact (MILC) program through 2007 at a cost of $2.4 billion-a move Domenici strenuously opposed as negotiations wore on into Friday evening. By Saturday morning, the MILC provision had been dropped and Congress was moving toward giving final approval to the $33.1 billion homeland security spending bill. 
   For New Mexico, stopping the extension of the MILC program is important because it could have locked the state's dairy industry into a subsidy program that does not benefit them. In fact, the MILC subsidies only affect about 8 percent of the milk produced by New Mexico dairies. In all, these dairies are expected to generate $1.25 billion in milk sales this year. 
   The MILC program is currently configured to help mostly small dairy operations in the Northeast and Midwest. 
   "I'm pleased clearer heads have prevailed this time. It was just flat out wrong to try to expand the MILC program in the homeland security bill. The fact that the MILC program is flawed is bad enough without using it to bog down or sink the bill this country needs to continue girding itself against possible terrorist threats," Domenici said. "There are better places to debate the pros and cons of the MILC subsidy program. The Homeland Security Appropriations Bill was not the place." 
   The House and Senate are working over the weekend in hopes of completing a number of bills related to national defense and homeland security before recessing for the fall elections. In a speech to the Senate Friday and in a letter to appropriations committee leaders earlier this week, Domenici warned that he and other Senators were willing to delay the progress on these bills if the MILC amendment remained in the homeland security funding bill. 
   "People want this big bill to protect our country," Domenici said Friday. "But they don't have to protect some cows along with it, right? We're not here for a cow protection program." 
   The Senate Appropriations Committee has already agreed to add the MILC extension to a spending bill for the Veterans' Affairs Department, but supporters attempted to add it to the homeland security bill since Congress will not finish the veterans' spending bill until after the fall elections. 
   New Mexico is the seventh largest dairy producing state in the nation, employing more than 8,000 workers, with the leading dairy producing counties being Chaves, Curry, Roosevelt, Do?a Ana, Lea and Eddy. There is also significant production in Bernalillo, Socorro and Valencia counties.
 
 