SENATE ADDS SEN. DOMENICI-COSPONSORED METH CONTROL ACT TO APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Pete Domenici today applauded the Senate for unanimously approving legislation he cosponsored to limit access to cold medicines containing the primary ingredients used to make methamphetamine.  
   Domenici, who cosponsored the Combat Meth Act of 2005 (S.103), said he was pleased it was made part of the FY2006 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill Friday morning. 
   The Senate added the legislation it to the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill. The appropriations bill has already passed the House and is expected to pass the Senate as early as next week. 
   "This will be a powerful bit of legislation to back up ongoing efforts to dismantle homemade labs and seize drug producers and traffickers. There will be fewer meth components in the hands of criminals because of stringent regulations articulated in this bill," Domenici said. "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure and I believe this measure will make a great difference in our battle against meth." 
   The bill tightens controls on the sale of pseudoephedrine and ephedrine commonly found in many over-the-counter cold and sinus medicines, and creates new law enforcement tools to apprehend and prosecute meth producers. 
   The rampant drug problem in New Mexico is attributed, in part, to the ease with which meth can be produced in home-made labs using common and accessible medicines as well as the transportation of Mexican cartel-produced methamphetamine contraband through the state. 
   "We have seen how other states have reduced meth production by up to 50 percent using this same tactic, and I believe New Mexico will share similar success," Domenici said. 
   The bill, introduced by Senators Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Diane Feinstein (D-Calif.), would direct that pseudoephedrine and ephedrine be sold only by a pharmacist or pharmacy technician, with buyers limited to 9 grams of products containing this ingredient in a 30-day period. Provisions have been included to address rural areas without pharmacy access. 
   The bill would allow manufacturers an implementation period to produce alternatives for retailers and includes national uniformity preemption language, among other provisions. 
   In addition, the measure would authorize $33 million over two years to: 
   * Train officers and prosecutors regarding meth laws and crimes ($15 million), and hire and train attorneys to prosecute federal and state meth offenses ($5 million for both FY2006 and FY2007); 
   * Create rapid response teams to help children affected by meth production ($2.5 million for both FY2006 and FY2007); and, * Treat meth abuse and establish centers to improve such treatments ($3 million for FY2006 and necessary sums for FY2007 and FY2008). 
   Domenici has been a strong proponent of federal cooperation with local law enforcement in addressing illegal drug problems, helping 13 New Mexico counties become involved in the Southwest Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program to bring more focus on methamphetamine, heroin, and other illegal drugs in the area. 
   With Domenici's support, $227 million has been included in the FY2006 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (TTHUD) Appropriations Bill for HIDTA. 
   According to the Drug Enforcement Agency, small clandestine meth labs are found throughout the state, with serious problems in the Albuquerque metro region, the Four Corners area, and areas nearer to the Mexican border. Hundreds of labs have been seized since 1999.
 
 