





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson: Feds need better data before limiting fishing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson: Feds need better data before limiting fishing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
August 10, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. â U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson today called on Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Guiterrez to suspend new limits on red grouper fishing until the agency improves its methods of collecting data on the amount caught each year by recreational fishermen.   
During a meeting with Guiterrez and other Commerce officials, Nelson questioned whether non-scientific surveys of fisherman dockside and randomly-selected members of the general public should be the basis for a new federal rule that imposes limits on grouper catches starting this week and closes recreational grouper fisheries for two months at the end of this year.    
Data behind the decision to limit recreational fishing in federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico indicate that grouper catches were up 130 percent from 2003 to 2004, despite the fact that an unprecedented hurricane season last year led to a ?? decrease in visitors to the state and .  
Recreational fishing is $5-billion a year industry in Florida. 

###


























