





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson blocking Bush's pick to head consumer safety panel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson blocking Bush's pick to head consumer safety panel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
May 10, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - A key member of the U.S. Senate's Commerce Committee has blocked President Bush's pick to head the government agency responsible for protecting the public from dangerous and defective consumer products, USA Today reports.    
In a brief letter sent Tuesday to the Senate's majority leader, Sen. Bill Nelson ( D-FL ) divulged his intent to stop the nomination of Michael Baroody to head the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC).    
"After a careful review of Mr. Baroody's past statements and record, I have concluded that he will be unable to effectively . . . protect American consumers from the risks associated with unsafe consumer products," Nelson wrote.    
Baroody became the subject of increased public controversy a day after Nelson's letter, when USA Today reported on its front page that in 2000 he lobbied then-New York Governor George Pataki on behalf of the tobacco industry, asking him to veto a bill that would require the sale of fire-safe cigarettes that could prevent some of the hundreds of fire deaths caused by smoking.    
Critics contend Baroody would have direct say over that and other major consumer protection matters, if he were to become head of the nation's consumer product safety agency.    
In fact, an issue for Nelson is Baroody's role as the top lobbyist for various manufacturers and his efforts to counter consumer protections.  Nelson and other critics, including top consumer advocacy groups, believe Baroody has had a lengthy history of fighting for special interests and against consumer safety measures.    
Specifically, Nelson has placed a "hold" on Baroody, which is a formal notice given by a senator who doesn't want a particular person's nomination to reach the Senate floor for consideration.  It's widely viewed as an effective blocking mechanism, because it takes the votes of at least 60 of the 100 senators to overcome it.    
The Commerce Committee on which Nelson serves is scheduled to take up the nomination May 24. 

###


























