





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: U.S. senator signals intention to block Norton replacement over White House drilling plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






U.S. senator signals intention to block Norton replacement over White House drilling plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Media release
March 10, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â The sudden departure of Interior Secretary Gale Norton Friday gave opponents of drilling off Florida a new opportunity to block White House plans for allowing oil and gas rigs close to the state, according to Sen. Bill Nelson.  
Norton was the administrationâs biggest advocate for opening the eastern Gulf of Mexico to new oil and gas drilling; and, Nelson said, her resignation will allow him to block her replacement if the nominee also supports drilling closer to Florida.  
âIâm going to object to anyone who intends to follow through with Nortonâs plan to open vast areas off Florida to oil and gas rigs,â? Nelson said today, signaling the White House heâll place a hold on the nominee to replace Norton.  Under Senate rules, it only takes one memberâs objection to prevent further consideration of a nominee.  
Nelson announced earlier this week that heâs prepared to filibuster any oil drilling proposals that would harm the nationâs military readiness and Floridaâs economy and environment, including Energy Committee chairman Sen. Pete Domeniciâs bill.  
Additional drilling in the eastern Gulf could damage Floridaâs unspoiled beaches and threaten the stateâs tourism-based economy.  Late last year, drilling in the Gulf of Mexico also became a national security issue, with Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld declaring oil rigs incompatible with military training missions in the area.   
Nelson, along with Floridaâs other U.S. Senator Mel Martinez, has successfully fought repeated attempts to expand drilling closer to the stateâs shores.  They introduced legislation last month to permanently protect Florida from drilling. 

###


























