





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson wants seniors to have more time to choose from new Medicare drug plans                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson wants seniors to have more time to choose from new Medicare drug plans                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Media release
November 10, 2005
WEST PALM BEACH â Starting Tuesday, millions of senior citizens throughout South Florida and the rest of the country will start signing up for Medicareâs new prescription drug benefit.  
But, with more than 40 different plans and only six months in which to make a decision, many local seniors are confused and unsure which prescription drug coverage is right for them.  
To remedy the problem, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson wants the federal government to give them more time, and to eliminate penalties for late decisions.  
Nelson said his legislation is needed because seniors who donât sign up by next May will pay substantially higher premiums, if they later decide to join the program.  
âWe have to make sure seniors are not forced into making a detrimental or hasty decision they may later regret,â? said Nelson.  
Nelson introduced the legislation last month to extend the existing six-month open enrollment period to the entire year of 2006. Nelson also said his bill is needed because many South Florida seniors who were displaced by Wilma arenât able to receive the materials needed to enroll in the program.   
The proposal is being reviewed by the Senate Finance Committee. 

###


























