





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Veteransâ Day visit by Clark, Nelson brings focus to predicament of returning U.S. soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Veteransâ Day visit by Clark, Nelson brings focus to predicament of returning U.S. soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Media release
November 10, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C.  --  U.S. Senator Bill Nelson said today he hopes a scheduled visit to Florida on Friday by retired Gen. Wesley Clark draws added attention to the problems faced by combat-wounded soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines.  
In particular, Nelson hopes the former generalâs visit with service members will highlight the federal governmentâs controversial practice of sending collection agencies after troops for debts owed to Uncle Sam resulting from Pentagon computer errors or equipment lost on the battlefield.  
According to a recent Washington Post examination of the governmentâs debt-collection practices, the Army has even sent private collection agencies after soldiers wounded in combat, some of whom had lost limbs, charging for equipment lost in battle, such as helmets.  
After receiving complaints from veterans in Florida, Nelson last month asked Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld to stop government use of debt collectors on combat-wounded troops, and to not blacken these service membersâ credit records.    
Rumsfeld assigned the matter to Under Secretary of Defense David Chu; and, the Pentagon since has told Nelsonâs staff it temporarily has suspended debt collection from wounded service members.  Under Secretary of Defense Tina W. Jonas testified recently before the Senate Armed Services Committee, on which Nelson serves, that the military is taking steps to prevent this problem for wounded soldiers by completing case-by-case reviews.   
However, the Treasury Department, at the Pentagonâs request, continues to pressure former service members who may or may not owe a debt to the government.  âAll soldiers returning from war deserve a case-by-case review before the Pentagon hands over debts for collection,â? Nelson said.  
âSenator Nelson recognizes that the best way to honor the sacrifice of the soldiers is to ensure they have all they need in terms of resources and a strategy for success, which they still have not received from this administration,â? said Clark, who served as Supreme Allied Commander of NATO from 1997 to 2000, and led NATOâs forces to victory in major combat action during the conflict in the Balkans.  
Four times wounded in Vietnam, the West Point graduate and Rhodes Scholar rose to the rank of Four Star General during his 34-year military career.  Since his retirement, Clark has written two best-selling books, Waging Modern War and Winning Modern Wars.   
On Friday, a small number of veterans will meet with Clark when he and Nelson attend Veteransâ Day ceremonies in Florida.  Clark and Nelson will gather with several local veterans at the Battle of the Bulge Memorial in Lake Eola Park at Robinson Street and Eola Drive in Orlando Friday morning to remember those who died in the historic battle, and to talk about issues affecting veterans, including the Treasury Departmentâs use of collection agencies.  
Later, the two men privately will pay tribune to those who fought and died for our freedom by laying a wreath at Sarasotaâs World War II Veterans Memorial at Main Street and Gulf Stream.  After that, theyâll meet with vets recovering from injuries sustained in Iraq, along with their families, at Tampaâs James A. Haley V.A. Medical Center. 

###


























