





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Congress moving to curb high cost of homeowners insurance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Congress moving to curb high cost of homeowners insurance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
April 11, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C.  With just weeks to go before the start of another hurricane season, which experts agree will be a busy one, federal lawmakers took a big step today toward helping consumers with rising property insurance bills by pledging to enact legislation aimed at creating a national disaster safety net.  In fact, Sen. Chris Dodd, a Democrat who heads the Senate Banking Committee, endorsed a plan by his two Senate colleagues from Florida that would create an emergency panel to quickly identify ways to make homeowners insurance more available and affordable - not just in Florida, but all around the country.  Creation of the emergency panel is chief among a series of legislative proposals by Sens. Bill Nelson and Mel Martinez. Among other things, the two lawmakers have proposed a grouping of bills that could lead to the forming of a national catastrophic fund to minimize the impact on each state, providing of tax incentives for natural disaster preparedness and allocating of funds for hurricane mitigation research.   Both senators, along with Florida Gov. Charlie Crist, appeared before the Banking Committee Wednesday morning, after which Nelson unveiled the emergency-panel bill before the Commerce Committee on which he serves.  People at home are hurting, said Nelson, seated next to Crist at the earlier Banking Committee hearing. They cannot afford their homeowner insurance premiums. When that is combined with [ real estate ] taxes in Florida . . . people are being eaten out of their house and home.  At a previous meeting of the Senate Banking Committee, Martinez had offered similar sentiments. In light of past disasters, and in expectation of future ones, weve got to find a better way to spread and finance the risk, he said.  Though consumers are hurting, Crist noted today, the Florida Legislature has enacted reforms to provide homeowners relief in the form of lower rates. The governor also reminded senators on the Banking Committee that many other states face catastrophic risk, and that it was a role for the federal government to help protect people in those states. Crist recalled the big earthquake in California in 1989, for example.  Crist said he supported the Nelson-Martinez legislation to have an emergency commission find ways to shore up a national insurance marketplace badly shaken by Katrina and numerous other storms over the past few years. The commission would be made up of a cross-section of national experts to recommend to Congress an approach to addressing catastrophic risk insurance.  The experts, among other things, would be required to analyze specific proposals aimed at creating a national disaster fund and tax-free home-repair accounts for consumers. The commission would have 90 days to report to Congress on ways to provide homeowners and businesses with affordable property insurance.  The proposal also has strong support from Louisianas Sens. Mary Landrieu and David Vitter and Mississippis Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran. Nelson and Landrieu filed a similar bill last year. Louisiana was ripped hard by Katrina more than a year ago.  Although Florida was slammed by Hurricane Andrew in 1992, the homeowners insurance market there was stable until eight hurricanes hit the state in 2004 and 2005, sending premiums soaring and prompting insurers to dump policyholders. At the same time, Katrina brought unprecedented destruction and losses to more than 8,000 miles of the Gulf coast.   Following are several bills in the package recently introduced by Sens. Nelson and Martinez:   S. 292 - Commission on Catastrophic Disaster Risk and Insurance Act of 2007 - Establishes the bipartisan Commission on Catastrophic Disaster Risk and Insurance to assess: (1) the condition of the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance markets in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma in 2005, and the four major hurricanes that struck the United States in 2004; (2) the ongoing exposure of the United States to earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, and floods; and (3) recommend and report legislative and regulatory changes that will improve the domestic and international financial health and competitiveness of such markets.   S. 926 - Policyholder Disaster Protection Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow insurance companies (other than life insurance companies) to make tax deductible contributions to a tax-exempt policyholder disaster protection fund established by this Act for the payment of policyholders' claims arising from certain catastrophic events, such as windstorms, earthquakes, fires, or floods.   S.927- Catastrophe Savings Accounts Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to create tax-exempt catastrophe savings accounts (CSAs). Allows tax-free distributions from CSAs to pay expenses resulting from a presidentially declared major disaster. Limits CSA balances to: (1) $2,000 (for individuals with homeowner insurance deductibles of not more than $1,000); and (2) the lesser of $15,000 or twice a homeowner's insurance deductible (for individuals with deductibles of more than $1,000).   S. 928 - A bill to establish a program to provide more protection at lower cost through a national backstop for State natural catastrophe insurance programs to help the United States better prepare for and protect its citizens against the ravages of natural catastrophes, to encourage and promote mitigation and prevention for, and recovery and rebuilding from such catastrophes, to better assist in the financial recovery from such catastrophes, and to develop a rigorous process of continuous improvement.   S. 929  Non-admitted and Reinsurance Reform Act of 2007  Provides regulatory relief and reform for the surplus lines insurance market. Currently, a small portion of consumers may be unable to find insurance in the traditional market, and may turn to the nonadmitted, or surplus lines market, for coverage. This bill streamlines regulations in the surplus lines marketplace through a mix of national standards with state enforcement to create a more efficient regulatory system. It provides a method of collecting state premium taxes for surplus lines and allocates this income to the states and adopts the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) non-admitted insurance model for eligibility requirements for surplus lines carriers on a national basis.   S.930 - Hurricane and Tornado Mitigation Investment Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow individual and business taxpayers a tax credit for 25% of their qualified hurricane and tornado mitigation property expenditures up to $5,000 for any taxable year. Defines such expenditures as expenditures in a dwelling unit to improve the strength of a roof deck attachment, create a secondary water barrier, improve the durability of a roof covering, brace gable-end walls, reinforce the connections between a roof and supporting wall, protect against windborne debris, or protect exterior doors and garages.   S.931 - National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2007 - Requires the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere of the Department of Commerce and the Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) to establish a National Hurricane Research Initiative and to cooperate with other specified federal agencies to carry it out. 

###


























