





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senators move to stop U.S. seizures of Canadian drugs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senators move to stop U.S. seizures of Canadian drugs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Media Release
July 11, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â Since late last year, staff members in U.S. Sen. Bill Nelsonâs office have discovered that tens of thousands of consumers all across the country have had their Canadian prescription drugs unexpectedly seized at the border by U.S. government agents.    
Nelson has now introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate to stop such seizures.  Late yesterday, he filed bipartisan legislation with Sen. David Vitter, a Republican from Louisiana, to make sure no funds included in the pending Homeland Security appropriation bill can be used by U.S. Customs and Border Security to prevent individuals from importing cheaper prescription drugs for personal use.  
âAmericans, who rely on low cost prescription drugs from Canada, canât continue to wait for action,â? Nelson said.  âThis amendment will ensure that Americans, especially the elderly or those with debilitating conditions, are able to afford the medications they need.â?  
This latest move comes after the Department of Homeland Security inspector general declined Nelsonâs request for an investigation of the seizure of prescription drugs purchased by Americans from Canada.  Concerned that the U.S. Customs and Border Protectionâs failure to also notify consumers of their stepped-up drug seizures was placing peopleâs health at risk, Nelson wants it stopped; and, he wants to know whether the increase in seizures represented a policy shift; and, if it was related to the start of the Medicare prescription drug program; or, whether there is something else behind it.  
While federal law bans drug imports from other countries, the government generally viewed the law as a prohibition against wholesalers and distributors and not against individuals getting small quantities to fill legal prescriptions.  
But Nelsonâs office last year began hearing from an increasing number of constituents who had not received their personal medications â at a time coincident with the start of the new Medicare prescription drug program last November.  The new Medicare program was the Bush administrationâs alternative to cheaper Canadian drugs, and was supposed to make prescriptions more affordable for seniors.  For many, however, prescriptions from Canada remains more affordable.  
Nelson worried that the increase in confiscations represented a move aimed at pressuring seniors to enroll in Medicareâs drug plan, and asked the Homeland Security inspector general to investigate.  After being rebuffed, Nelson asked the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs for an investigation â a request thatâs pending.  
The Department of Homeland Security has acknowledged that it had modified their imported drug policy beginning on November 17, 2005 â just two days after the start of the Medicare prescription drug program.  To date, the policy change has resulted in the seizure of tens of thousands of prescription drugs.  Essentially, no personal prescription drugs had been seized over the same period a year earlier.  
Meantime, information that has surfaced in a Minnesota court case suggests that the increase in drug seizures could be part of a larger scheme.  According to documents filed in that court case, there has been illegal and collusive activity to block the imports of cheaper prescription drugs from Canada.  
The Senate is expected to vote on the Nelson-Vitter amendment later this week during debate on the broader Homeland Security spending bill.  The House approved a similar amendment to its version of the Homeland Security appropriations bill in May. 

###


























