





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate acts quickly to stop U.S. seizures of Canadian drugs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate acts quickly to stop U.S. seizures of Canadian drugs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Media Release
July 11, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â In a major move aimed at allowing people access to cheaper prescription drugs, the Senate today voted overwhelmingly to stop federal agents from seizing personal prescriptions mailed to the U.S. from Canada.  
The vote, 68-32, sends a strong signal that lawmakers on both sides of the political aisle want the Bush Administration to stop seizing prescription drugs largely ordered by seniors on fixed incomes from Canadian pharmacies.  The administration stepped up seizures of prescriptions at the U.S. border in a secret crackdown launched last year.  
Word of the crackdown became public when U.S. Senator Bill Nelson challenged the administration and asked for an investigation into complaints his office received from constituents who, in some cases, had their life-sustaining medications taken away without warning.  
âThis is going to ensure that Americans, especially the frail, elderly, or those with debilitating conditions, are going to be able to at least have a chance of affording the medications that they need,â? Nelson told the Senate prior to its vote today.  
It was Nelson who, along with Louisiana Republican Senator David Vitter on Monday, filed the legislation approved by the full Senate Tuesday afternoon.  This comes after the Department of Homeland Security inspector general declined Nelsonâs February request for an investigation into the increased drug seizures.  Concerned that the U.S. Customs and Border Protectionâs failure to also notify consumers of their stepped-up drug seizures was placing peopleâs health at risk, Nelson wanted it stopped; and, he wanted to know whether the increase in seizures represented a policy shift; and, if it was related to the start of the Medicare prescription drug program; or, whether there is something else behind it.  
While federal law bans drug imports from other countries, the government generally viewed the law as a prohibition against wholesalers and distributors and not against individuals getting small quantities to fill legal prescriptions.  
But Nelsonâs office last year began hearing from an increasing number of constituents who had not received their personal medications â at a time coincident with the start of the new Medicare prescription drug program last November.  The new Medicare program was the Bush administrationâs alternative to cheaper Canadian drugs, and was supposed to make prescriptions more affordable for seniors.  For many, however, prescriptions from Canada remain more affordable.  
Nelson worried that the increase in confiscations represented a move aimed at pressuring seniors to enroll in Medicareâs drug plan, and asked the Homeland Security inspector general to investigate.  After being rebuffed, Nelson asked the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs for an investigation â a request thatâs pending.  
The Department of Homeland Security has acknowledged that it had modified their imported drug policy beginning on November 17, 2005 â just two days after the start of the Medicare prescription drug program.  To date, the policy change has resulted in the seizure of tens of thousands of prescription drugs.  Essentially, no personal prescription drugs had been seized over the same period a year earlier.  
Meantime, information that has surfaced in a Minnesota court case suggests that the increase in drug seizures could be part of a larger scheme.  According to documents filed in that court case, there has been illegal and collusive activity to block the imports of cheaper prescription drugs from Canada.  
The chances of Nelson and Vitterâs Canadian drugs proposal reaching the president for his signature are good.  The Senate is expected to approve the full Homeland Security appropriations bill later this week.  The House included a provision similar to the Vitter-Nelson amendment when they passed their version of the Homeland Security appropriations bill in May. 

###


























