





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson requests new proble of reporter's murder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson requests new proble of reporter's murder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
May 11, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL) has requested that Peru's President Alejandro Toledo reopen an investigation into the death of a Florida newspaper reporter murdered on the job near a Peruvian jungle town more than 15 years ago.    
The case was shrouded in secrecy until recently, when published reports said new evidence implicated several men linked to the drug trade in the death of Tampa Tribune reporter Todd Smith. Smith, 28, was tortured and strangled to death while working on a story about Peru's coca-region.    
Spurred by the new revelations, Nelson on Wednesday formally requested another investigation into Smith's murder. The request came during an afternoon telephone call to Peru's ambassador to the U.S., Eduardo Ferrero, who told Nelson he'd "put all [ his ] effort into this."    
Nelson described the ambassador's response as encouraging. "I'm hopeful that justice in this case can finally be served," said Nelson, of Florida, who's a member of the Senate's Foreign Relations panel. "Todd's parents and two sisters deserve no less."    
In January, Nelson traveled to Peru and established a relationship with Toledo and Ferrero, which he hopes will help push through his request for opening a new murder probe.    
At the time of Smith's death in 1989, Peruvian officials were quick to say it was the work of the Shining Path, a Maoist insurgent group linked to protecting coca-plant cultivators. Four years afterward, a secret counter-terrorism trial resulted in a Shining Path guerrilla receiving 30 years in prison in connection with the murder. He was the only person ever tried, and received early release.    
Little else was known - until records of the secret trial emerged last December, including an intelligence report identifying a businessman who founded a Peru airline as one of the masterminds behind Smith's killing. The court records were obtained by a Lima-based institute for a free society.    
According to an intelligence report in those records, the guerrillas who tortured and strangled Smith were working for the Peruvian businessman - identified in published accounts as Fernando Zevallos - and two others allegedly involved in the drug trade. Zevallos, labeled a Peruvian cocaine kingpin last year by the Bush Administration, was never charged in the case.    
This is not the first time Nelson has sought to come to the aid of an American killed in another country. He began working several years ago to resolve the fate of a Jacksonville Navy pilot, Scott Speicher, who was shot down in the first Gulf War. Nelson's efforts spurred the creation of a special military unit to search for him in Iraq. A report is due out soon.  

###


























