





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson: Energy independence key to national security                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson: Energy independence key to national security                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Media Release
September 11, 2006
West Palm Beach - U.S. Senator Bill Nelson today marked the fifth anniversary of 9-11 by attending a remembrance ceremony and delivering a speech that focused on steps to help make the U.S. more secure and break its dependence on foreign oil.  
âAs a nation, we can, and we must, do more to keep terrorism from infringing on our way of life; and, in this effort we also must confront our troubling dependence on foreign oil,â? Nelson said as he discussed energy independence and national security.  
âUntil we break free from our oil addiction, we will remain reliant on unstable and undemocratic governments thousands of miles from home,â? Nelson said as he spoke to the Forum Club of the Palm Beaches at the groupâs noontime meeting today.  In the speech, the senator - a member of both the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed Services committees â contends an oil crisis is coming possibly due to terrorist attacks.  
Nelson cited a recent simulated war game in which terrorists struck ports and processing plants in Saudi Arabia and Alaska.  In the simulation, oil prices quickly soared to $123 a barrel; and, $161 a barrel six months later.  With gas then costing about $6 a gallon, the country goes into recession, millions of jobs are lost and the average household pays almost $3,000 more each year for fuel.  
Nelson also asserted the administration isnât doing enough to develop alternative energy and curb rising fuel costs.  âToday in America, President Bush says, âWe have a serious problem.  America is addicted to oil, which is often imported from unstable parts of the world .â    
âWell, itâs not the American people who are addicted to oil,â? Nelson said.  âItâs the administration thatâs addicted to oil.â?  
Further, the presidentâs âwords are not backed up with the tough policy changes needed to make a real difference.â? he said.  
In the speech, which echoed his national radio address in April, Nelson outlined steps the U.S. must take to be energy independent: take on the oil industry with a congressional investigation of its profits; more rapidly develop alternative fuels such as ethanol; produce more hybrid vehicles; conserve fuel by raising the efficiency standard for passenger vehicles to 40 miles per gallon; produce synthetic fuel from coal; and, develop a hydrogen-powered engine.  
Prior to the Forum Club meeting, Nelson attended a 9-11 anniversary event in West Palm Beach sponsored by the fire chiefs of Palm Beach County and the Palm Beach County Council of Firefighters and Paramedics. 

###


























