





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Sweeping identity-protection bill offered, hearing slated; breach estimates worsen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Sweeping identity-protection bill offered, hearing slated; breach estimates worsen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
April 12, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The disclosure last month of security breaches at two major information brokers, ChoicePoint and LexisNexis, prompted calls from key privacy groups for new safeguards to protect American consumers from identity thieves.    
And this morning, published reports say the breach at a LexisNexis affiliate in Boca Raton, Florida, was much worse than numbers announced in March - 310,000 identities were compromised, not just 32,000.    
Between security lapses at just these two information brokers, personal data of nearly half-a-million Americans may have been compromised and could end up in the hands of identity thieves.    
In response, U.S. Sens. Charles Schumer and Bill Nelson today will file the most comprehensive legislation to date aimed at protecting consumers from identity theft and helping victims recover from such crimes in a new bill that draws in part from measures previously proposed by Nelson, Sen. Dianne Feinstein and others.    
Specifically, the Schumer-Nelson legislation for the first time would regulate information brokers like credit bureaus that handle sensitive consumer data, crack down on the sale of Social Security numbers, notify Americans when their personal information is compromised and create a new Federal Trade Commission (FTC) office to help victims restore their identities.    
The bill is scheduled for a hearing early tomorrow before the Senate Judiciary Committee, of which Schumer is a member.    
Said Schumer, "What bank robbery was to the Depression era, identity theft is to the Information Age. Identity theft has become so pervasive and so out-of-hand, that we must make a real effort to prevent it before it happens. When a company like LexisNexis so badly underestimates its own ID theft breaches, it is clear that things are totally out-of-hand."     
"This not only will help stop the erosion of privacy, but also will give identity-theft victims a place to go clear their name," said Nelson, a longtime champion of consumer privacy.    
The legislation must pass either the Senate Banking or Commerce Committee - key panels that Schumer and Nelson sit on respectively. 

###


























