





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Prosecutors' Letter: Officials Delayed Expansion of Anti-terror System                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Prosecutors' Letter: Officials Delayed Expansion of Anti-terror System                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
April 12, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson is demanding that Attorney General Alberto Gonzales chief deputy explain delays in expanding a crime-data information-sharing network on terrorism suspects developed by Navy investigators, according to a letter from the senator yesterday to the Justice Departments second highest-ranking official.  Information about the delays in a nationwide expansion of the so-called LInX computer network, now used on a regional basis by some local, state and federal law enforcement agencies, came to light just recently - when the Justice Department ( DOJ ) released thousands of records, letters and e-mails as part of separate congressional probes into the firings of eight U.S. attorneys.  The records released to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees show 18 federal prosecutors signed an Aug. 30, 2006 letter [attached pdf as prosecutors letter] to Paul McNulty, the deputy U.S. attorney general, in which they voiced concern over delays at the highest levels of the Justice Department in fully backing the LInX information-sharing system they considered to be a priority for combating terrorism and other crimes.   We learned the hard way from 9/11 that coordinated information sharing is imperative, Nelson wrote in his letter to McNulty sent Wednesday [attached pdf as nelsons letter]. My concern is not with internal DOJ processes or politics, but arises instead from the departments apparent reluctance to prioritize and actively promote the nationwide expansion of a law enforcement tool that the U.S. attorneys, who are on law enforcements front lines, deem [to be] highly effective.   The Florida senator, a member of the Senates Intelligence Committee and the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee of the Armed Services Committee, requested a briefing on the current status of LInX. As part of the LInX system, government agencies in Georgia and Nelsons home state of Florida participate in data sharing.  Last year, a response to the letter from the 18 prosecutors contained words critical of them for having aired their concerns in writing [attached pdf as response-linx]. Rather than responding to the U.S. attorneys letter as a constructive call to action, your response . . . suggests to me that you are more concerned with the perceived impertinence of the 18 U.S. attorneys than you are with ensuring that the entire Justice Department is doing all it can to combat terror and crime, Nelson said in his letter to McNulty.  Interestingly, a number of the prosecutors who signed the letter to McNulty about the LInX delays are no longer with the Justice Department. Three who signed the letter were among the eight who were targeted for firing, and others who signed the letter since have quit, including the former prosecutor in the Middle District of Florida.  Nelson has asked the head of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Pat Leahy, to review those staff departures in the panels ongoing probe of prosecutor firings. 

###


























