





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson urges national day honoring Negro Leagues                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson urges national day honoring Negro Leagues                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Media release
December 12, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. -  Still unscuffed and encased inside a small, clear cube in the office of U.S. Senator Bill Nelson is the solid-cork baseball bearing the signature of Bob âPeach Headâ? Mitchell.  
The aging pitcher, who played for the Kansas City Monarchs from 1954 to 1957, gave the ball to Nelsonâs office last year - after the senator helped convince Major League Baseball to give dozens of former Negro League players a retirement stipend.  
Now, Nelson is filing new legislation urging Congress to designate May 20, 2006 as national âNegro Leaguers Recognition Day.â?  
âEven after Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier in 1947, baseball still was slow to integrate,â? Nelson said today.  âThis legislation would pay tribute to the many athletes who were denied opportunities in the midst of segregation.â?   
The resolution not only recognizes former Negro League players - like, âSatchelâ? Paige, Josh Gibson and Robinson - but itâs also intended to educate fans about the Negro Leaguesâ contributions to the national pastime.  It is being introduced by Nelson, a Democrat from Florida, and Senator Jim Talent, a Republican from Missouri, in recognition of âthe teams and players of the Negro Baseball Leagues for their achievements, dedication, sacrifices, and contributions to both baseball and our Nation.â?  It sets May 20 as the day of recognition because on that day in 1920 the first game of the first successful Negro League was played.  
Last year, Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig agreed to Nelsonâs request to establish a fund for the players, giving them the option of getting $833.33 per month for four years - a rate of $10,000 per year - or $375 a month for life.  Nelson got involved in 2001, after receiving a letter from Mitchell, of Tampa.  Mitchell lives in Tampa, an area thatâs home to a number of former Negro League players. 

###


























