





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Army offers new choppers for drug stoppers program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Army offers new choppers for drug stoppers program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Media release
January 12, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Pentagon has decided to comply with a request by Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL ) and other lawmakers to maintain Army air support of a U.S.-Bahamas anti-drug effort, the Florida senator disclosed this afternoon, as he departed for Saturday and Sunday meetings with officials in Haiti and the U.S. ambassador to the Bahamas, and a flight there with DEA agents on patrol.  
Nelson, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and a representative of a state heavily impacted by any illegal drug trade, sought last fall to find alternatives to then-Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeldâs plan to withdraw all seven Army Blackhawk helicopters from Operation Bahamas, Turks and Caicos, known as OPBAT.  
OPBAT was started in 1982, and, according to the Associated Press, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ( DEA ) credits it with driving smugglers away from the vast chain of islands, some of which are only a few hours by boat from Florida.  More than 80 percent of cocaine shipments to the U.S. once came through the Bahamas and Caribbean.  Today, itâs down to an estimated 10 percent.  
The DEA currently has one helicopter in the Bahamas and the Coast Guard has three Jayhawks.  Nelson said today that the Army on Tuesday offered to give the DEA three relatively new Sikorsky S-76 helicopters by next year to replace the Blackhawks, plus $3.4 million a year for the next five years for the helicoptersâ base.  The offer now goes to the office of the nationâs drug czar.  
âThis will keep cocaine and marijuana smugglers from operating off Floridaâs coast,â? said Nelson, whoâs scheduled to meet Sunday morning with Ambassador John Rood, and then to take a chopper flight with DEA agents.  âWith the Armyâs continued support, the U.S.-Bahamas anti-drug effort will remain fully operational,â? he said.  
When word got out last summer that Rumsfeld had decided to completely pull the military out of the program, Nelson and other lawmakers, including Floridaâs Sen. Mel Martinez, said it would be a mistake to withdraw the helicopters.  
More specifically, Nelson wrote President Bush, saying, âWe must consider the possibility that lax border enforcement in the Bahamas could open a conduit for terrorists and other criminal elements to enter the United States.â?  
Nelson and Martinez also got Congress to pass an amendment to a defense policy bill saying it was in the interest of the U.S. to maintain OPBAT to prevent drug smugglers from rebuilding their operations through the Bahamas.  
The amendment required the Pentagon to justify any withdrawal of helicopters and offer a plan along with Homeland Security Department officials for other agencies to help patrol the waters around the Bahamas, Turks and Caicos.  
On the House GOP side, five key U.S. representatives publicly opposed the withdrawal.  They wrote Rumsfled urging him not to withdraw air support from OPBAT.  The congressional letter was signed by key GOP Reps. Henry Hyde, Tom Davis, Mark E. Souder, Dan Burton and Mark Kirk, who at the time all held committee posts overseeing drug-and smuggling-related issues. 

###


























