





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson presses for investigation as drug seizures continue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson presses for investigation as drug seizures continue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Media release
June 12, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â Like many seniors, Jacqueline Flick relies on Lipitor to help lower her risk of heart disease.  Living on a moderate income, she considered enrolling in the new Medicare prescription drug program this year to help her pay for her prescription drugs, but it was clear she could save more money by getting her medications from Canada.    
She was outraged last month when she received a letter from U.S. Customs and Border Protection notifying her that they had confiscated her Lipitor.  âYou are personally and jointly with the U.S. Government jeopardizing my health by denying me my prescribed medicine,â? Mrs. Flick wrote in response to Customsâ actions.  
Mrs. Flick is not alone in her frustration.  Since last winter, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson has heard from scores of seniors in similar situations, and heâs now calling on the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs to investigate the seizure of prescription drugs purchased by Americans from Canada.    
This latest move by Nelson comes after the Department of Homeland Securityâs inspector general refused to investigate months of stepped-up drug seizures.  Nelsonâs office first began hearing from constituents who had not received their medications soon after the start of the new Medicare prescription drug program in November.    
The new Medicare program was the Bush Administrationâs alternative to drug importation, and was supposed to make prescription drugs more affordable for seniors.  For many, however, obtaining prescription drugs from Canada remains a more affordable option.  
Concerned that the U.S. Customs and Border Protectionâs failure to notify consumers of their stepped-up drug seizures was placing seniorsâ health at risk, Nelson requested a full investigation into the issue by the Department of Homeland Security inspector general.  The request was rebuffed.  
Nelson also worried that the increase in confiscations represented a political move aimed at pressuring seniors to enroll in Medicareâs drug plan, and asked the Homeland Security IG whether the increase represented a policy shift and if it was related to the start of the Medicare prescription drug program.    
An unnamed Bush administration source confirmed in March that Customs had seized almost 13,000 packages containing imported prescription drugs nationwide between November 2005 and February 2006 â including 899 in Miami â while essentially no prescription drugs had been seized over the same period a year earlier.  
The agency also acknowledged that it had modified their imported drug policy beginning on November 17, 2005 â just two days after the start of the Medicare prescription drug program.  The departmentâs IG has refused to launch an investigation into the reason for the change.  
Meanwhile, Jacqueline Flick still does not have her Lipitor, and Nelson says heâll continue to press the administration for more answers regarding their drug seizures. âTheir health was clearly jeopardized by CBPâs activities, and I believe these actions are dangerous and irresponsible.â? 

###


























