





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Bill would pave way for California, Florida, other states' tougher clean-air rules                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Bill would pave way for California, Florida, other states' tougher clean-air rules                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Measure filed at outset of major global warming summit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
July 12, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C.  In conjunction with Florida Gov. Charlie Crists initiative to cut air pollution and global warming in the nations fourth largest state, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson today moved to cast aside the remaining federal roadblock to states abilities to set stringent vehicle emission rules.  Nelson, a Democrat from Florida, filed legislation [ attached PDF ] to pave the way for Florida, and every other state, to set its own emission standards as long as theyre tougher than limits in the federal Clean Air Act. More specifically, Nelsons bill would force federal environmental officials to act within one month on a long-delayed decision on Californias first-in-the-nation emission standards - which Gov. Crist wants to adopt tomorrow at a two-day global warming summit in Miami.  This administration has dragged its feet for too long, said Nelson, of the almost two years the federal Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) has taken to consider Californias rules on tailpipe emissions. Our future is not a pretty one, unless we reduce air pollution and global warming.  While Crist wants Florida to copy Californias stricter vehicle emission standards, the Sunshine State cannot do so until the EPA approves of the Golden States plan for having tougher rules than the Clean Air Act. In other words, California is the precedent-setting case.  The Clean Air Act allows only California to develop its own emission standards, if they are more stringent than federal standards. But the act also lets any other state choose to adhere to the federal rules or copy Californias, once the EPA approves them.  There are at least 11 other states besides Florida waiting on the EPA to approve Californias request.  Californias request initially was filed in December 2005, but the EPA refused to take action citing a pending Supreme Court case on a related matter. The nations highest court decided that case in April of this year; and, found that the EPA does, in fact, have the authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions - clearing the way for the Bush administration to grant Californias request.  However, the EPA has made conflicting statements about when it plans to rule, initially postponing a decision until fall 2008, and then pledging to do so by the end of this year. The administrations reluctance to take up the issue has created further uncertainty on when a final ruling will be made, and has prompted California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who is scheduled to deliver the keynote speech at Crists global warming summit, to promise to sue the EPA, if it doesn't act soon.  Also, another administration agency, transportation, reportedly is working behind the scenes to lobby lawmakers in key states to oppose Californias efforts.   Nelsons legislation is intended to force the EPA to stop sitting idle on Californias request, so Florida and any other state can adopt Californias standards. He said he hopes to get the legislation, which hes discussed with Gov. Crist and California lawmakers, considered before the month-long summer congressional recess starting Aug. 6  even if that means turning the bill into an amendment on other legislation. 

###


























