





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Florida's U.S. Senator supports courthouse name change                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Florida's U.S. Senator supports courthouse name change                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
April 13, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson today filed a bill to rename the federal courthouse in Jacksonville after the late Judge John Milton Bryan Simpson, who's judicial decisions helped desegregate area schools, city pools, golf courses and the city zoo.    
"Judge Simpson was the subject of numerous death threats and cross burnings," Nelson said today. "I think it's important we remember not only his name, but also his legacy of courage."    
The U.S. House of Representatives recently approved a companion bill, sponsored by Rep. Corrine Brown. Nelson is asking that the Senate Judiciary Committee pass his bill to the full Senate for a quick vote there in honor of a man he described as a state and national hero.    
Simpson was key to the struggle for civil rights and was instrumental in desegregating facilities in Jacksonville, Orlando, and Daytona Beach. The Rev. Martin Luther King once appeared before him and won the reversal of a ban on nighttime civil rights marching in St. Augustine.    
Simpson went into private law practice in Jacksonville in 1926, was an assistant state attorney from 1933 to 1939, and a Duval County judge from 1939 to 1943. He left the bench to become a first lieutenant in the Army until the end of World War II in 1945. After returning to Jacksonville, he served as a circuit judge until 1950, when President Truman nominated him to be a U.S. district judge. Twelve years later, President Johnson nominated him to serve on the U.S. District Court of Appeals.    
  Simpson was born May 30, 1903, in Kissimmee, Florida. He died Aug. 22, 1987.    
A copy of Nelson's bill follows.     
109TH CONGRESS    
FIRST SESSION    
To designate the United States courthouse located at 300 North Hogan    
Street, Jacksonville, Florida, as the "John Milton Bryan Simpson United    
States Courthouse".    
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES    
Mr. NELSON of Florida introduced the following bill;     
A BILL    
To designate the United States courthouse located at 300    
North Hogan Street, Jacksonville, Florida, as the "John    
Milton Bryan Simpson United States Courthouse".    
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-     
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,     
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION.     
The United States courthouse located at 300 North     
Hogan Street, Jacksonville, Florida, shall be known and     
designated as the "John Milton Bryan Simpson United     
States Courthouse".     
SEC. 2. REFERENCES.     
Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document,     
paper, or other record of the United States to the United     
States courthouse referred to in section 1 shall be deemed     
to be a reference to the "John Milton Bryan Simpson     
United States Courthouse". 

###


























