





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: U.S. senator: Thereâs now a âcrack in the doorâ? for U.S.-Syria discussions on Iraq                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






U.S. senator: Thereâs now a âcrack in the doorâ? for U.S.-Syria discussions on Iraq                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Media release
December 13, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. - In a meeting today with the first high-ranking U.S. official to follow up on recommendations of a bipartisan study group, Syriaâs President Bashar al-Assad agreed Syria and the U.S. have a common interest to stabilize Iraq and control the Syrian border with the strife-torn country to prevent insurgents from crossing between the nations.  
Assad conveyed that message in a meeting with U.S. Senator Bill Nelson, of Florida, who is talking with Middle East leaders in the wake of a report by the bipartisan panel, the Iraq Study Group co-chaired by former Secretary of State James Baker and former U.S. Rep. Lee Hamilton.  The group recommended just last week that the U.S. involve Syria in any solution to the Iraq war.  
âAssad clearly indicated the willingness to cooperate with the Americans and-or the Iraqi army to be part of a solution,â? Nelson told reporters in a telephone conference call Wednesday morning.  âI think thereâs a crack in the door for discussions to continue.  I approach this with realism not optimism.â?  
Nelsonâs one-hour meeting with Assad took place in the presidential palace in Damascus.  Also present was Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Moualem.  It was Moualem who earlier this week officiated when Syria and Iraq reopened their embassies in each otherâs capitals and ended a more than two-decade-long diplomatic boycott since Syria sided with Iran in the Iraq-Iran war.  Nelson said he told Assad the reciprocal raising of embassy flags and their statement about stabilizing Iraq was âan indication of a common interest of the U.S. and Syria.â?  
While Assad made no specific requests of the U.S., Nelson said he made it clear to Assad the U.S. wonât ease the pressure on Syria to stop supporting Hezbollah and Hamas, two terrorist organizations whose aim is to see the destruction of Israel.  The two differed sharply.    
Nelson also raised the possibility of Syria facilitating the return of three captured Israeli soldiers thought to be held by Hezbollah and Hamas, a suggestion which drew no direct response from Assad.  
Tomorrow, Nelson told Assad, heâs going to Beirut for the express purpose of showing his support for the Lebanese government during a scheduled meeting with Lebanonâs Prime Minister Fouad Siniora.  
Nelsonâs Middle East fact-finding trip, which also includes stops in Israel, Palestinian areas, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Iraq, was scheduled in advance of the Iraq Study Groupâs report issued a week ago.  Nelson is reporting back to the state department and the Senateâs Armed Services and Foreign Relations panels on which he serves, and to the Intelligence Committee to which he was appointed this week. 

###


























