





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson demands answers about government role in second Iraq rape case, raises specter of more assaults                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson demands answers about government role in second Iraq rape case, raises specter of more assaults                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
December 13, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - A high-ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed Services committees today demanded that the Justice Department provide a full accounting of the governments handling of a second alleged rape involving an American contractor in Iraq. U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson also wants to know whether there are even more cases.  Its the second inquiry from a lawmaker in as many days. In both cases, the alleged victims  the first from Houston, Texas; the second from Tampa, Florida - worked for a Halliburton Co. subsidiary and were assigned in Iraq. Both women since have filed civil lawsuits against their former employers, in part, because their alleged attackers were coworkers; and, they say the Justice Department has been slow to act.   Two days ago, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, U.S. Rep. John Conyers, asked Justice for a full account of an investigation of a case involving the 2005 rape of the Texas woman who was an employee in Iraq of Halliburtons former subsidiary, KBR. It was announced yesterday that House Judiciary will hold a hearing in that case later this month.  Meantime, new questions - about the case of the Florida woman - came today from Nelson, the senior senator from that state, who asked Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey in a letter whether there is a criminal probe underway. He wrote the attorney general after a member of his staff spoke on Wednesday with a lawyer representing the Florida woman and then today with a lawyer for the Texas woman.  Also, Nelson raised the specter of more such cases, in a separate letter he wrote Thursday to Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates.   In that letter, Nelson asked whether other women made similar allegations. He asked, in part, because of a personal account on the Internet by the Texas woman. In her Web journal, the woman quoted an Army doctor as saying that during a six-month stay in Iraq so many women were examined for rape that it was difficult to recall a specific case. The journal was removed from the Web, after bloggers questioned the accuracy of some parts of it. But her lawyer said today it was removed because of the lawsuit.  According to his clients lawsuit, filed in Texas in May, the woman awoke at Camp Hope in Baghdad the morning of July 29, 2005, with bruises on her body, blood on her genital area and ruptured breast implants, after being drugged and assaulted the night before by several Halliburton/KBR firefighters. The suit says she was briefly held captive afterward.  In the Florida womans lawsuit, filed earlier this year and now in arbitration, she alleges she was raped by a drunken male KBR coworker in Ramadi. But federal authorities have failed to file charges in the two years since then, a contention about federal foot-dragging that mirrors a charge also leveled by the Texas woman.  We need to know that there is a thorough and vigorous investigation of any and all of these cases, Nelson said in his letters.        

###


























