





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senatorsâ plan for insurance woes gets boost from nationâs regulators                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senatorsâ plan for insurance woes gets boost from nationâs regulators                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Media release
June 13, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The nationâs insurance regulators are encouraging Congress to enact a plan like one by three U.S. senators to quickly find ways to curb the cost of property insurance after two years of big storms including Hurricane Katrina.    
The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has adopted a resolution urging Congress to create a commission to investigate several ways to keep insurance available and affordable.  Such a panel would be created under the bill by Floridaâs senior senator, who was the stateâs insurance commissioner before his 2000 Senate election.  
Alarmed by the impact of eight storms on insurance consumers over the last two years, Senator Bill Nelson filed the legislation last month along with two other senators from storm-battered states - Senator Mary Landrieu, a Democrat from Louisiana, and Senator Thad Cochran, a Republican from Mississippi.    
In a move to overcome an unwillingness to act by Congress, the three senators are pushing for an investigation into ways to shore up a nationwide insurance marketplace badly shaken by Katrina and numerous other major storms over the past few years.  With Alberto hitting Florida on Tuesday and a busy storm season predicted for the year, it appears there may be no let up.  
âIf we donât find a solution quickly, people will be forced to sell their homes and move because they canât find insurance or afford the coverage,â? Nelson said today.  
The senatorsâ legislation would create a panel â made up of a cross-section of the best experts in the nation â to quickly recommend to Congress the best approach to addressing catastrophic risk insurance nationwide.  Among other things, the commission would be required to analyze three specific proposals, including creating a national disaster fund and tax-free home-repair accounts for consumers.  
The commission would have 90 days to report to Congress on ways to provide homeowners and businesses in vulnerable states with affordable property insurance.  
The senators are following a successful model used by Nelson when he was Floridaâs state treasurer and insurance commissioner in the 1990s.  In the mid-1990s, not long after Hurricane Andrew devastated South Florida, Nelson created a non-partisan commission led by the stateâs university presidents.  He charged that commission with recommending state legislative reforms to rebuild Floridaâs staggering insurance market.  Within months, the commission broke through political inertia to recommend reforms that ultimately became state law.  
The homeownersâ insurance market was in recovery until eight hurricanes slammed into Florida over the past two years, sending premiums soaring and prompting insurers to dump policyholders.  At the same time, Katrina brought unprecedented destruction and losses to more than 8,000 miles of the Gulf coast.  
The idea of a national catastrophe plan recently was endorsed by the national consumer organization ProtectingAmerica.org, which has been calling for a privately funded national catastrophe fund.  With the backing of all the nationâs insurance regulators, the senatorsâ bill could receive a big boost in Congress.  
Here is what the insurance regulators said in their resolution adopted in a recent conference call:  
âThe lack of private insurance coverage and higher insurance premiums deprive Americans of adequate protection for their most valued and prized possession â their homes.  . . . In order to better protect Americaâs homes in an economical and efficient manner and to reduce the demands for financial assistance from the state and federal governments that depend on general revenue sources for extreme losses caused by natural catastrophes, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners hereby urges Congress to create a Federal Natural Catastrophe Preparedness Commission.â? 

###


























