





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Sen. Bill Nelson's response to today's base recommendations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Sen. Bill Nelson's response to today's base recommendations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
May 13, 2005
"The good news is the Pentagon did not recommend closing any of Florida's major military installations. In fact, there's a net gain of more than 2,700 personnel statewide. This I believe is the result of the hard work of leaders in communities all across our state.    
"Clearly, the people of Florida support the U.S. military. And the military views Florida as very important to our national defense, especially as we continue to fight the war against terrorism.    
"The news is good for much of the Panhandle, with Eglin Air Force Base gaining more than 2,200 personnel. And it's good for Jacksonville, where the Pentagon recommends we strengthen two naval air stations with nearly 2,500 new personnel.    
"I'm disappointed, however, in the recommendation that certain naval and officer-training positions be moved from Pensacola. And I intend to question whether this recommendation is short-sighted. Still, the bottom line is the core mission of Naval Air Station Pensacola is unchanged. Pensacola remains the cradle of naval aviation training. In fact, the value of Pensacola's mission has never been higher.    
"Finally, in a few other areas of the state where there are suggested realignments, I'll be working through the Armed Services Committee here and with local officials to minimize any negative effects." 

###


























