





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: At Nelsonâs urging, Norton adds public meeting in Florida                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






At Nelsonâs urging, Norton adds public meeting in Florida                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Media release
March 13, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â Last week, Interior Secretary Gale Norton was ready to shut Florida residents out of the oil drilling debate when she failed to plan any public meetings in the state.  But facing increasing pressure, including a letter from U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, the administration on Friday announced an additional hearing in Tallahassee on April 6.  
The Department of Interiorâs current proposal would bring the threat of oil spills closer than ever to Floridaâs shores, and could potentially damage the tourism-based economy and restrict essential military training space.    
âThe administration was wrong to exclude us from the discussion,â? Nelson says.  âFlorida should have a say in this process.â?   
As the administration pushes ahead with plans to open the eastern Gulf of Mexico to drilling, Sen. Nelson says heâs exploring all options to protect Floridaâs interests.  He introduced alternative oil drilling legislation with Republican Sen. Mel Martinez last month, and has said he will filibuster a rival Senate bill that would allow drilling as close as 100 miles from shore.  
The sudden resignation of Norton on Friday gives opponents of drilling off Florida an additional opportunity to stop the administrationâs proposal.  Nelson says he will block the replacementâs nomination if he or she supports drilling closer to Florida. 

###


























