





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senator seeks further protections against nuclear attack by terrorists                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senator seeks further protections against nuclear attack by terrorists                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Media Release
September 13, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â The Senate today turned its attention to seaport security and just this afternoon passed a measure by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson that aims to supply nuclear detection equipment to all of the countryâs 361 ports.  The move is intended to prevent a catastrophic terrorist attack.  
âOpportunities for terrorists to do us harm are as great - or greater - in our shipping ports as they are in commercial aviation,â? Nelson said in a homeland security speech to the Senate, echoing a threat raised by the presidential commission that examined the events of 9-11.  
âMost experts agree our ports are not only vulnerable, but also the damage resulting from an attack there could be catastrophic,â? Nelson told the Senate.  âOur Department of Homeland Security says three-out-of-four American ports do not have equipment to screen for nuclear weapons or so-called âdirty bombsâ â a conventional weapon designed to spread radioactive material.â?  
Prior to his floor speech, Nelson filed his amendment to a broader port security bill pending before the Senate.  The broader bill called for placing nuclear detection equipment only at the nationâs 22 busiest container ports by the end of next year.  But it didnât apply to 66 other ports that also handle big containers or to 273 secondary ports, like ones for cruise ships.  
Specifically, Nelsonâs amendment requires homeland security officials to develop a strategy to ensure that every U.S. port has equipment to detect radioactive material.  âI believe this will make all of us much safer,â? Nelson said.  âThereâs been enough delay.  Itâs time to do this â and, do it right.â?  The Senate approved the measure unanimously.  
The Florida lawmaker is a member of the Senateâs Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities.  His state is home to 14 deepwater ports â only six of which are among the 22 busy ports that would be covered by the Senate bill and only four of those have the advanced radiation equipment.  
Nelson also noted that only six-percent of the cargo is inspected as it arrives at the docks of U.S ports, where security came under scrutiny immediately following the 2001 attacks.  Various studies have asserted the need for additional security, including the report by the 9-11 commission.  
Port security legislation covering the 22 busiest ports, plus studying all the other ports of entry, has passed the U.S. House of Representatives â meaning a final bill should include Nelsonâs provision.  When the Senate passes its port security bill this week, with the Nelson provision, it will go to a House-Senate conference committee and then to the president. 

###


























