





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Lawmakers call for investigation into inmate tax scams                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Lawmakers call for investigation into inmate tax scams                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
April 14, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The IRS estimates that some 50 million Americans will scramble in the first weeks of this month to meet the April 15 deadline to file their tax returns. But among those mailing last-minute returns may be inmates getting refunds for work they didn't do because they're behind bars.     
Recent published accounts found that with the help of a few outsiders, two inmates serving long sentences in Florida prisons for murder filed fraudulent tax returns and received refunds of around $5,000 from the IRS for wages they never earned.     
And as it turns out their scam isn't unique to Florida. For example, Donald Sanders was indicted last year for filing a fake tax return for himself and 65 other inmates while serving time at the Missouri Eastern Correctional Center in 2002. Prosecutors believe the scheme cost taxpayers over $73,000. And in 2003, two inmates at the Carson City Correctional Facility in Michigan were sentenced to an additional 27 months in prison when authorities discovered their plans to file false tax returns on behalf of fellow prisoners for refunds totaling more than $46,000.     
According to the IRS itself, bogus returns from prison inmates is a growing problem. Inmates long have been among those filing multiple returns for illegal refunds, IRS officials say. Though the scope of the problem is unknown.    
That's why four legislators from Florida, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson and U.S. Reps. Jim Davis, Ric Keller and Tom Feeney, want to put a stop to this tax scam. They've asked the investigative arm of Congress to find out how widespread the problem is and to identify ways lawmakers could safeguard the system from prisoners who aim to cheat the government.    
"Convicts should go to prison to pay their debts to society, not to rip off American taxpayers," Nelson said.    
"It is outrageous that as millions of law-abiding citizens are struggling to pay their taxes, criminals in prisons across the nation are already receiving thousands in IRS refunds from fraudulent claims," Davis added. "This scam needs to be full investigated immediately so that we can put a stop to this activity."    
"We need the IRS to explain to us in the light of day why in the world they can't crack down on this blatant fraud by prisoners," stated Keller.    
"American taxpayers deserve to know the full extent to which they are being swindled by prison inmates. A GAO inquiry will help Congress gather more information about this scheme so we can prevent it from happening in the future," said Feeney.    
Nelson, Davis, Keller and Feeney are concerned that access to the Internet in U.S. correctional facilities may make it easier for inmates to file phony returns. 

###


























