





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Hurricane, flood prevention grants to be tax-free                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Hurricane, flood prevention grants to be tax-free                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
April 14, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C.Â -Â Florida residents who received federal grants for hurricane improvements wonât have to pay income taxes on the money after all, thanks to a bill co-sponsored by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson that has passed the Senate.  
The Senate approved the bill by voice vote late Wednesday night.Â A similar version, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, passed the House March 14.Â   
The House gave a final okay today, because the Senate had adopted an amendment that changed the date of when the tax exemption would take effect, spelling out that taxpayers receiving grants in 2004 would not be subject to tax.Â The president is expected to sign the bill.  
âThe federal government shouldnât be placing further financial burdens on disaster victims,â? Nelson said today.Â âEliminating the disaster tax will further help families get back on their feet and provide them with greater protection from the next storm.â?  
The legislation came in response to a July ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that declared the grants taxable.Â Since the ruling, many grant recipients received tax notices, some amounting to tens of thousands of dollars.  
In one case cited by senators, a family that received a $125,000 grant to improve their home and prevent future storm damage faced having to pay a $28,000 tax bill.  
The goal of the grants is to help people in areas prone to natural disasters, such as floods and hurricanes, like Florida, protect their homes and property. 

###


























