





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Miami federal courthouse named for former judge                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Miami federal courthouse named for former judge                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
December 14, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - A federal courthouse in downtown Miami will now be named after a long-time district judge responsible for desegregation in Miami-Dade County schools. Late last night, the U.S. Senate passed a measure crafted by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, designating the federal courthouse in Miami as the C. Clyde Atkins U.S. Courthouse.  The House already passed a version of the measure by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, which was supported by the entire Florida delegation.   Atkins served in the Southern District of Florida from his nomination by Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966 until he died in 1999. During his tenure, he not only was responsible for desegregation of local schools, but ruled in several other important cases for the equal treatment of Haitian and Cuban refugees, and that the Turkey Point nuclear plant threatened the surrounding environment.   Judge Atkins devoted his entire career to serving Floridians  and for that, we should be forever grateful, Nelson said today. Naming the courthouse after him, we honor his work not only in the courtroom but in the community as well. 

###


























