





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Seeking just payment for WWII vet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Seeking just payment for WWII vet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
December 14, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - After 63 years of fighting the Army, Samuel Snow finally got his check in November for back pay for his service in World War II: $725.  Yep, $725.  Now, news of Mr. Snows case  or, the paltry sum the Army gave him to correct an injustice from six decades ago - has many folks up in arms, including Floridas U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson.  Today Nelson took concrete steps to quickly remedy the situation, asking the secretary of the Army to revise the militarys decision and adjust Mr. Snows 1944 pay upward for inflation. If the Army czar agrees, the $725 could increase to at least $8,600 for pay Mr. Snow lost during months he spent in prison for an overturned conviction.  Nelson also filed a measure [attached] hes asking legislative leaders to include in a broader appropriations bill due to be voted on next week. The measure would permit military leaders to adjust back pay owed Snow and any other similarly situated veterans for interest, as well as for inflation.   Think about it, Nelson said today, we wrongly convict someone, lock him up, deny him a career in the military  and, 63 years later, try to fix it by paying him 725-bucks. Its intolerable if we compound an injustice with an unfair remedy.  Nelsons two-pronged fix comes hard on the heels of U.S. Rep. Corrine Brown, a Democrat from Jacksonville, blasting the settlement yesterday as an injustice in every form. She told The Orlando Sentinel shell ask Congress to investigate Snows back pay.  In his letter to the Army secretary [attached], Nelson said he felt there was sufficient discretionary authority for him to revisit the case and allow a greater payment. In 1944, Snow and 27 other black soldiers were convicted and dishonorably discharged in connection with a melee that resulted in the lynching of an Italian prisoner of war.   Snow said he wasnt involved at all. And in late October, the Armys Board of Corrections of Military records granted a petition by him and three other families to overturn the convictions. The decision to do so, due to an unfair trial, made the 83-year-old Leesburg resident eligible for all back pay.  On Nov. 13, Snow received the check for $725. Besides Snow, at least one of the other 28 soldiers involved reportedly still is alive.  

###


























