





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson proposes fix to prevent doctor shortages                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson proposes fix to prevent doctor shortages                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Media release                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
February 14, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Florida's growing population and aging baby boomers are leaving many patients, physicians and hospital administrators concerned about maintaining access to health care.      
In response, U.S. Sens. Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Harry Reid (D-NV) today filed legislation that would help address this growing problem by bringing more doctors-in-training to Florida and other states with shortages.      
Specifically, the Nelson-Reid bill will expand the number of physician training positions in 24 states with shortages, including Florida.  If passed, Florida hospitals would gain 347 new positions - more than any other state.    
Statistically, doctors tend to remain in the area where they do their training; therefore, increasing the number of physicians-in-training in a state is essential to increasing the physician workforce.    
To help meet the nation's demand for doctors, the federal government traditionally has helped pay for physicians' residencies, the final step in a doctor's training.  But in 1997, federal law capped the number of Medicare-supported medical residents for hospitals.  A decade later, the number and geographical distribution of federally-supported medical residents do not reflect recent population growth or shifts.    
"Florida needs this bill more than any other state," Nelson said today.  "As our population grows and ages, we need make sure we have enough doctors to meet their needs."    
"Since physicians tend to stay in the area where they complete their medical training, increasing the number of residency cap positions will help ensure an adequate physician workforce for the health care needs in fast growing states like Nevada," said Reid.  "I am pleased to work with Senator Nelson to address the physician shortage problem."   

###


























