





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Florida safe!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Florida safe!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
June 14, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Drilling rigs won't be blackening the beaches of Florida anytime soon under a hard-fought agreement won from Senate leaders tonight, said U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson.    
The agreement - a pledge from both the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources - preserves a ban on drilling off the coast of Florida. Additionally, it protects a large portion of the Gulf, known as Lease Sale 181, which isn't specifically covered by the moratorium on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf.    
The final details of the agreement came late Tuesday night - but only after Nelson had seized the Senate floor earlier in the day from energy panel chairman Sen. Pete Domenici. Nelson launched a filibuster to delay action on a broader energy bill, drawing a heated response from the New Mexico Republican, who later agreed to help Nelson keep drilling away from Florida's offshore waters.    
"Florida is safe," Nelson declared, in announcing that the final details of an anti-drilling agreement had been hammered out late Tuesday. Both Nelson and U.S. Sen. Mel Martinez gave impassioned speeches on the Senate floor Tuesday afternoon, before the drilling issue came to a head.    
Nelson and Martinez argued that drilling off Florida's coast would threaten the state's $50-billion tourism industry and overall economic health and the state's fragile coastal environment.     
Drilling also would encroach on parts of the Gulf that are used to train military pilots who fight the war on terror, the two senators said. Additionally, previous studies showed there wasn't much oil to be found in the Gulf area in the first place, certainly not enough to consider the multiple risks that drilling posed, they said.    
The two senators said they still need to fight efforts by other senators to pass an energy bill that contains permission for oil companies to conduct inventories of oil and gas resources in the Gulf. As Martinez noted on the floor, there's no need for an inventory if there's not going to be any drilling. 

###


























