





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate approves radiation monitors at nationâs seaports                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate approves radiation monitors at nationâs seaports                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Media Release
September 14, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â The Senate today passed a sweeping anti-terrorism bill aimed at tightening security at the nationâs ports, where experts say terrorists easily could smuggle into the U.S. weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear or so-called âdirtyâ? bombs.  
The bill, similar to a House-passed measure, provides some $400 million-plus for port security with emphasis on immediately installing radiation monitors at the nationâs 22 busiest ports - ones that handle huge and rarely inspected cargo containers.  
The bill also contains a provision to eventually deploy equipment for detecting radiation at every one of the countryâs other 339 ports.  The provision was offered by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida - a state with 14 deepwater ports, and six among the nationâs 22 busiest.    
âI believe this will make all of us much safer,â? said Nelson, a member of the Senateâs Emerging Threats Subcommittee.  âDespite our best efforts since 9-11, our ports remain one of our biggest vulnerabilities.â?  
More specifically, Nelsonâs provision requires homeland security officials to map a strategy to ensure each port has radiation detection equipment.  While busier facilities may require more advanced tools, the needs of many ports may be satisfied with relatively inexpensive handheld devices, Nelson said.  
In addition to the devices for screening, the broader bill also provides an additional 275 customs and border protection officers for many of the U.S. ports.  The bill now will be matched with the House version passed in May; and then, go to the president whoâs expected to sign it right away.  
Port officials in Florida welcomed the Senateâs 98-0 passage of the bill and the approval of Nelsonâs amendment helping all the smaller and non-container ports as well, like, the ones serving just passenger ships.  In Florida, this includes ports in St. Petersburg, Cape Canaveral, Key West, Fort Pierce, Pensacola, Panama City and the inactive facility in Port St. Joe.  
Florida also has seven cargo-container ports, six of which are in line for more immediate aid because theyâre listed among the nationâs 22 busiest.  These six are in Jacksonville, Tampa, Fernandina Beach, Miami, Riviera Beach and Fort Lauderdale.  The remaining cargo container port is in Palmetto. 

###


























