





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate approves security bill with 3 FEMA reforms                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate approves security bill with 3 FEMA reforms                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
July 15, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Senate late last night passed a homeland security spending bill that contains three measures aimed at making the federal emergency assistance agency more responsive to victims of hurricanes and other disasters.    
The amendments, proposed by U.S. Senator Bill Nelson, of Florida, were accepted earlier Thursday night by Republican and Democratic Senate leaders for inclusion in the much broader homeland security bill. The broader bill provides funding for, among others, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, known as FEMA. It now goes to a House-Senate conference. Though the House bill doesn't contain the FEMA provisions, it's likely the final version will include the Senate provisions.    
FEMA has been under criticism in various quarters for a number of management failures in the wake of the four hurricanes that hit Florida last year, including spending money in areas where there was relatively little storm damage and being slow to reimburse local governments for debris clean up. "This is going to significantly help victims of natural disaster get the help they need, when and where they need it," said Nelson, following the Senate's decision to accept his amendments.    
Nelson's first amendment requires FEMA to report to the Senate Homeland Security and House Transportation committees within 60 days on what changes it has made in response to a recent inspector general's report that found numerous problems within the agency. The inspector general's report came partly in response to a previous Nelson request.    
His second amendment requires FEMA to issue consistent and uniform guidelines to local governments regarding reimbursement for hurricane debris removal. The Florida Association of Counties had told Nelson its number-one concern was FEMA's inconsistent policy guidelines given to the counties.     
His third amendment requires FEMA to issue new inspector guidelines within 90 days that prohibit damage inspectors from entering into contracts with people they inspect. This amendment is aimed at preventing inspectors from swindling those they inspect out of their property. Nelson filed the amendment in the wake of reports about a Florida woman who sold her storm damaged-house to a FEMA claims inspector for hundreds of thousands of dollars below value. 

###


























