





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Debate erupts over Iraqi amnesty plan that may cover those involved in attacks on U.S. troops                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Debate erupts over Iraqi amnesty plan that may cover those involved in attacks on U.S. troops                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Media release
June 15, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C.  -  Floridaâs U.S. Senator Bill Nelson today proposed an amendment to a defense spending bill opposing a possible provision in an Iraqi national reconciliation plan that would pardon attacks on U.S. military.  But Republican Senate leaders blocked a vote on the measure.  
Nelsonâs measure urged President Bush to immediately notify Iraqâs new government that America âstrongly opposes granting amnesty to persons who have attacked members of the armed forces of the United States.â?  
Said Nelson, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee who sponsored the anti-amnesty resolution with Senator Robert Menendez, of New Jersey:  âTerrorists and insurgents shouldnât be rewarded for killing American soldiers.â?   
The Iraq reconciliation plan, intended for release in days, is likely to include amnesty for those who have attacked U.S. troops, according to todayâs editions of The Washington Post.  The Post quoted Iraqâs prime minister as saying the plan could include amnesty for those âwho werenât involved in the shedding of Iraqi bloodâ? and  for âarmed men who opposed the political process and now want to turn back to political activity.â?  
Nelsonâs resolution touched off several hours of heated debate on the Senate floor covering much of Thursday afternoon, with Republican leaders delaying a vote until at least next week.  And White House spokesman Tony Snow declined to answer reportersâ questions about whether the president would support an amnesty offer to someone who participated in an attack on U.S. troops.  âIâm sure weâll express our opinions, but we also recognize that itâs theirs to do,â? Snow said at a White House press briefing. 

###


























