





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson's Medicare bill gets boost                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson's Medicare bill gets boost                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Media release
November 15, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. â U.S. Sen. Bill Nelsonâs Medicare Informed Choice Act received a boost today as fellow members of Congress joined him to support his solution to the confusing Medicare prescription drug plan.    
Seniors can enroll in Medicare drug plans starting today, but there have been widespread reports of confusion relating to the new program.  Nelsonâs bill would give seniors more time to enroll by extending the deadline from May 15, 2006 to the end of 2006.  It would also allow seniors to avoid late fees during 2006 and would give seniors the option of correcting initial mistakes in enrollment during the first year of implementation.  
            Sens. Nelson and Dick Durbin, and other members of Congress all said today this legislation is necessary because the new drug plan is confusing to many seniors and contains stiff financial penalties for late enrollment.  Under the current law, seniors who donât sign up by May will pay substantially higher premiums if they later decide to join the program.  
            âSeniors shouldnât be forced into making rushed and uninformed decisions.  They need more time to choose a prescription drug plan that is right for them,â? said Nelson after a news conference, at which he was joined by Durbin and a sponsor of the House version, Representative Jan Schakowsky.   
Nelson also noted that the enrollment process would be especially difficult for the thousands of seniors displaced by this yearâs hurricanes.  Without permanent addresses and adequate resources, these seniors will find it difficult to receive the information needed to make an informed decision.  
Nelson hopes that his bill will continue to pick up steam in the Senate.  He intends to offer the legislation as an amendment in the near future. 

###


























