





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson urges action on lagoon, estuary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson urges action on lagoon, estuary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
August 16, 2005
STUART ââ U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson today called on Senate leaders to enact stalled legislation that would enable local officials to start restoring the Everglades by first addressing the troubled Indian River Lagoon and the muck-filled St. Lucie Estuary.  
Nelson called for swift passage of the restoration measure in a letter sent to the Senateâs top Republican and Democratic leaders, Sens. Bill Frist of Tennessee and Harry Reid of Nevada.  âThese projects need to be authorized - and completed,â? Nelson wrote in his letter, which he had cosigned by Republican Sen. Mel Martinez.  
The projects are a key part of a 30-year plan to restore the Everglades, and are included in legislation before the Senate that authorizes other water-related initiatives throughout the country.  But the measure, which recently passed the House, has been stalled in the Senate since April.   
Nelsonâs request comes amid new reports that storm-water run off and other discharges are threatening the health of the Indian River Lagoon ecosystem.  Just last month, scientists from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration not only noticed a decrease in the number of fish in the St. Lucie Estuary, but also a jump in the numbers of fish found with deformities.  
On Wednesday, Nelson will tour parts of the affected area for a first-hand look at what experts say is an environmental crisis.  The long-term solution - the Everglades restoration plan - calls for improving the lagoon and surrounding waters by directing, instead of diverting water from the Everglades, constructing storm-water treatment plants and removing muck from the St. Lucie Estuary.    
The Senate is scheduled to return from its August recess after Labor Day, the earliest action could be taken on the water legislation. 

###


























