





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Florida hurricane victims to get extra housing help                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Florida hurricane victims to get extra housing help                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Media release
December 16, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C.  --  The Senate today passed a measure providing $3.5 million in extra tax incentives to boost low-income housing construction for Florida victims of hurricanes Rita and Wilma.  Itâs expected to pass the House later today.  
The measure was advocated by U.S. Sens. Bill Nelson, a Democrat, and Mel Martinez, a Republican, as part of a broader package of tax incentives aimed at helping the rebuilding efforts mostly along the Gulf coast in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.  
âThese last two hurricane seasons have been historical, and the destruction our constituents have faced is unprecedented,â? Nelson and Martinez wrote in a letter to Senate leaders urging passage of the measure.  âNo [ hurricane relief ] bill would be complete that does not also address the needs of Floridaâs many victims.â?  
            Specifically, their measure gives Florida an extra $3.5 million on top of the $31 million it receives to use as incentives for developers who build low-income housing. 

###


























