





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senators announce bill to waive Medicare late enrollment fees                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senators announce bill to waive Medicare late enrollment fees                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Media release
May 16, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â A bipartisan coalition of senators today announced legislation that would give an estimated 7.5 million seniors a chance to sign up for the Medicare prescription drug program without paying stiff late enrollment penalties.  
The billâs four sponsors â U.S. Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Max Baucus (D-MT) and Mike DeWine (R-OH) â formed a strong partnership in an effort to eliminate the programâs late enrollment fees until the end of 2006.  Monday, May 15, 2006 was the last day for seniors to sign up for the program without facing a financial penalty.    
The bipartisan bill waives the programâs requirement that those who enroll after May 15 must pay an additional one percent of their premiums for each month they delayed signing up.  Because seniors only can join the program during open enrollment periods, those who didnât sign up by the current May 15 deadline will have to wait until 2007, and as a result will pay 7 percent more in premiums for life.  
Nelson says this change to the Medicare prescription drug program will help millions of seniors avoid paying these higher premiums, saving them hundreds of dollars over time.  âSome seniors were unaware of the May 15 deadline or had trouble understanding the program,â? he says.  âBut just because they missed the deadline, they donât deserve to be hit with this huge financial penalty.â?  
Nelson has been a leader in the effort to make enrollment in the new Medicare program easier for seniors.  He introduced bipartisan legislation to extend the Medicare prescription drug programâs enrollment deadline, eliminate financial penalties for late enrollment and allow seniors to switch plans once if necessary.  He offered his legislation as an amendment on three separate occasions.  Despite receiving majority votes, they failed due to procedural hurdles.  Nelson plans to continue pushing for these changes. 

###


























