





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate approves water bill, including key Everglades restoration projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate approves water bill, including key Everglades restoration projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
May 16, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C.  The U.S. Senate today overwhelmingly approved a bill authorizing work on the two major federal projects of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP)  cleaning up the Indian River Lagoon in Martin County and repairing Picayune Strand, a 72,320-acre wildlife habitat in Collier County.   Tucked inside a massive water resources bill, these two projects are seen as critical steps towards meeting the goals of the $10-billion Everglades ecosystem restoration project.  The Senate-passed legislation also includes a provision sought last year by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson requiring a federal study on whether the Herbert Hoover Dike around Lake Okeechobee could collapse and could cause catastrophic flooding in South Florida, as occurred when levees failed in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.  Hopefully this time were finally going to see some relief for the waterways impacted by Lake Okeechobee, said U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson. Ill breathe a little easier when we send the legislation on to the president.  Nelson and Floridas other senator, Mel Martinez, have pushed hard for congressional passage of the long-delayed Water Resources Development Act. A water resources bill like the one approved by the Senate has not been passed by Congress since 2000. In the 108th Congress both chambers passed different versions of the bill but they could never reach a compromise.  This year, the House passed its own WRDA legislation in March. Now, with passage of the Senates version, its up to House and Senate negotiators to iron out any differences before the bill goes to the President for his signature.  

###


























