





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Lawmaker suspects effort to force seniors into drug plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Lawmaker suspects effort to force seniors into drug plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Media release
February 17, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson wants an inspector general to probe whether the federal government is increasing seizures of cheap drugs mailed to U.S. seniors from Canada to force them into enrolling in the new more-expensive Medicare prescription plan.  
In recent weeks, Canadian pharmacists have charged that U.S. Customs and Border Protection has stepped up seizures of personal prescription drug shipments into the U.S., an allegation the government denies.  But by some accounts, seizures have risen to five percent of shipments from less than one percent since late last year.  
            Nelsonâs office in Florida also has reported a noticeable rise in complaints from consumers in recent days.  There have been 10 seniors from around Florida -- Fort Lauderdale, Tamarac, Melbourne, St. Petersburg, Jacksonville, Rockledge, Lakeland, Sebring, Marco Island and Sarasota â who arenât enrolled in Medicareâs plan.  The big question is why?  
âThis raises questions about whether the governmentâs forcing seniors into the new Medicare drug program,â? said Nelson, in a letter to the inspector general of Homeland Security, which overseas Customs.  âIf true, this would be alarming.â?   
            Nelson was referring to Medicare Part D, the Bush administrationâs alternative to cheap Canadian drugs that so far doesnât have seniors stampeding to sign up.    
            Besides Nelson, two congressmen - Rep. Gil Gutnecht, a Republican from Minnesota, and Rep. Rahm Emanuel, a Democrat from Illinois, this week called on the Food and Drug Administration to explain the recent crackdown on imported prescriptions.   
            And this isnât the first time Nelson has tackled the issue.  Two years ago, he received similar complaints from consumers who lost their drugs, and won assurances from then-FDA Commissioner Lester Crawford that the agency would allow individual Americans to purchase a 90-day supply of their personal prescription medications from Canada. 

###


























