





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senators launch effort to kill so-called Death Tax                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senators launch effort to kill so-called Death Tax                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
February 17, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. -  Two U.S. senators - one a Republican, the other a Democrat - on Thursday revived an effort to kill the so-called death tax on inherited estates.    
Both senators - Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) - are longtime proponents of abolishing the tax that can allow the federal government to seize almost half a person's assets when he or she dies. The tax, they said, hurts families that inherit small businesses and farms.    
Their bill would permanently repeal the estate tax at the end of this decade. It would do so then because a law passed as part of President Bush's tax cuts in 2001 gradually phases out the tax by 2010. But it allows the levy to come back to life in 2011, at an even higher rate.    
"It's time we permanently repeal the tax on possessions that people leave to their children," said Nelson. And Nelson's cosponsor, Kyl, said: "Part of the classic American dream is the ability to pass such assets on to one's children, in order that they might get a bit of a head start on life, keep the family business going, or simply enjoy a higher standard of living. We should end this tax on virtue, work, and savings, and end it for good."     
Their bill is similar to one that passed the House in 2003, but died in the Senate. They said sentiment in the Senate since then has turned toward repeal. Interestingly, Nelson is the first Democrat to sponsor estate-tax repeal legislation since then-Sens. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and John Breaux of Louisiana did in 1999, also with Kyl. Estate-tax repeal was a centerpiece of Nelson's 2000 campaign.    
A House version also was reintroduced Thursday, as a companion to the Kyl-Nelson bill, by U.S. Reps. Kenny Hulshof (R-Mo.) and Bud Cramer (D-Ala.).    
According to a recent Gallup Poll, some 60 percent of Americans agree it's unfair for the federal government to subject assets to a tax that can be almost 50 percent when the owner dies. In fact, the estate-tax rate this year is 47 percent. It drops to 46 percent in 2006, 45 percent in 2007 through 2009, and is totally eliminated in 2010. But it comes back the next year at 55 percent. 

###


























