





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Protections against consumer abuse by information brokers sought                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Protections against consumer abuse by information brokers sought                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
February 18, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Florida's U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson is pushing to have federal regulators oversee ChoicePoint-like information brokers the same way it does other companies that handle financial and medical records, The Wall Street Journal reported today.    
In fact, Nelson's office confirmed, he's drafting a bill aimed specifically at brokers that compile and sell billions of private records on Americans. One of the largest brokers, ChoicePoint, recently lost hundreds of thousands of its files to members of an identity-theft ring posing as legitimate businesses.    
"If this isn't an eye-opening case on the threat to our privacy, then nothing is," said Nelson, a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, and long-time advocate of consumer privacy protections on financial and health-related information.    
Since coming to the Senate four years ago, Nelson successfully has pushed other privacy measures, including one requiring federal regulators to adopt strict safeguards for companies on the disposal of customer files containing sensitive financial information culled from credit reports.    
In the wake of the ChoicePoint debacle, Nelson wants to take quick action to update the law that governs the collection and sale of consumers' credit-related information, and on Friday called for an immediate meeting with the head of the Federal Trade Commission, which enforces the fair credit law.    
In a letter to FTC Chairman Deborah Majoras, Nelson said he wants new legislation that will allow oversight of companies that, in essence, "act as private intelligence agencies" and that will let consumers correct inaccurate information, if there's a mistake in a data brokers' files. 

###


























