





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: U.S. Senator lobbies for NASCAR hall of fame in Daytona Beach                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






U.S. Senator lobbies for NASCAR hall of fame in Daytona Beach                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
February 18, 2005
ORLANDO - Sometime in the near future, NASCAR will dedicate a stock-car racing hall of fame in a facility many think will be a year-round magnet for tourists and economic development. But as the countdown continues for the launch of the estimated $67 million project, the question remains: Where will it be built?    
NASCAR has invited five cities to submit proposals by May 31 for building and operating the hall of fame. They are Daytona Beach, Fla.; Charlotte, N.C.; Richmond, Va.; Kansas City, Kan.; and, Atlanta. And each is preparing an incentives package.    
Given Daytona Beach's history as the birthplace and headquarters for NASCAR, many racing fans and Florida tourism boosters are wondering how the racing organization could even consider another city besides the one where the Daytona 500 and Pepsi 400 are run and attract over 300,000 NASCAR fans.    
"It makes my blood boil," U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson said during a recent telephone call to members of NASCAR's founding Bill France family, in which he told them he'd be jumping into the fray and seeking federal economic support to go with Daytona Beach's and the state's joint effort.     
The state's effort involves a plan before the Florida Legislature to provide as much as $3 million a year for 25 years for the project, if the hall of fame can demonstrate it will generate at least as much as $3 million annually in sales tax revenue for the state.    
Various Florida lawmakers have said the hall of fame would be an economic development boost for both Central and North Florida, as well as the source of revenue the state otherwise wouldn't receive. They include Republican state Sens. Evelyn Lynn, of Ormond Beach, and Jim King, whose district is home to Daytona International Speedway.    
On Friday, Nelson told leaders of the Florida Legislature in a letter of his plans to get behind the state's effort to attract the hall of fame. He said he doesn't buy into the argument that the other cities in the running are bigger regions economically and can offer more for NASCAR.    
"The Orlando area is the number-one tourist destination in the world," Nelson said. "And Daytona Beach is only 50 miles from Disney." Nelson also noted that annual attendance at Daytona USA, an existing NASCAR attraction in Daytona Beach, is 500,000 people per year.    
Also Friday, Nelson will meet with one of NASCAR's top officials in town for race week to try to persuade him that Daytona Beach should be home to the facility. 

###


























