





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson to support anti-buildup resolution, opposes cutting funds for troops                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson to support anti-buildup resolution, opposes cutting funds for troops                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Media release                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
January 18, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson ( D-FL ) today made clear his intention to oppose measures he sees as possibly undermining U.S. troops, like cutting funds, but said he strongly supports a resolution against President Bushâs military buildup in Iraq.  
Nelsonâs announcement comes as he and 12 other lawmakers are set to attend a meeting tomorrow on the presidentâs Iraq plan with White House officials â a meeting that will take place in the wake of administration ire over Nelsonâs recent meeting with Syriaâs president and the grilling of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing last week.  
As early as next Wednesday, a resolution opposing the presidentâs buildup of troops in Iraq is expected to gain bipartisan support in the Senate including from Nelson, most other Democrats and perhaps as many as a dozen GOP members.  But a separate battle looms over threats by some lawmakers to try to cut off spending on the presidentâs plan.  
Nelson said today heâll oppose efforts to cut off funding.  âIâll do what I think is right to support our troops, though I donât support the presidentâs plan to add 20,000 more in Iraq,â? said Nelson, who is a member of the Senateâs Armed Services, Foreign Relations and Intelligence committees.  âThatâs not enough troops â not without a political solution to the sectarian violence that the Maliki government has been unable to achieve.â?  
The Senate Foreign Relations panel is scheduled to consider the [ attached ] resolution against a troop increase during its hearing next Wednesday.  Meantime, Nelsonâs meeting tomorrow on the presidentâs new Iraq strategy, with National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley, is set for at 11:30 a.m. at the White House.   


###


























