





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senators seek ban on unsafe toys mostly from China                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senators seek ban on unsafe toys mostly from China                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
July 18, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- During a congressional hearing today over growing safety concerns about Chinese-manufactured toys and other goods, Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL) unveiled new legislation to ban imported childrens products if they arent first tested and certified by an independent group.   Right now the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission ( CPSC ) allows manufacturers to inspect and OK their own childrens products. The legislation [below] would require third-party testing of imported and domestic toys and goods for children five years of age or younger. Called the Children's Products Safety Act of 2007, the bill would ban uncertified imports from entering the U.S.  Nelson announced the bill, which is cosponsored by Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL), at the outset of todays Senate Commerce Committee hearing on the hazards from toy imports. In the last six months alone, there have been four huge recalls of Chinese-made toys, including the popular Thomas the Tank Engine, which was due to risk of lead poisoning from the red paint. About 86 percent of all toy and game imports come from China.  We can sit here all day and discuss improved methods to recall these toys, Nelson said. But the most important thing we can do is make sure they dont get here in the first place.   Recent news about toy and other recalls paints a disturbing picture about the safety of products being sold to the American public, Durbin said. Our system is one of lax inspections and unenforced standards. We need to do better.   Some of the nations leading safety groups, including the Consumers Union, testified at Wednesdays hearing on the need for stronger regulation to give consumers at least a minimal level of assurance that the products they buy are safe to use or consume.  Coincident with the hearing, President Bush announced he was establishing a government panel to recommend steps to guarantee the safety of food and other products shipped into the U.S. But, according to the Associated Press, the White House denied the effort was aimed primarily at China.   A recent Chicago Tribune analysis of all lead recalls in the past 30 years since lead paint was banned in the U.S. found 133 recalls, the vast majority of which involved Chinese-manufactured products.   The items range from baby cribs and children's furniture to children's clothing and boys' toys. Of the 65 recalls for items containing lead paint, more than half of them have occurred since January 2004. More than 80 percent of the items came from China. There have been another 68 recalls for products containing lead itself, totaling more than 175 millions items, primarily children's jewelry.  Besides childrens items, the Commerce Committee also heard testimony about other unsafe products imported from China including food for people and pets. Earlier this year, the federal Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) reported that contaminated pet food killed hundreds of cats and dogs.  Testimony before the Senate panel by a top official with the FDA revealed the agency still has serious concerns about Chinese catfish, shrimp and other seafood that recent tests have shown to be laced with cancer-causing drugs. The FDA . . . is very concerned about long-term exposure, said Dr. Murray Lumpkin, an FDA deputy commissioner.  In addition to Dr. Lumpkin, other witnesses were Nicole Nason, administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Nancy A. Nord, acting CPSC chairman; Dr. William Hogarth, assistant administrator, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; Donald Mays, a director of product safety for the Consumers Union; Caroline Smith DeWaal, director of food safety, Center for Science in the Public Interest; Dr. Scott Gottlieb, resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute; and, Jay Timmons, senior vice president of policy and government relations, the National Association of Manufacturers   The fact that the safety net for foods is full of holes was the subject of a separate testimony by FDA officials before a House subcommittee yesterday.  

###


























