





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson announces congressional probe of passport mess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson announces congressional probe of passport mess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
June 18, 2007
TAMPA, FL - As if clogged airports and high prices aren't bad enough for consumers, millions are now caught in a logjam and unable to get passports they had applied for months in advance.  For some, this means not being with their injured son at a foreign hospital.   For others, it means leaving children behind as they go abroad.  For still others, it means flying to Miami to wait in line at 4 a.m. on the street outside the Miami Passport Office.  In light of the poor handling of the influx of passport requests due to new travel requirements, U.S. Senator Bill Nelson is announcing a congressional probe into the State Department's handling of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative.  On Monday, Nelson will be at a Tampa passport processing office and will meet with several constituents who have been caught in the passport backlog. This comes a day before Nelson is scheduled to chair a congressional hearing in Washington to investigate the State Department's handling of the passport boondoggle.  The jam began after new rules went into effect in January requiring passports to travel to Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean. Just recently, the administration temporarily relaxed the requirements for passports to those countries, but the new announcement has created confusion about who does need a passport to travel because other countries still may ask for one.  In the meantime, State Department staff have been working tirelessly to get through the backlog and some offices have gone to 24 hour shifts. Individuals needing assistance can visit Nelson's website at www.billnelson.senate.gov or call his office toll free at 1-888-671-4091.  

###


























