





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Poised to act on hurricane relief, Senators hear reform proposal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Poised to act on hurricane relief, Senators hear reform proposal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
May 18, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Lawmakers today heard testimony about millions of dollars being misspent after four hurricanes hit Florida last year, then were presented a comprehensive bill aimed at ensuring future disaster relief reaches the hardest hit victims.    
U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson offered the bill to reform spending by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in testimony at a Capitol Hill hearing Wednesday morning focusing on the findings of an investigation into alleged FEMA mismanagement and waste.Â The hearing was requested by Nelson.    
"It seems the system, at least in part, failed," the Florida senator told lawmakers on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. "We too will fail if we donât learn from past problems and insist that the system is reformed so that relief gets to people who need it most."    
Under the new legislation, FEMA damage inspectors wouldnât be able to assess the losses of their neighbors or make purchases from residents whose homes they review - clear conflicts of interest.Â This would prevent cases like the one of a FEMA agent who bought an oceanfront home from a 72-year-old woman who sought out agency advice when she became concerned about storm-related mold.Â Itâs alleged she was duped to sell her home for way under fair market value.    
The bill also toughens penalties for fraud and strengthens the requirements for criminal background checks on agency workers.Â Estimates say that up to 22 percent of FEMA inspectors have criminal records - including rap sheets for serious crimes.    
Nelson told lawmakers the key provisions of the bill follow recommendations by the inspector general for the Department of Homeland Security, Richard Skinner, who investigated the way FEMA responded and spent money in the wake of last year's storms.Â Skinner also testified Wednesday on some of his findings about questionable payouts that, according to the Associated Press, include:    
-Â At least $9 million in rental assistance to 4,985 county residents without proof that the applicants met the criteria for aid. FEMA officials said they are reviewing inspection procedures and guidelines.     
-Â $720,000 to 228 applicants for personal property items based only on the applicants' verbal descriptions of the losses. FEMA agreed that documentation of items discarded could be improved and pledged to research alternatives.     
-Â $97,500 to replace 15 automobiles with a combined Blue Book value of $56,140, and other questionable automobile repair costs. FEMA agreed to improve its criteria and documentation for car repairs and replacement, but said the market value of cars is not its criteria for awards, but rather the cost of replacement transportation.     
-Â $15,743 for three funerals which the review concluded may not have been disaster-related.    
"I hope your committee considers this legislation, and also looks beyond the inspector general's report for other ways to improve our nation's disaster assistance agency," Nelson said during his testimony.Â "We owe this not just Floridians and residents of other hurricane states, but it's a promise we need to make to Californians, who live on fault lines, and Washingtonians, who live in the shadows of active volcanoes; rural Americans, who live near rivers that swell; and city-dwellers, who live in metropolitan areas that could be targeted by terrorists.    
"If we in Congress don't require improvements in our disaster relief agency, we will fail Americans from coast to coast who rely on the federal government when disaster strikes," he said. 

###


























