





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson vows to continue fight to give seniors more time                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson vows to continue fight to give seniors more time                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Media release
November 18, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. âLate yesterday, an amendment sponsored by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson that would have expanded the time given to seniors to enroll in the new Medicare prescription drug plan won the support of a majority of senators but fell short of the 60 votes needed to overcome a parliamentary hurdle.    
âItâs really encouraging to watch this important piece of legislation get a majority and have such bipartisan support,â? Nelson said Thursday night.  âIâm going to press for another vote on the issue after we return in Januaryâ?  
This past Tuesday, Medicareâs 40 million seniors began enrolling in the new drug plans amid widespread reports of confusion.  With just six months to enroll before facing stiff financial penalties, seniors across the country are justifiably concerned.  
Sen. Nelsonâs amendment would have given seniors seven and a half additional months to enroll in the program by extending the deadline from May 15, 2006 to the end of 2006.  The amendment would also allow seniors to avoid late fees during 2006 and would give seniors the option of correcting initial mistakes in enrollment during the first year of implementation.  
Nelson said the legislation is necessary because the new drug plan is confusing to many seniors and contains stiff financial penalties for late enrollment.  Under the current law, seniors who donât sign up by May will pay substantially higher premiums if they later decide to join the program.  
Nelson also noted that the enrollment process is especially difficult for the thousands of seniors displaced by this yearâs hurricanes.  Without permanent addresses and adequate resources, these seniors will find it difficult to receive the information needed to make an informed decision.  
Nelsonâs amendment to the tax reconciliation bill failed with a 51-47 vote.  Nelson said he will continue to push this legislation, both as an amendment to other bills and his as a stand-alone piece of legislation, the Medicare Informed Choice Act. 

###


























