





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: President, Congress act to help make pools safer for kids                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






President, Congress act to help make pools safer for kids                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
New law will help keep millions of small children from drowning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
December 19, 2007
WASHINGTON  President Bush today signed into law a new pool-safety measure, advocated by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson and others, to help protect small children from drowning.   The Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act was included in a larger energy bill that passed the House late last night. The Senate, where Nelson was a cosponsor, passed the measure last week. In the House, Floridas Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz was its champion.  It is a tragedy that weve lost young lives because of unsafe drains, and this legislation is the way to make sure that children are able to enjoy the safest pools available, Nelson said today.  The law, aimed at protecting small children from drowning, creates new standards for private pools to make dangerous drain covers less hazardous. It also requires that barriers be constructed around the pool to prevent small children from entering unsupervised, and includes funding for pool-related safety education programs. All existing public pools must be updated to meet the new standards.  The act is named after Secretary of State James Bakers granddaughter, who drowned in 2002 when suction from a pool drainpipe with a faulty cover trapped her under water. 

###


























