





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: House, Senate leaders save JFK, keep carrier fleet at 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






House, Senate leaders save JFK, keep carrier fleet at 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Media release
December 19, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. â The U.S. House of Representatives gave final approval early this morning to a measure keeping the U.S. Navyâs aircraft carrier fleet at 12 ships instead of cutting it to 11, meaning the USS John F. Kennedy will be spared mothballing.  
The 12-carrier provision, sponsored in the Senate by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida, was included in a broader defense bill Okayed by House and Senate leaders late last night, and then the full House early today.  The Senate is expected to give its final approval this afternoon.  
Not only will the JFK be maintained under the bill, but a separate defense spending bill previously approved by Congress includes $4.5 million for the Navy to begin making upgrades at Mayport Naval Station â improvements considered essential to making the base ready for a nuclear-powered carrier in the future.   
âAll of this is great news for our national defense; and, for the local community,â? Nelson said today.  Nelson was the first to propose the 12-carrier idea in January in response to reports that the Pentagon intended to reduce the nationâs carrier fleet to 11 by forcing the retirement of the Mayport-based JFK as early as 2006.  
Nelsonâs initiative picked up steam in the spring when it won the backing of other lawmakers from Florida and Virginia, including U.S. Rep. Ander Crenshaw of Jacksonville and Virginiaâs U.S. Sen. John Warner, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, on which Nelson also serves. 

###


























