





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Prospects heightened for restoring âRiver of Grassâ?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Prospects heightened for restoring âRiver of Grassâ?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Media release                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
January 19, 2007
ORLANDO â U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson feels so strongly about delays to Everglades-restoration plans that he will urge hundreds of the nationâs leading environmentalists gathering in this city over the weekend to sign a letter aimed at getting the attention of other national lawmakers.    
The stateâs senior U.S. senator intends to enlist their help in a speech heâs scheduled to give Saturday to The Everglades Coalition, an alliance of 45 local, state and national conservation and environmental organizations dedicated to fully restoring the Everglades.  The coalition is holding its annual national conference in Orlando Jan. 18 through Jan. 21.    
After years of delays under a GOP-controlled Congress, Nelson thinks thereâs a good chance now to get the new Democratic leaders to heed such a call and pass a stalled water bill that contains projects critical to restoring the so-called âRiver of Grass.â?    
âWe canât wait any longer,â? Nelson says in advanced draft of the speech.  âEach day we delay, the nation loses more of a great natural wonder â and, Florida loses more of an important source for water.â?    
Nelson will send the signatures he gathers with a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid on Monday.  Already he has a pledge of support from another key senator, the new chairman of the Senate Committee on Environmental and Public Works.  That panel now is under the leadership of Sen. Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat who told Nelson on Thursday sheâll pass the water bill as soon as March.    
Nelsonâs letter to Reid asks him to schedule a vote by the full Senate.  âQuick consideration and passage of the Water Resources Development Act is critical in order to continue our progress towards restoring Americaâs Everglades,â? Nelson writes in his letter to Reid.    
Passage of the water bill, which has contained about $1.6 billion for two major Everglades projects, has been stymied since 2002, in part, over provisions to reform the Army Corps of Engineers' operations nationwide.    
Nelson and others are backing the same two projects in this yearâs version of the bill â cleanups of the Indian River Lagoon, which runs through five southeast Florida counties, and the Picayune Strand, in Collier County near Floridaâs southwest coast.  On Monday, Nelson and Sen. Mel Martinez plan to introduce legislation that specifically authorizes these vital projects.    
In championing restoration of the Everglades, Nelson is taking up where former Democratic Sen. Bob Graham left off.  It was Graham who helped put Florida's multi-billion-dollar quest for federal money to clean up the âRiver of Grassâ? atop the Washington agenda.  Former Republican U.S. Rep. Clay Shaw also is credited with promoting Everglades restoration.   

###


























