





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Effort launched to outlaw misuse of consumersâ cell phone records                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Effort launched to outlaw misuse of consumersâ cell phone records                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Media release
January 19, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- A bipartisan group of U.S. senators led by Floridaâs Bill Nelson moved yesterday to outlaw the sale of telephone records without consumers' knowledge, a practice that worries privacy experts and law enforcement agencies.     
New legislation, introduced by Nelson and two other senators, would make it a crime to steal and sell records for cell phones, traditional landlines and Internet-based telephones.    
The bill would criminalize the act of making false statements to obtain a customer's phone record or access records on the Internet without permission. It also would become a crime for a phone company employee to sell customer data without permission.    
Among those sponsoring the bill with Nelson are Senate Judiciary Chairman Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican, and Charles Schumer of New York.  The bill would have to go through Specter's committee as well as the commerce panel on which Nelson serves.  Nelson, an outspoken privacy advocate who is leading the charge in the Senate to regulate information brokers after huge security breaches last year, said:  âThis is a simple matter of consumer privacy.  I feel strongly that sensitive personal information, including our cell phone records, should be protected from the eyes of strangers.â?      
Reps. Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, and Jay Inslee, a Washington Democrat, plan to offer similar legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives when it returns later this month.    
There are more than 200 million cell phone subscribers who could be potential victims, according to a wireless industry organization. 

###


























