





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: U.S. Senator urges Defense Secretary to stop using bill collectors who are hounding combat-wounded troops                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






U.S. Senator urges Defense Secretary to stop using bill collectors who are hounding combat-wounded troops                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Media release
October 19, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. â The Pentagon is using collection agencies to hound combat-wounded soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines to pay for their helmets and other equipment lost in battle.  And some of these service members have had their finances blackened by negative reports to credit bureaus.  
Still other wounded troops have found themselves in debt to Uncle Sam - and besieged by bill collectors, as well - because the Pentagonâs computerized pay system routinely makes mistakes in figuring paychecks.  
But the controversial practice of sending private collection agencies after the combat wounded could end soon - if Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld heeds the request of at least one U.S. senator on the Armed Services Committee.  
âI urge you to immediately suspend all collection efforts directed at wounded service members whether still on active duty or released to the care of the veteransâ health system,â? Senator Bill Nelson ( D-FL ) wrote in a letter to Rumsfeld this week.  âUntil we achieve an acceptable standard of accuracy and reliability in the systems for administering service membersâ debts, the [ defense ] Department cannot justify using collection agencies or filing negative credit reports against our wounded soldiers, sailors, airmen or Marines.â?   
Because of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, there are more wounded troops coming home than at any time since the Vietnam War in the late 1960s and early 1970s.  Although the Pentagon canât pinpoint the full-number of wounded active-duty troops with debts, an Army official recently told the Washington Post it had identified 331 soldiers who have been hit with military debt after being wounded at war.  
In a detailed report on the problem last week, the Post cited the case of one soldier whose hand had been blown off in Iraq and his body pierced by shrapnel.   He flew home for a long and intensely painful recovery at Walter Reed Army Medical Center.  
But nine months after he was wounded, the Army garnished his wages because it said he owed them $6,200; and, a collection agency went after him for another $646 for military housing, the Post said.  
Last Spring, such pay-and-debt problems across the military branches came under scrutiny from a U.S. House committee, which asked the Government Accountability Office â the investigative arm of Congress - to conduct a thorough review.  
In July of 2004, the GAO reported that 95 percent of Army Reserve soldiers experienced pay problems.  Some pay issues took as long as a year to completely resolve.  Of the 348 soldiers participating in the study, 256 received overpayments â and thus were in debt, another 294 received underpayments, and 285 received late payments of active duty pay and allowances.  In February of 2005, the GAO found that 63% of soldiers participating in a case study experienced problems with the active duty medical extensions process, causing them to lose their active duty pay without cause.  
As a result of Pentagon errors, military service members are being forced into debt through no fault of their own, Nelson said, citing an illustrative complaint his own office received.  One particular constituent from Ocala, Florida has experienced pay problems associated with two deployments in Iraq as a military police officer, and still is struggling to sort out a mess that originally began in early 2003.  Although payment mistakes were made by the Pentagon, the man was expected to repay the military for a $2,249.51 overpayment - including $562.12 he never received because it was withheld for federal taxes.  
The outdated military-pay system has deeply affected this soldierâs ability to provide necessities for his wife and children, Nelson said; and, adding insult to injury the defense department last month denied an appeal on the manâs behalf by Nelsonâs office.  
Nelson said the Pentagon using collection agencies poses a particular hardship for combat wounded troops and their families.  Calling the dogs off these troops is a starting point, he said, adding that the Pentagon also needs to understand the hardships its flawed pay system causes other service members and to explore appropriate relief. 

###


























