





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Evidence reveals altering of 'Glades report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Evidence reveals altering of 'Glades report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
September 19, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C.  A top Bush administration official says he removed Floridas Everglades National Park from a U.N. list of endangered world sites because a lot of progress has been made in its restoration. Not so, says a key U.S. senator who is charging that the decision shows the administration is faltering on its pledge to help save the River of Grass.   Not only that, but a top GOP presidential contender just yesterday refused to rule out drilling for oil in the Glades.  Today, a Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee that oversees the U.N. and is chaired by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida held a hearing to find out how Everglades National Park was deleted earlier this year from the list of World Heritage sites considered in danger, despite recommendations to the contrary by U.S. scientists.  Among the main witnesses is the Bush administration Interior Department official who has admitted responsibility for removing the Glades from the international list of endangered sites. Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Interior Todd Willens testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on International Operations and Organizations, Democracy and Human Rights at 3 p.m. today.  Other testimony showed the last sentence of the U.S. delegations report was altered to reflect that the administration wanted the Everglades downgraded. Just four letters were changed, so the word retain became the word remove.   On a recent visit to the Glades, Nelson and Sen. Barbara Boxer voiced new concerns about the administrations commitment to restoration, noting the list incident comes at a time when Bush is threatening to veto water legislation that Congress passed by a wide margin. The legislation gives the go ahead for major river and lake cleanups in South Florida that are considered vital to restoring the Everglades.  And just yesterday, the Everglades was thrust center stage into presidential politics when GOP candidate Fred Thompson refused to rule out drilling for oil there in an interview with the Brendan Farrington of the Associated Press. Thompsons comments prompted one of his rivals, Mitt Romney, to declare, We're not going to drill in the Everglades. There are certain places in America that are national treasures and the Everglades is one of those.  Other witnesses at todays hearing besides Willenswere a top State Department official and a member of the Government Accountability Office, commonly called the GAO, which is the investigative arm of Congress. 

###


























