





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson:  Protect seniorsâ access to cheap prescription drugs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson:  Protect seniorsâ access to cheap prescription drugs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Media Release
September 19, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â A vocal group of senators is fighting to make sure a House-Senate conference committee doesnât kill a key provision giving seniors easier access to cheaper prescription drugs.  
The conference committeeâs negotiators are working this week to hammer our details of this yearâs homeland security spending bill, including an amendment offered by Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Sen. David Vitter (R-LA) that would bring an end to the U.S. Customs and Border Protectionâs controversial practice of confiscating prescription drugs imported from Canada for personal use.    
In a move aimed at placing pressure on House-Senate negotiators, Nelson, Vitter and 13 of their colleagues sent a letter to Sens. Judd Gregg and Robert Byrd â key Senate leaders overseeing the negotiations â urging them to keep the amendment in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill.  
The administration stepped up seizures of prescription drugs at the U.S. border in a secret crackdown launched last year.  Word of the crackdown became public when Nelson challenged the administration and asked for an investigation into complaints his office received from constituents who, in some cases, had their life-sustaining medications taken away without warning.  
âA conference report without this language would conflict with the clear will of the American public and the U.S. Congress,â? Nelson and his colleagues wrote in their letter.  
Nelson and Vitter introduced their legislation after the Department of Homeland Security inspector general declined Nelsonâs February request for an investigation into the increased drug seizures.  Concerned that the U.S. Customs and Border Protectionâs failure to also notify consumers of their stepped-up drug seizures was placing peopleâs health at risk, Nelson wanted it stopped; and, he wanted to know whether the increase in seizures represented a policy shift; and, if it was related to the start of the Medicare prescription drug program; or, whether there is something else behind it. 

###


























