





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson, others, watch, wait for news from Cuba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson, others, watch, wait for news from Cuba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Media Release
August 1, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. -  U.S. Senator Bill Nelsonâs reaction to the news that Cuban dictator Fidel Castro has transferred power for the first time in 47 years of absolute rule was one of cautious optimism today.  
âWe donât know whether this really is the beginning of the end,â? Nelson said, referring to a growing number of recent reports about Castroâs demise.  âLetâs hope it is.  Letâs hope itâs over for the dictator.â?  
Nelson said U.S. officials are closely watching the situation in Cuba; and, have plans to try to make sure the communist system Castro created goes out with him.  âThen we can move forward towards a free and democratic Cuba, âsaid Nelson, a member of both the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed Services committees.  
Nelson, who learned Monday about a deterioration of the 79-year-old Castroâs health, said there are âclassifiedâ? plans to respond with U.S. maritime assets should there be any sign of a mass migration or other chaos that could impact Florida.  
During his first term in the Senate, the Florida senator has been an advocate of a democratic Cuba.  Among legislation sponsored by Nelson, and approved by the Senate, was a measure aimed at assisting democracy activists in Cuba who were the subject of a brutal crackdown on the island.  
The resolution called for the immediate release of all political prisoners, and it asked the United Nations Commission on Human Rights to demand outside inspectors be allowed to visit Cuba to assess and report on the extent of human rights abuses there.  
He also is prepared to file legislation this afternoon that would give immediate and direct financial assistance to Cuban dissidents and democracy activists on the island. 

###


























