





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Rumsfeld: Oil, gas drilling off Florida âincompatibleâ? with military                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Rumsfeld: Oil, gas drilling off Florida âincompatibleâ? with military                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Media release
December 1, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C.  --  Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld says legislation that would bring drilling much closer to Florida is âincompatible with military [testing and training] activitiesâ? in the Gulf of Mexico, according to U.S. Senator Bill Nelson.  
Rumsfeld has weighed in on the oil-and-gas drilling issue at the request of Nelson, who sought the opinion of the Pentagon in October through both the chairman and ranking minority member of the Senateâs Armed Services Committee.  
Rumsfeld, in a letter dated yesterday, told the head of that committee, Senator John Warner of Virginia, that the Pentagon and the Department of Interior have an existing agreement recognizing much of the eastern Gulf as âespecially critical to the [national defense] due to the number and diversity of military testing and training activities conducted there.â?  
For months now, Nelson has maintained in Senate debate that various lawmakersâ attempts to expand offshore drilling could threaten our nationâs military readiness by disrupting military weapons testing and training.       
The western boundary of the military training area in the Gulf - as defined by Rumsfeld - is 234 miles west of Tampa Bay.  Legislation that Nelson and Senator Mel Martinez have fought would have allowed drilling as close as 25 miles off the coast.  
Some lawmakers even now are proposing a 150-mile buffer that still would cut 84 miles into the militaryâs training area, which is why Nelson said heâll keep fighting attempts by pro-drilling forces to bring oil and gas rigs closer to Florida.  
âWe canât allow the oil companies to undermine our long-term national defense interests,â? he said. 

###


























