





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate offshore drilling bill moves forward                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate offshore drilling bill moves forward                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Media release                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
December 1, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â Today Congress moved a step closer to providing Floridaâs unique environment and 50 billion-dollar tourism economy with long-term protection from oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.    
House leadership announced on Friday they would vote next week on offshore drilling legislation passed by the Senate last summer.  The bill includes key provisions by Florida Sens. Bill Nelson and Mel Martinez that will protect Floridaâs coastline.    
Earlier today, Nelson expressed optimism upon hearing the news of the House leadershipâs move.    
âItâs welcome news that the House of Representatives is going to take up this legislation we passed in the Senate to protect the interests of Florida from oil rigs being right off of our coasts,â? Nelson said.  âIt keeps those oil rigs over 250 miles off of the stateâs west coast.  It protects not only our tourism industry and our unique environment, but also the military training sites in the Gulf of Mexico, where we test many of our sophisticated weapons systems.â?  


###


























