





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Plan by Floridaâs senators aims to provide atate with permanent protection from oil, gas rigs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Plan by Floridaâs senators aims to provide atate with permanent protection from oil, gas rigs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Media release
February 1, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Floridaâs two U.S. senators on Wednesday unveiled âhistoricâ? legislation to permanently protect the stateâs unique environment and tourism-dependent economy from the threat of offshore drilling.  
The legislation, known as The Permanent Protection for Florida Act, provides lasting protections from drilling in the eastern Gulf of Mexico not only for the stateâs economy and ecosystem, but also for the nationâs military training ranges in the eastern Gulf.  
The bill, by Senators Mel Martinez and Bill Nelson, also takes into account the unreliability and increasing price of foreign energy supplies by allowing limited new exploration -- far off the stateâs coast -- some 260 miles from Tampa Bay.  
As the two senators crafted their bill over the past few weeks, it drew support from representatives of some of the countryâs leading consumer and environmental groups, including the Florida Public Interest Research Group, or PIRG.  
Both senators said the measure is needed now, especially because Florida can no longer rely on temporary moratoriums.  Current presidential and congressional moratoriums prohibiting drilling expire in 2012.  And an administrative agreement forbidding drilling in so-called Lease Sale 181 â an odd-shaped tract 213 miles off Tampa Bay -- expires next year.  
And a development that further threatens the state came last month when the Department of Interior published a plan to shift state underwater sea boundaries and place much of Lease Sale 181 under the control of pro-drilling Louisiana.  
Martinez and Nelson, who last year united to defeat two legislative attempts to allow drilling closer to Florida, urged the Senate to expedite passage of their proposal.  
âThis bill sends a message thatâs loud and clear  --  Floridaâs waters are off limits,â? Martinez said.  âFloridaâs leaders have worked too long and too hard on building up these protections just to have them disappear during a brief moment of high energy prices.  We have a lot at stake and itâs time to solidify our protections into law.â?  
âFloridaâs economy and environment, and our countryâs military preparedness, are at stake,â? Nelson said.  âOur unspoiled beaches and abundant fisheries make Florida one of the worldâs tourism jewels.  And the people of Florida want it to stay that way.â?  
Specifically, the bipartisan bill would create a permanent no-drilling zone at least 260 miles offshore in much of the eastern Gulf.  And off Pensacola and Floridaâs East Coast, the no drilling zone would extend out to 150 miles offshore.  It also would remove existing leases close to Floridaâs coastline by granting royalty forgiveness on active leases in the western and central Gulf.  
Nelson, a member of the Armed Services Committee, and Martinez, a member of the Energy Committee, also noted that the 260-mile buffer against drilling in the eastern Gulf would enhance our nationâs military readiness.  The Air Force and Navy use this restricted area to perform essential testing and training activities.  
Among those already supporting the bill is one of the leaders of the National Outer Continental Shelf Coalition, Richard Charter, who called it âa historic piece of legislationâ? that would âpermanently preserve Floridaâs landscape and the quality of life for millions of people.  It also would provide long-term protections for vibrant coastal-dependent economies elsewhere on the U.S. East and West coasts.â?   
            And Mark Ferrulo, director of Florida PIRG, said, âThis legislation would greatly expand Floridaâs protections against offshore drilling.  The stateâs world famous coastline would be protected for millions of Floridians and visitors far into the future.â? 

###


























