





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson makes boycott of Israel a factor in ports deal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson makes boycott of Israel a factor in ports deal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Media release
March 1, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Amid continued criticism of the controversial Dubai ports deal, Floridaâs U.S. Senator Bill Nelson yesterday became the first lawmaker to question the firmâs ties to its government-ownerâs boycott against Israel.  
During a meeting of the Senate Commerce Committee, Nelson put that question to Dubai Ports World COO Ted Bilkey when he asked whether the ports company engaged in the anti-Israel policies of its government owner, the United Arab Emirates.  
âYouâre owned by a holding company thatâs owned by the Dubai government â and, itâs enforcing the boycott against Israel,â? Nelson told Bilkey, at the hearing on how the administration approved DP Worldâs takeover of operations at six major U.S. ports.  
Nelson was joined by a handful of other senators in challenging DP Worldâs links to the boycott, thus broadening senatorsâ homeland security concerns about the ports deal to significant foreign policy issues as well.  
It has been illegal since 1977 for U.S. companies to comply with the boycott of Israel, including by telling members of the Arab League that their products donât contain any Israeli materials.  In 2004, 118 U.S. companies reported receiving such inquiries in connection with exports to the United Arab Emirates. 

###


























