





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: U.S. Senator Calls for Resignation of Second NASA Official                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






U.S. Senator Calls for Resignation of Second NASA Official                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
May 1, 2007
 WASHINGTON, D.C.  U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson said in a letter today there is dysfunctional oversight of NASA as evidenced by the discovery that the space agencys top lawyer personally destroyed internal records.  As a result, Nelson said, NASAs general counsel, Mike Wholley, should resign immediately. Previously, Nelson and other lawmakers called on President Bush to remove the agencys inspector general, Robert Cobb, who serves as independent watchdog over NASA.  It appears that the firewall that should exist between NASA management and the NASA [ inspector general ] has been dismantled, leaving a dysfunctional relationship that both precludes effective oversight by the [ inspector general ] and could pose a conflict of interest for NASA management and the [ inspector general ], Nelson wrote in letter sent today to NASA Administrator Michael Griffin.  Nelsons letter [ see attached Word document ] comes as he and other lawmakers in the House are preparing for a joint House-Senate committee hearing into alleged mismanagement in the NASA inspector generals office. The congressional probe had centered on Cobb  until late last week, when committee staff interviewed the agencys top lawyer, Wholley.  In that interview last Friday, Wholley admitted to destroying recordings of a recent meeting between Griffin, Cobb and Cobbs staff in part because he didnt want them to become public under the federal governments Freedom of Information Act, according to Nelsons letter to Griffin.  In addition to now calling for Wholleys resignation, Nelson renewed the call for Cobbs removal. Among other things, Cobb allegedly failed to report the loss of an estimated $1.9 billion worth of rocket engine designs.  A report by the Integrity Committee of the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency, which oversees the inspectors general at federal agencies, found Cobb engaged in abuse of authority and created an appearance that he lacked independence over the agency he was supposed to oversee through audits and investigations.  According to Nelsons letter, Wholley largely ignored the Integrity Committees report in recommending to Griffin that corrective action for Cobb include management training.  Under the Inspector General Act of 1978, the president appoints independent officials to monitor every Cabinet department and the larger federal agencies, including NASA.  NASA also is overseen by a Senate subcommittee headed by Nelson, whose familiarity with the workings of the space agency dates back to his flight as a crew member aboard the shuttle Columbia in January 1986. 

###


























