





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: U.S. Senate passes Nelson plan to save JFK from early retirement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






U.S. Senate passes Nelson plan to save JFK from early retirement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
April 20, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - After months of fighting and a contentious Senate floor debate, legislation by Florida Sen. Bill Nelson to preserve the USS John F. Kennedy passed this afternoon by a 58-38 vote.    
Called the Warner-Nelson amendment - it was cosponsored by Virginia Sen. John Warner - the legislation was added to a much broader bill to finance the war in Iraq that still faces a final vote.     
The amendment passed despite the Navy's plan announced in December to retire the Kennedy ahead of schedule this summer. It's aimed not only at keeping the conventional carrier based in Jacksonville's Mayport, but also at preventing the Navy from reducing its fleet in a time of war.    
More specifically, it requires the Navy to hold off on moth-balling the Kennedy at least until the middle of next year, when the Pentagon and Congress will have completed a planned review of all military programs including Navy fleet size.    
"It's in our national security interest not to reduce the size of the Navy's fleet right now," Nelson told his Senate colleagues Wednesday. He also noted his amendment would keep the Kennedy in case it's needed in Japan, where there's been opposition to basing a nuclear carrier.    
Additionally, Nelson said, retiring the Kennedy would have posed a serious national security risk by leaving the Navy with all its carriers on the East Coast based in one port in Norfolk, Virginia.    
In just the last few days, Nelson's five-month-long fight to save the Kennedy drew a host of new cosponsors, including Florida's and Virginia's other senators, Mel Martinez and George Allen. And just yesterday, Nelson won a commitment from a top Navy official that keeping the Kennedy would not adversely impact the Navy's decision to make Mayport nuclear-ready. 

###


























