





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson files bill to honor Florida hero                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson files bill to honor Florida hero                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
April 20, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C.Â â U.S. Senator Bill Nelson says we owe it to Sgt. Arthur "Stacey" Mastrapa of Apopka.Â The Florida Democrat on Friday filed legislation that would honor the late Army Reservist by naming the Altamonte Springs Post Office after him as a permanent memorial.    
"I think this is also a way for us to say thank you to his wife, Jennifer, and his two children,â? Nelson said.Â And the congressman who initiated the legislative effort, Republican Rep. Tom Feeney, added, âMastrapa lived a life of service and sacrifice, and this legislation will create a lasting tribute in recognition of his contributions to the betterment of our nation.â?    
The family was left without their husband and father when the 35-year-old military policeman was killed in a rocket attack on his base north of Baghdad - less than a week before coming home.Â He served nearly 400 days in Iraq.    
He joined the Army in 1992 and then the Reserve in 1998 after leaving active duty.Â When not serving with his reserve unit, he was a postal worker at the same post office that could carry his name.    
Coworkers there started a drive to rename it for their former colleague.Â Legislation similar to Nelson's was filed in the House by U.S. Rep. Tom Feeney in January.Â It has received broad support from Florida's entire congressional delegation, but a companion measure was needed in the Senate. 

###


























