





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Woman wins long battle with the Navy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Woman wins long battle with the Navy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
December 20, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - For Richelle Starnes, today was a day for tears. But every tear she shed while talking with Sen. Bill Nelsons office was a tear for joy.  Last night, the Central Florida woman received a call from the secretary of the U.S. Navy, saying the military now will help with the very expensive health care it previously had denied her.  The change of heart on the Navys part came after a Florida television reporter and U.S. Bill Nelson began speaking out loudly and beating on the Pentagons door.  This is tremendous news for Richelle and for her family, Nelson said today in Jacksonville.   Several years ago, the Navy told Richelle her medical benefits would expire and the government no longer would pay for her HIV treatment, even though she had contracted the virus 27 years ago at birth because of a mistake by a military doctor. Richelles mother contracted HIV, then AIDS, through a blood transfusion, after a Navy doctors mistake in San Francisco in 1979. She unknowingly passed the virus on to her daughter.  The Navy at first agreed to pay for Richelles care for the rest of her life. But, when she turned 21 the Navy refused to pay for her medicine, which can run up to $4,500 a month.  Richelle and her husband Jeffrey complained to Nelsons office in October 2005. A two-year battle culminated in mid-November with Nelson himself going over the head of the Navys chief and appealing directly to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates.   Yesterday, the Navy secretary wrote Nelson on Gates behalf, saying hes approving lifetime care and treatment of HIV for Richelle; and, there will be no charge for care or prescription medications.            

###


























