





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senator to preview effort to track off-shore hackers and spammers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senator to preview effort to track off-shore hackers and spammers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
February 21, 2005
MIAMI - Florida's U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson will discuss new legislation to help federal regulators track down overseas hackers and spammers during a breakfast speech at the Miami City Club Tuesday. The legislation is the top priority of trade regulators charged with nabbing illegal spammers.    
More specifically, the legislation would allow regulators to share investigation information with foreign counterparts in order to take action against criminals who commit online fraud from abroad. It's expected to be the first in a series of measures to address flaws in last year's federal anti-spam legislation.    
Under current law, federal regulators chasing even the worst spammers are limited in their ability to pursue them, because they can't disclose information or key reports to outside enforcement agencies in other countries. U.S. officials at the Federal Trade Commission say international information sharing is among their top priorities for combating the continuing flow of spam and Internet fraud. They say an increasing number of spam-related offenses stem from off-shore sites.     
Nelson, a member of the Senate's Commerce panel and a longtime consumer privacy advocate, says he's cosponsor the legislation after the end of the current congressional recess, and later this year he and other senators aim to tackle the issue of unwanted downloading of harmful computer programs on Internet users' computers.     
"Congress took an important first step last year by passing an anti-spam law, but we need to toughen it," Nelson says of the proposal he'll preview for business and community leaders at the Miami City Club. "We've got to stop giving online schemers safe haven overseas."    
Last year, Nelson won passage of a significant provision in the first anti-spam law. It was designed to stiffen criminal penalties for those who send large volumes of unsolicited e-mail in schemes that involve crimes such as identity theft, obscenity, child pornography and the sexual exploitation of children. 

###


























