





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senator vows to block Maritime nominee due to conflict question in light of Dubai deal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senator vows to block Maritime nominee due to conflict question in light of Dubai deal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Media release
February 21, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- David Sanborn currently is the presidentâs pick to be head of the U.S. Maritime Administration.  If confirmed by the Senate, he would come to the job from a top post with a United Arab Emiratesâ company that just cut a deal to operate six major U.S. ports.  
As a result, Sanborn could end up overseeing his old firm, Dubai Ports World, a foreign government-owned company thatâs seeking control of operations at six U.S. ports, including the port of Miami.  
But Sanborn wonât get that federal job anytime soon - if U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, of Florida, has his way.  In a letter today to the Senate Commerce Committee chairman, Nelson said heâd block the nomination unless Sanborn comes back to the committee for further questioning.  
Sanborn appeared before the panel in early February, but before it was publicly known his company would operate some of the same ports Sanborn would be responsible for overseeing as national Maritime czar.  
âIn this capacity, he will have oversight of his [ former ] employer, which raises questions about conflict of interest,â? Nelson wrote in his letter to Sens. Ted Stevens, the Commerce Committee chairman, and Daniel K. Inouye, the panelâs ranking Democrat.  
Nelson said his questions about Sanborn are separate and apart from his concern over the Dubai purchase itself; and, Nelsonâs own long-standing criticism of the administration for lax port security.  By some accounts, only five percent of the containers coming into U.S. ports are screened, which Nelson considers a major national security problem. 

###


























