





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senator blasts FEMA for denying residents help with some of their Hurricane Dennis expenses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senator blasts FEMA for denying residents help with some of their Hurricane Dennis expenses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
July 21, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Panhandle residents wrongly are being denied federal disaster assistance for certain expenses they incurred in preparation for Hurricane Dennis, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson charged today in a letter to the nation's top disaster management official.    
In the wake of hurricanes and other disasters, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) generally reimburses residents for purchases of certain items - like, generators, dehumidifiers, heating fuel and chain saws - made up to several days in advance of an incident. That's what FEMA did for the four hurricanes that hit Florida last year.    
But in the case of Hurricane Dennis, which struck the Panhandle July 10, residents now are being told by FEMA that such storm-preparation expenditures will not be covered. "As things stand now, you are punishing people for taking steps necessary to protect their lives or property," Nelson said in his July 21 letter to FEMA chief Mike Brown.    
Nelson asked Brown to make federal assistance available to Panhandle residents for qualifying items they bought a day or two before the storm. Because the state response actually began three days before Dennis, and because the storm was preceded by high winds, torrential rains and tornadoes, residents who went to the expense of preparing themselves should not be punished, Nelson said.    
Nelson noted FEMA has extended its so-called "incident period" for covering such expenses in the past. For instance, the agency extended coverage from one to five days following severe weather and flooding in Wisconsin in September 2002.    
For Hurricane Charley in August of last year, FEMA covered residents' authorized storm-related expenses two days before the storm. For Hurricane Frances three weeks later, FEMA allowed one day before the storm in which to purchase such things. For Hurricane Ivan in mid-September, FEMA covered expenses for up to three days beforehand. For Hurricane Jeanne in late September, FEMA paid for certain uninsured and unmet needs made two days before the storm.    
But for Dennis, the agency says it will pay for expenses beginning the day of the storm.    
"I feel that the action of FEMA is causing a lot of undue stress to citizens in Santa Rosa County," a Milton woman wrote Nelson in a July 20 letter, after FEMA denied her claim for reimbursement on a generator. "Last year I was without power and a generator for eleven days. Therefore I purchased a generator two days before [ Dennis. ]     
"We are working class people who don't have the money to just go out and purchase these items, but my understanding was that we would be reimbursed," she wrote. "Please help us recover our losses."    
A Pensacola woman, who also was a Dennis victim, wrote Nelson yesterday, too, saying: "FEMA made the decision to reimburse for the purchase of a generator only if the purchase was made on the day of the hurricane ( July 10, 2005 ) or after that date. This is totally unfair. What were people supposed to do? There were no generators in Pensacola before the date of the hurricane.    
"My husband purchased our generator in Georgia, because I tried to locate one in Pensacola and could not. . . . The people who are being shafted by FEMA need to stand up for themselves and appeal to any government officials who is willing to speak for the people of this country." 

###


























