





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson:  White House lacks tough policies needed to break Americs's oil addiction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson:  White House lacks tough policies needed to break Americs's oil addiction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Media release
April 22, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. - President Bushâs recent pledge to help America break its addiction to oil isnât backed up with tough policy changes needed to make a real difference, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson ( D-FL ) charged Saturday.  
âThe administrationâs emphasis is on oil drilling, a strategy many experts say wonât make a dent in the U.S. oil problem,â? Nelson, a member of the Senateâs Commerce Committee and an outspoken proponent of alternative fuels, said in the Democratic Partyâs weekly radio address.  ( To listen to the audio, go to:  http://www.billnelson.senate.gov/audiofiles/BNelson.mp3 )  
Nelson spoke as gas prices topped $3 in many parts of the country and crude oil rose to above $72 a barrel.  âMeanwhile, oil company profits continue to soar to unimaginable levels,â? Nelson said, calling for repeal of billion-dollar giveaways to oil companies and redirecting those funds into ethanol production.  
âSixty-percent of the oil we use is from foreign countries, so more hybrid vehicles and alternative fuels such as ethanol made from cost-effective crops would make a huge difference â and, relatively quickly,â? he said.  
In addition to his support of alternative fuels, Nelson also is a leader in the Senate against efforts to allow oil rigs in an Alaskan preserve and off the coast of Florida.  The U.S., he notes, has only three percent of the worldâs oil reserves and cannot drill its way out of an energy crisis.  
Regarding giveaways to the oil companies, Nelson in his radio address was referring to a $1.5-billion chunk of pork slipped into last yearâs energy bill.  The lionâs share of the money would go to a private consortium of oil companies likely based in Sugar Land, Texas, home base of former House Majority Leader Tom Delay.  Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, filed legislation ( S. 2251 ) two months ago to repeal the controversial appropriation. 

###


























