





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: White House pushing plan to give Florida waters to Louisiana and oil companies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






White House pushing plan to give Florida waters to Louisiana and oil companies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
July 22, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The White House as early as today is moving to junk the ban on oil drilling off Florida and give control of the state's waters to Louisiana - so drilling rigs can go up in vast new areas of the Gulf of Mexico, according to U.S. Senator Bill Nelson.    
The White House plan - according to an e-mail obtained by Nelson's office - has been given to Republican leaders in Congress who are part of a House-Senate conference committee deciding what goes in the final energy bill. In fact, members of the committee are meeting here today and may start considering the plan to open Florida's waters up for new drilling leases to oil companies.    
The plan closely mirrors one put forward by Louisiana Senator Mary Landrieu last month to redraw state boundaries in the Gulf of Mexico and give her oil-friendly state control over much of the waters off Florida in the so-called Eastern Planning Area of the Gulf. That plan was beaten by Nelson as a result of his winning filibuster on the Senate floor, which ended with a pledge from Senate leadership not to allow drilling off Florida's coast.    
But now the administration is working behind the scenes to scuttle the pledge. According to the e-mail from an executive-branch official detailing what the president wants in the final energy bill, the White House proposal says the Interior Department secretary should redraw state sea boundaries; and, then put much of the Gulf up for lease to the oil industry.    
The July 20 e-mail says the plan even has been run through White House budget officials who project the oil companies will get 2 billion barrels of new oil reserves - which is the equivalent of only about three months of U.S. consumption.    
"Interior [ Department ] and OMB [ the Office of Management and Budget ] have signed off on this language," said the administration's e-mail to presidential assistants and staff of Republican Senator Pete Domenici, a conference panel leader. It was Domenici who vowed on the Senate floor to honor the ban against drilling.     
"As I've stated repeatedly - the administration is hell-bent on drilling off Florida," said Nelson, who is in New Orleans today testifying before the Base Realignment and Closure Commission against any ideas that would adversely impact military installations in Florida.     
Nelson immediately notified Domenici and other members of the House-Senate conference panel that if they renege on a pledge to honor an existing moratorium on oil drilling in the Eastern Gulf he'll use every available means to block passage of the final energy bill. The conference panel is aiming to finish the bill by next Tuesday. 

###


























