





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: President's pick for consumer czar out due to opposition from Nelson, others                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






President's pick for consumer czar out due to opposition from Nelson, others                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
May 23, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - President Bush's pick to be the nation's consumer czar, Michael Baroody, withdrew his name from consideration today just one day before his Senate Commerce Committee hearing.    
Baroody's withdrawal comes two days after his meeting with U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, who led growing opposition to the nominee for the top post at the Consumer Product Safety Commission on grounds that he had a history of putting industry interests before those of consumers.  Baroody was the head lobbyist for a major manufacturing association, often advocating corporate interests.    
"Mr. Baroody is a consummate professional, but his ties to the industries he would have had to regulate were just too strong, creating at least the appearance of a conflict of interest," said Nelson, a member of the Commerce Committee. "We hope the White House won't try a recess appointment, but will work with members of the committee on a new nominee that doesn't have apparent conflicts of interest."    
Nelson was the first senator to place a hold on Baroody's nomination earlier this month.   The Florida Democrat was joined last week by Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) in requesting the president withdraw the nomination, citing concerns that Baroody was unfit for the job.  Presidential candidate Sen. Barack Obama publicly echoed the concerns of Nelson and Durbin. Opposition to the nominee also came from key consumer safety groups.    
Nelson met privately with Baroody on Monday, giving him an opportunity to explain a severance package he received from the manufacturing group that represents many companies that would come before the commission. Nelson also requested that before the Thursday Commerce hearing that Baroody produce copies of the severance document and any amendments made after his nomination.  Baroody said he would consider that request.      
The Associated Press reported today that the White House said it was reluctantly accepting the decision by Baroody.    


###


























