





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senator backs local residents in wanting protections on private property                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senator backs local residents in wanting protections on private property                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Media release
September 23, 2005
MIAMI â  There has been increasing concern lately from area residents about the government trying to take their property for resale to developers.  Some residents targeted in these so-called  âredevelopmentâ? cases have challenged them in court as unconstitutional.  
The policy of redevelopment came to the forefront this summer after a Supreme Court decision allowed private property to be taken for a private company.  That case made it easier for the government to take someoneâs home for developers - a scenario that has many people here worried.  
âClarification of statutory and constitutional provisions would go a long way toward restoring peoplesâ private property rights,â? says Amy Brigham Boulris, a Miami lawyer who specializes in defense of private property rights, including eminent domain cases.  Her firm represents residents not only in South Florida, but elsewhere around the state, who are fighting government efforts to take private property for private subsequent development.  
And Monday, a heavy-hitter will jump in on their side.  The details of some of these cases will be heard by U.S. Senator Bill Nelson, whoâs pushing hard for passage of federal legislation as early as this coming week to curb abuses by government in eminent domain cases.  
âThereâs good reason to fear the government can now take away peopleâs homes without good cause,â? said Nelson, in advance his meeting set for here Monday with Boulris and others.  âCases, like some of these in Florida, call for strong federal legislation to protect personal property rights.â?  
Nelson, a Democrat, plans to push property protection legislation with Senate colleague John Cornyn, a Republican from Texas, as early as next week.  It will deny federal funds to governments that take private property for economic development.  The legislation could be an amendment to a broader transportation bill, due up after the Senate votes next week on John Roberts as the next chief justice. 

###


























