





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Complaints over drug seizures continue to mount                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Complaints over drug seizures continue to mount                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Media release
February 24, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â In just the past few days, the complaints have mounted.    
For much of the week, staffers of U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson have fielded scores of calls mostly from furious seniors in Florida who say the cheaper prescription drugs they bought from Canada mysteriously vanished in shipment â leaving some without badly needed or life-sustaining medications.    
An elderly woman from Boynton Beach, north of Fort Lauderdale, called to say her needed medicine stopped arriving.  Although she and her husband are eligible for the governmentâs new Medicare drug plan, they havenât enrolled yet.  Theyâre still trying to determine which option is right for them â and, theyâre confused, she said.  Meantime, they need medicine they can afford â and, ordering cheaper drugs from Canada deemed safe in the U.S. has been the answer.    
In Spring Hill, about 40 miles north of Tampa, seniors buying their medications at bargain prices from Canada through a local business reported about 100 seizures in just the past month, compared to 20 seizures in all of the past three years.  Some of the customers question the timing, with the increases coming just as the administration started its new Medicare prescription drug plan.  (See Hernando Today article, dated Feb. 23, below.)     
And the same thing is happening around the country.  (See Los Angeles Times article, dated Feb, 16, below.)    
For Nelson, the disappearance of the lower-price Canadian prescriptions seems strange as well.  "Complaints like these jumped dramatically over the past week, indicating the federal government has organized a large crackdown on cheaper Canadian prescription drugs,â? Nelson charged today.    
Although the importation of most kinds of drugs is generally illegal, Nelson previously won assurances from the Food and Drug Administration that it would allow individual Americans to purchase up to a 90-day personal supply of prescription medications from Canada.  (See attached letter, dated May 12, 2004.)     
But the stepped-up seizures by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, under the Department of Homeland Security, indicate that this hand-shake policy has changed.  (See Palm Beach Post article, dated Feb. 11, below.)  And as many consumers suspect there could be a coordinated effort by the administration timed to push seniors into the new Medicare drug program - the presidentâs alternative to cheaper Canadian prescriptions.      
To date, the presidentâs plan, called Medicare Part D, has been marred by wide-spread criticism and confusion.  (See AP article, dated Jan. 23, below.)  And as a result, many seniors have chosen to continue ordering their lower-priced medications from Canadian pharmacies.  In many cases, this remains a more affordable option than the Medicare drug plan.    
Nelson now is rounding up all the complaints heâs been receiving about seizures â nearly 100 in just the past few days â and sending them directly to the inspector general at Homeland Security as part of a push for a full-blown investigation.  (See attached letter, dated Feb. 16, 2006.)  The inspector general there initially indicated through back channels he may push the matter off on officials at Customs.  But still, Nelson wants to know whether there is any evidence â e-mails or other correspondence, for instance - linking the seizures to the start of the Medicare drug plan.    
He also wants any government-intercepted personal medications obtained with lawful prescriptions to be returned to consumers immediately. 

###


























