





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Stories of ID-theft victims to help shape new regulation of information brokers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Stories of ID-theft victims to help shape new regulation of information brokers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
February 24, 2005
ORLANDO - "I'm writing to you as a last resort - because no matter where I turn I cannot get a situation that has been going on for seven years resolved." That's what Irene Shann told U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson in a recent letter about the loss of her good name and credit, after she became the victim of identity theft. Shann is a widow in her mid-60s. A half-dozen other area residents - like Shann, the victims of ID-theft - will be meeting with Nelson Friday morning in Orlando.    
The senator is in Florida this week, as he is readying legislation designed to usher in new regulation of the nation's commercial information brokers. A major break-in last week and the loss of up to a half-million consumer files at one such broker, ChoicePoint, has spurred Nelson and others in Congress to call for quick oversight of previously unfettered data brokers.    
It's been disclosed that ChoicePoint information on more than 10,000 Floridians may have fallen into the hands of identity thieves, and that letters soon will be sent to possible victims. It's the kind of information that can be used to run up credit card purchases or drain bank accounts.    
Meantime, Nelson, a long-time privacy advocate, also intends to join with U.S. Rep. John Conyers, a Michigan Democrat, in asking the investigative arm of Congress to examine government agencies and their use of data from commercial information brokers. There is some concern that terrorists could gain access to individuals' personal information from commercial databases. Additionally, the Senate judiciary committee will hold hearings on identity theft and information brokers following the revelation that information on hundreds of thousands of people was accessed by criminals.    
In Orlando Friday, Nelson will listen to Florida consumers whose cases illustrate the devastating effects of identity theft. For example, he'll meet with a woman who was unable to get a government loan to fix her hurricane-damaged home because her late husband's ID was stolen and her credit ruined. 

###


























