





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson to vote no because of Judge Alitoâs record                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson to vote no because of Judge Alitoâs record                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Media release
January 24, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C.  --  U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida today announced he would vote no on Judge Samuel Alito Jr.âs confirmation to the Supreme Court.    
Alito, President Bushâs nominee to succeed retiring Justice Sandra Day OâConnor, won a narrow 10-8 approval from the Senate Judiciary Committee earlier in the day.  The full Senate is expected to vote later this week or early next week.    
Nelson, who withheld an announcement until the judiciary panel had finished its hearings on Alito, disclosed his intention to vote no shortly after the committeeâs final meeting.  Said Nelson:    
âI have voted for almost all of President Bushâs judicial nominees; and, I greeted Judge Alitoâs nomination with an open mind.  But his many legal writings, judicial opinions and evasive answers both at his hearing and in our private meeting, convinced me he would tilt the scales of justice in favor of big government over the average person.    
âBecause he is not the centrist voice I believe this nation needs to replace the retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who fiercely defended the rights and liberties of all Americans, Iâm going to vote no on his confirmation.â?    
All told, during five-plus years in the Senate, Nelson has voted for 215, or 96 percent, of the presidentâs 225 judicial picks, including Miguel Estrada and Chief Justice John Roberts. 

###


























