





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Long-delayed water bill vital to Everglades restoration passes Senate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Long-delayed water bill vital to Everglades restoration passes Senate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
September 24, 2007
The U.S. Senate today passed the final version of the water bill approving funds for nearly $1.8 billion in projects to restore the Everglades. This legislation has been stalled since 2002, meaning little to no money has been approved for water projects since the last water bill in 2000. Both of Floridas U.S. Sens. Bill Nelson and Mel Martinez have championed the legislation, calling on colleagues to support passage of the bill.  Having both House and Senate approval, the water resources development act now moves to the presidents desk for signature. But, President Bush has threatened to veto the water bill, forcing the Senate and House of Representatives to each come up with 2/3 of its members to override the veto. Both Nelson and Martinez have vowed to work to overturn a veto.  This long-awaited water bill is good news for the Glades. These projects are vital to restoring the River of Grass, said Nelson. The presidents expected veto will only delay the restoration of this global treasure and Im committed to doing everything I can to overturn it.  No single bill Congress approves will have as much positive impact on Floridas environment than this, said Martinez. This bill is essential to the vitality of Floridas ecosystem and the management of water quality issues. On Everglades restoration, this bill brings the federal government back to the table as an equal partner.  The following are projects that were approved in the water resources development act passed today by the Senate.  Everglades  Indian River Lagoon, $1.365 billion Picayune Strand, $375.33 million Site 1 Impoundment $80.84 million   Ports  Port Sutton - $12.9 million  Port of Tampa, Big Bend Channel - language  Port of Tampa, Cut B - authorizes construction of passing lanes Port of Miami -$125 million Canaveral Harbor - authorization to construct a sand trap Tampa Harbor, Sparkman Channel and Davis Island - authorizes Federal maintenance of waterway  Beaches  Gasparilla and Estero Island - language Lido Key - $80 million authorization Brevard County - extends shore protection 7.6 miles Broward County - mitigation credit   Environmental Infrastructure  Lake Region Water Treatment Plant, Palm Beach County - $7.50 million Miami Dade County - $6.25 million for water reuse supply and a pipeline Hillsborough County - $6.25 million for water supply and infrastructure enhancement  Studies  Herbert Hoover Dike: Directs the Secretary of the Army to complete a HHD Rehabilitation Report within 120 days after enactment and authorizes $1.5 million to complete this.  

###


























