





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Lawmaker urges passage of bill aimed at preventing child back-over deaths                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Lawmaker urges passage of bill aimed at preventing child back-over deaths                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
April 25, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Just this weekend, two more children were needlessly killed in Florida when accidentally struck by the family car, bringing the total number of back-over deaths in the country to 11 in the month of April, alone.     

Sen. Bill Nelson took to the Senate floor today in an appeal to his colleagues to pass a bill he's cosponsored that could help prevent such tragedies.  Experts say the Kids and Cars Act would reduce the number of deaths and injuries by alerting drivers to the presence of a small child, or any object, behind a car.    
"This month alone, there have been eleven children backed over and killed," Nelson told senators.  "These injuries and deaths continue to occur, even though we have the technology to prevent many of them. But we need legislation to put this technology to use."      

The legislation would not only provide drivers with a means of detecting a child behind a car, it would also ensure power windows reverse direction to prevent a child from being trapped and provide for a car's service brake to engage to prevent roll-aways.   

###


























