





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: U.S. senators from storm-battered states urge special commission to fix property insurance marketplace                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






U.S. senators from storm-battered states urge special commission to fix property insurance marketplace                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Media release
May 25, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. - In a move to curb skyrocketing homeownersâ insurance rates and overcome a congressional unwillingness to act, two senators from storm-ravaged states are filing legislation to create an emergency commission to find ways to shore up an insurance marketplace badly shaken by Hurricane Katrina and numerous other major storms over the past few years.  
âAt huge costs to all American taxpayers, the federal government has provided, and will continue to provide, billions of dollars and resources to help pay for catastrophic losses,â? said U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, of Florida.Â  âMeantime, Congress has talked about this issue time and again â and, nothing much has gotten accomplished.  
âItâs time for a comprehensive approach to making homeownersâ insurance available and affordable in all 50 states,â? said Nelson, who was joined in cosponsoring the bill by Louisianaâs Sen. Mary Landrieu.   
Said Landrieu: âLouisiana homeowners weathered one hurricane already, and in many cases, two.Â  Their houses are battered but they are rebuilding.Â  But now it is as if our homeowners have been hit by another disaster â one of red ink.Â  With the 2006 hurricane season upon us, these insurance issues are going to come up again.Â  We can rebuild levees and use the lessons of Katrina and Rita to better prepare for these storms, but finding a solution to this insurance issue is much harder.â?  
The two senatorsâ legislation would create a commission â made up of a cross-section of the best experts in the nation â to quickly recommend to Congress the best approach to addressing catastrophic risk insurance.Â  Among other things, the commission would be required to analyze three specific proposals filed by Nelson and aimed at creating a national disaster fund and tax-free home-repair accounts for consumers.  
âThis legislation will not produce major changes in the insurance industry overnight, but it will begin to identify the best solutions to ensure that home and business owners will have insurance coverage they need to rebuild after catastrophic natural disasters,â? said Landrieu.  
The senators are following a successful model used by Nelson when he was Floridaâs state treasurer and insurance commissioner in the 1990s.Â  In the mid-1990s, not long after Hurricane Andrew devastated South Florida, Nelson created a non-partisan commission led by the stateâs university presidents.Â  He charged that commission with recommending state legislative reforms to rebuild Floridaâs staggering insurance market.Â  Within months, the commission broke through political inertia to recommend reforms that ultimately became state law.  
The homeownersâ insurance market was in recovery until eight hurricanes slammed into Florida over the past two years, sending premiums soaring and prompting insurers to dump policyholders.Â  At the same time, Katrina brought unprecedented destruction and losses to more than 8,000 miles of the Gulf coast.  
The national commission, which would be created under the Nelson-Landrieu bill, would have 90 days to report to Congress on ways to provide homeowners and businesses with affordable property insurance.Â  âDoing nothing is no longer an option,â? Nelson said. 

###


























