





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Small business to recognize senator                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Small business to recognize senator                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Media release
April 26, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â Tonight a nonprofit organization assisting small business in Florida is awarding its top annual honor to U.S. Senator Bill Nelson.  
The Small Business Development Center, a partnership between state economic and education officials, said itâs recognizing Nelson for his âvoice and votesâ? in support of small business loans and health insurance programs, among other issues.  
Past winners of the economic development centerâs Dividend$ Award include former Senator Bob Graham, a Democrat, and Rep. Bill Young, a Republican.  The center cited several bills aimed at helping small business that have drawn Nelsonâs support.  
Among them is a proposed health-care insurance program ( S. 2510 ), which the group called âa common sense approach to affordable health insurance for the small business.â?  Another measure cited by the group ( S. 420 ) would eliminate the estate tax on family-owned farms, nurseries and other small businesses.  Nelson is a chief sponsor of the bill, and the only Democrat in the Senate backing it.  
The center also cited Nelson for helping small business after the devastating hurricanes that hit Florida the last two years.  Nelson helped fund $13 billion in recovery money for Florida and $400 million for farmers and ranchers.  âYour legislative sponsorship, advocacy support and votes are truly significant,â? Jerry Cartwright, the centerâs state director, said in a recent letter to Nelson announcing his selection for the award. 

###


























