





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Bill would restore full benefits to military spouses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Bill would restore full benefits to military spouses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
January 26, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) today filed a bill to allow spouses of service members killed in action, along with spouses of 100-percent disabled military retirees, to collect full benefits. Specifically, the bill would let these surviving family members collect annuity premiums at the same time they receive compensation from the Veterans Administration.     
Under current law, Defense Department annuity payments for such widows and widowers are reduced by the amount of the VA compensation they receive. Nelson's legislation stops this offset, allowing surviving spouses or children to receive both. It also makes effective immediately plans to allow 70-year-old military retirees who have paid Survivor Benefit Plan premiums for at least 30 years to stop paying premiums and retain their coverage.    
At a public coffee in Washington on Wednesday attended by several affected spouses, Nelson said, "At a time when we're asking for great sacrifices from the volunteer service members who protect and defend this nation, it's more important than ever to uphold the commitments we've made to them."    
The bill was co-sponsored by U.S. Sens. John Corzine (D-N.J.), Richard Durbin (D-Ill.) and Mark Dayton (D-Minn.). Nelson introduced a similar measure in the last Congress, but it died in committee. This year, however, a key coalition of military and veterans groups has named the bill a top legislative priority. 

###


























