





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Florida Senators avert drilling showdown - for now, prepare for battle in June                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Florida Senators avert drilling showdown - for now, prepare for battle in June                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
May 26, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - A key Senate panel Thursday declined to act on a measure that would allow drilling rigs 20 miles off Florida, temporarily averting a showdown between the Bush administration and the state's two senators, Democrat Bill Nelson and Republican Mel Martinez.    
Still, the measure in question is expected to come before the full Senate for a vote in the second or third week of June when senators are expected to consider a much broader energy bill. The measure, an amendment by Louisiana Sen. Mary Landrieu, would get rid of a moratorium on new drilling in the eastern Gulf of Mexico and open up vast areas for exploration much closer to Florida.    
Nelson and Martinez on Thursday pledged to fight any effort that would pose an environmental threat to their state's sugar-sand beaches and $50-billion tourism industry. "The stakes are high," said Nelson, after Landrieu withdrew her proposal without a vote by the Senate's Energy panel.    
Martinez' office issued a statement in support of continuing the existing prohibition on new drilling closer to Florida. "Any weakening of the protections currently in place off Florida's coasts is unacceptable, " Martinez said.    
Last month, Nelson met with Interior Secretary Gale Norton, who oversees leases for new drilling sites. At that meeting, Nelson became convinced the Bush administration intends to push for new drilling, at least for natural gas, much closer to Florida.    
In response, Nelson has written Norton, noting that such plans threaten the state's tourism-based economy as well as military training in the eastern Gulf of Mexico; and, that new drilling runs contrary to the feelings of most Floridians, including Gov. Jeb Bush.    
Meantime, Nelson is continuing to block the naming of a new deputy for Norton because the nominee also refuses to support an existing ban on drilling in 3.9 million acres of the eastern Gulf. 

###


























