





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Congress poised to block Eglin downsizing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Congress poised to block Eglin downsizing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Media release
September 26, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Air Force wonât be able to downsize operations at Eglin under a just-approved provision in a broader defense spending bill, according to U.S. Senator Bill Nelson.  
Specifically, the provision prohibits the Air Force from spending any money during the coming 2007 fiscal year for âdivesting or movingâ? from Eglin any test and evaluation operations currently housed at the Panhandle base.  
The provision was approved last night by key lawmakers serving on a House-Senate conference panel thatâs been meeting in private to hammer out a final defense bill.  The spending bill now is headed for the mere formality of final approval by the House and Senate likely this week, according to Nelson.  
Nelson and other lawmakers had pushed for language to protect Eglin in the wake of a July announcement by the Air Force that it was considering downsizing the 46th Test Wing and cutting or moving up to 3,400 civilian and military jobs.  
Nelson argued the Air Force was acting without adequate study of the impact and need for downsizing â a position shared by some Pentagon brass.  âIâm convinced downsizing Eglin would have damaged our military readiness,â? Nelson said today. 

###


























