





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Hispanic leaders give Florida Senator top rating                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Hispanic leaders give Florida Senator top rating                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
July 27, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - An organization of the nation's leading Hispanic groups has given U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson a perfect score for his votes and support on issues of major importance to the Latino community.    
The National Hispanic Leadership Agenda gave Nelson, Florida's senior senator, a 100-percent rating in its latest scorecard of all 100 senators and 435 members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Former Sen. Bob Graham received an 80 percent. The Hispanic leadership group - which includes the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the National Puerto Rican Coalition and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund - issued it ratings on members of Congress for the 108th session in 2003-2004.    
"NHLA seeks a consensus among Hispanic leaders to help create policy that promotes public awareness of the major issues facing Latinos," says Ronald Blackburn-Moreno, the chairman of the NHLA, which rated lawmakers this year for their support on issues ranging from education to health to jobs to civil rights. "The scorecard identifies key votes for a broad range of issues and it documents how members of Congress acted on them."    
NHLA has a 40-member board of directors made up of the chief officers of 35 national Hispanic civil rights and public policy organizations, elected officials, corporate executives and prominent Hispanic Americans. NHLA coalition members represent the diversity of the Latino community - Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans, Cubans, and other Hispanic Americans.    
Visit www.aspira.org for the full report. 

###


























