





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Censorship for profit?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Censorship for profit?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
April 28, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - If a U.S. senator from Pennsylvania gets his way, the Web site most used by Floridians for weather warnings and other information during last year's four hurricanes might go dark.    
The National Weather Service's site is in danger, along with other weather service functions, under a bill introduced by Sen. Rick Santorum, a Pennsylvania Republican. His bill would bar the weather service from providing a service "that is or could be provided by the private sector."    

Even worse, the wording of the bill seems vague enough that it would invite other companies to try to shut down different government Web sites, perhaps one that contains senators' voting records, said U.S. Senator Bill Nelson, who has criticized the bill in a letter to President Bush.    

The bill is aimed at helping private weather companies in Pennsylvania, including one called AccuWeather, according to Santorum's office. But Nelson said such stringent measures aren't needed. "You wouldn't shut down the post office because FedEx offers a competing product," Nelson said.    

The bill also could be read as forbidding the weather service from distributing data to the Federal Aviation Administration used by pilots, a spokesman for the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, Chris Dancy, has told the Associated Press.    

How popular and helpful was the weather service's site during four hurricanes in Florida last year? Its site received nine-billion hits compared to the previous record for a government site of nearly six-billion hits, which were on NASA sites for the rover landing on Mars.    

And some Floridians are upset over the prospect of losing weather service information. "This is sensorship [ sic ] for profit," said Stephen Brooker, a Brevard County, Florida resident who recently e-mailed Nelson. "This data belongs to the general public and to think a private group now wants to charge me for it is down-right irritating - and, I mean charge by sticking in pop-ups, viruses, commercials, etc." 

###


























