





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate passes Nelson bill to honor civil rights advocate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate passes Nelson bill to honor civil rights advocate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Media release
June 28, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C.  â  Late Tuesday, the Senate unanimously approved a bill introduced by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson to rename the federal courthouse in Jacksonville after the late Judge John Milton Bryan Simpson.  Simpsonâs judicial decisions helped desegregate area schools, city pools, golf courses and the city zoo.  
âThis will properly honor his great legacy,â? Nelson said.    
The U.S. House of Representatives approved an identical bill last year, sponsored by Rep. Corrine Brown.  The measure now awaits President Bushâs signature.  
Simpson was key to the struggle for civil rights and was instrumental in desegregating facilities in Jacksonville, Orlando and Daytona Beach.  The Rev. Martin Luther King once appeared before him and won the reversal of a ban on nighttime civil rights marching in St. Augustine.  
Simpson went into private law practice in Jacksonville in 1926, was an assistant state attorney from 1933 to 1939 and a Duval County judge from 1939 to 1943.  He left the bench to become a first lieutenant in the Army until the end of World War II in 1945.  After returning to Jacksonville, he served as a circuit judge until 1950, when President Truman nominated him to be a U.S. district judge.  Twelve years later, President Johnson nominated him to serve on the U.S. District Court of Appeals.  
Simpson was born May 30, 1903, in Kissimmee, Florida.  He died Aug. 22, 1987. 

###


























