





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: FEMA changes policy, will cover generators bought before Dennis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






FEMA changes policy, will cover generators bought before Dennis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
July 28, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has declared that Panhandle residents are eligible for disaster assistance to cover costs incurred in preparation for Hurricane Dennis.    
Before now, the agency had denied requests for reimbursement from Floridians who had purchased items - like generators - in advance of the storm, which made landfall in Navarre Beach, Florida, on July 10.     
In the wake of previous disasters, FEMA has covered such expenses. Just last year, for instance, it paid for equipment bought between one and three days before Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne. But for Dennis, the agency was denying reimbursement claims if they were even a day before the storm.    
Upon hearing of the policy reversal, Nelson said today, "FEMA sent the right message to panhandle residents and all Americans who live in storm-prone areas. They're going to continue helping pay for costs of emergency preparedness - one key to saving lives and protecting property when hurricanes strike."     
It was on July 21 that Nelson sent a letter urging FEMA's top official, Michael Brown, to change the Hurricane Dennis reimbursement policy. In it he said, "Withholding repayment for hurricane-preparation expenses not only increases hardship on North Floridians who have weathered two major storms in less than one year. It also undercuts public health and safety efforts."     
He wrote the letter because he received almost three-dozen complaints from North Floridians who had been denied FEMA assistance for generators they purchased before the storm. 

###


























