





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Curbs on testing pesticides on babies survive, despite White House, chemical industry pressure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Curbs on testing pesticides on babies survive, despite White House, chemical industry pressure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
July 28, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congress late yesterday put a stop to an end-around effort by the White House and chemical industry to allow testing of toxic pesticides on people, specifically babies in Jacksonville, Florida.     
U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Bill Nelson were able last month to pass a ban on such testing, during debate on a broad spending bill that funded the federal Environmental Protection Agency and other government offices. But the bill had to go to a House-Senate appropriations conference committee, where the White House began quietly lobbying against the Boxer-Nelson provision.    
Nelson helped expose the lobbying efforts Tuesday when he released a letter from the administration to the conferees asking them to reject the Boxer-Nelson moratorium on testing pesticides on humans. Nelson initially proposed the moratorium because the EPA was planning to launch the pesticide study, partially funded by the chemical industry, in Jacksonville.    
The study encouraged parents to sign up and allow collection of data on babies exposed to pesticides; and, in exchange, parents were offered small cash payments, a T-shirt and a video camera. In April, Nelson blocked the confirmation of the new EPA head until the nominee, Stephen L. Johnson, agreed to cancel the study. But he and Boxer filed their legislation to ban the testing after Johnson was caught on videotape defending the study in a talk to EPA employees.    
Both Boxer and Nelson declared victory Thursday. Though the conferees approved only a six-month ban, they did decide to prohibit the use of pregnant women, infants or children as subjects. "The government should be ashamed for taking money from the chemical industry to troll around low-income communities looking for cash-strapped people to participate in pesticide experiments," Nelson said. 

###


























