





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Conference panel curbs access to lower-cost prescriptions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Conference panel curbs access to lower-cost prescriptions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
But door opened to expanding drug reimportation in the future, Nelson says
September 28, 2006
Media release  
WASHINGTON, D.C. â A key provision pushed by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson that would have expanded seniorsâ access to cheaper prescription drugs has been significantly weakened by House-Senate negotiators.    
The language agreed to by a House-Senate conference committee today will allow Americans to buy and carry home Canadian prescription drugs for personal use, but continue to prohibit consumers from ordering their prescriptions from Canada by mail.  
âAlthough the provision originally would have given all Americans greater access to safe and affordable prescription drugs, the diluted version that emerged from conference committee will help few Americans,â? Nelson said.    
The original provision â offered by Nelson and Sen. David Vitter, a Republican from Louisiana â would have brought an end to the U.S. Customs and Border Protectionâs controversial practice of confiscating prescription drugs imported from Canada for personal use.  The legislation received overwhelming bipartisan support in the Senate when it was added as an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill in July.    
Despite being watered-down in conference committee, Nelson said this provision represents a small step in the right direction.  âThis could open the door to expanding access to reimportation,â? he said.  âWe made some progress this year, and Iâll keep pushing this issue until we get it done.â?  
The House and Senate are expected to approve the Homeland Security Appropriations bill soon.  After emerging from conference committee, final passage by the two chambers is normally considered a formality.    
Here is the proposal passed by Nelson, followed by the Senate Appropriations Committeeâs description of the language approved by the conferees:  
Vitter-Nelson:  None of the funds made available in this Act for United States Customs and Border Protection may be used to prevent an individual not in the business of importing a prescription drug (within the meaning of section 801(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act) from importing a prescription drug from Canada that complies with the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.  
Conferees:  The conference includes a compromise provision to authorize the importation of FDA-approved prescription drugs from Canada. This provision ensures individuals import safe and effective medicine by requiring prescription drugs be brought into the U.S. by the individual. 

###


























