





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson seeks major-league support for new plan to curb steroid use by high school athletes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson seeks major-league support for new plan to curb steroid use by high school athletes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Media release
September 28, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C.  â  Florida Senator Bill Nelson wants to crackdown on steroid use among high school athletes.  
At a hearing Wednesday morning in the nationâs Capitol on banning steroids in major league sports, Nelson revealed that he plans to introduce legislation that would give federal grants to states that test high school athletes for illegal steroids.   
Said Nelson, âSteroid use more than doubled among high school students from 1991 to 2003.  This is unacceptable, and a health risk to our youth.â?   Senator Nelsonâs plan calls for giving money incentives to states that develop testing programs to combat steroid use by high school athletes.  Last year, Polk County became the first school district in Florida to establish random testing for steroids among student athletes.  And the Florida state House passed a measure making such testing statewide, though it stalled as time ran out in the Senate.  Meantime, a number of other states are considering such programs.  
Nelson told the heads of all the major sports leagues and their union representatives at Wednesdayâs Senate Commerce Committee that steroid use begins long before athletes reach the professional level.    
Nelson said he expects the major league sports to support his proposal, which he intends to introduce after the Senate finishes with the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Roberts and relief packages for the victims of the recent hurricanes. 

###


























