





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Guard receives boost to emergency communications system                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Guard receives boost to emergency communications system                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Media release
September 28, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â The Florida National Guard will be better prepared for future hurricane seasons with the help of $1.35 million in federal funds, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson said Thursday.  Congress allocated the money as part of a defense spending bill approved by House and Senate leaders this week.    
As part of a longer-term effort by Nelson and other members of the Florida congressional delegation to better equip the stateâs Guard units, the funds will allow the Florida National Guard to establish a modern communications system that will help the Guard interact with other emergency workers.  The money will help provide access to satellite communications, hand-held radios and backup power generation.    
âThe Florida National Guard is our first line of defense during a disaster,â? Nelson said.  âThis will help ensure that the people of Florida get the help they need as quickly as possible.â?      
Added Major General Douglas Burnett, the Adjutant General of the Florida National Guard:  "This funding will go a long way in ensuring our Guardsmen have the necessary facilities to train for both our wartime mission and our State mission.  The equipment fills gaps created by the Global War on Terrorism.  Senator Nelson has been a strong voice in the Senate for our Soldiers, and the equipment they need to carry out the mission.  Senator Nelson has never been caught âOff Guard.ââ? 

###


























