





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson critical of passage of Pombo bill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson critical of passage of Pombo bill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Media release
June 29, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C.  --  U.S. Senator Bill Nelson criticized todayâs House passage of legislation that would kill a nationwide ban on coastal drilling enacted in response to a 1969 oil and gas spill that blackened 35 miles of Californiaâs coast.  
Instead of more drilling for limited resources, the country needs an accelerated program for alternative fuels and Congress needs to investigate the oil companiesâ unseemly profits, Nelson said.  He reiterated his threat to block the measure by Rep. Richard Pombo, if it comes up in the Senate.  
Nelson also noted that coastal states, including Florida, shouldnât be under the gun to compromise on a pro-oil industry plan by Pombo because a presidential ban on drilling doesnât expire until 2012.  Specifically, hereâs what Nelson had to say:  
â Today some House members said this legislation was about America competing in the world.  They donât understand.  America has only three percent of the worldâs reserves, and cannot drill its way out of this energy crisis.  We need alternative fuels - now.  
â There were other members who said more drilling would bring down high gas prices.  They donât understand.  The oil companies already are making record profits.  Letâs investigate these companies.  
â A few other members said this was for our economy.  They donât understand.  Drilling will destroy the unique environments that are the backbone of the tourism-driven economies of our nationâs first and fourth largest states. â? 

###


























