





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Transportation bill provides generously for Florida highways                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Transportation bill provides generously for Florida highways                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
July 29, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C.  -- A massive $286.4 billion five-year transportation spending  bill approved by the Senate Friday includes numerous projects important to  easing traffic congestion in Florida,  according to U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson.    
Among them are federal funds for  widening Interstate 75 from Fort Myers to Naples,  constructing the Interstate 4 crosstown connector in the Tampa  Bay area, improving I-4 alternate  routes in Orlando and widening of the bypass  around Tallahassee.    
All told, the transportation bill,  which was two years in the works, contains about $8.6 billion for  Florida-specific road projects over the next five years.  Nelson, along  with Sen. Mel Martinez, helped get much of that funding.  Nelson also  credited Senator Max Baucus, the ranking Democrat on a key Senate  transportation subcommittee, with supporting many of the Florida  lawmakers' requests.    
Because the transportation bill  also has passed the House, it now goes to the president who's expected to sign  it into law.  A listing of Florida  projects can be found at .  Click on .   Then, click on each of the four Title 1 - Table Inserts to find "FL" projects. 

###


























