





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson, Boxer block pesticide testing on babies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson, Boxer block pesticide testing on babies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
June 29, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Senate today put brakes on government-sponsored testing of pesticides on babies by approving an amendment to a spending bill that would bar such research for at least one year. The measure to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from conducting human pesticide experiments passed by a 60 to 37 margin.    
Sponsored by U.S. Sens. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) and Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), it came after the agency's new Administrator Stephen L. Johnson reportedly made remarks earlier this month in defense of a highly controversial government program, funded in part by the chemical industry, that tested pesticides on babies in Jacksonville, Florida. In April, Nelson and Boxer blocked Johnson's nomination until he agreed to cancel the study.    
The program in Jacksonville would give families cash payments, a T-shirt and a calendar in exchange for allowing their young children to be exposed to pesticides.     
"Children and families in Jacksonville - or any other community for that matter - shouldn't be guinea pigs for the pesticide industry," Nelson said after today's Senate vote.    
Last month, a similar amendment sponsored by U.S. Reps Hilda Solis (D-Calif.) and Tim Bishop (D-N.Y.), was approved in the House version of the Interior appropriations bill, which also sets funding levels for the EPA. 

###


























