





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Next step in lawsuit over disenfranchised Florida voters                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Next step in lawsuit over disenfranchised Florida voters                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
October 29, 2007
 ORLANDO, Fla.  Embattled Democratic Party Chairman Howard Dean may find himself in a Florida courtroom sooner rather than later over his decision not to count the votes in Floridas upcoming presidential primary.   U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson on Monday said he and his fellow plaintiffs are filing a new motion in a pending lawsuit against Dean seeking a quick decision by a federal judge that Dean and other political party bosses in Washington have violated the constitutional rights of millions of Florida voters. Monday is the deadline for Dean to respond to the lawsuit Nelson and others filed in Tallahassee earlier this month.   Nelson, along with U.S. Reps. Alcee Hastings, Corrine Brown and other Florida voters, sued Dean in federal court alleging he acted wrongly when the Democratic National Committee Dean chairs stripped Florida of all of its delegates to the 2008 convention  and, barred the presidential candidates from campaigning in Florida in advance of the Jan. 29 primary.   The DNC did all that because the Florida Legislature skipped the state ahead in the presidential primary schedule.   Chief Judge Robert Hinkle, of Tallahassee, has been assigned to rule on the issue, which looms large not only in the 2008 election but also may have an impact on presidential primary scheduling in the future.   The new motion comes hard on the heels of the just-concluded 3-day Florida Democratic Party convention in Orlando. It will be filed tomorrow or Wednesday and ask the judge for a quick ruling that Dean violated the constitutional rights of more than 4.2 million registered Florida voters. If the judge agrees, it means that primary votes in Florida must be counted toward selecting a presidential nominee.  For the right to vote to have any meaning, Floridas electoral system requires not only that the votes be counted on election day, but that election ballots result in votes that are going to be counted at the major parties conventions through the presence of delegates, a draft copy of the motion says. Thus, neither the Constitution nor Floridas election law will tolerate an expensive, publicly funded and operated Presidential primary that would be an exercise in futility.  Rather than a sham, our laws and democratic values demand that voting be meaningful, it says.  Meantime, as Reuters and other major news services reported Sunday, all the leading Democratic presidential candidates followed orders from the Democratic National Committee to boycott the state party convention at Walt Disney World resorts over the weekend, and public campaigning in the state in general, as punishment for Florida's move to hold its presidential primary early.  Instead of seeing the presidential hopefuls, Florida Democrats heard a keynote speech by Nelson Saturday morning. Our lawsuit is about the right of every American to have access to the ballot box, and to have their vote count  and, to have it count as intended, Nelson in his speech to the convention. We believe theres no reason that can excuse the denial of this fundamental right.  Nelson also said it was wrong for candidates to raise money in the state while refusing to publicly campaign at rallies or conventions. Equally troubling is that the average citizen in Florida no longer can see their candidates for president. The party bosses have barred them from campaigning here, except for private fundraisers,'' said Nelson. This is unacceptable. Paying for political participation is unacceptable.  It also isnt helping Democratic presidential candidates in the polls. A recent Quinnipiac University poll found 22 percent of independent voters said they are less likely to vote for a Democrat for president because of the DNC's refusal to seat Florida convention delegates.  Soon, the issue of counting ballots in the 2008 primary election may not be limited to Democrats. Thats because Republicans in Florida are facing a similar dispute.  National Republican Party leaders are considering striping half the states GOP delegates to its national convention because of the earlier primary date. But unlike Florida Democrats, who are fighting to have their votes count at the convention, Florida GOP Chairman Jim Greer told the Washington-based newspaper The Hill last week his party isnt considering a lawsuit.  Interestingly, the Fort Myers News-Press, in a recently published editorial, urged a charge be mounted on behalf Republican voters as Nelson and Hastings have done on behalf registered Democrats statewide.  Republican or Democrat, the national parties need to start being about the people and not the machine, the Florida newspaper said.    

###


























