





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senators press for aid to Cuban dissidents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senators press for aid to Cuban dissidents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Media Release
August 2, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C.  -  Amid the uncertainty brought by the illness of Cubaâs longtime dictator, Fidel Castro, U.S. Senator Bill Nelson and other lawmakers pressed Wednesday for an immediate flow of money to dissidents and democracy advocates on the island.  
âCubans who cherish freedom must know the freedom-loving people of America are with them, especially if the situation there becomes unstable,â? said Nelson, D-FL, who serves on the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed Services committees.  
Nelson announced he and Senator John Ensign, R-NV, filed legislation that could send up to $80 million directly to Cuban dissidents and others who would fight for a democratic government - even if Castro, who turns 80 on Aug. 13, recovers from intestinal surgery.  
Under current law, the federal government can only provide certain goods and services to Cuban groups and democracy activists, but not money.  Nelsonâs bill would change the law to allow for direct monetary assistance.  
The legislation is drawing quick bipartisan support, including cosponsorship by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, a Tennessee Republican, and, Senator Norm Coleman, a Minnesota Republican, who heads a key Senate panel on the Western Hemisphere.  
Specifically, the bill authorizes an unspecified amount to promote democracy through assistance to political prisoners and dissidents, workersâ rights organizations, independent libraries, journalists, doctors and economists; and, to help promote human rights reforms.  A separate measure Nelson intends to file creates the Cuba Fund for a Democratic Future and would provide the first $40 million for the two-year program.  
The president is expected to support the legislation, in part, because a similar idea for a special fund to boost opposition to Castro was offered by the presidential Commission for Assistance to a Free Cuba in a report issued just last month. 

###


























