





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Long-time citizen finally getting recognized - as an American                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Long-time citizen finally getting recognized - as an American                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
June 2, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Elva Marie Hagan will no longer be a woman without a country. Tomorrow, the 62-year-old daughter of a U.S. serviceman is set to be given United States citizenship, ending her long fight to attain that honor.     
Hagan, who lives in Okeechobee, Florida, was shocked in 1998 when she was denied government benefits because Uncle Sam didn't consider her a citizen - even though she's known no other home.    
The problem stemmed from the fact that her father spent time abroad during World War II, married Hagan's mother in Canada - where Marie was born - but apparently didn't file the proper paperwork on their daughter's citizenship when they came home when she was a toddler.    
As a result, Hagan grew up, married, had children and worked in the U.S. never realizing she wasn't officially an American citizen.    
She was denied citizenship for the past few years by federal immigration officials - until she contacted the Florida office of U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson. Nelson last month spoke directly with Michael Jackson, the deputy secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, and Jackson promised Nelson common sense would prevail.    
And it has. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration officials in Miami on Friday are scheduled to give Hagan her overdue citizenship certificate - meaning she now will be eligible for Social Security and other benefits she's earned. Hagan is scheduled to take her oath at 10:30 a.m. - and, her certificate will reflect citizenship since June 17, 1942, her birthday.    
"Wonderful - glad we could help," Nelson said Thursday, upon receiving word from immigration officials the problem is being fixed. Nelson also credited Jackson with promptly responding when he was told about the case. Immigration is an arm of Homeland Security. The decision ends a lengthy ordeal for Hagan, who turned to Nelson's office in early April. 

###


























