





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson, backing Glades projects, seeks veto override                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson, backing Glades projects, seeks veto override                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
November 2, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson on Friday began a campaign to overturn President Bushs veto of a water resources bill immediately after the president rejected the $23 billion measure and the almost $2 billion it includes for saving the Everglades.  With efforts to restore the River of Grass faltering under the Bush administration, Nelson took the forceful step of sending letters to both House and Senate leaders asking them for quick action on a vote to overturn Bushs veto of the long-delayed legislation authorizing needed water projects across the country.  The nation has waited far too long for the improvements in flood protection and environmental restoration contained in this bill, Nelson wrote in a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and copied to all senators. We cannot keep starving our nations most vital resource.  Nelsons effort and a statement issued about the same time by Reid demonstrate Congress may be ready, willing and able to override the veto.  Every day brings new evidence that President Bush is out of touch with the American people, and their priorities, Reid said in a prepared statement issued by his office. Although 81 senators voted to strengthen our environment and economy and protect our natural resources through the Water Resources Development Act, President Bush has again said no to these critical priorities.  Congress passed the water bill in September. The Senate passed it 81-12 and it swept through the House by 381-40. A vetoed bill can still become law if two-thirds of the members voting in each chamber agree to re-approve it and override the veto of the president.  In Florida, the water legislation would authorize: $1.4 billion for the Indian River Lagoon South, including projects for ecosystem restoration, flood damage reduction and protection of water quality; $375 million for environmental restoration of Picayune Strand to help increase freshwater flows to natural areas; and, $81 million for the environmental restoration in part of the Everglades. 

###


























