





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senators aim to curb increases in seniorsâ Medicare premiums                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senators aim to curb increases in seniorsâ Medicare premiums                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Media release
November 2, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. â  Senate Democrats today announced a new measure aimed at eliminating a double-digit premium increase seniors covered by Medicare will face in 2007.    
Medicare is the federal government-run program that insures some 40 million people age 65 and over.  But since 2000, its monthly premiums have almost doubled - rising from $45 to $88.    
The measure, by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson ( D-FL ), would cut by about a third the premium hike coming in 2007; and, would offset the cost by requiring drug companies to give steep discounts to Medicaid HMOs.  Nelsonâs proposal has drawn the support of the 35-million member AARP.    
The proposal - in the form of an amendment to the budget reconciliation bill - would save seniors covered by Medicare, Part B an estimated $1 billion, Nelson said.   âSeniors simply canât afford higher and higher premiums,â? he said.  âMany of them are on fixed incomes.â?    
Under the budget reconciliation bill, doctors would get a one-percent increase in Medicare reimbursements next year, instead of a 4.3 percent cut.  A fourth of that increase would be paid for by increasing the premium on seniors in 2007.  The amendment would exempt them from paying that hike.    
Nelson credited Democratic Senate colleagues, including Minority Leader Harry Reid and Sen. John Kerry, with center-piecing his Medicare amendment in the upcoming budget debates.    
âIt does us no good to fix old problems by creating new problems.  This [ budget ] bill does just that by helping doctors with higher reimbursement and passing the cost onto seniors,â? Kerry said.  âOur amendment fixes that policy by protecting seniors from rising costs.      
âNearly half of Americans over the age 50 who file for bankruptcy say they filed because of a medical reason,â? Kerry said.  âWhen we are passing billions in tax cuts for the wealthiest among us, we can do better for our seniors.  Itâs time for Washington to do right by America's seniors and adopt this common-sense solution.â?     
Nelson said he believes both Republicans and Democrats will support the measure when it comes up for a vote, possibly this week, considering groups such as the AARP strongly back it.  In fact, in a letter to Nelson today, a top AARP official wrote that âyour amendment is necessary to ensure health care does not become increasingly unaffordable.â? 

###


























