





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Florida's Senators call on President Bush to drop veto threat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Florida's Senators call on President Bush to drop veto threat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
October 2, 2007
Washington, D.C. - In a letter sent to President Bush today, Floridas two U.S. Senators urged the president to drop his threat to veto a long-sought water bill that would approve billions of dollars for Florida, including nearly $1.8 billion for Everglades restoration.  Sens. Bill Nelson and Mel Martinez set aside partisan interests in pressuring the administration to sign the Water Resources Development Act into law. Both Senators have vowed to vote to override a veto, in the event the president follows through with his threat.  A veto would only slow down the funding of these projects that are vital to Everglades restoration, said Nelson. We just cant afford to wait any longer.  This bill is critically important to Florida and our environment, said Martinez. I share the Presidents concerns about excessive spending, but the federal governments partnership in Everglades restoration is overdue and the costs are only increasing. We simply must see this bill enacted into law.  The Water Resources Development Act has been stymied since 2002, with both chambers passing different versions of the bill but not being able to reach a compromise. This year, the House passed its version of the water bill in March, while the Senate passed a version of the same bill in May. The legislation then went to a conference committee where differences between the two bills were hammered out. Both chambers have since approved the final bill. The presidents signature is the last step needed for it to be law. If the president vetoes the legislation, two-thirds of both chambers will be needed for a veto override.  

###


























