





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senators cripple terrorist broadcasts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senators cripple terrorist broadcasts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Media release
March 30, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C.  --  A bipartisan coalition of lawmakers, led by U.S. Sens. Bill Nelson and Gordon Smith, has succeeded in getting a Middle East television operation designated as a global terrorist entity.  
The move was aimed at further crippling the Hezbollah-owned TV stationâs ability to broadcast terrorist propaganda.  It will result in the U.S. freezing any assets of al Manarâs operations; and, it should hasten a decline in its multinational advertising.  
âAl Manar broadcasts poisonous propaganda for Hezbollah, a Lebanese-based and Iranian-backed terrorist group,â? Nelson said today. âThat makes the station just as culpable as the terrorists themselves.â?  
            Nelson, a Florida Democrat, and Smith, an Oregon Republican, succeeded last week in getting the U.S. Treasury Department to designate al Manarâs satellite television operation as a Global Terrorist Organization.  That came after the two lawmakers passed a measure in the Senate calling for the government to treat al Manar as a terrorist group.  
            Today, the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, a policy institute focusing on terrorism, lauded Nelson, Smith and others for an effort that the instituteâs president, Clifford May, said âgives the government the tools it needs to cripple al Manarâs internationally broadcast incitements to terrorism.â? 

###


























