





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate panel says feds must decide now on states' auto emissions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate panel says feds must decide now on states' auto emissions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
July 31, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C.  A measure that would force the nations environmental overseers to finally decide whether states can enact their own tougher rules on tailpipe emissions narrowly passed a key Senate panel today.   The 10-9 vote by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee sets the stage for what could be a contentious showdown between the administration and other opponents of tougher auto emission standards versus a bipartisan coalition of governors, environmentalists and members of Congress who are all seeking cleaner air measures.   The vote was for passage of a bill sponsored by Sens. Bill Nelson of Florida and Barbara Boxer of California that would cast aside the remaining federal roadblock to states abilities to set vehicle emission rules tougher than the federal governments.  When Congress is slow to get it done, then the states should be allowed to step up to the plate, Nelson said.  Nelson filed the legislation [ attached PDF ] to pave the way for Florida, and every other state, to set its own emission standards as long as theyre tougher than the limits in the federal Clean Air Act. More specifically, the bill would force federal environmental officials to act within one month on a long-delayed decision on Californias first-in-the-nation emission standards - which Florida Gov. Charlie Crist adopted at a recent two-day global warming summit in Miami.  While Crist wants Florida to emulate Californias stricter vehicle emission standards, the Sunshine State cannot do so until the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approves the Golden States plan for having tougher rules than the Clean Air Act. In other words, California is the precedent-setting case.  The Clean Air Act allows only California to develop its own emission standards, if they are more stringent than federal standards. But the act also lets any other state choose to adhere to the federal rules or copy Californias, once the EPA approves them. There are at least 14 other states besides Florida waiting on the EPA to approve Californias request. ( See list below. )   Californias request initially was filed in December 2005, but the EPA refused to take action citing a pending Supreme Court case on a related matter. The nations highest court decided that case in April of this year and found that the EPA does, in fact, have the authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions - clearing the way for the Bush administration to grant Californias request.  However, the EPA has made conflicting statements about when it plans to rule, initially postponing a decision until fall 2008, and then pledging to do so by the end of this year. The administrations reluctance to take up the issue has created further uncertainty on when a final ruling will be made, and has prompted California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to promise to sue the EPA, if it doesn't act soon.  Also, another administration agency, transportation, reportedly is working behind the scenes to lobby lawmakers in key states to oppose Californias efforts.   Nelsons legislation is intended to force the EPA to stop sitting idle on Californias request, so Florida and any other state can adopt Californias standards. U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA) is the sponsor of a companion proposal in the House. 

###


























