





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: U.S. senator calls for troops on both sides of Sudan border                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






U.S. senator calls for troops on both sides of Sudan border                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
May 31, 2007
ABECHE, CHAD - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson on Wednesday called for the immediate imposition of a no-fly zone over Sudan and the deployment of roughly 25,000 U.N. peacekeeping troops in both that country and Chad.  Nelsons call gives key congressional support to the U.N. secretary generals reported hope for a more robust force to halt not only the slaughter in Sudan, but also the violence now spilling over into Chad.The U.N. Security Council has authorized 22,500 troops only for Darfur, yet not one is on the ground even there.  A member of the Senate Foreign Relations, Armed Services and Intelligence committees, Nelsons call came after he completed a fact-finding trip to the Darfur region, where he visited a refugee camp in Chad housing some of the hundreds of thousands of people displaced from both Sudan and Chad.The senator recently was denied entrance to Sudan by that government, but went to see refugees in Chad.  This is a humanitarian crisis of gigantic proportions, after unbelievable violence, Nelson said during a satellite conference call with reporters.The only way to stop the slaughter is to have a U.N. force . . . and that will take the leadership of the United States.  In addition to the deployment of troops, Nelson said there also should be a no-fly zone over Sudan to stop the military there from attacking its citizens from the air, even painting planes and helicopters white to resemble international aid aircraft.  Sudan, and the Darfur region in particular, have been the scene of warfare since 2003 during which time at least 200,000 people have been killed and hundreds of thousands more have been displaced or have fled to refugee camps, like the one Nelson visited in Guereda, Chad.  Thats where the senator was joined Wednesday morning by the U.S. ambassador to Chad, Marc M. Wall, who told reporters that American diplomatic efforts aimed at ending the violence included working closely with members of the African Union to broker a peace deal.  When asked by a reporter Nelson agreed the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have stretched the U.S. military thin, but that America certainly could help enforce a no-fly zone and provide airlift and other support for a U.N. force.  Asked about President Bushs recent decision to extend and expand sanctions against Sudan, Nelson said, I dont think it goes far enough.We have got to go further than what the president proposed by imposing a no-fly zone over Sudan. 

###


























