





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson pressing to put Hezbollah on EU terror list                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson pressing to put Hezbollah on EU terror list                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Media Release
August 3, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â U.S. Senator Bill Nelson wants to further cripple Hezbollah by cutting off the terrorist groupâs access to Europeâs banks and financial institutions.    
Nelson, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is asking his 99 Senate colleagues to sign a letter seeking to get Hezbollah placed on the European Unionâs list of terrorist organizations.  So far, 70 have responded positively.     If Nelson and other lawmakers are successful, Hezbollah would be denied use of the EUâs financial system.    
More specifically, Nelson is asking senators to cosign a letter heâs written with Senator Gordon Smith, a Republican from Oregon, to EU High Representative Javier Solana, calling on the EU to place Hezbollah on its list of terrorist organizations.      
âHezbollah is a vicious terrorist organization that targets innocent civilians with every attack,â? Nelson said today.  âThe current conflict should convince everyone of that.â?    
To view Sen. Nelson's letters, please visit: http://www.billnelson.senate.gov/supporting/Hezbollahltrs.pdf 

###


























