





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate panel to probe dropping of Everglades from watch list                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate panel to probe dropping of Everglades from watch list                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
August 3, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The unexpected deletion of the Everglades from an international list of in-danger historical and environmental sites by a top Bush administration official has prompted U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson to hold a hearing into the matter, and to issue a call for removal of the Interior Department official.  Nelson said hell convene the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee he chairs for a hearing after Congress returns from its August recess, as the administration official in question admitted in a recent interview with the St. Petersburg Times that he deleted the Everglades despite U.S. experts recommendations to the contrary.  The United Nations World Heritage Committee, in a surprise move in late June, omitted Everglades National Park from its list of the worlds endangered sites, based on representations by Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Interior Todd Willens. According to the newspaper, Willens changed the last sentence of his delegations report to reflect that the U.S. wanted the Everglades removed from the U.N. committees list.  The U.N. should have been presented with the position of our agency experts, Nelson said in an Aug. 2 letter to Willens boss, Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne. This action is absolutely unacceptable and, I believe, warrants Willens removal.  As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on International Operations and Organizations, Democracy and Human Rights, I plan on holding an investigative hearing into the circumstances surrounding this over-reaching and inappropriate decision to downplay the Everglades, Nelson wrote.  Kempthorne, on the other hand, has issued a press release welcoming the Heritage Committees decision to remove the Everglades as a sign that the U.S. is making major progress toward restoring one of our nations and the worlds greatest natural treasures.  But Nelson noted in his letter that the list incident comes at a time when President Bush is threatening to veto new water legislation Congress has passed by a wide margin. The legislation gives the go ahead for river and lake cleanups in South Florida that are considered vital to restoring the Everglades.  The National Park Services report outlined specific goals to be met before the Everglades should have been removed from the in-danger list.  

###


























