





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Key privacy advocates seek to crack down on ID theft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Key privacy advocates seek to crack down on ID theft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Nelson and Markey launch legislation to prevent personal security                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
March 3, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Prompted by last week's debacle at one of the nation's largest information brokers, two outspoken privacy advocates in Congress today filed bills requiring new regulation of companies that profit from selling peoples' personal information.    
The companion measures, filed by U.S. Rep. Ed Markey and U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, would give the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) power to oversee previously unfettered information brokers the same way it governs credit bureaus that handle private financial information. Currently, unregulated data brokers are able to sell files containing Social Security numbers, credit reports and other personal data.    
"If we don't act now to safeguard our privacy, we could all become victims of identity theft," said Nelson, whose own personal data disappeared with missing Bank of America files last week.     
"These companies are playing Russian roulette with the personal information and identities of millions of Americans,"Markey added. "We must take action to protect consumers from more information breaches."    
Their comments came at a Thursday-morning joint news conference in Washington, where the two lawmakers unveiled the first-ever plan for regulating companies like ChoicePoint, which recently disclosed that personal data on about 145,000 people may have been stolen by identity thieves.    
The two were joined by an official from the Consumers Union, one of the nation's leading public advocacy groups and publisher of Consumer Reports magazine. In a letter presented to the two lawmakers, an organization spokesperson said, "Consumers Union supports your bill because it protects consumers by providing needed oversight."    
According to the FTC, fraud-related complaints from consumers jumped a whopping 17 percent last year - up to 635,173 from 542,378 the year before. And the number-one problem reported by 39 percent of the consumers was identity theft.     
Markey and Nelson both are considered by colleagues to be strong privacy advocates. Markey, co-chair of the Congressional Privacy Caucus, recently tackled new protections for peoples' medical records and Nelson won passage for his measure that requires companies to properly destroy information derived from credit reports before it's thrown in the dumpster. Both representatives serve on key commerce panels where they will push this legislation.    
The ChoicePoint identity-theft case that spurred their proposal came to light two weeks ago, only because of California's breach law that requires companies to notify residents if their personal information is compromised. It's the only such law in the nation.     
Last month, however, U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein introduced a national version of the California law. And on Tuesday, U.S. Sen. John Corzine proposed legislation to require financial institutions to inform customers, consumer reporting agencies and law enforcement authorities of security breaches.    
 

###


























