





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate rejects cut in Medicare premiums by one vote                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate rejects cut in Medicare premiums by one vote                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Media release
November 3, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C.  â  The Senate today, by the narrowest of margins, defeated a measure by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, of Florida, to trim Medicare premiums for some 40 million seniors covered by the government-run health insurance program.  âA lot of retirees who are living on fixed incomes arenât going to be happy,â? Nelson said, following the one-vote GOP-led rejection of his amendment to a broader budget bill.    
The amendment was part of a package offered today to the broader Senate bill that would cut about $39 billion from the federal budget for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.  Nelsonâs amendment would have required steep drug-company discounts to Medicaid HMOs to offset the estimated $1 billion seniors would have saved on Medicare premiums.    
Regarding the broader spending bill, Congress Daily reported earlier today that it was "likely to clear the chamber with relatively few changes, [although] the amendments will give senators the chance to highlight their priorities, and they might result in some tight votes."      
Indeed, Nelsonâs amendment failed 50-49.  All 50 senators who voted against it were Republicans.  The vast majority of the yes votes were Democrats; and, they were joined by five Republicans and the chamberâs one registered Independent.  One senator missed the vote.     
In a speech beforehand on the Senate floor urging his colleagues to vote for passage, Nelson noted that his amendment had received the support of the AARP.  âAARP believes your amendment is necessary to ensure health care does not become increasingly unaffordable," David P. Sloane, AARP senior managing director for government relations and advocacy, wrote in a letter to the senator. 

###


























