





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate demands review of plan to move jobs from Eglin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate demands review of plan to move jobs from Eglin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Media Release
August 4, 2006
WASHINGTON - The U.S. Senate late last night approved a measure by U.S.  Sen. Bill Nelson that could potentially block the Air Force from cutting or moving up to 3,400 military, civilian and contractor jobs from Eglin Air Force Base.  
The measure, cosponsored by Sens. Mel Martinez (R-FL), Pete Domenici (R-NM) and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), requires the Air Force to conduct a detailed analysis of any proposed reduction and relocation of the Eglin-based 46th Test Wing and labs, including a review of the cost and impact associated with such a change. The amendment unanimously was approved by the Senate and now will be part of a broader defense spending bill the Senate is expected to pass when it returns from recess in September.    
âWe shouldnât be making rash budgetary decisions that could harm military readiness and hurt the local community,â? said Nelson.  âI expect this thorough analysis will force the Air Force to reconsider any plan to downsize or realign at Eglin.â?   
Following the vote, Nelson said heâs also arranged a visit to Eglin Air Force base later this month with Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition Sue Payton and Charles McQueary, the Defense Departmentâs Director of Operational Test and Evaluation.  Nelson said he arranged the trip to demonstrate the exceptional value of Eglinâs test unit and labs.  
Nelsonâs action follows a surprise announcement by the Air Force in July indicating it was considering downsizing the 46th Test Wing and moving some of its personnel and associated positions to Californiaâs Edwards Air Force Base.  The Air Force quietly developed the plan in response to an administration order requiring the military to dramatically reduce its budget.      
The Air Forceâs decision came as a surprise to many in Florida, and especially to those in Northwest Florida.  Local community leaders reacted harshly to the decision and enlisted the help of Nelson, Gov. Jeb Bush and other members of the congressional delegation to stave off the move. 

###


























