





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Hearing in voting rights case                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Hearing in voting rights case                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
December 4, 2007
TALLAHASSEE, FL  A federal judge is scheduled shortly after noon tomorrow to begin hearing a lawsuit challenging the right of national political party figures to punish a states voters by not counting its presidential primary.  Bill Nelson, Floridas senior U.S. senator, and Rep. Alcee Hastings, who heads Floridas U.S. House Democratic delegation, have sued Howard Dean and the Democratic National Committee that Dean chairs over such an issue, contending the DNCs decision to bar Floridas 210 delegates from the 2008 national convention is unconstitutional.  The DNC banned the delegates because the Florida Legislature pushed the states primary date slightly ahead, encroaching on earlier contests in Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire and South Carolina.   The lawsuit by the two members of Congress has been a focus of national attention among many voting rights experts. The hearing before Chief U.S. District Judge Robert Hinkle is set for 12:45 p.m. Wednesday in a federal courtroom in Tallahassee.  The reality is that once a state has determined to conduct an election, that process confers fundamental constitutional rights upon voters, and no political party bosses in Washington should be allowed to erase those rights, said Nelson, who plans on attending Wednesdays hearing.  Said Hastings, This lawsuit is about fairness and equal protection under the law for all Floridians. It is my hope that tomorrows ruling will ensure that Democrats and Republicans who vote on January 29 will know that their vote counts toward the election of our presidential nominees.  The two lawmakers also contend, in their recently filed motion for a summary judgment, that the idea by national Democratic leaders for Florida to hold a caucus in lieu of a primary is a woefully inadequate substitute for a real election.  The case is potentially momentous, because at stake is whether voters will have a greatly enhanced role in picking presidential candidates. The decision could mean that political parties will continue to decide which states have the biggest role in selecting a nominee, as has been the case for decades, or whether voters will have a more direct say.  Regardless, Nelson and Senate colleague Carl Levin have filed legislation to govern future primaries. Their bill would divide the nation into six regions, and would establish six primary dates for each region. Hastings also has introduced legislation with four House colleagues from Florida establishing a rotating regional primary system consisting of four geographic regions whose primary dates rotate over a period of 16 weeks.  Both bills would give a fair say in choosing nominees to voters from smaller and larger states, and end the dominance of Iowa and New Hampshire. Meantime, Levins state, Michigan, finds itself in the same boat as Florida.   National Democratic leaders voted last Saturday to strip Michigan of all its delegates to the national convention next year as punishment for also scheduling an earlier presidential primary in violation of party rules. Michigan, with 156 delegates, has scheduled a Jan. 15 primary.   Democratic Party rules prohibit states other than Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina from holding nominating contests before Feb. 5.  

###


























