





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Florida senator takes oath to start second term                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Florida senator takes oath to start second term                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Media release                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
January 4, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. â Floridaâs senior U.S. Senator Bill Nelson begins his second term today, and he is expected to play a key role in overseeing U.S. intelligence agencies and Iraq policy.  
With the shift in power in Congress, Nelson will become a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee.  He already serves on the Armed Services, Foreign Relations and Commerce panels.  The newest post is seen as especially critical, because the senate panel oversees intelligence efforts to monitor threats to U.S. security  
A former state lawmaker, six-term U.S. congressman and Florida Cabinet member, Nelson starts his second six-year term in the U.S. Senate this afternoon when he takes his oath of office in the nationâs Capitol.  
Nelson, who won re-election pledging bipartisanship, reasserted today his intention to work with Republicans, Democrats and Independents, alike, to help make America independent of foreign oil within ten years; and, to pass ethics reform, curb government spending, reduce prescription drug costs and restore respect for the U.S. abroad.  
âUntil we break free from foreign oil, America will remain reliant on unstable governments around the globe,â? Nelson said. âWeâve got to develop alternative fuels for the safety and security of our nation.â?  
The ambitious agenda comes against the backdrop of Democrats regaining power in Congress after 12 years in the minority, and wanting to move quickly on a number of major initiatives.  

###


























