





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Local relief gets a helping hand                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Local relief gets a helping hand                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Media release
October 4, 2005
JACKSONVILLE  â  Mission Harvest Ministries recently broadcast a call for volunteers needed to help load semi-trucks of food and supplies for the victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, as well as thousands of care packages for U.S. troops in Iraq and elsewhere.  
Even before the second hurricane, Rita, hit Texas and Louisiana mid-last month, the Jacksonville-based charity had sent more than 70 tractor trailers full of donations to the Gulf Coast Katrina victims; and, had prepared more than 57,000 care packages for troops deployed in the war against terrorism.  
On Wednesday, the relief volunteers will be putting packages together for both the hurricane victims and troops stationed overseas.  But in the morning theyâll be getting a little extra help - courtesy of U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson.  From 9:00 a.m. until 10:00 a.m., Nelson will join volunteers to sort and pack clothing and other items at Mission Harvest operations at 60 South Copeland St., off of Harper Street.  
âI want to help, and thank, the local volunteers,â? Nelson said today.  âThey deserve a lot of credit for coming through - not only for the hurricane victims, but every time thereâs a need.â?  
Nelson said he also wants his visit to be a reminder for area residents that Mission Harvest still is taking relief donations of nonperishable food and other necessities.  âEvery little bit helps,â? he said.    
Indeed, according to The Miami Herald, Nelson turned a recent Miami campaign fundraiser into a mini-benefit for Katrina victims.  The event raised $11,000 for the American Red Cross and $2,000 for the relief fund started by former Presidents George Bush and Bill Clinton. 

###


























