





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson presses for 'wet foot-dry foot' changes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson presses for 'wet foot-dry foot' changes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Media release
April 5, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â In a private meeting today with administration officials U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson called for a number of changes to immigration policy in the Florida Straits, including letting Cuban-Americans know the fate of missing loved ones who have attempted to flee Cuba.  
Nelson specifically stressed that issue and several other concerns during todayâs briefing on the so-called âwet foot-dry footâ? policy governing Cubans.  The senator emphasized the need to reunite separated families as quickly as possible and establish a system to help families locate missing relatives through the Coast Guard.   
Following the hour-long meeting this morning with administration officials, including both Dan Fisk, a special assistant to the president, and Emilio Gonzalez, the presidentâs point-man on immigration issues affecting Cubans, Nelson said he was encouraged and optimistic about potential changes to the U.S policy as it relates to Cubans entering the country.    
Meantime, he continues to emphasize the need for sensible implementation of that policy.  âCuban refugees fleeing a repressive regime should be treated by the U.S. as fairly as possible,â? Nelson said.    
In January, 15 Cuban refugees were sent back to Cuba after they were found clinging to the old Seven Mile Bridge in the Florida Keys.  That incident led Nelson; Floridaâs other Sen. Mel Martinez; and, other lawmakers to ask the administration to undertake this current review of the âwet foot-dry footâ? policy.  
Nelson requested a full briefing from the White House on their progress, resulting in todayâs meeting.  He expects an announcement regarding policy changes could come as soon as next month. 

###


























