





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: As MMS hearing approaches, support for anti-drilling legislation continues                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






As MMS hearing approaches, support for anti-drilling legislation continues                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Media release
April 5, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â As the Department of Interior prepares to receive public comments on their proposed plan to bring oil drilling closer to Floridaâs coast, legislation by Floridaâs U.S. senators to create permanent protection for the state continues to gather support.  
Today, the Department of Interiorâs Mineral Management Service will hold a public hearing in Tallahassee to solicit citizensâ comments on the governmentâs 5-year plan to open much of the Eastern Gulf of Mexico to oil and gas drilling.    
Thus far, the MMS proposal has received widespread criticism.  In fact, the Department of Interior initially avoided scheduling a public hearing in state, and only did so at the strong urging of Nelson and other members of the Florida delegation.  Still, the meeting will take place inland, denying those most affected by the proposal the opportunity to express their opinions.  
âPeople across this state want permanent protection for Floridaâs waters,â? Nelson says.  âThe Department of Interior canât ignore the voices of millions of Floridians.â?   
Meantime, Nelsonâs oil drilling proposal â which he introduced earlier this year with Sen. Mel Martinez â continues to receive positive reviews from across the state.  Just this week, county commissioners in central Florida approved a resolution supporting the bill.  
The Nelson-Martinez legislation would allow oil and gas rigs no closer than 150 miles off Pensacola and 260 miles off Tampa Bay.  Most importantly, the bill would offer the state permanent protection from future oil drilling threats. 

###


























