





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Gates says no to military draft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Gates says no to military draft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Media release                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
December 5, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. - President Bushâs pick to be U.S defense secretary ruled out reinstituting a military draft in response to questioning by U.S. Senator Bill Nelson during the nomineeâs confirmation hearings today.  Legislation creating a new draft has been filed in the House.  
âNo sir, I do not,â? the nominee, Robert M. Gates, told a panel of senators, when asked by Nelson whether he saw the need for a draft to overcome sagging military recruitment numbers. âWhen people perceive that joining the services is not a direct ticket to Iraq, our numbers are going to be increasing,â? Gates said, adding, âI think we have a transitory problem.â?  
Nelson, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, questioned the former CIA director for just a few minutes in the Hart Senate Office Building, where members of the committee were probing Gates.  Gates is President Bushâs nominee to replace outgoing Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, who is leaving in the wake of criticism over his handling of the war in Iraq and his unwillingness to share vital information with Congress.  
Yesterday, Gates made the rounds on Capitol Hill and met with Nelson, among others.  Nelson said Gates seemingly desires to be more open and forthright about Pentagon decision-making.  âThe current strategy in Iraq is not working, so we need someone who will speak openly to Congress and the American people about the situation,â? Nelson said.  
This afternoon, the Armed Services panel is expected to vote on Gatesâ confirmation.  If he receives approval, the full Senate will vote on him tomorrow.  



###


























