





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Florida reps to fight for USS Kennedy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Florida reps to fight for USS Kennedy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
January 5, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) today unveiled legislation that requires the Navy to operate at least 12 aircraft carriers. Florida's newly elected senator, Mel Martinez, also will support the bill in the Senate and U.S. Rep. Ander Crenshaw (R-Fla.) will back it in the House.    
Their action comes in response to reports that the Pentagon may reduce the nation's carrier force to 11 by retiring the Florida-based USS John F. Kennedy as early as 2006. The decommissioning is part of a proposed Defense Department plan to cut $60 billion from its budget over the next six years.     
"There's no excuse for skimping on national defense when the country is at war," Nelson said at a news conference in Washington. "Retiring an aircraft carrier more than a decade early isn't in the best interest of the nation at this time."     
Nelson also cited the fact that the Navy's aircraft carrier fleet could be stretched thin due to ongoing military operations and the use of at least one carrier for post-tsunami disaster relief in Asia.    
Based at Mayport Naval Station near Jacksonville, the Kennedy previously was scheduled to remain in service until 2018. It received a $350 million overhaul in recent years and last month the carrier returned from a mission in the Persian Gulf to support troops in Iraq.     
Nelson sits on both the Senate Armed Services and Foreign Relations committees. 

###


























