





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: U.S. Senate passes sex-offender tracking bill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






U.S. Senate passes sex-offender tracking bill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Media release
May 5, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â Legislation to strengthen federal laws governing the registration and tracking of sexual offenders released from prison has moved much closer to becoming law.     
The Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act late Thursday night unanimously passed the full Senate, including a provision by Senator Bill Nelson of Florida to provide federal grants for states and local communities that start their own programs to track and monitor sex-offenders.  
Nelsonâs provision in the broader bill was named after Jessica Lunsford, of Homosassa, Florida and Sarah Lunde, of Ruskin, Florida, two girls who were murdered by sex offenders last year after they got out of prison.  
âThis is what we need â tougher laws â and this is what the fight is all about,â? Jessicaâs father, Mark Lunsford, said in response to the billâs passage.  âThis honors both girls, but should also serve to remember all kids - those not mentioned by name.â?   
Because the House of Representatives has passed a similar measure, sex-offender legislation soon should be headed to the president for his signature.  
Specifically, Nelsonâs provision, honoring Jessica and Sarah, will require the U.S. attorney general to oversee $30 million in grants over three years to support states with programs that get tougher on those convicted of preying on children.  
Nelson said today his legislation will help Floridaâs new program and encourage other states to adopt similar initiatives.  A Florida law enacted last year requires lifetime tracking by global positioning satellites (GPS).  âFunding is key in making sure tougher laws are effective,â? Nelson said.  
Electronic monitoring technology consists of satellite systems and a tracking device worn around the ankle.  When the wearer of the device is in the wrong place, parole officers and police can be alerted.  
Nationwide, there are an estimated 380,000 registered sex offenders in the U.S., and authorities say the whereabouts of thousands are unknown.    
Beyond Nelsonâs provision, the Senate bill creates a national database of sex offenders, rather than state-managed records.  The legislation toughens current laws by requiring monthly in-person registration by sex offenders, with failure to register constituting a felony. 

###


























