





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Florida's U.S. Senators help keep broadcasts to Cuba on the air                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Florida's U.S. Senators help keep broadcasts to Cuba on the air                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
April 6, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Florida's U.S. Sens. Bill Nelson and Mel Martinez today headed off an effort in Congress to pull the plug on government-backed television broadcasts aimed at keeping Cubans informed of events in the outside world.    
The two lawmakers led a bipartisan effort to defeat an amendment on a State Department spending bill that would have cut off TV Marti, which, along with Radio Marti, was established in 1990 to broadcast news and information to Cuba.    
"Although Castro is still working to jam the signal, it's important we keep doing all we can so that information can get to the people he's still oppressing," said Nelson, a Democrat on the Senate's Foreign Relations Committee, on which Martinez, a Republican, also serves. "Part of the money will help us overcome Castro's signal jamming."    
The amendment to cut $21 million from TV Marti was offered by two Democrats, but defeated at the urging of Nelson and Martinez by a 65-35 vote. Nelson told the Senate of a time when he at age 17 he was allowed to send a message over Radio Free Europe to people behind the Iron Curtain. 

###


























