





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: War Draining Florida National Guard, Causing Concerns About Hurricanes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






War Draining Florida National Guard, Causing Concerns About Hurricanes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
April 6, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Pentagon has decided to send 12,000 National Guard members to Iraq and Afghanistan, likely from Florida and a few other states, due to a controversial surge of 21,000 soldiers that has spread the Army thin.    
The new troop alerts come as Florida already is experiencing drains on Guard personnel and equipment - and, as another hurricane season approaches for the state.    
For instance, a recent independent analysis by the federal government [http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d0760.pdf] found the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have depleted the Florida National Guard, leaving it with roughly half the dual-use equipment it once had for responding to a storm or domestic disturbance.      
The Florida Guard has lost trucks, trailers, generators and other basic equipment since the start of the wars.  Members of the Guard are sent overseas with their equipment, but when they come back, the gear often stays in the war zones.    
The Florida Guard now has about 53 percent of such equipment, while other states that in the past have loaned Florida equipment also have been stripped to lower levels.     
With the Guard shorter on trucks, radios and generators - and in anticipation of the loss of additional troops - there is public concern over the prospect of a large-scale disaster, like hurricanes Hugo, Andrew or Katrina.    
That's why U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson next Monday and Tuesday is visiting Guard facilities in Jacksonville and Tampa, where he plans to put the finishing touches on a possible remedy that could help bolster the Guard's access to equipment in the event of such an emergency.      
The senator is looking into taking steps - including the creation of a memorandum of understanding between the Army and the Guard - that could allow Gov. Charlie Crist to use Army Reserve trucks and generators upon the declaration of a State of Emergency.  Currently, the governor would have to go through a bureaucratic process to request that the president release Reserve equipment that is being held unused in Florida.    
"Problems from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have stretched the Florida National Guard further than ever before, leaving it without all the resources resources it should have for responding to a domestic crisis," Nelson said today.  "Hurricane season is coming fast - and, we need to make sure the Guard has what it needs."    
The upcoming hurricane season runs June 1 through Nov. 30, and is predicted to be worse than in recent years. 

###


























