





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson blocks nomination of EPA Administrator                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson blocks nomination of EPA Administrator                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Senator objects to pesticide study on infants                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
April 6, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson said Wednesday he's blocked the nomination of Stephen Johnson to head the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency until he receives assurances that a controversial Jacksonville area study to test infants' exposure to pesticides is halted.    
Nelson's action came immediately after Johnson told senators at a hearing today that he would not cancel a two-year environmental study of infants' exposure to pesticides. The project known as the Children's Environmental Exposure Research Study is asking 60 area families with infants or children from 9-to 12-months old to volunteer for the study. All participating families will receive up to $970 and be required to have their children exposed to pesticides through routine spraying in their homes.     
Critics of the EPA project have questioned the study's motives and ethics and point to its connection the pesticide industry. The American Chemistry Council, a lobbying arm for some pesticide manufacturers, is partially funding the study with $2 million.     
"The government should not be asking families to turn their babies into guinea pigs," said Nelson. "They should be protecting children, not exposing them to pesticides."     
Under the rules of the Senate, Johnson's bid to become the head of the EPA can't be voted on due to Nelson's objections. 

###


























