





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Controversial inspector general to testify before Congress                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Controversial inspector general to testify before Congress                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
June 6, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Did the Chinese or North Koreans obtain confidential NASA computer documents detailing a U.S. companys state-of-the-art engine design for an intercontinental ballistic missile?  Did the independent watchdog at the nations space agency break the law by obstructing search warrants in an unrelated criminal probe?  Did that same high-level official sweep other whistle-blower information under the rug to avoid embarrassing his old friend, then-NASA chief Sean OKeefe?  These and other questions likely are to take center stage tomorrow ( Thursday ) at a rare joint hearing of a Senate-House panel overseeing NASA and led by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida.  Nelson and other lawmakers worry that if NASAs inspector general, Robert Cobb, stays on the job, the controversy over him will taint the agency and distract from efforts to close the gap between the end of shuttle missions in 2010 and the launch of a replacement craft in 2015.  In the most recent episode related to the controversy, NASA Administrator Michael Griffin held a highly unusual meeting with the independent inspector generals staff. Griffins chief of staff then collected DVD recordings of the meeting and gave them to NASAs top lawyer, who has admitted breaking those DVDs into pieces.  Members of Congress who oversee NASA say they intend to ask the Justice Department for a criminal investigation into the destruction of possible evidence in the congressional probe.  The controversy continues to expand at a time when Nelson and others, including Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, are pushing hard to persuade Congress to give NASA an extra $1 billion to be able to launch the shuttles replacement at least two years sooner in 2013.  For the safety of our astronauts and the long-term success of our space exploration program, these issues must be resolved, said Nelson, who has asked President Bush to fire Cobb.   Nelson, who flew on the space shuttle in 1986 and is considered a leading congressional expert on NASA, began receiving complaints about the inspector general several years ago. As the complaints mounted, the senators office forwarded them to a special committee set up to investigate the inspectors general who are assigned to most federal agencies.  That committee found, among other things, that Cobb failed to properly report the loss of rocket engine data from NASA computers; was too chummy with the former administrator, OKeefe; and, was abusive to his employees.  The group said Cobb should be punished up to and including dismissal. But the administration has stood by Cobb, who is among the witnesses scheduled to testify at Thursdays 2 p.m. Senate-House space subcommittee hearing. 

###


























