





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Nelson bill would reward states that track sex predators by satellite                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Nelson bill would reward states that track sex predators by satellite                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
May 6, 2005
MIAMI - Encouraged by Florida lawmakers' quick passage of a state bill that aims to improve tracking of sex offenders, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson has unveiled legislation to provide federal funding for Florida and other states that adopt similar programs.    
Nelson's bill would give up to $30 million in grants to support states with programs that get tougher on those convicted of preying on children by tracking them with satellites, if they get out of prison. A measure that just passed in Florida requires 25-year minimum prison terms for those convicted of sex crimes against children under 12, and lifetime tracking by global positioning satellites (GPS) once outside prison.    
The Florida law was prompted by the abduction and killing of 9-year-old Jessica Lunsford, whose body was found March 19 near her Homosassa home. The slaying of a second girl, Sarah Lunde, 13, of Ruskin, whose body was found April 16, hastened passage of the bill, called the Jessica Lunsford Act.    
In both cases, convicted sex offenders have been accused.    
"To be effective, however, tough laws must be properly funded," Nelson said today, speaking about his bill that would require the U.S. attorney general to oversee $10 million in grants this year, and $20 million next year, for states that use GPS monitoring of sex offenders.    
In the U.S., there are an estimated 380,000 registered sex offenders. But thousands have disappeared, authorities say.    
Nelson will present the bill - The Sexual Predator Monitoring Act - to the American Civil Liberties Union Foundation at a 7 p.m. Saturday dinner in Miami, where the group is commemorating its 40th anniversary; and, also honoring U.S. Rep. Alcee Hastings with a public-service award named for a crusading former St. Petersburg Times editor, Nelson Poynter.    
The ACLU promotes itself as a nonpartisan organization. And the group often opposes government restraints on individual liberties. But it supports GPS monitoring of sexual predators.    
The technology consists of satellite systems and a tracking device worn around the ankle. When the wearer of the device is in the wrong place, parole officers and police can be alerted. 

###


























