





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senator, vets seek support for local VA Hospital                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senator, vets seek support for local VA Hospital                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Media release
April 7, 2006
ORLANDO â Despite a veterans population of 380,000 and the areaâs status as one of the stateâs largest metropolitan areas, Orlando still lacks a VA hospital â largely because the administration in Washington is dragging its feet on funding.  
In fact, the newly proposed VA budget shows the Orlando hospital is number four among the top 20 priorities, but that no decision has been made on when to build it.  And without the money, it doesnât look like the VA will break ground  soon - despite its pledge to do so.  
In 2004, the Department of Veterans Affairs announced plans to build the hospital within five years.  But nearly two years later, the federal government hasnât allocated funds for the hospital, according to U.S. Senator Bill Nelson.    
Thatâs why on Monday Nelson will be meeting with representatives of several Orlando-area veterans groups for discussions on how the delay affects area veterans.  
Florida has one of the largest veteran populations in the country, and is on track to become the number one veteran populated state in the country within the next few years.  Florida also has the oldest veteran population, and the demand for hospital services has continued to increase over the past several years.   
âWeâve got to get the VA hospital back on track,â? says Nelson, who intends to ask Congress to overrule the president and add funding to the budget.  The total cost of the facility over several years is expected to be about $350 million. 

###


























