





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Navy panel recommends new search for Speicher                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Navy panel recommends new search for Speicher                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Navy secretary must decide on panel's findings                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
July 7, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - A board of inquiry reviewing the recent search for Navy Capt. Michael Scott Speicher is recommending the Pentagon step up efforts to find the missing fighter pilot, according to a letter from U.S. Senator Bill Nelson to the Navy's secretary.    
Further, the board says, there's no evidence to justify changing Capt. Speicher's status from "missing / captured;" and, there's no evidence to suggest Speicher is dead.    
The board was formed at the direction of Navy Secretary Gordon England to scrutinize evidence gathered over the past two years by a team that searched for clues to Speicher's fate in Iraq. The board reached its conclusions last week, and is forwarding a report for England's final decision.    
It was in Iraq, at the outset of the first Gulf War, that Speicher's FA/18 Hornet was shot down by an air-to-air missile in January 1991. Speicher is believed to have ejected and subsequently may have been captured by Iraqi forces. Years later, Iraq turned his flight suit over to U.S. officials.     
That, along with intelligence gathered in the mid 1990s, cast doubt on the military's initial declaration that Speicher was "killed in action / body not recovered." The Navy changed his status to "missing in action," and more recently to "missing in action / captured."    
Over the years, grief and uncertainty engulfed his Florida family. In 2002, Senator Nelson, of Florida, began pushing the Bush administration, along with Persian Gulf region leaders, for a full accounting of Speicher, including a request that the Pentagon send a search team to Iraq.    
After being informed of the status board's findings, Nelson sent a letter to England this week, urging the Navy secretary to heed the recommendation that a new and intensified search for Speicher be conducted, and that the pilot's status not be changed. 

###


























