





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Florida excluded from oil drilling discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Florida excluded from oil drilling discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Media release
March 7, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â First, the government chose to disregard Floridaâs delicate environment and vibrant economy with their proposal to expand drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.  Now, theyâve chosen to blatantly ignore the voices of Floridaâs 18 million residents as well, says U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson.  
The Department of Interiorâs proposal would bring the threat of oil spills closer than ever to Floridaâs shore, and could potentially damage the tourism-based economy and restrict essential military training space.    
As the debate over this issue continues, the department promised to solicit public reaction to their proposal.  Yesterday, the department announced that they would hold meetings in âkey coastal cities in the Gulf of Mexicoâ?.    
But when the list of 13 meetings was released, not a single Florida city was included excluding the state from the public review process.  
Nelson, in a letter today to Interior Secretary Gail Norton, called the move âshocking,â? and strongly urged the department to include at least one public hearing in Florida.    
âThey know this plan is bad for our state, and they know they face a lot of opposition if they come here,â? Nelson says.  âTheyâre purposely excluding us to advance this ill-conceived plan.â?  
Nelson introduced alternative oil drilling legislation with Republican Sen. Mel Martinez last month, and is continuing to fight all plans that place Floridaâs coasts and economy in danger. 

###


























