





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Lawmakers urge tax panel to give homeowners break on property taxes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Lawmakers urge tax panel to give homeowners break on property taxes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
November 7, 2007
   WASHINGTON - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson has joined a bipartisan group of legislators urging a Senate tax panel to give millions of homeowners a break on their property taxes. In a letter to the Senate Finance Committee, Nelson and other lawmakers called for the panel to include property tax relief as they consider pending legislation.   The issue before the panel now is whether to accept a bill a House committee passed just last week that provides one year of property tax relief by allowing homeowners who dont itemize on taxes deduct some of their property taxes.   While pushing for that measure, Nelson is concerned it still isnt enough. Sky-rocketing property taxes arent making life any easier for folks in the middle class, Nelson said today. So, the Florida Democrat is cosponsoring a similar bill that would allow average homeowners who dont itemize on their taxes to take a bigger deduction for the property tax they pay.   The Senate bill has been referred to the Finance Committee, but has yet to be taken up by the panel.   Currently, 70 percent of taxpayers do not itemize, meaning as many as 32 million homeowners nationwide would be able to take advantage of the tax cut.  A non-partisan congressional estimate reports an average homeowner who makes $50,000 a year and pays $2,000 in property tax could save $500 in the first year, if the bill Nelson cosponsors becomes law.    Following is the letter to the finance panel:    November 6th, 2007    The Honorable Max Baucus   The Honorable Charles Grassley  Chairman  Ranking Member Senate Committee on Finance   Senate Committee on Finance Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510   Dear Chairman Baucus and Ranking Member Grassley:   As you are aware, last week the House Ways and Means Committee passed a tax package that included property tax relief for millions of middle class homeowners. The legislation, HR. 3996, would create a new, standard deduction for real property taxes for homeowners who do not currently itemize their deductions. We support this proposal and feel strongly that Congress should enact property tax relief this year.   Middle class taxpayers are working harder than ever to meet their financial commitments and sky-rocketing property taxes have not made that any easier. While taxpayers who do not itemize their deductions may claim the standard federal tax deduction, this deduction does not adequately take into account rising property tax values and increases. Based on Census data, the total amount of state and local property taxes paid in the United States increased by 50 percent from 2000 to 2006. Over the same period of time, inflation increased by only 17 percent. Over that time, median household income actually dropped by 2 percent.   A new, standard deduction for property taxes would provide relief to the more than 32 million homeowners who do not itemize their deductions. With homeownership threatened in many communities around the country, middle class families should not be penalized simply because they do not itemize. By treating itemizers and non-itemizers more equitably, we will restore a measure of fairness to the tax code and provide needed relief to the middle class.   While we recognize that property taxes are primarily a state and local issue, this does not mean that Congress should not do what it can help ease the burden for taxpayers. We are encouraged that Chairman Baucus and others have advocated for the creation of such a deduction in the past and request that homeowner tax relief be included in the Finance Committees tax extenders package now under consideration.   If your staff has any questions, please have them contact Jonathan Stahler (Bayh).      

###


























