





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Signal from Congress might help Mideast peace process                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Signal from Congress might help Mideast peace process                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
January 8, 2005
TEL AVIV, Israel - Now more than ever, it's important for Congress to act on legislation aimed at reviving the stalled peace process in the Middle East, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson said today, following a face-to-face meeting here with Israel's Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.    
Nelson, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, came to that conclusion after meetings with Sharon and other Israeli and Palestinian officials this week. The stalled Middle East peace process has stirred international concern, and brought criticism this week of the Bush administration that the United States isn't active enough in following through on a peace plan the president backed last year.     
That, Nelson said today, is why Congress must act swiftly to pass a bill he and others in the Senate have sponsored that outlines steps the Palestinians must take to end the violence.     
"If the Bush administration doesn't act now, the Middle East could become a powder keg by June," Nelson warned. Reiterating remarks from a speech Sharon made to the Likud Party Convention this week, the Israeli prime minister told Nelson in their meeting Thursday that by June he would order disengagement from the Palestinians - absent progress toward peace.    
The legislation before Congress - S. 1944 - cosponsored by Nelson, a Florida Democrat, Sen. John Ensign, a Nevada Republican, and ten other senators, lays out steps Palestinians must take to dismantle terrorist groups so that they can develop a peaceful, democratic state. The bill says the U.S. shall recognize Palestine only if it achieves peace with Israel and takes consistent action to end terrorism. Only then would a new Palestinian state be eligible for economic assistance from the U.S.    
Nelson said passage of the legislation would send a signal to the other major backers of the so-called road map for peace - the United Nations, the European Union and Russia - that there's still a strong sense in the U.S. that our administration should be more actively involved and in a timely fashion, considering the possibility that the fighting could get worse by mid-year.     
Just this week, European and U.N. diplomats expressed concern that the upcoming presidential election is leading to inactivity by the U.S. They also said they've been rebuffed when asking that the U.S. take more action, from setting up international monitors to pressing harder for reforms by Palestinian security forces.    
Nelson this week has been meeting with leaders in Egypt and Israel, before he heads to Syria and Jordan for talks there. 

###


























