





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Eatonville hosts two U.S. Senators                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Eatonville hosts two U.S. Senators                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
July 8, 2005
ORLANDO - When two U.S. senators visit this small predominantly African-American Florida town Saturday, the Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church likely will be filled to overflowing. Though the population of Eatonville is only 2,432, upwards of 1,000 people or more may gather at the church for a meeting with the two politicians, Bill Nelson, of Florida - and, Barack Obama, of Illinois.    
Obama is the only African-American member of the U.S. Senate. And Eatonville is the nation's first incorporated black town. It's also in the backyard of Cape Kennedy, where the first launch since the Columbia disaster is just days away. And Nelson, a former astronaut, is the area's former congressman.    
Organizers of Saturday's event say they've already had to move the meeting from the church's 300-seat hall to a 1,000 seat sanctuary next door, in part, because buses and car caravans are coming from other cities including Tampa, Jacksonville and Tallahassee.    
"The meeting should be pretty special," said Nelson, who invited Obama to visit Eatonville. Florida's senior senator has been holding town hall gatherings around the state all week, in places, like, Tarpon Springs, Fort Myers, Moore Haven, Okeechobee, Sebring, Bartow and Plant City.    
His tour finishes in Eatonville, a town six miles north of Orlando that's of great significance to the country's African-American history and culture. Of the more than one hundred black towns founded between 1865 and 1900, fewer than a dozen remain. Eatonville is the oldest - and known for providing one of the most influential black writers, Zora Neale Hurston, with material for her plays and books.    
"Eatonville is an ingredient in the American saga," Obama said today. "It will be an honor to visit there." 

###


























