





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Tobacco penalty draws request for probe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Tobacco penalty draws request for probe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
June 8, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - A group of U.S. senators today asked the Justice Department's inspector general for a "thorough investigation" of why the agency's lawyers decided to let the tobacco industry escape paying as much as $120 billion in penalties.    
The six senators - Frank Lautenberg, of New Jersey, Tom Harkin, of Iowa, Ted Kennedy, of Massachusetts, Richard Durbin, of Illinois, Ron Wyden, of Oregon, and Bill Nelson, of Florida - sent a letter to Justice Department Inspector General Glen A. Fine asking for the investigation. Specifically, they asked whether there was "political interference" behind the department's decision yesterday to seek only $10 billion in its civil racketeering case against the tobacco industry - instead of $130 billion recommended by the government's key expert witness.    
Nelson today noted that although the case still isn't over, one of the lead defense lawyers in the high-profile case was even shocked by the decision, telling the Washington Post for its Wednesday editions that the Justice Department "hasn't thought through what it's doing. "    
Indeed, the Justice Department offered no explanation for its decision to seek less than eight percent of the penalty from tobacco to fund smoking-cessation programs. In 1998, the industry agreed to pay $246 billion to settle a similar case filed by states to recover their costs for treating smokers. When the federal government began its case last year, lawyers initially sought $280 billion.    
"Smoking is linked to 400,000 deaths each year," Nelson said. "How can our own Justice Department let the tobacco companies escape justice for concealing the dangers of cigarettes?"  

###


























