





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Customs overdoses on drug seizures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Customs overdoses on drug seizures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Media release
March 8, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â After weeks of denial from administration officials, it has now come to light that the government seized thousands of consumersâ medications across the country, according to newly obtained information by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelsonâs office.  
An unnamed administration source confirmed that U.S. Customs and Border Protection seized almost 13,000 packages containing imported prescription drugs nationwide between last November and February.    
The number represents a dramatic increase over the same period a year earlier when Customs seized essentially no prescription drugs â and, also indicate an organized effort by the U.S. government to target consumers who purchase lower-priced medications from Canada.  
Nelson has been pressing the government on the issue since last month when constituents who had their prescriptions seized began flooding his office with over 100 calls, emails and letters.  He immediately requested a full investigation by the Homeland Security inspector general, and promised to forward all complaints to their office.  
After pushing for answers for two weeks, Nelson recently received confirmation that Customs had, in fact, enacted a policy change last November that intensified prescription drug seizures.  And this week, Nelson obtained new numbers indicating that the drug seizures are more extensive than previously thought.  The implementation of the new policy ensures that government seizures of medications will persist.   
The information obtained by Nelson shows that Customs confiscated packages in cities nationwide, including an estimated 4,112 in Los Angeles, 3,846 in Chicago, 1,876 in New York, 899 in Miami, 539 in Seattle and 507 in San Francisco.  
Meantime, Nelson continues to question the timing and reasoning behind this move.  âSeniors on fixed incomes rely on Canadian pharmacies because itâs still cheaper than Medicare,â? Nelson says.  âItâs clear this is a scheme designed to force seniors into the new Medicare prescription drug plan.â?   
The new Medicare prescription drug plan is the administrationâs alternative to importation and was supposed to make prescription drugs more affordable for seniors.  Instead, the program has been marred with chaos and confusion and has faced a steady stream of criticism from seniors and government officials alike.  
Nelson says he will continue to press the government for more information on the recent drug seizures and for a formal investigation.  âPeople with serious health problems were left with no medication and without any advance notification.â? 

###


























