





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Fate of incapacitated patients goes before Congress                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Fate of incapacitated patients goes before Congress                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
March 8, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Spurred by newly filed legislation to give federal courts control in death-with-dignity cases, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson today unveiled an alternative measure designed to prevent legal disputes over incapacitated patients.     
Nelson's bill would help keep cases like that of Florida's Terri Schiavo out of the courts in the first place by getting healthy Americans to complete simply worded living wills that spell out their preferences for end-of-life care.     
"The answer is clear - if you have a living will, you likely won't have to go to court. And your family won't have to suffer like Terri's," said Nelson, referring to the Tampa Bay-area woman who collapsed 15 years ago, suffered severe brain damage and is being kept alive by machine.  Her husband, Michael Schiavo, contends his wife did not want to be kept alive artificially. Her parents, however, say she had no such wish and believe she can get better with rehabilitation. Anti-abortion activists are behind the proposal to give the federal courts control in cases like Schiavo's.    
That plan was introduced Tuesday by Rep. Dave Weldon and Sen. Mel Martinez, both Republicans from Florida, who want death-with-dignity cases decided by federal court appeals like death row cases. Nelson said he'll consider that bill, but only after a thorough analysis by legal experts.    
Meantime, he wants to prevent end-of-life disputes from reaching the courts. So his proposal creates a federal clearinghouse, where Americans could get specific information on living wills. It also requires states to provide drivers with information about the clearinghouse when they get a license - similar in concept to successful organ donation programs.    
Nelson proposed a bill last year that would expand Medicare, the federal health-insurance program for the elderly, to cover a doctor's visit for the purpose of discussing end-of-life medical care. But the Senate didn't take it up. A slightly modified version of that legislation now has gained bipartisan support from Sens. Richard G. Lugar (R-Ind. ) and Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.), and was filed in the Senate earlier this year. The new bill, unveiled by Nelson Tuesday, is designed to make living wills accessible to all Americans at driver licensing agencies throughout the nation. 

###


























