





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate gives boosts to Floridaâs sex-offender monitoring program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate gives boosts to Floridaâs sex-offender monitoring program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Media release
November 8, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. -  A key House-Senate budget panel late last night set aside $2 million to help pay for Floridaâs new program to monitor convicted child sex predators after they get out of prison.    
The Florida Department of Corrections would be able to use the money to help implement the stateâs Jessica Lunsford Act, a new law requiring closer monitoring of convicted sex-offenders.  The money would pay for GPS satellite tracking devices, helping the state keep an eye on these criminals after they are released from prison.    
Floridaâs senior U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson included the money in an appropriations bill that, in part, funds the federal Department of Justice.  Nelsonâs provision was approved by House and Senate budget negotiators late Monday.  The full House and Senate are expected to approve the broader spending bill within a week.  
âIâm glad we can help Florida better protect children from convicted sex-offenders,â? Nelson said, after passage of his provision.  âAnd I believe thereâs more we can do â and thatâs to pass federal legislation providing grants to states that pass laws to track these dangerous offenders.â?  
Just such a plan giving the states a shot at grants for sex-offender monitoring is pending in the full Senate.  Last month, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved an anti-crime bill by Sens. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Joe Biden (D-DE) that strengthens federal laws governing the registration and tracking of sexual-offenders.  It includes a key provision by Nelson, which gives states and local communities up to $30 million in grants over three years to monitor those who prey on children. 

###


























