





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senate passes upgrade in military benefits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senate passes upgrade in military benefits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Media release
November 8, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C.  --  The Senate late Tuesday passed a long-sought upgrade in military benefits that will help some 55,000 widows and orphans.    
By a 93-5 vote, the Senate approved the upgrade in the form of an amendment ( no. 2424 ) to a broader defense spending bill ( S. 1042 ).  The amendment, offered by Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida, increases survivor benefits for those who also are eligible for separate veterans disability compensation.    
It eliminates an offset between the two different benefits many survivors are due.  창This will end the painful and unfair treatment of thousands of our military widows and orphans,창? Nelson said after Senate passage of the provision.    
His amendment, which has some two dozen cosponsors, would boost survivor benefits for many widows and widowers.  It would stop the current practice of reducing survivor benefits paid by the Defense Department by the amount received in survivor benefits from the Department of Veterans' Affairs - if someone qualifies for both.    
The Defense Department payment comes from the Survivor Benefit Plan, which is computed as a percentage of a deceased service member's retired pay.  The VA payment is called dependency and indemnity compensation; and, is paid when a member dies on active-duty of a service-connected cause or if a veteran was 100-percent disabled at the time of death.    
Nelson's provision would help an estimated 55,000 survivors.  The broader bill now goes to House-Senate conferees, where it창s expected Nelson창s provision will remain due to the overwhelming Senate vote.  Major military associations advocated for passage of the measure and said elimination of the offset is a top legislative priority this year. 

###


























