





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senator proposes crackdown on price gouging                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senator proposes crackdown on price gouging                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
September 8, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. â Amid reports of nationwide gas price spikes and suspicion of price gouging in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson today unveiled legislation to allow the federal government to crackdown on price-gouging of consumers following major disasters.  
Nelsonâs legislation gives federal authorities the power to prosecute and bring civil actions against people suspected of price-gouging in presidentially declared disaster areas.  Individuals or businesses found guilty of overcharging consumers could face a maximum one-year imprisonment or as much as a $500,000 fine.  
âIn the wake of Hurricane Katrina, weâve seen profiteering by gas stations; and, the oil companies havenât given consumers a break either,â? Nelson said today.  âIt should be a federal crime for someone to sell gas, or anything else, for that matter, at a large price increase thatâs not accompanied by a like rise in the sellerâs cost.â?  
Nelsonâs legislation would also require FEMA to establish a nationwide toll-free hotline for consumers to report suspected incidents of price-gouging.  
Nelson said his bill is modeled after an anti-price gouging law used successfully in Florida after hurricanes hit the state when he was Treasurer and Insurance Commissioner there.  Currently only 23 states have laws banning the practice of price-gouging.  While Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama are among those, Louisiana only recently toughened its price gouging laws to prevent consumers from being charged excessive prices.  
Nelsonâs anti-price gouging proposal comes just three weeks after he asked the President to seek a voluntary gas-price freeze from the major oil companies following the recent and dramatic rise of gas prices throughout the nation since January, and against the backdrop of record oil company profits. 

###


























