





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Navy boss: No credible evidence missing pilot is dead                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Navy boss: No credible evidence missing pilot is dead                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Media release
September 8, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Pentagon should renew and intensify a search for missing Navy pilot Capt. Michael Scott Speicher, the Navyâs top official has decided.    
Navy Secretary Gordon England yesterday approved a final report by a naval board of inquiry that recommends there be a renewed search for Speicher, in part, because thereâs no credible evidence that he is dead.      
In fact, the Navy board concludes, members of the former Iraqi government likely know the whereabouts of the officer, whose plane was shot down in January 1991 during the Gulf War.  England, in approving the report, also reaffirmed Speicherâs status as âmissing / captured."    
U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, who has made it a priority to get answers for Speicher's family in Jacksonville, Florida, said he is now more optimistic that the mystery eventually will be solved - but only if the Pentagon âdevotes sufficient resourcesâ? to the new search.    
In July, Nelson wrote England and urged him to accept the then-secret recommendations of the board of inquiry and to maintain Speicherâs status as âmissing / captured.â?      
âWhat the board called for is a renewed aggressiveness in the search for him,â? Nelson wrote to England.  âActing on this recommendation would be the fulfillment of our nationâs promise to every member of our Armed Forces that we will leave no one behind, no matter what.â?    
Nelson today said he now intends to push Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld for details of how the search for Speicher will be intensified. 

###


























