





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Last-minute Senate action will protect cell phone records                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Last-minute Senate action will protect cell phone records                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Media release                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
December 9, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. â The U.S. Senate late Friday took last-minute action to protect Americansâ cell-phone record privacy.    
As one of their final acts before recessing until after the new year, the Senate approved to legislation authored by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson making it a crime to steal another personâs cell phone records.  The bipartisan measure will criminalize the act of making false statements to obtain a customerâs phone records or accessing records via the Internet without permission.  The House unanimously passed the bill in April, so it now moves to the president for his signature.   
Nelson pushed the legislation earlier this year with a key member of the Senate Judiciary Committee following news reports revealing how easy it is to steal another personâs phone records.  The two lawmakers worked closely with representatives who authored the House version, which the Senate approved Friday by unanimous consent.  
For about $100, websites were selling cell phone numbers and records of calls to anyone, no questions asked.  The issue was highlighted most recently when Hewlett-Packardâs chairwoman was accused of ordering hired investigators to secretly obtain the cell phone records of the companyâs board members.  
But Nelson said Friday that the bill would do more than just protect consumersâ personal privacy.  It would also help aid and protect law enforcement officials.  In the past, criminals under investigation have used cell phone records of police officers to identify informants and intimidate officers.  Phone records also are obtained frequently with the intent of stalking or harming an individual.  
âThis bill is essential to both personal privacy and security,â? Nelson said.  âWe need to protect our personal information from strangers and criminals.â?  


###


























