





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Congress provides $5.2 billion in new hurricane relief                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Congress provides $5.2 billion in new hurricane relief                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Media release
June 9, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C. âU. S. Senator Bill Nelson today announced that Congress has agreed to give $5.2 billion in disaster relief to Florida and other states hit by hurricanes last year.  
The money is included in a broader $94.5 billion spending bill approved by House and Senate negotiators Friday morning.  The vast majority of the money included in the supplemental appropriations bill will help fund the war in Iraq.  
The $5.2 billion will fund disaster Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) for counties declared federal disaster areas during last yearâs hurricane season, with the Department of Housing and Urban Development allocating the funds among eligible states.  CDBG funds are often used for long-term recovery efforts, housing and business assistance, infrastructure reconstruction, mitigation efforts and public services.  
âMany people in Floridaâs hardest hit areas are still struggling to recover from last yearâs storms,â? Nelson said.  âThis extra money will help them to rebuild.â?  
The bill is expected go to the president for his signature, after the Senate and House approve the conference agreement next week. 

###


























