





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: More Tallevast workers become eligible for benefits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






More Tallevast workers become eligible for benefits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
June 9, 2005
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Stemming from a review sought by U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, the federal government late today decided it would greatly expand a program that provides health care to workers who were exposed to toxins at the American Beryllium Co. plant.    
The Department of Energy previously decided to limit eligibility to those who worked there during 12 years - 1967, 1968 and the 1980s. But Thursday Energy Department officials told Nelson the program would be expanded to workers at the plant from 1967 through 1992.    
As of early May, 171 claims had been filed under the initial program. It's unknown how many other workers might be covered by the expansion announced Thursday. Still, Nelson said, "This should help a lot of workers who might be wondering whether they're going to get help if they get sick."    
It was in March that Nelson asked DOE to investigate historical records to determine whether more workers might be eligible for testing and treatment. Officials found documents that prove DOE contracted with American Beryllium not for 12 but for 25 years.    
Workers who develop chronic beryllium disease, an illness that scars the lungs and hinders one's ability to breathe, would qualify for $150,000 in compensation and lifetime medical benefits from a program administered by the Department of Labor.     
Beryllium metal produced at the former Tallevast plant was used in nuclear weapons, experimental reactors and a variety of other industrial purposes. The plant closed in 1996. 

###


























