





















Bill Nelson, U.S. Senator from Florida:
Media Release: Senators urge immediate action on home insurance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
























Today: July 24, 2008






















































































  






Senators urge immediate action on home insurance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Media release
June 9, 2006
ORLANDO - In a recent report, the catastrophe modeling firm AIR Worldwide estimated that if a Category 5 hurricane hit Miami and traveled path north to Orlando, it could cause insured losses of about $140 billion â 3.7 times the losses from Katrina.  
Insurance rating agency A.M. Best Co. said in a separate report that anywhere from 20 to 40 insurance companies would be vulnerable to failure, if Florida was hit with a $100-billion loss in a single year.  
And many homeowners all across the Sunshine State likely are to see their insurance premiums rise more than 300 percent this year, if the state insurance department grants pending rate-hike requests.  
âThis is why the federal government needs to step in,â? U.S. Senator Bill Nelson said in Orlando Friday, where he urged quick passage of legislation aimed at curbing skyrocketing homeownersâ insurance rates.  The bill is cosponsored by Sens. Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat, and Thad Cochran, a Republican from Mississippi.    
Already, the national consumer organization ProtectingAmerica.org, which has been calling for a privately funded national catastrophe fund, has endorsed the bipartisan legislation.  
âThe hurricane season is [ here ]. American families deserve quick consideration of this legislation,â? said James Lee Witt, the organizationâs national co-chair who is a former director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.  
In a move to overcome unwillingness by Congress to act, the three senators from severely storm-ravaged states are pushing to create an emergency commission to find ways to shore up an insurance marketplace badly shaken by Hurricane Katrina and numerous other major storms over the past few years.  
The legislation would create a panel â made up of a cross-section of the best experts in the nation â to quickly recommend to Congress the best approach to addressing catastrophic risk insurance nationwide.  Among other things, the commission would be required to analyze three specific proposals, including creating a national disaster fund and tax-free home-repair accounts for consumers.  
The commission would have 90 days to report to Congress on ways to provide homeowners and businesses in vulnerable states with affordable property insurance. 

###


























