Bayh Urges Indiana Service Organizations to Take Leadership Role in 2007 National & Global Youth Service Day Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today encouraged Indiana service organizations to apply to be a Lead Agency for National  Global Youth Service Day 2007. Lead Agencies receive a $2,000 Youth Service Day planning grant, as well as direct support from Youth Service America as they plan and execute future service projects.  The National and Global Youth Service Day is an excellent opportunity to encourage more students to volunteer in their communities. By applying to be a Lead Agency, more Hoosier organizations will have an opportunity to promote the importance of public service, Senator Bayh said. When these young people volunteer their time, they show a sense of patriotism and civic pride that is an inspiration to all Americans. To be considered as a Lead Agency, organizations must engage a variety of community groups as well as plan and mobilize a citywide, regional, or statewide National  Global Youth Service Day celebration involving more than 500 youth volunteers in service over the weekend of April 20th to 22nd next year. The three day event is expected to be the largest service project of its kind in the world. In addition to the $2,000 planning grant sponsored by the State Farm Companies Foundation, Lead Agencies will receive priority when applying for additional grants from Youth Service America and support for local fundraising efforts. The application is available online at http://www.ysa.org/nysd, and the deadline is August 31, 2006. Senator Bayh is committed to promoting national service by expanding volunteer opportunities in Indiana and across America. Each October Senator Bayh joins with Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis to host a Service Leaders Summit to honor the efforts of Indiana's extraordinary student volunteers. The students who attend participate in workshops with other Hoosier service leaders to learn more about volunteering and then perform service activities as a group in the Indianapolis area. In the Senate, Bayh has co-sponsored legislation with Senator John McCain to expand volunteer opportunities through the AmeriCorps program. In 2005, Bayh sponsored a Senate resolution to officially recognize a National Youth Service Day, in recognition of the many important contributions young people make through community service.  