Bayh Fights to Provide Students With Healthier Buses, Cleaner Air Indianapolis, IN-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Mike Leavitt at the State House to present the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) with a check for $250,000 to provide children in Indianapolis and Evansville with cleaner, healthier transportation to and from school. With this funding, the two cities will be able to install new technology in 227 old, polluting school buses, which will result in more environmentally-friendly vehicles and better air quality for area residents. The funding comes at a crucial time, as the cities recently learned that the high levels of ozone and soot in their counties' air could result in their losing federal transportation dollars.  We owe it to our children to provide them with the cleanest running buses for them to ride to school in each day, Senator Bayh said. This funding will improve the health of children and community members in Indianapolis and Evansville by helping schools update their buses to produce less harmful exhaust. In addition, the funding will also bring greater job security to the Hoosiers who work on the bus engines and help keep federal transportation dollars where they belong, right here in Indiana. At the press conference, Bayh spoke of the importance of providing Hoosier children with cleaner, healthier air and of providing more Indiana communities with the funds they need to fix their old, polluting buses. Since the 107th Congress, Senator Bayh has been fighting to secure funding for Indiana's schools to improve and purchase cleaner, healthier buses for students. Senator Bayh authored a provision in the Energy bill that would create a $300 million grant program to replace and upgrade buses across the nation with new technology to help improve air quality for students who ride the buses and for area residents who are impacted by the diesel exhaust produced by school buses. Today, Senator Bayh and EPA Administrator Leavitt presented the Commissioner of IDEM, Lori Kaplan, with a large check that will pay to install new technology on old school buses. The new technology used to upgrade the bus engines will reduce the amount of soot and nitrous oxides emitted by diesel engines, which significantly contribute to air pollution. The reduction in emissions will provide Hoosiers with cleaner, healthier air to breath and could help keep Hoosiers from losing vital transportation funding. The Indianapolis and Evansville areas have soot and ozone levels that exceed EPA standards. Counties with air pollutants above the EPA's set limits may not receive federal transportation funding, which could hurt local economies. The funding for the Indianapolis and Evansville buses comes from the EPA's Clean School Bus USA program, which was recently created to reduce children's exposure to diesel exhaust and the amount of air pollution created by diesel school buses. Every year, the nation's school buses release 3,000 tons of soot and more than a million tons of other pollutants into the environment, exacerbating a variety of respiratory illnesses, including childhood asthma. Twenty-five million children ride on school buses each year and as many as 6.3 million children suffer from asthma, according to a recent report on environmental health from the Environmental Protection Agency. The American Lung Association reports that in Indiana alone, more than 137,000 children suffer from asthma. The number of children with asthma today has more than doubled since 1980.  