Bayh Urges Relief for Families Struggling with Rising Energy Prices Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh called on President Bush to provide relief to low-income families struggling to pay their heating bills by releasing the remaining $101.5 million available in Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency funds. In a letter written with Senators Collins (R-ME) and Jack Reed (D-RI), Bayh and his colleagues pointed out that freezing weather is still on the horizon, yet many state LIHEAP programs have run out of funds or have had to turn people away, leaving families to choose between heating bills and groceries.  Energy prices are at record high levels and cold weather continues to sweep the country, Senator Bayh said. No Hoosier family should have to choose between heating their home and putting food on the table. Releasing additional LIHEAP funds will help states continue to provide critical relief to some of our nation's most vulnerable families. This year, American families are facing record prices for gas and oil, which are straining state LIHEAP programs. Applications for LIHEAP assistance are up more than 12 percent over last year, and twelve states have now run out of program funds for the regular winter heating season. Other states, including Indiana, have reported that they are running so low on funds that they have turned families away. Bayh and his colleagues argued that these conditions warrant the release of LIHEAP's contingency funds to allow states to provide assistance to more families through the remaining winter months. The high energy burden facing low-income households and cold weather in many parts of the country warrant the immediate release of the remaining $101.5 million available in Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency funds, Senator Bayh and his colleagues wrote to President Bush. Senator Bayh has been a staunch supporter of the LIHEAP program to make sure that low-income families are able to pay their heating bills. Bayh has consistently pushed for the full funding of LIHEAP, including efforts to off-set the rapidly rising energy costs in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. He has introduced legislation to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil and to promote energy efficiency.  