Bayh Pushes to Protect Military Families Facing Bankruptcy Washington-- Building on his efforts to end the Patriot Penalty, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today offered an amendment to protect military families facing bankruptcy as a result of financial hardship connected to active duty service. An increasing number of military families are facing economic difficulties ranging from an inability to pay grocery bills to outright bankruptcy as active duty tours last longer than any in the past 50 years. Bayh discussed the legislation, which will be offered as an amendment to the Bankruptcy Reform Act, with Senators Durbin (D-IL) and Landrieu (D-LA) at a press conference today. "Across the country military families are facing dire financial circumstances due to longer than expected tours of duties," Senator Bayh said. "They are being penalized for their patriotism -- no one should have to choose between doing right by their country and doing right by their families. Helping protect military families from bankruptcy is the absolute least we can do to honor their service and sacrifice." More and more military families are suffering economic hardship and are in need of bankruptcy relief today in part because of the longer and more frequent deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. Typical deployments of six months have stretched to a year or more at a time, placing an unexpected burden on hardworking, patriotic families. In Indiana, one military family turned to extended family members for help when they began having trouble paying bills. The financial strain was so great that other family members were forced into bankruptcy as a result. Bayh's amendment would provide all members of the Armed Forces, veterans and spouses of service members with more lenient bankruptcy requirements when it is clear that their military service played a role in their financial difficulties. The legislation would: provide families with an automatic option to file for Chapter 7, allow families to repay the current market value on items such as cars or furniture instead of the original loan amount, allow military families to access federal bankruptcy exemptions should they not exist in their home state, protect families from high-interest rate loans when repaying debts, and help families keep their homes. To better understand the causes that lead to military bankruptcies, Bayh has also requested a study from the Government Accountability Office and has asked the GAO to recommend additional ways to protect service members and their families from bankruptcy. A 2003 study failed to provide any concrete statistics regarding the number of military families forced into bankruptcy as a result of their service because of sparse information. "The bankruptcy bill is designed to target people who are abusing the system," Senator Bayh said. "Surely that doesn't include military families facing bankruptcy because of longer than expected tours of duty." In addition to his bankruptcy amendment, Bayh has also introduced legislation to end the Patriot Penalty. The Patriot Penalty Elimination Act would fully compensate 99 percent of the Guard or Reserve members who have suffered a pay cut while serving their country and help ensure that no one serving will face a pay cut in the future. According to a Pentagon study, more than 40 percent of all Reservists reported a loss in income when they were called up for active duty. Reservists whose families face financial hardship during their deployment may be less likely to re-enlist as a result of the Patriot Penalty.  