Bayh 9-11 Amendment Approved by Unanimous Consent Washington- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that an amendment he introduced this week to strengthen U.S. foreign policy and help win the war on terror was approved in the Senate late Thursday night by unanimous consent. While calling the news an important victory in creating a reform bill that will address all of the 9-11 Commission's recommendations, Bayh said more work remains ahead as the Senate moves toward debating what reforms must be made within Congress itself to improve national security. "By adopting my amendment to strengthen U.S. foreign policy, my colleagues have shown that they are serious about making real changes to improve the way to protect and defend our country from potential terrorist attacks," Senator Bayh said. "Now they must follow up on this progress by demonstrating equal willingness to accept reforms that must be made within Congress as well. I will continue fighting to make sure that our 9-11 legislation remains strong and isn't weakened by attempts to protect political turf in the coming week's debates." Bayh's amendment, which he introduced with Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT), outlines the important foreign policy goals recommended by the 9-11 Commission that call for the U.S. to set priorities for winning the war on terror. Among its 17 proposals, the amendment calls for greater focus on identifying terror-friendly nations and regions, for supporting Pakistan's anti-terror efforts, and for re-evaluating Saudi Arabia's mixed history as an ally in the war on terror. In addition, the amendment outlines ways to continue rooting out terror finance groups, an issue Bayh championed through his work to stop hawallas, international money lenders who don't keep records and are a favorite terrorist resource. Under Bayh's amendment, the administration would be required to report to Congress in 180 days outlining the progress it has made and identifying ways to move forward. The amendment's approval represents not only support for measures designed to improve U.S. foreign policy, but also signals the Senate's intent to address additional reforms beyond the scope of intelligence changes. In September, Bayh asked Senate Leadership not to adjourn for the year until the Senate has had time to take up all of the necessary reforms, including changes Congress must make within its own committees, to introduce comprehensive changes on all fronts to strengthen homeland security and help win the war on terror. Bayh then visited towns throughout Indiana to discuss the importance of enacting real reform and pledge to challenge any foot dragging that might threaten its passage. With the approval of this amendment, Bayh will be able to focus his efforts solely on his second amendment, designed to spur Congressional reform, a key recommendation from the 9-11 Commission that is in danger of being bogged down by bureaucratic power struggles and adherence to the status quo. Under the current structure, intelligence oversight and budget control is spread out over several committees, forcing high-ranking intelligence and military leaders to take crucial time away from their work to testify before a multitude of committees. Bayh's amendment would consolidate oversight into one committee, a move that would take power away from the Armed Services Committee on which Bayh serves. The new, permanent Committee on Intelligence Bayh proposed would include members from the Armed Services, Judiciary, Foreign Relations and Defense Appropriations committees and would have sole jurisdiction over the budget and oversight for the National Intelligence Program. The White House recently announced that it supports the Senate's intelligence reforms and is awaiting legislation to begin enacting the necessary changes. Bayh, along with Senators McCain, Lieberman and Specter, first introduced comprehensive legislation outlining all of the 9-11 Commission recommendations when the Senate first returned from August recess. The intelligence reform legislation on the floor is based largely on their work.  