Bayh Visits Patrick Metals to Take a Stand Against Unfair Trade Mishawaka, IN-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh came to Mishawaka today to take a stand against overseas companies whose unfair trade practices have been hurting companies like Patrick Metals across Indiana. Standing on the plant floor with dozens of hardworking Hoosiers, Bayh announced plans to introduce a Get Tough on Trade Act, which he designed to put teeth back into U.S. trade laws and encourage the United States to put a stop to countries that are cheating to get an edge over American workers. "My Get Tough on Trade Act cuts right through the red tape to the real heart of the matter - keeping American jobs - and provides important tools to ensure that our workers have a fair playing field when they compete with companies from overseas," Senator Bayh said. "Other countries are taking advantage of our silence on trade and are taking us to court, attacking our trade laws and processes. We should not be put on the defensive in the global marketplace." The Get Tough on Trade Act provides a realistic solution to the current unfair trade practices foreign countries are using to give their companies advantages in the global marketplace. Bayh's proposal includes legislation for increasing the number of enforcement staff at the United States Trade Representative, the U.S. organization responsible for enforcing trade, and restoring Super 301, a provision used in the past to identify countries that violated U.S. trade agreements. Bayh's bill will provide the USTR with much-needed manpower and tools to identify trade violations, negotiate with other countries to stop violations, and if necessary, bring cases against these nations to stop unfair trade. In addition, Bayh has already introduced legislation that would allow American companies to apply U.S. anti-subsidy laws against Chinese companies that are benefitting from illegal subsidies. Companies use illegal subsidies, such as free electricity or free rent provided by their home country, to price their goods below what American companies can match - sometimes even below the cost of the raw materials used to make the goods. A wide range of organizations, including the National Association of Manufacturers, the American Iron and Steel Institute, and the American Foundry Society, have endorsed Bayh's anti-subsidy legislation, highlighting the number of different industries being impacted by unfair trade. Patrick Metals, an aluminum extrusion company that makes products for the RV industry, has felt the effects of unfair trade firsthand, as Chinese companies have used significantly lower prices to break into the local market. Company officials say many of their U.S. competitors have been forced to start buying aluminum from China in order to stay competitive, after being forced to reduce rates to the point that they have lost their profit. "We should be proactive against cheating countries," Senator Bayh said. "If a country is using unfair trade practices that are hurting American workers and closing American companies, we should use every available resource to go after them. It's time we got tough on trade." Bayh's legislation will bring back important tools that the Clinton administration used to identify and pressure the worst trade violators, forcing the current administration to take a more active role in ensuring fair trade. Nationwide, the United States has lost nearly 3 million manufacturing jobs over the last three years. Unfair trade has also exacerbated the U.S. trade deficit, which in 2003 hit an all-time high of $496.5 billion. In the Senate, Bayh has been a leader in the fight to investigate unfair trade practices by foreign countries, such as China, to help level the playing field for hardworking Hoosier companies who play by the rules. Bayh, along with several other senators from both sides of the aisle, has urged the administration to speak out against currency manipulation during meetings with Chinese officials. This fall, Bayh took part in a hearing with U.S. Treasurer John Snow that studied the administration's efforts to stop currency manipulation and questioned the effectiveness of their efforts to date. Bayh also has introduced legislation that would encourage reforms at the World Trade Organization designed to limit the scope of the WTO's authority, help the U.S. better defend its trade laws and remedies, and encourage greater transparency and openness at the WTO.  