Top Ten Violent Video Games of 2005 Washington-- Market research firms estimate that the holiday season accounts for roughly half of the video game industry's revenue. This year, as the holiday shopping frenzy begins, parents need to be prepared to watch out for violent video games as they choose presents for their kids. The Family Media Guide has prepared a list of the Top 10 Most Violent Video Games released so far this year. Here is the list, with the games ranked in no particular order:  2005's TOP 10 ULTRA-VIOLENT VIDEO GAMES - Resident Evil 4 -- Player is a Special Forces agent sent to recover the President's kidnapped daughter. During the first minutes of play, it's possible to find the corpse of a woman pinned up on a wall  by a pitchfork through her face. - Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas -- Player is a young man working with gangs to gain respect. His mission includes murder, theft, and destruction on every imaginable level. Player recovers his health by visiting prostitutes then recovers funds by beating them to death and taking their money. Player can wreak as much havoc as he likes for no reason without progressing through the game's storyline. - God of War -- Player becomes a ruthless warrior, seeking revenge against the gods who tricked him into murdering his own family. Prisoners are burned alive and player can use finishing moves to kill opponents -- like tearing a victim in half. - Narc -- Player can choose between two narcotics agents attempting to take a dangerous drug off the streets and shut down the KRAK cartel while being subject to temptations including drugs and money. To enhance abilities, player takes drugs including pot, Quaaludes, ecstasy, LSD and Liquid Soul -- which provides the ability to kick enemies' heads off. - Killer 7 - Player takes control of seven assassins who must combine skills to defeat a band of suicidal, monstrous terrorists. The game eventually escalates into a global conflict between the U.S. and Japan. Player collects the blood of fallen victims to heal himself and must slit own wrists to spray blood to find hidden passages. - The Warriors -- Based on a 70's action flick that set new standards for artistic violence, a street gang battles its way across NYC in an attempt to reach its home turf. Player issues several commands to his gang, including mayhem, which causes the gang to smash everything in sight. - 50 Cent: Bulletproof -- Game is loosely based on the gangster lifestyle of rapper Curtis 50 Cent Jackson. Player engages in gangster shootouts and loots the bodies of victims to buy new 50 Cent recordings and music videos. - Crime Life: Gang Wars -- Player is the leader of a ruthless street gang, spending time fighting, recruiting new gangsters, fighting, looting, and more fighting. Player can roam the streets and fight or kill anyone in sight for no apparent reason. - Condemned: Criminal Origins - Player is an FBI serial killer hunter in one of the first titles for the Xbox 360. Game emphasizes the use of melee weapons over firearms, allowing players to use virtually any part of their environment as a weapon. The next generation graphics provide a new level of detail to various injuries, especially finishing moves. - True Crime: New York City - Player is a NYC cop looking for information regarding the mysterious death of a friend. Player can plant evidence on civilians and shake them down to earn extra money. SOURCE: Family Media Guide, available at: http://www.familymediaguide.com/features/EditorsPicks/ViolenceUnderTheTree.html   