Bayh, Pence Say Muncie Woman Will Be Home for the Holidays Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh and Congressman Mike Pence announced today that the Department of Homeland Security has released Fatuka Flake while her case is re-examined, allowing her to return home in time to spend the holidays with her family. Just last month, Bayh and Pence each introduced private bills of relief to provide Mrs. Flake with permanent resident status after learning that she was at risk of being deported to war-torn Sierra Leone and separated from her family in Muncie.  Mrs. Flake is a hardworking, productive member of the Muncie community, with a loving family here in Indiana, Senator Bayh said. It is especially heartwarming given this time of year to know that she will be reunited with her family while a judge considers her case. I am profoundly grateful to the dedicated officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement who acted with compassion in restoring Mrs. Flake to her loving family for the holidays, Congressman Pence said. Hopefully this is the first of many happy events for the Flake family as we continue, along with Senator Evan Bayh, to fight to save this family. As a result of Bayh and Pence's efforts, Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Immigration Border Security, contacted the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in November to request a delay in Mrs. Flake's deportation. The Bureau agreed to issue a report on Mrs. Flake's case to Congress, providing Mrs. Flake's attorney with the time needed to file an appeal of her deportation. During this time, Mrs. Flake will not be forced to leave the country and will now be able to return to her family. In addition to allowing Mrs. Flake to return home, the Department of Homeland Security also agreed to join a motion to re-open her case, adding its support to the work of Senator Bayh and Congressman Pence. Without this action, Fatuka Flake, a registered nurse and the mother of two sons, was in danger of being deported to Sierra Leone, an African country torn by violence and civil war. Since August, Mrs. Flake has been held at a deportation center in Illinois, far away from her children and husband of ten years.  