Violent Video Game Fact Sheet Washington--   A market research firm, the NPD Group, estimates that the holiday season accounts for roughly half of the video game industry's revenue.   83 percent of young people have a video game console at home, and 65 percent have two or more.  Violent video games have been found to increase violent adolescent behavior by 13 to 22 percent.  Boys who play Teen or Mature-rated games for a minimum of 40 minutes a day may witness over 180 incidents of aggression per day, or 5,400 incidents per month.  A meta-analysis of over 35 research studies that included over 4,000 participants found that playing violent video games significantly increases physiological arousal and feelings of anger or hostility, and significantly decreases pro-social helping behavior.   In July 2000, six of the nation's most respected public health groups, including the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Family Physicians, found that viewing entertainment violence can lead to increases in aggressive attitudes and behaviors, particularly in children.  Exposure to media violence increases both short and long term aggressive behavior.  Exposure to media violence increases heart rates and other sensory activities that are associated with dominant behavior.  People who learn new aggressive behaviors will likely reenact them almost immediately afterward if they are in a similar situation.  An Iowa State University Study found that heavy game players become desensitized to aggression and violence.  Researchers at the University of Toledo have found that video game violence has a stronger effect on kids than violence in movies does because of the games are interactive and require the player to identify with the aggressor.   When comparing violent media from violent video games, researchers discovered that video game play resulted in lower empathy for the victim of violence.  The two top video games sold in 2004 were rated 'M' (Mature).  A 2004 Federal Trade Commission (FTC) study reported that 69 percent of children under 17 were able to purchase 'M' rated games.  87 percent of boys under the age of 17 have played 'M' rated games. (National Institute on Media and the Family)  86 percent of all African American females in violent video games are victims of violence.  The most common role for women in violent video games is a prostitute.   