Bayh Makes Stops Across Indiana to Discuss Legislation to Restrict Access to Violent Video Games Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh did a state-wide tour of Indiana this week to gather support for legislation he is developing to prevent children from purchasing violent video games meant for adults. Nearly half of all video games are sold between Thanksgiving and Christmas, making the next several weeks especially crucial for alerting parents to the dangers of violent games. At his press conference, Bayh outlined the impact violent games can have on children and announced plans to introduce legislation he is drafting with several Senate colleagues to address the problem when the Senate returns to session next year.  Parents are doing everything they can today to provide their children with the tools they need to succeed in life, but they can't be everywhere at once, Senator Bayh said. Right now, it's too easy for children to purchase violent video games that are meant for adults. When the Senate returns to work next year, I hope to introduce legislation with my colleagues that will help parents draw a line against the violence that their children see. According to a study by the Federal Trade Commission, 69 percent of unaccompanied children ages 13 to 16 years old were able to purchase M-rated games in 2004. These games are filled with violent images, strong language, and sexual content. In just 40 minutes, a player can witness more than 180 acts of violence while playing a mature-rated game. Violent games have been linked to increasing feelings of aggressive behavior in children and decreasing feelings of empathy toward victims of violence. Among the options being considered as part of Bayh's legislation is a plan to bar minors from purchasing M-rated games and to fine stores that refuse to follow the rules. Video game ratings operate similarly to movie ratings, and include ratings such as M (Mature) on video games meant for players 17 years and older and AO (Adults Only) on video games meant for players 18 and older. Currently, only 50 percent of stores report that they train employees in the use of video game ratings. Parents need to learn about the games their children are playing now, but they should also be able to rely on stores to obey the guidelines on the violent game labels to keep them away from our children, Senator Bayh said.  