Bayh Urges President to Fully Fund Pandemic Preparedness Efforts Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined 31 of his Senate colleagues in urging President Bush to include full funding for the nation's pandemic flu preparedness efforts in his budget for the coming year, which is expected to be announced next week. In a letter, the 32 Senators outlined the dangers posed by a widespread flu outbreak and called on the President to make pandemic preparedness a national priority. "Our nation remains dangerously unprepared to address this looming threat," Bayh and his colleagues wrote in their letter. "We are not dedicating enough resources to the global surveillance and preparedness activities that will allow us to prevent, detect or contain an outbreak of avian flu We hope that you will agree that the serious and growing threat of an influenza pandemic requires swift action and should be made a top priority in your budget." Last year, the Senate approved $8 billion in emergency funding for pandemic preparedness, yet the final legislation passed by Congress included only $3.8 billion to address the threat of a flu pandemic. Bayh and his colleagues emphasized in their letter that this amount fell far short of providing the country with the funding it needs to adequately prepare for such an outbreak. They cited global surveillance, vaccine manufacturing, hospital capacity, and the stockpiling of antivirals as just some of the important efforts that lack the full funding needed to ensure that our country is prepared in the case of a flu pandemic. The Senate legislation, which Bayh co-sponsored, would have provided funding for all of these efforts. Avian flu, also known as the bird flu, is a virus spread by chickens, ducks and other birds that has surfaced primarily in Southeast Asia. Humans infected with avian flu thus far have caught the disease from infected birds, however, experts predict that it is only a matter of time before the virus mutates and can be passed from human to human. Leading flu experts say the world is long overdue for a flu outbreak, and with no previous exposure to the disease, humans will be especially susceptible to avian flu. In a matter of weeks, an outbreak in Asia could trigger a world-wide pandemic spread by international travel and globalization, making it especially important that the United States begin planning for such an emergency today. Since first introducing his Flu Protection Act in January 2004, Bayh has repeatedly called on the administration to improve the nation's ability to respond to a potential vaccine shortage or flu pandemic. Among his efforts, Bayh has introduced or supported legislation to increase funding for purchasing antivirals, to encourage greater vaccine production in the United States, and to create a national director's position to oversee the country's pandemic preparedness work.  