Bayh Offers Senate Resolution to Lower Foreign Trade Barriers on U.S. Goods Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today introduced a resolution in the Senate calling for the World Trade Organization (WTO) to lower trade barriers on manufactured goods. Currently, foreign countries maintain much higher tariffs and non-tariff barriers on U.S. goods than the United States imposes on imported products, creating an unequal playing field that hurts U.S. workers and manufacturing companies. Bayh took action today in response to the WTO's continued failure to reach a decision on the issue, as the organization once again extended the deadline for a decision originally expected at the end of April.  Hoosier workers and companies can compete against anyone in the world, but they shouldn't be forced to do so with one hand tied behind their backs, Senator Bayh, a member of the Senate Manufacturing Caucus, said. While the WTO waits, U.S. workers are left facing unfair foreign tariffs that hurt their efforts to succeed in the global marketplace. My resolution urges the WTO to create a fairer system, where such exaggerated tariffs are reduced or eliminated outright. The average WTO-established rate of tariffs that foreign countries place on manufactured goods coming from the United States is nearly 40 percent. However, the average tariff that the United States imposes on similar goods imported here is only 3.2 percent. In addition, 38 percent of imported goods are allowed in the country duty-free. Bayh's resolution seeks to equalize this difference and targets products and sectors likely to bolster U.S. exports. As a member of the National Association of Manufacturers-supported 'Zero Tariff Coalition' -- and in the interest of trade equity -- The American Iron and Steel Institute supports Senator Bayh's resolution regarding the NAMA negotiations' need to address the elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers. The lopsided tariff structure is contributing to unsustainable trade deficits. In addition, increased market access and freedom from export controls are important both to American steel producers and to our manufacturing customers. While strong remedies against unfair trade must always be preserved and enforced, removing barriers to free and fair trade is an important goal for the U.S. steel industry, said Andrew G. Sharkey, III, President and CEO of the American Iron and Steel Institute. Frank Vargo, the Vice President for International Economic Affairs at the National Association of Manufacturers, also spoke in favor of Bayh's work: The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) is pleased that Senator Bayh's resolution insists that to be considered a success by the United States, the Doha Round must achieve significant cuts in the tariff rates foreign countries apply to U.S. manufactured goods exports. His resolution targets our core objectives in the Doha Round, and is timely support for our manufactured goods exports - which comprise 87 percent of all U.S. merchandise exports. The timing of Senator Bayh's resolution is designed to ensure that a decision on trade barriers to manufactured goods is not delayed again. If adopted by the Senate, Bayh's resolution would send a clear signal to WTO negotiators that they must focus on providing greater fairness for American workers in the global marketplace. Since March 2001, the manufacturing sector has lost approximately 2.6 million jobs, accounting for nearly 90 percent of the total U.S. jobs lost, even though manufacturing employment makes up 14 percent of the U.S. workforce. This trend has hit Hoosiers particularly hard, as Indiana has the largest percentage of manufacturing workers than any other state.  