Bayh, Clyburn Demand Answers on Wasteful Pentagon Spending Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh and Congressman James E. Clyburn (D-SC) today called on the Pentagon to explain reports of wasteful spending during a time when the nation is facing mounting debts and U.S. troops still lack the basic equipment they need to stay safe in Iraq and Afghanistan. Bayh and Clyburn wrote the Director of the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) to demand answers to a Knight Ridder investigation on outrageous overspending at the Pentagon, including spending $20 for an 89 cent ice cube tray.  This kind of reckless spending is a perfect example of government waste, Senator Bayh said. It is especially inexcusable in light of our current budget situation and our continued efforts to provide our troops with much-needed equipment in Iraq. Wasteful spending is bad enough, but during a time of war, it literally becomes a matter of life and death, and it must be stopped. I am proud to say that it was a South Carolina National Guard unit that flatly refused to go on a suicide delivery mission in Iraq because its vehicles and personnel didn't have the armor they needed to withstand insurgent attacks, Congressman Clyburn said. How do I respond to these soldiers when I am asked why the Pentagon could spend $20 on ice cube trays while they were attaching scrap metal to their vehicles for protection? I want answers. In October, the Seattle Times and several other papers across the country ran articles based on the Knight Ridder investigation detailing millions of dollars in overspending by the Pentagon department in charge of purchasing basic, food-related items. The article pointed to a new prime-vendor purchasing system as the main cause for the overspending and noted that the new program has cost taxpayers 20 percent more than the old system for items such as coffee makers and ice cube trays. Under the new system, the Pentagon purchases from middle-men who set the prices for goods, instead of buying directly from manufacturers or seeking competitive bids, resulting in overcharges such as the $81 bill for a $20 coffeemaker. In their letter, Bayh and Clyburn ask the DLA to explain why the Pentagon is paying so much more for basic items and what advantages the new prime-vendor system offers, if any. With every $20 ice tray, the Pentagon throws away money that could be used to purchase body armor or other equipment for our troops, Senator Bayh said. We owe it to them and the American taxpayers to correct this problem as soon as possible.  