Senate Passes Legislation To Improve Quality of Pediatric Health Care Washington-- The United States Senate last night passed legislation to significantly improve the quality of childrens health care in hospitals and medical facilities nationwide by approving bipartisan pediatric quality legislation proposed by U.S. Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN), Orin Hatch (R-Utah) and Blanche Lincoln (D-AR).  Provisions focused on developing and testing quality measures for childrens health care were included in the $35 billion Childrens Health Insurance Program (CHIP) bill that passed the Senate late Thursday by a vote of 68-31. The CHIP reauthorization included provisions that require the federal government to help develop and test procedures and practices that will be shared with health care providers nationally to ensure children are getting the highest quality care. As parents, when we take our children to the doctor, we all want the assurance that the doctor has the latest and best resources at his or her fingertips, Senator Bayh said. This bill takes significant steps in ensuring a level of accountability in the type of care our children are getting in hospitals, doctors offices and clinics across this country. Our pediatric quality measure ensures that every additional dollar authorized for childrens health care is a dollar spent on the best care available. All parents want to be able to find the best care available when their children need it, Senator Lincoln said. Currently, federal resources are focused primarily on measures tested and applied to adults, not children. Our proposal closes the gap between the federal governments support of measures designed for adults versus those for pediatric health care. Its a necessary investment that will improve the care our nations children receive. Children deserve not only improved access to care, but access to quality care, Senator Hatch said. Right now, we dont have the tools necessary to assess and improve childrens health care. This bill would give us those tools. Its time to make the same commitment to quality measurement and improvement in childrens health care that we have made for adults through Medicare for years. Currently, most private and public support for health care quality improvement is focused on care given to adults through the Medicare program. The provisions that were included in the CHIP bill, if enacted, will provide $45 million over five years to invest in the development and testing of quality measures for childrens health care.  In addition to providing this funding, the bill would make it possible for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to fund demonstrations of evidence-based approaches to improve hospital care for children. The bill also would fund demonstrations of model programs in pediatric health information technology and disease management. CMS currently lacks the explicit authority and resources to provide the level of support required for the development of pediatric measures for children in both Medicaid and CHIP, as do individual state Medicaid and CHIP programs. Senate passage of the bipartisan compromise to reauthorize CHIP is an enormous step toward reauthorization of the program as well as the establishment of federal authority and resources for the development and use of quality measures to improve childrens health care, said Lawrence A. McAndrews, president and CEO, National Association of Childrens Hospitals.  