Evan Bayh Kicks-Off Marion Job Fair, Job Training and Small Business Summit Marion, IN-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh came to Marion today with his sights set squarely on helping area residents succeed in today's economy. Bayh brought together local job-seekers with companies looking to hire and organizations that offer job training, and he connected local entrepreneurs with experts who can offer assistance in starting and growing small businesses. Co-sponsors for the Marion Job Fair, Job Training and Small Business Summit include the Marion/Grant County Chamber of Commerce, WorkOne, Ivy Tech State College, the Tucker Career and Technology Center, Marion Community Schools, the Grant County Workforce Investment Service, the Grant County Economic Growth Council, the Possibility Network, the Small Business Development Center and the City of Marion.  For the second annual Job Fairs, Job Training and Small Business Summits, Bayh added a stop in Marion, where he said the summit would act like a shot in the arm to speed up the state's economic recovery by growing Indiana's economy one job and one business at a time. Bayh brought together 20 area companies seeking to fill more than 140 jobs for the Marion job fair and hosted a series of workshops designed to provide entrepreneurs with practical tools to expand their business. This year, Bayh added an important new component to the job fairs by including organizations that offer job training. Hoosiers attending the job fair could meet with representative from local universities, trade programs, and not-for-profits to learn ways to improve their work skills to apply for new, higher-paying jobs in addition to jobs at their level of training. Each time someone finds a job, starts a business or expands their business, they are building a brighter economic future for Indiana, Senator Bayh said. Small businesses are the engines of economic development and job training is the key to providing individuals with greater economic opportunities. I'm working hard to ensure that all Hoosiers - job seekers and entrepreneurs - have every tool they need to succeed. Bayh also announced that he will introduce legislation next month designed specifically to assist small businesses, called the Small Business Growth Initiative. With this package of legislation, Bayh will take on the main challenges faced by Hoosier entrepreneurs in order to create a better environment for growing businesses and creating jobs. Among the steps called for in his Small Business Growth Initiative, Bayh outlines plans to increase access to capital by providing greater funding for the Small Business Administration's loan program; to fight back against the soaring costs of health care by providing a 50% small business health care tax credit; and to encourage long-term small business investments by extending tax incentives for entrepreneurs hoping to expand their business through the purchase of new equipment or software. Bayh's legislation will also include a tax credit for worker training. Despite current difficulties like the rising costs of health care and limits on capital, small businesses create three out of every four new jobs nationwide, Senator Bayh said. Imagine what Indiana's small businesses will be capable of when they have some support in facing these challenges. On my first day back in Washington, I will introduce legislation that will help thousands of hardworking, middle-class families that own or work at Indiana's small businesses by introducing legislation designed to help them continuing growing their business and Indiana's economy. During the summit, Bayh praised OmniCronix as a local small business success story. Kevin Fitzpatrick, one of the owners of OmniCronix, used an SBA loan to purchase equipment that would allow them to manufacture the prototypes, helping expand business and offer greater services to its clients. OmniCronix helps companies update and improve existing electronic parts in their products by building and testing proto-types for them. As a result of the loan, the company was able to expand its business and offer greater services to its clients. OmniCronix currently employs 26 area Hoosiers, but hopes to double its workforce by 2006 to keep up with its increase in business. Workshops at the summit covered practical topics including: business basics, how to access capital, how to export your goods and services, and how to sell more goods and services to the government. At the Job Fair, Job Training and Small Business Summit, companies with more than 140 job openings met with job seekers looking for work in the Marion area. There are more than 3,400 job openings available at the summits across the state. Local business leaders, government officials, and organizations that cater to small businesses also led workshops at the summit for local entrepreneurs interested in starting or growing their small businesses. Since joining the Senate Small Business Committee last year, Bayh has authored legislation to increase the amount of money small business manufacturers can borrow from $2 million to $4 million and has tripled the amount of new investments that small businesses can write off, providing entrepreneurs with the capital they need to stay competitive and successfully expand their businesses. According to Indiana's Certified Development Companies (CDC's), this legislation would help create 200 to 400 new jobs each year. Bayh has also called for increased funding for a widely-popular program that helps small manufacturers compete in today's global economy. The MEP program is responsible for creating or securing 1,300 Hoosier jobs in the past two years alone.  