Hearing Statement on Reforming Key International Financial Institutions for the 21st Century Washington-- Chairman Evan Bayh (D-IN) made the following opening statement today at a hearing of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on Security and International Trade and Finance:  I want to thank our chairman, the banking committee chairman, Senator Dodd, whose assistance in arranging the hearing and for his support in looking into these important matters. I also want to recognize the leadership of Senators Biden and Menendez on the foreign relations committee. We almost have a hybrid hearing here today, weve had this experience with the full banking committee yesterday focusing on some aspects of global trade with the joint jurisdiction between the finance committee and the banking committee. Today we have the banking committee and the foreign relations committee. So Im fully respectful of their leadership, their jurisdictional rights, and look forward to cooperating and working with them on these important issues. I want to thank them also for their focus on todays hearing. We have Senator Martinez, my colleague and friend, the ranking Minority leader, with us today, and also Senator Casey, and I appreciate your forbearance during my testimony the other day before the foreign relations committee. You were very kind to share that very important hearing, and I hope it went well after I left. What I would like to do is make some brief comments of my own, then look to Mel and Bob for their comments, then look to our panelists and call them in order. For your oral comments, try to make them five minutes, give or take. The full written statements that youve submitted will be submitted in their entirety. Please dont be Senatorial in the length of your remarks, well try and be a little briefer than that here today. We will then go to questions and alternate amongst members of the committee who are here, well try to keep our questions to five minutes, and if we need a second round then we will do that. Let me give my own brief remarks, then I will turn to Senator Menendez. Almost exactly 63 years ago, some of the worlds most celebrated economists gathered in Brenton Woods, New Hampshire to design a system of trade, monetary policy, and development that would prevent the catastrophic events that led to the Great Depression and World War II from occurring. Then Secretary of State Cordell Hall, Economist John Maynard Keynes, and other luminaries articulated policies on trade, monetary policy, and poverty alleviation and created an international architecture to promote those policies. Today we gather with some notable experts of our own to ask whether these lofty objectives achievements can be achieved or are being achieved, and whether the structure established to promote them is working well, or whether fundamental reform is in order to achieve these objectives within the context of the 21st century.  Since Rodrigo Dorado will be leaving his post as director of the International Monetary Fund, this is an opportune time to take a close look at this institution, its effectiveness, and whether reforms will be needed. Yesterday the banking committee took an initial step toward dealing with the problem of exchange rate manipulation domestically. Today we have an opportunity to discuss what relevant international financial institutions can be doing to address this issue. I think you can argue that an absence of multinational focus on this issue has left nations, such as our own, to deal with it unilaterally, and thats what we began to do during yesterdays banking committee with our brothers and sisters in the finance committee.  In recent years the IMF was able to help reestablish financial stability after crises in Asia and elsewhere. Today the IMF is working to define its purpose. The American public is more concerned about exchange rate manipulation than at any point in our history, and yet the IMF seems to be completely unable to address this problem. Chinas increasingly undervalued currency is a glaring reminder that the IMF is unable to manage international exchange rates, or if it is able, has so far been unwilling. The United States faces a dilemma on another issue, whether to grant increased voting rights in the IMF to countries that are apparently violating one of its primary tenets.  With regard to the World Bank, like the IMF, 2007 marks a shift in leadership. In June, the Bank welcomed former U.S. trade representative Robert Zoellick. The motto of the bank is Working for a World Free of Poverty. All nations should support that important objective. Unfortunately, like the IMF, the World Bank suffers from its own set of problems. Many believe that the bank is too willing to accept corruption as just another cost of doing business in certain countries, and has internal staff that resists effort to change. The question before us is whether the bank, as currently constituted, is a effective instrument for achieving the very noteworthy objective of poverty alleviation. The vast majority of the banks IBRD lending is in countries that no longer need the bank for development finance. What should the role of the public and private sectors be in such circumstances? The banks consideration of using country systems procurement directly conflicts with the direct wishes that the United States Senate has expressed in previous votes. What should be done about that?  Accountability, apparently, is all too often broken down, whether for bad lending decisions or for evaluating performance based on results rather than a volume of loans which have been approved. Success, all too often, appears to be defined by the volume of activity, rather than the amount of poverty actually alleviated. These are some of the important questions weve gathered to explore today. Were fortunate to have a distinguished group of panelists, which Ive mentioned, but before we turn to them, Id like to give my colleagues an opportunity for their perspective. Senator Martinez, well begin with you.   