Bayh Urges Pentagon to End Patriot Penalty Washington-- Coming on the heels of reports that the National Guard and Reserves are unable to meet their recruitment quotas, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today pushed military leaders to support his plan to end the Patriot Penalty, a pay cut many Guard and Reserve members face when called to active duty, as a way to strengthen our future forces. During a Senate Armed Services hearing today, Bayh urged Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Richard Myers to remove the financial disincentive that is hurting Guard families and straining our nation's military reserves.  I had a conversation just last week with a bankruptcy official in Indiana who was telling me about an alarming increase in the number of bankruptcies by military families, particularly reservists and guardsmen and women who had been called up for extended periods of time and had found themselves unable to meet their mortgage payments and health care bills, forcing many of these families into bankruptcy, Senator Bayh said during the hearing. I've referred to the pay cut that many of them take as the Patriot Penalty. Some of our businesses are willing to step forward and make this up, but many can't afford to do that. I would like to ask if you would be willing to take a look at this issue and the legislation I've proposed to address it because many of these families are under great financial distress. It's frankly heartbreaking to think that they're being forced into bankruptcy while they're putting their lives on the line for our country and the cause of freedom. According to a Pentagon study, more than 40 percent of all Reservists reported a loss in income when they are called up for active duty, though the impact is likely much higher today, given the longer and more frequent deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan. Reservists whose families face financial hardship during their deployment may be less likely to re-enlist as a result of the Patriot Penalty. Reservists make up nearly half of the forces on the ground in Iraq, making their future strength essential to maintaining U.S. military power. However, according to today's New York Times, Lt. Gen. Roger C. Schultz, the chief of the Army National Guard, reported at a House Armed Services Committee hearing Wednesday that the Guard had met only 56 percent of its quota in January. Ending the Patriot Penalty would make service in the National Guard and Reserves a more attractive choice by removing concerns over pay for those now contemplating service to their country, helping stem the recent recruitment losses. When many National Guard or Reserve members are called to active duty, they are forced to give up their civilian salary and benefits in exchange for deployment salary, which often results in a significant pay cut and financial hardship for the members and their families. The loss in income creates an immediate, additional burden on families struggling with the absence of a loved one, making it more difficult to pay bills and buy groceries. Bayh's proposal would end the Patriot Penalty by fully compensating 99 percent of the guard or reserve members who have suffered a pay cut while serving their country and help ensure that no one serving will face a pay cut in the future. The legislation would provide a tax credit of up to $15,000 a year for companies already doing the right thing by paying the salary difference for their guard member-employees and would offer a direct payment to Reservists whose companies cannot or will not make up the difference, up to $50,000 a year.   