Bayh, Clinton Call on Secretary Gates to Immediately Impose a One-Year Medical Extension for Troops with Traumatic Brain Injury Washington-- Building on their efforts to provide an immediate solution for soldiers suffering from Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI), U.S. Senators Evan Bayh and Hillary Rodham Clinton today sent a letter to Defense Secretary Gates, calling on him to issue a one-year medical extension to immediately resolve the discrepancy in TRICARE covered treatment options available to servicemembers who suffer from TBI.  After these soldiers have sacrificed so much for our country, we have a moral obligation to ensure that these deserving men and women receive the best care available, the Senators wrote in the letter. These soldiers cannot wait for the legislative process to play out, they need and deserve an immediate response from their government.  Currently, the TRICARE plan that is available to active duty service members permits them to receive coverage for cognitive therapy obtained in private non-military facilities. However, medical retirees do not have this health care coverage option. And although the VA has made clear progress in research and development of rehabilitation treatment for individuals who have incurred traumatic brain injuries, most VA medical facilities have not yet reached the level of private rehabilitation facilities, which have been developing cognitive treatment for the past thirty years. Consequently, severely injured TBI patients who transition from active duty to medically retired status face barriers in obtaining the critical care they desperately need.  As members of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Bayh and Senator Clinton recently introduced legislation to provide the option of a one year medical extension to allow soldiers suffering from TBI to retain active duty status, which provides them access to cognitive therapy in private rehabilitation hospitals and facilities. Most problems with care have occurred when soldiers suffering from TBI have been transferred from active duty status to medically retired, where they can no longer access private care centers and must receive treatment through the VA, which currently lacks the capability to provide long-term care for TBI patients on a national level.   