Bayh Joins Indy Racing League to Promote Greater Ethanol Use Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today praised the Indy Racing League's decision to use ethanol in its IndyCars at a press conference outside Union Station sponsored by the IRL. Bayh, a longtime advocate for ethanol, said the move sent a strong message about the benefits of using ethanol and that he hoped the IRL's decision would encourage more people to use renewable fuels.  With its decision to use ethanol as the fuel for the IndyCar series, the IRL is leading the way to encourage greater public use of renewable fuels, Senator Bayh said. After all, if a high performance vehicle running on ethanol can win the Brickyard, surely ethanol is good enough for the family minivan, too. Beginning in 2006, all IndyCars will race on an ethanol-blend before switching to a 100 percent ethanol fuel the following year. Ethanol, a non-toxic, biodegradable fuel, will deliver the same power drivers rely on today, only without harmful air pollution. Its high octane rating will allow engines to run even higher compression ratios by reducing detonation. Bayh, along with Senators Talent (R-MO) and Thune (R-SD), applauded the IRL's decision as a way to encourage greater public use of ethanol. Bayh has voted to support the renewable fuels standard several times in the Senate and has written many letters to the Energy Conference Committee in support of a renewable fuels standard. Ethanol is good for the environment, good for the economy, and good for our national security, Bayh said. Today's announcement sends a strong message that ethanol is the future for American energy. Indiana has long been the center of the race car world, setting the standard in racing for drivers and fans alike since the first Indianapolis 500 in 1911. With this decision, the Indy Racing League has set a new standard for better energy efficiency, encouraging industry and the public to match its support for renewable fuels such as ethanol. Sports personality Jack Arute and IndyCar driver Paul Dana were also on hand for today's announcement outside Washington's Union Station, as was Dana's #91 Ethanol Hemelgarn Racing IndyCar.  