Bayh Pushes to Improve Technology in Rural Hospitals Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh joined Senators Coleman (R-MN), Cornyn (R-TX), and Lugar (R-IN) to introduce legislation that would create a grant program to provide small, rural hospitals with better access to cutting-edge information technologies. A recent American Hospitals Association study showed that rural hospitals often cite cost as the major impediment to broadly implementing health information technologies. The Critical Access to Health Information Technology Act will ensure that Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs) - isolated rural hospitals with 24-hour emergency care services and 25 beds or fewer - have access to funds to modernize their systems. There are 28 Critical Access Hospitals in Indiana.  As breakthroughs in health care technologies continue to improve the quality of care provided to patients, it is our responsibility to make sure that every Hoosier -- regardless of where they live -- has access to cutting-edge health care services, Senator Bayh said. These grants will help rural hospitals implement new technologies that can dramatically improve care and save lives, giving more Hoosier families access to better health care. As advances in health care technologies continue to revolutionize the quality and efficiency of the health care system, it is critical that rural hospitals don't get left behind. The program Bayh introduced would create a grant program that would provide funding to states based on their number of CAHs. Critical Access Hospitals in each state would then be able to compete for this grant funding to invest in health information technology infrastructure, such as sophisticated health information systems that can monitor and transmit patient treatment data and other clinical decision support tools. These technologies can reduce medical errors, improve quality of care and bring down rising health care costs. In addition, the bill includes a provision that calls on the Department of Health and Human Services to ensure the prompt transition to the next generation of medical coding system (ICD-10). The new system will allow the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services to keep pace with changes in medical practice and technology by allowing for far more accurate and descriptive coding, billing and payment for procedures. Indiana's 28 Critical Access Hospitals are located in Bremen, Winchester, Hartford City, North Vernon, Rushville, Winamac, Paoli, Williamsport, Elwood, Brazil, Wabash, Tipton, Monticello, Rochester, Salem, Angola, Frankfort, Linton, Peru, Princeton, Portland, Huntingburg, Tell City, LaGrange, Rensselaer, Boonville, Clinton and Sullivan.  