Bayh, Harkin, Kohl, Obama Co-Sponsor Effort to Fully Fund Enforcement of Child Support Payments Washington-- U.S. Senators Evan Bayh, Tom Harkin (D-IA), Herb Kohl (D-WI), and Barack Obama (D-IL), today co-sponsored an amendment expressing the Sense of the Senate in support of maintaining funding for a federal program responsible for enforcing child support payments. The program is currently in danger of having its budget cut by 40 percent, despite its success in bringing back more than $4 in child support for every $1 spent on enforcement. "Parents who try to skip out on their responsibilities to their children should know that the government will make every effort to hold them accountable for their actions," Senator Bayh said. "Child support payments provide critical advantages to children and help ensure that they have a good start in life, while saving taxpayers millions of dollars. This program ensures that parents live up to their responsibilities and helps provide a brighter future for millions of children." Sixty percent of all children living apart from a parent receive child support payments as a result of the federal child support program, and 84 percent of low-income children depend on payments secured by the program. If funding for the enforcement program is cut as is currently suggested, children across the country would lose more than $24 billion in support payments over the next ten years, a loss that would likely increase reliance on services provided at taxpayer expense, such as Medicaid, food stamps and subsidized housing. In addition to the savings it represents to taxpayers, the federal child support program helps ensure a stronger start in life for millions of children across the country. Children who receive child support payments do better in school than those who do not receive payments and are more likely to attend college. Child support helps lift more than one million Americans out of poverty each year and makes it more likely for families to find and keep jobs. "The success of this program demands nothing less than our full support," Senator Bayh said. "Children deserve the full support of their parents, and we owe it to them to ensure they receive it." As governor of Indiana, Bayh launched a campaign against deadbeat parents, with wanted posters of the most egregious offenders posted throughout the state. As a result of his work, Bayh more than doubled the amount of overdue child support collected in Indiana from 1989 to 1995.  