Bayh Pushes for Small Business Aid in Hurricane Recovery Efforts Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh has co-sponsored legislation authored by Senators Olympia Snowe (R-ME), John Kerry (D-MA), David Vitter (R-LA) and Mary Landrieu (D-LA) that will help small businesses access the resources and support they need to recover from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, including extending some of the financial benefits offered to businesses hurt by the September 11th attacks to those impacted by hurricanes. By helping small businesses get back on their feet, the Small Business Hurricane Relief and Reconstruction Act of 2005 will help generate economic growth and bring much-needed jobs back to the disaster areas.  Small businesses are the engine of our economy and it is crucial that the businesses devastated by hurricanes have the support they need to get back on their feet, Senator Bayh said. If we are going to rebuild the Gulf Coast and jumpstart the local economies, we have to start by helping out the region's small businesses. Every company that is able to open for business means more Americans who can get back to work and help support their families. The Small Business Hurricane Relief and Reconstruction Act of 2005 is a comprehensive package that will assist small businesses damaged by Hurricane Katrina or Hurricane Rita. The legislation would make low-interest, flexible disaster loans more widely available to small businesses in affected areas by allowing for deferred payments, increased loan caps, and the refinancing of existing loans. In the wake of September 11th, Congress passed legislation that deferred payments on all Small Business Administration (SBA) disaster loans for a full year and increased the disaster loan cap from $1.5 million to $10 million. The legislation would extend those same benefits to the businesses impacted by the hurricanes. The legislation would also give greater flexibility to the Small Business Administration to provide disaster loans to any adversely impacted business and authorize increased funding for counseling and training for affected small businesses. In order to make sure that a substantial portion of the hurricane rebuilding funding goes to local firms and to provide incentives for businesses not to relocate, the Act sets contracting goals to ensure that local businesses receive reconstruction contracts. It also directs the SBA to create a contracting outreach program for small businesses located or willing to relocate in the Katrina and Rita disaster areas. As a member of the Small Business Committee, Senator Bayh understands how critical small businesses are to the economy and any economic recovery effort. In the Senate, he has championed legislation to make health care more affordable to small businesses, while pushing to lower taxes on small business investment.  