Bayh Defends Community Development Block Grants Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today urged the Senate Budget Committee to continue its commitment to strengthen communities across the country by supporting Community Development Block Grants, an initiative responsible for creating and protecting more than 1,600 Hoosier jobs within the past year. Bayh, along with 54 other senators from both sides of the aisle, wrote to the Chairman and Ranking members of the Senate Budget Committee to request that funding for the block grants be maintained, based on the program's track record of creating jobs, helping families, and strengthening communities.  Community Development Block Grants are one of the most effective tools we have to help working and middle class families achieve the American Dream, Senator Bayh said. Reducing the deficit must be a top priority, but we should target wasteful spending and other inefficiencies instead of undermining our ability to create jobs and strengthen communities. The letter sent to Senators Gregg (R-NH) and Conrad (D-ND) emphasized the impact the block grants have on local communities by helping to rehabilitate low-income neighborhoods. The letter also argues against oversight changes that would threaten the program's effective, tailored approach that helps it meet each community's specific needs. Under President Bush's proposed budget, funding for Community Development Block Grants would be severely reduced, cut from $4.7 billion to $3.7 billion, which would first be split amongst 16 other groups. In addition, oversight of the block grants would be moved from the Department of Housing and Urban Development to the Department of Commerce, an unnecessary move that would likely slow the distribution of the block grants, as the new department would lack the training and manpower needed to oversee the project. For hardworking Hoosiers trying to make a better life for themselves and their families, these block grants offer the training and support needed to find a good job or buy a house, Senator Bayh said. It's a win-win situation, providing families with a chance to earn a steady paycheck and strengthening neighborhoods by fostering the sense of pride that comes with owning your own home. In Indiana, the President's budget would cut in half the support many communities depend on to help lower-income families through job training workshops, neighborhood associations and other community-building efforts. Nationwide, Community Development Block Grants are responsible for creating or retaining more than 90,000 jobs during FY2004. The grants helped more than 13.3 million low-income Americans find better jobs and purchase homes.  