Bayh Introduces Amendment Requiring Monthly Reports on Iraq Progress Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh went to the Senate floor today to introduce an amendment to the Department of Defense appropriations bill that will require the Pentagon and the CIA to report to Congress and the American people once a month on progress made on a specific set of benchmarks the generals outlined during an Armed Services Committee hearing last week. Bayh argued that his plan would bring accountability and candor to a process that is increasingly viewed with skepticism by the American people. "Successful execution of any plan includes two things that have been lacking thus far -- accountability and candor," Senator Bayh said. "My amendment brings both of these elements into the administration's war effort. The amendment requires the Pentagon and the CIA to report to Congress and the American people once a month on their progress on the strategy and how it is faring based on the measurements they have outlined to determine success." Bayh's amendment would require the Pentagon and the CIA to report to Congress once a month on their progress on a strategy originally outlined by Generals Casey and Abizaid last week. The Generals would report on U.S. progress in Iraq based on the benchmarks they established. Bayh's amendment also encourages the administration to share these goals with the American people, when possible, in order to maintain public support for our effort. Last week, during an Armed Services Committee hearing, General Casey told Bayh and others that "we have a strategy and a plan for success in Iraq." The Generals outlined seven metrics that they are using to determine their success, based on the following categories: overall readiness assessment, personnel, command and control, training, sustainment/ logistics, equipment, and leadership. "It's their strategy, their benchmarks and if they are not being met, the administration should explain why," Senator Bayh said. "If no adequate explanation exists, those responsible must be held accountable. That's the way you'd run any business, any state, and that's the least we can expect in waging a war." In addition to this amendment, Bayh also spoke about the need to provide our troops with armored vehicles in Iraq and to support military families facing financial difficulties at home. Bayh has introduced amendments to address these needs, including: an amendment to rebuild the Army's stocks of up-armored Humvees and other armored vehicles used for cargo and troop transportation; an amendment to eliminate the Patriot Penalty, the pay cut faced by Guard and Reserve members when they leave their civilian jobs for active duty service; and an amendment to protect military families that are threatened with eviction or foreclosure in violation of existing laws.  