Bayh Pushes to Make Troops' Calls Home More Affordable Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined a bipartisan coalition of senators in co-sponsoring legislation that would make it easier and more affordable for our troops stationed overseas to call their loved ones back home. The Call Home Act of 2006, introduced by Senator Ted Stevens (R-AK), is designed to reduce the financial burden of servicemembers who are increasingly deployed overseas for increasing periods of time. "Unfortunately, the high cost of calling home puts regular phone calls to loved ones out of the question for many of our brave servicemen and women who are protecting America overseas," Senator Bayh said. "Calls to friends and family are often an important source of comfort and support for our troops stationed abroad, and this legislation is aimed at reducing the financial burden that often make those calls impossible. Helping our troops stay connected to their families while they serve America around the world is the least we can do to honor their service and sacrifice." More and more members of the military, especially those in the junior enlisted ranks, are not able to afford expensive calls from overseas to their families in part because of high rates, limited technology and surcharges that foreign governments often impose on international telephone calls. Additionally, as deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan become longer and more frequent, these troops are forced to go for longer periods of time without calling home. The Call Home Act is supported by a bipartisan coalition of 42 senators and would direct the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to find ways to reduce the cost of calling home by evaluating and analyzing the costs of calls to and from official duty stations. The legislation also would require the FCC to evaluate methods of reducing rates through new technology and would encourage phone companies to adopt flexible billing procedures for calls to and from Armed Forces personnel and negotiate agreements with foreign governments to reduce surcharges on international calls. Additionally, the legislation would prohibit the FCC from regulating rates in order to carry out the other provisions of the act. Protecting the economic security of American troops fighting overseas has been a priority for Senator Bayh since the beginning of the war on terror. Last year, the Senate passed an amendment based on legislation Bayh introduced to fully compensate Guard or Reserve members who suffer a pay cut while serving their country and help ensure that no one serving will face a pay cut in the future. Senator Bayh also introduced two amendments to protect military families who are facing foreclosure, eviction or loan default due to financial hardship because of military service, which were passed as part of the Department of Defense Authorization Act of 2005.  