Evan Bayh Kicks-Off Lafayette Job Fair, Job Training and Small Business Summit Lafayette, IN-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh came to Lafayette today with his sights set squarely on helping area residents succeed in today's economy. Bayh brought together local job-seekers with companies looking to hire and organizations that offer job training, and he connected local entrepreneurs with experts who can offer assistance in starting and growing small businesses. Co-sponsors for the Lafayette Job Fair, Job Training and Small Business Summit include WorkOne, the Possibility Network, the Greater Lafayette SBDC, the Tecumseh Area Workforce Investment Board, and Ivy Tech State College.  At the Job Fair, Job Training and Small Business Summit in Lafayette, Bayh said the summits would act like a shot in the arm to speed up the state's economic recovery by growing Indiana's economy one job and one business at a time. Bayh brought together more than 27 area companies seeking to fill more than 280 jobs for the Lafayette job fair and hosted a series of workshops designed to provide entrepreneurs with practical tools to expand their business. This year, Bayh added an important new component to the job fairs by including organizations that offer job training. Hoosiers attending the job fair could meet with representative from local universities, trade programs, and not-for-profits to learn ways to improve their work skills to apply for new, higher-paying jobs in addition to jobs at their level of training. Each time someone finds a job, starts a business or expands their business, they are building a brighter economic future for Indiana, Senator Bayh said. Small businesses are the engines of economic development and job training is the key to providing individuals with greater economic opportunities. I'm working hard to ensure that all Hoosiers - job seekers and entrepreneurs - have every tool they need to succeed. Bayh also announced that he will introduce legislation next month designed specifically to assist small businesses, called the Small Business Growth Initiative. With this package of legislation, Bayh will take on the main challenges faced by Hoosier entrepreneurs in order to create a better environment for growing businesses and creating jobs. Among the steps called for in his Small Business Growth Initiative, Bayh outlines plans to increase access to capital by providing greater funding for the Small Business Administration's loan program; to fight back against the soaring costs of health care by providing a 50% small business health care tax credit; and to encourage long-term small business investments by extending tax incentives for entrepreneurs hoping to expand their business through the purchase of new equipment or software. Bayh's legislation will also include a tax credit for worker training. Despite current difficulties like the rising costs of health care and limits on capital, small businesses create three out of every four new jobs nationwide, Senator Bayh said. Imagine what Indiana's small businesses will be capable of when they have some support in facing these challenges. On my first day back in Washington, I will introduce legislation that will help thousands of hardworking, middle-class families that own or work at Indiana's small businesses by introducing legislation designed to help them continuing growing their business and Indiana's economy. During the summit, Bayh praised Griffin Analytical Technologies as a local small business success story. David Shelby, a vice president at Griffin, spoke about how the company uses Small Business Research and Innovation contracts to hire more scientists and purchase more high-tech equipment to produce portable mass spectrometers for faster identification of explosives and potential chemical weapons. Last year, Griffin was able to hire five employees, and plans to hire another ten this coming year. Workshops at the summit covered practical topics including: business basics, how to access capital, how to export your goods and services, and how to sell more goods and services to the government. At the Job Fair, Job Training and Small Business Summit, companies with more than 280 job openings met with job seekers looking for work in the Lafayette area. There are more than 3,400 job openings available at the summits across the state. Local business leaders, government officials, and organizations that cater to small businesses also led workshops at the summit for local entrepreneurs interested in starting or growing their small businesses. Since joining the Senate Small Business Committee last year, Bayh has authored legislation to increase the amount of money small business manufacturers can borrow from $2 million to $4 million and has tripled the amount of new investments that small businesses can write off, providing entrepreneurs with the capital they need to stay competitive and successfully expand their businesses. According to Indiana's Certified Development Companies (CDC's), this legislation would help create 200 to 400 new jobs each year. Bayh has also called for increased funding for a widely-popular program that helps small manufacturers compete in today's global economy. The MEP program is responsible for creating or securing 1,300 Hoosier jobs in the past two years alone. For more information on the Evan Bayh Job Fairs, Job Training and Small Business Summits, including all summit schedules, please visit Senator Bayh's website at www.bayh.senate.gov. Information for job seekers, small business owners and the media will be updated daily.  