Bayh's Interview by Wolf Blitzer on Nomination of Robert Gates to Secretary of Defense       WOLF BLITZER: Welcome back. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Evan Bayh joined in the questioning today of Defense Secretary Nominee Robert Gates. Joining us now is United States Senator Evan Bayh.  Senator Bayh, will you vote to confirm Robert Gates as the next Secretary of Defense? SENATOR EVAN BAYH: Yes, Wolf, I will. He impressed me as being more candid more open minded and more realistic than what weve been seeing out of this administration the past few years; but that said, just changing the faces at the Pentagon is not enough.  We need a new policy, and that depends on whats going on in the Presidents mind. Im not convinced that the President quite yet understands what needs to be done in Iraq. BLITZER: But you have to give the President some credit for bringing in Gates.  He said he wanted a fresh pair of eyes and some new thinking because, clearly, theyre not very happy with whats happening on the ground. BAYH: Yes, thats right. And that is a step in the right direction, but the question ultimately is whether he listen to the counsel that hes receiving, and so far he has not. Stephen Hadley had a memo leaked about his concerns about al-Maliki; the president says hes the right man for the job. Even Rumsfeld on the way out was suggesting there were other options which the President dismissed as unrealistic.  So the question is: Gates is a good man, he may have some good ideas, but will the president listen? Time will tell. BLITZER: Gates acknowledged today that the United States is not winning in Iraq. Do you believe the United States is losing in Iraq? BAYH: Things arent going nearly as well as they need to, Wolf. Nearly 13,000 Iraqis have died in the past four months. Thats the equivalent of 150,000 Americans dying in a four month period. So clearly theres not the kind of stability there necessary for things to go well. BLITZER: Well whose fault is that? BAYH:  Prime Minister al-Maliki indicated that its the politicians in Baghdads fault and hes right. Look, this will not be solved in Washington. It can only be solved in Iraq, and it will not be solved by Americans, including the President of the United States.  It can only be solved by Iraqis.  Are they willing to make the hard choices necessary to live in one country? Can they begin to think as Iraqis first and not as Sunnis, Shiias and Kurds?  Its not clear that they can, and thats what needs to be done. BLITZER: What is the single most important thing you would like to see President Bush do right now? BAYH: I think announcing that we are not going to stay in Iraq forever.  Saying that we are going to create a flexible-- emphasis on flexible-- timeline for bringing our presence there to closure would be a wakeup call to the Iraqi leadership and might be a catalyst for them to do what only they can do. Weve tried for three years telling them that were going to stay the course, were with them, reassuring them, and it simply has not worked. I think a wakeup call like that might get them to make the hard choices to try and stabilize that country. BLITZER: Now has the President done anything right as far as Iraq is concerned? BAYH:  There has been a long log of things that have not gone well. Im sure there are things he has done right in Iraq, Wolf, but its hard for me to think of one on top of my mind. But this latest statement that he wants a fresh set of eyes: lets hope thats a sincere willingness to take a fresh look.  As I said in the hearing today, Wolf, deciding to alter course need not be a sign of weakness.  In fact, it can be a sign of intelligence that will strengthen the country and help to promote our national security. Im afraid the president and those who advise him are so afraid of looking weak that they persist in a policy that no longer makes sense, thereby weakening the country, even though they personally continue to look steadfast. Thats not what our country needs. BLITZER: Watching the hearing today, I saw amongst the senators there yourself, Senator Clinton and Senator John McCain. I assume you disagree with Senator McCain on needing 50,000 more troops in Iraq. You wouldnt support that, would you? BAYH: No, I would not. I agree with Senator McCain that having more troops initially would have been very important, and the failure to do that was one of the reasons that things have gone so poorly; but at this juncture, adding more American troops is not the answer. The Iraqis have to step up; they have to solve this.  Thats where we need to focus. BLITZER: Senator Bayh, thanks very much for stopping by.  BAYH: Thank you, Wolf.  