Armed Services Committee Passes Bayh Amendment Calling for New Approach to DoD's Strategic Military Planning Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Senate Armed Services Committee had passed his amendment calling for a new approach to the Department of Defense's strategic military planning process by requiring the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) includes specific weapon-systems recommendations, risk-based analysis and an independent assessment of the Pentagon's conclusions. Bayh's amendment, which was adopted by the Senate Armed Services Committee in its mark-up of the FY2007 National Defense Authorization bill, will help reform the QDR process to ensure that America's weapons match today's security threats.  In a post-9/11 world, our military strategy has been transformed the meet the new security threats to the American people, Senator Bayh said. However, to implement those strategies, we need to make sure we have the right weapon systems. By requiring the Quadrennial Defense Review to outline the specific weapons necessary to achieve our defense strategy, we can help ensure that our military has the weapon platforms that it needs to meet the security threats of the 21st century. Every four years, the Department of Defense (DoD) is required to release a QDR, which outlines America's national defense strategy and analyzes strategic defense objectives and potential military threats. Because DoD is not required to give guidance on the specific weapon systems and platforms necessary to achieve its military objectives, it has avoided making such decisions, leaving them up to members of Congress and officials at the Pentagon. The 2006 QDR addressed the new strategic environment but failed to provide a road-map for the numbers and types of military platforms needed to defeat transnational threats and win against non-traditional adversaries. Bayh's amendment would strengthen the QDR process by requiring a fundamental reassessment of the QDR process so that future versions give concrete recommendations on the numbers and types of weapon systems and platforms necessary to achieve the QDR's objectives. Bayh's amendment also calls for an analysis of the QDR from the perspective of our enemies and that those results be reported to Congress. In addition, Bayh's amendment requests a more comprehensive risk assessment from the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that includes a description of the capabilities necessary to reduce the risks that he identifies in his assessment. Senator Bayh, a member of the Armed Service and Intelligence Committees, has been an outspoken advocate for a tough and smart approach to national security in the 21st century.  