Bayh Pushes for Aid to Families Struggling with Rising Energy Prices Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh has co-sponsored an amendment filed by Senators John Kerry (D-MA) and Jack Reed (D-RI) to provide $3.1 billion to help families across the country struggling with soaring energy costs. The amendment to the Department of Defense appropriations bill would provide funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to help off-set the rapidly increasing cost of oil and natural gas brought about by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.  Hoosier families were already facing record energy bills before Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita, Senator Bayh said. In the wake of these natural disasters, the cost of natural gas has skyrocketed to a level that is too high for many families to manage. This legislation will provide help to some of our struggling families so they can heat their homes this winter. If passed, the legislation would bring LIHEAP funding to the level recommended by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. While that Act authorized $5.1 billion for the LIHEAP, President Bush's budget only provides $2 billion. The $3.1 billion amendment would restore the program to its full funding so that states can ensure that low-income families and seniors facing rising energy bills are able to heat their homes this winter. This year, American families are facing record prices for gas and oil. According to the Department of Energy, natural gas prices in the Midwest are expected to rise between 69 and 77 percent during the winter heating season this year. The National Energy Assistance Directors Association estimates that for families using natural gas, heating bills will hit $1,568 for the coming winter, an increase of about $611 from last winter's prices. Hurricane damage has shut down a significant portion of the Gulf region's natural gas production and it is unclear when production will return to normal. More than 60 percent of Indiana households use natural gas to heat their homes. With natural gas prices increasing so severely, more Americans than usual are expected to apply for assistance in paying their heating bills, making it essential that states have the funding they need through LIHEAP to help residents pay their heating bills over the next few months. Heating increases of this magnitude will place a heavy burden on Hoosier families, Senator Bayh said. We should to act now to help families in need before cold weather arrives.  