Bayh Introduces Plan to Prepare for Possible Avian Flu Outbreak Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today will introduce legislation to prepare the nation in case of an avian flu outbreak. Bayh co-sponsored the Pandemic Preparedness and Response Act, which builds on his original Flu Protection Act, with Senators Harry Reid (D-NV), Barack Obama (D-IL) and Ted Kennedy (D-MA). "Avian flu is one of the critically important issues of our time," Senator Bayh said. "Leading experts say it is only a matter of time before this deadly disease becomes more efficient in moving from person to person. We should not await that dreadful day, but work proactively to protect the national security interests and the health interests of the American people." The Pandemic Preparedness and Response Act offers a comprehensive plan to make sure the country is prepared for a possible avian or other flu outbreak. Among the actions recommended in the bill are steps to:  Create a new director of pandemic preparedness and response to coordinate the federal response to a flu outbreak  Provide funding to produce, develop, and distribute a vaccine for avian flu. Currently, there is no proven vaccine for avian flu, but only antivirals that can be used to treat people once they have caught the disease  Establish a vaccine buy-back program and public awareness campaign, as outlined in Bayh's Flu Protection Act, to remove economic disincentives for vaccine manufacturers and to educate the public on the importance of annual flu vaccinations. "Right now, we are currently woefully unprepared, with only enough antivirals to cover one percent of the American people," Senator Bayh said. "Other nations are way ahead of us in preparing their countries for this grave health threat. When it comes to dealing with avian flu, let us not repeat the mistakes of Hurricane Katrina. We must be prepared for the worst, while we pray for the best." The United States currently has only 2.3 million doses of Tamiflu, an antiviral used to treat avian flu, and 2 million doses of an experimental vaccine. This is only enough to protect less than two percent of the population. Since January of 2004, at least 115 people have contracted avian flu, and 59 of those people died. Avian flu, also known as the bird flu, is a virus spread by chickens, ducks and other birds that has surfaced primarily in Southeast Asia. Currently, most humans have caught avian flu from infected birds, though experts predict that it is only a matter of time before the virus mutates and can be passed more efficiently from human to human. Leading flu experts say the world is long overdue for a flu outbreak, and with no previous exposure to the disease, humans will be especially susceptible to avian flu. In a matter of weeks, an outbreak in Asia could trigger a world-wide pandemic spread by international travel and globalization, making it especially important that the United States begin planning for such an emergency today.  