Bayh Demands Answers on Flu Vaccine Failure Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today called on the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to provide answers explaining how 50 million flu vaccines will be unavailable for this year's flu season. Only last week, Bayh questioned representatives from the CDC about the supply of vaccines for this season and was assured that based on historical vaccination rates, there would be a sufficient number of shots. The 50 million doses that have been canceled represent half of the U.S. vaccine stock for the year, creating an immediate shortage that has prompted the CDC to begin asking states to limit vaccines to vulnerable populations only. "The CDC had every chance to get this right after last year's shortage and they failed on nearly all levels," Senator Bayh said. "Instead of enacting far-reaching reforms that offered a real solution to the problem, they tried to gloss over the danger by addressing only a potential production shortage. Unfortunately, we are all impacted by this failure, as parents find themselves worrying once again whether or not their children will receive a flu shot and our nation's seniors are left vulnerable. The CDC must be held accountable." After last year's flu season, Bayh introduced the Flu Protection Act to help eliminate the potential for future shortages. With only two companies splitting production between them, the risk of a serious shortage resulting from one company's failure is high. In addition, only one of the two companies is based in the United States. Chiron, the company responsible for the 50 million unusable doses affecting this year's supply, is located in the United Kingdom. To address this vaccine gamble, Bayh's Flu Protection Act called for the CDC to develop a contingency plan in case of a future shortage, offered significant incentives to encourage vaccine production in the U.S., set aside funds to encourage the creation of more vaccine companies with faster production times, and demanded greater cooperation between the government and vaccine manufacturers to provide a more accurate estimate on the number of vaccines needed each year. Instead of adopting all of Bayh's recommendations, the CDC only worked with manufacturers to set aside 4.5 million extra doses to be used this year in case of a shortage. As a result of Chiron's unusable flu shots, only 50 million flu vaccines will be available this year, 37 million less than last year when the nation experienced such a severe shortage. Parents will once again be forced to wait in lines to obtain flu shots for their children, only now vaccines will be limited to only those children and other Americans who are members of a vulnerable population. To address the current shortage, Bayh is studying ways to prevent health providers from increasing the price of the remaining vaccines, calling on the CDC to act quickly to make sure members of the most vulnerable populations receive shots, and asking the CDC to examine other flu protection options such as antivirals. "The CDC knew there was a problem with 2 million vaccines in August, yet they failed to begin work on a contingency plan to head off the problem we now face," Senator Bayh said. "The CDC failed us in the short term for this year and so far has failed to act to head off problems in the future. Had we begun building new production facilities or worked to increase production capacity as called for in my Flu Protection Act, we would be a year ahead of where we are today." At the flu hearing last week, Bayh urged the CDC to continue working with flu vaccine manufacturers to find a way to produce and distribute vaccines earlier in the flu season, when they are most needed and would be most effective in warding off a potential epidemic. Bayh also pointed to statistics that demonstrate the need to continue outreach efforts to educate Americans on the importance of receiving a vaccine. The CDC believes 185 million people should receive the flu vaccine because their health status makes them more susceptible to serious complications caused by the flu. With this vaccine failure, less than one-third of the total vulnerable population will be able to receive a shot  