Bayh: 'The GAO's Sobering Analysis Presents a Grim Picture of the Strategic Trajectory in Iraq' Washington Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) issued the following statement today in response to the General Accountability Office (GAO) assessment that only three of 18 key benchmarks have been fully met in Iraq. Senators Bayh and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) were the original requestors of the GAO report as part of bipartisan legislation they introduced in May.   For too long, the President has been looking at this war through rose-colored glasses and given the American people an unreasonably sunny picture of progress in Iraq. We need to craft a rational way forward that is based on objectivity, not wishful thinking.  I requested this independent report from the GAO to get an unvarnished up-or-down assessment as to whether 18 key benchmarks have been achieved after more than four years of American involvement in this conflict. Congress nonpartisan investigative arm tells us that 15 have not. The GAOs sobering analysis presents a grim picture of the strategic trajectory in Iraq. Political reconciliation is not imminent. The Iraqis are nowhere near ready to take full responsibility for their security.  The truth is, success in Iraq depends more on the Iraqis than our brave soldiers. Our forces are doing what it takes to succeed, but Iraqs political leaders are not. Next week, the White House is expected to focus on pockets of reduced violence in Iraq in its report to Congress. It is important that we take notice of reports of tactical progress in certain areas, but it is even more critical that we step back and take an honest look at strategic trends. In this regard, the GAO report captures Iraqs tragic direction.  For the best interests of Americas national security, we ought to place the most credence in objective outside sources like this GAO assessment and the upcoming report on the poor state of Iraqi security forces from the Center for Strategic and International Studies led by General Jones so we can craft a more realistic road forward.  