Bayh, Obama and Kerry Urge Senate to Close Capital Gains Tax Gap Washington-- As the Senate moves to extend capital gains and dividends tax cuts in the face of rising debt, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today called on Senator Grassley (R-IA) and Baucus (D-MT), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee, to include his legislation to close the $17 billion capital gains tax gap in the final tax reconciliation bill to help keep our nation's fiscal house in order. In a letter with Senators Obama (D-IL) and Kerry (D-MA), Bayh said his legislation, the Simplification Through Additional Reporting Tax (START) Act of 2006, would help reduce the deficit by making the tax code fairer and simpler for American taxpayers.  In their letter, Senators Bayh, Kerry, and Obama rejected the need to include additional tax breaks for investors, but urged conferees to include the START Act in the final bill to ensure that these same people pay the right amount in capital gains taxes. To provide an additional $50 billion in capital gains and dividend tax breaks over the next ten years, while permitting many of these taxpayers to shirk their responsibility to pay their fair share of taxes is a moral outrage that should not be allowed to happen, the Senators wrote. While there is considerable debate in Washington about the proper levels of tax rates, there should be universal agreement that every taxpayer should pay what they legally owe. The START Act would require brokerage houses and mutual fund companies to track and report to taxpayers and the IRS the adjusted cost basis, or purchase price plus any necessary adjustments, when they sell a stock, bond, or mutual fund. This will make the tax code fairer by ensuring that the IRS receives an independent verification of individuals' investment value, as currently occurs with wages, closing the door on taxpayers who are not paying their fair share in taxes. It will also help individuals file accurate tax returns without having to do confusing and time-consuming calculations. Currently, about $17 billion in capital gains taxes go unpaid every year in part because of intentional manipulation of investment values to hide gains and confusion about how to compute their capital gains. Since the IRS has virtually no ability to detect this misreporting, it can be done with impunity, leaving honest taxpayers to pick up the tab. At a time when our nation is facing urgent fiscal challenges, Bayh's legislation would help collect legally owed capital gains taxes, which could represent as much as $170 billion over the next ten years. The START Act was introduced in March.  