Bayh, Conyers Introduce Legislation Ensuring Greater Fairness for Workers in Corporate Bankruptcy Proceedings Washington-- In the midst of Delphi's ongoing negotiations over its bankruptcy reorganization, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) and Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) today introduced legislation designed to protect the rights of workers during corporate bankruptcy proceedings that currently give greater weight to large corporations and the executives who run them. The Fairness and Accountability in Reorganizations Act would ensure that workers are treated more fairly during reorganizations by limiting executive compensation deals and requiring corporations to provide a more accurate picture of their holdings before attempting to modify collective bargaining agreements or promised health benefits.  Many recent corporate bankruptcy filings, including that of the Delphi corporation, have come under fire for the extravagant perks and bonus packages they reserve for executives in the midst of bankruptcy reorganizations that force regular workers to accept drastic pay cuts or even job losses. Bayh and Conyers pointed to this problem as highlighting the importance of strengthening workers' rights during the bankruptcy process. A company's plan for success should involve all its workers, not just its top executives, Senator Bayh said. When a company hits hard times, it's not right for some executives to continue to enrich themselves at the expense of the average worker. I'm proud to offer this legislation today with Congressman Conyers to make sure that workers and retirees receive the fair treatment they have earned when their company is facing bankruptcy. Congress has gone to great lengths to grant advantages to creditors and big business over ordinary Americans, Congressman Conyers said. It is time that we include the interest of working families in the bankruptcy law. Our legislation would therefore add a small measure of fairness to a playing field that is overwhelmingly tilted against workers. Bayh and Conyers introduced legislation in the House and Senate today that would ensure greater fairness for workers and retirees in future bankruptcy proceedings. Their legislation would:  Require any and all aspects of executive bonus packages, including special benefits such as stock options and car services, to be approved by the bankruptcy court for any corporation undergoing or connected to a bankruptcy reorganization plan.  Consider the debtor company's foreign assets when determining whether or not a company can modify its existing collective bargaining agreement. Some international corporations that are struggling domestically use their losses at home to justify breaking contracts with American workers while their overall company is still thriving.  Require the bankruptcy court to take into account the debtor company's foreign assets when determining whether or not to modify the company's retiree health benefits.   