Bayh Announces Plan to Start VX Neutralization in May Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Department of Defense has informed his office that they will start neutralizing the VX stored at Newport in May. The Pentagon officially announced its decision in a letter to Congress late Tuesday, which was the final hurdle that remained before work could begin. Bayh, who has worked with the Pentagon to speed neutralization at Newport since his days as governor, hailed the plan as a key victory for Indiana's homeland security efforts and especially for the thousands of Hoosiers who have been living with the threat of a VX emergency for so many years. "Destroying the VX at Newport will remove one of the most dangerous potential terror targets in Indiana, ensuring that Hoosiers will be able to sleep soundly without the fear of a potential attack at Newport," Senator Bayh said. "The Hoosiers in West Central Indiana have lived with the threat of VX for more than 30 years. In 30 days, that threat will begin to disappear." Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz signed the Congressional Notification letter that informed Congress of the Pentagon's intent to begin neutralization at Newport. The letter provides Congress with at least 30 days advanced notice and is required by law before neutralization can begin. According to military officials at Newport, the neutralization process will begin in mid-May. "Removing the threat posed by the VX and keeping Hoosiers safe have been my top priorities throughout this process," Senator Bayh said. "I will continue to work with the Army to keep things running smoothly once the neutralization process starts next month." All other steps required for the start of neutralization have been cleared. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management, the Citizens' Advisory Commission and the County Commissioners from the Newport area have all signed off on the neutralization plan. The 45-day lockdown, also required to be completed before neutralization, was started in February and will be completed in April. Since September 2001, Bayh has worked to ensure the safe neutralization of the VX at Newport, securing funds to guard the site from potential terrorist attacks and working with the Army to speed the neutralization process. Bayh has led the effort to ensure a fast and safe neutralization process for the remaining 1,269 tons of VX nerve agent stored at the Newport facility, and has been a leading advocate of eliminating chemical weapon stockpiles around the country that serve as potential terrorist targets.  