Bayh Applauds Crucial Change to Encourage Greater Vaccine Stockpiles Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today applauded the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for agreeing to a crucial rules change that is expected to help the U.S. increase its stockpiles for flu, childhood disease and other vaccines. In April, Bayh and Congressman Rahm Emanuel (D-IL) wrote a letter to SEC Chairman William Donaldson alerting him to an accounting rule that was believed to discourage manufacturers from contributing to the country's stockpiles and urged him to change the rule as the SEC did this week. At the time Bayh and Emanuel wrote their letter, the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile was reported to be "nearly empty," according to the Washington Post. "The SEC's decision is a positive step forward in our efforts to protect Americans from a possible flu outbreak or bioterror attack," Senator Bayh said. "We can't allow a technicality to prevent manufacturers from contributing to our vaccine stockpiles, which play such a crucial role in protecting people's health. I will continue working to correct problems such as this one so that we are prepared in the event of a pandemic or vaccine shortage." The SEC's rule change will allow vaccine manufacturers to count vaccines sold to the Strategic National Stockpile as revenue immediately, without waiting for the vaccines to be used. Earlier, manufacturers could not treat vaccines as revenue until they were removed from the stockpile, meaning that until that happened, the vaccines were considered unsold, creating an economic disincentive for manufacturers to contribute to the stockpile. Since first introducing his Flu Protection Act in January 2004, Bayh has repeatedly called on the administration to improve the nation's ability to respond to a potential vaccine shortage or flu pandemic. Among his efforts, Bayh has introduced or supported legislation to increase funding for purchasing antivirals, to encourage greater vaccine production in the United States, and to create a national director's position to oversee the country's pandemic preparedness work.  