Bayh Co-Sponsors Bill to Improve Conditions at Military Hospitals Washington-- Following an Armed Services Committee hearing on the living conditions and patient care at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh announced today that he is co-sponsoring a bill to improve care for wounded troops at military hospitals. The Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act, introduced by Senators Barack Obama (D-IL) and Claire McCaskill (D-MO), is designed to remedy unacceptable conditions at Walter Reed Medical Center by providing better hospital facilities, reducing red tape and hiring more caseworkers.  The brave men and women recovering at Walter Reed and other military hospitals have made incredible personal sacrifices to defend our nation's freedom, and we owe it to them to provide clean, safe and effective treatment when they return from combat, Senator Bayh said. The Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act will help ensure that when our soldiers return from deployment, they are treated with the respect they deserve throughout their recovery. The Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act was written in light of reports by the Washington Post that described living conditions for long-term patients living on the hospital grounds at Walter Reed, including black mold, rodent droppings, and cockroach infestations. Caseworkers are overburdened and paperwork is tied up in red tape. Currently soldiers must file 22 forms with eight different command posts to enter and exit the medical processing system. The bill addresses these problems by requiring more frequent inspections and establishing timelines for repairs, while also improving patient care overall by simplifying paperwork, increasing the training for caseworkers and improving the ratio of caseworkers to recovering soldiers. To ensure that improvements are made, the bill requires the Department of Defense to regularly report to Congress the number of soldiers and caseworkers at military hospitals, the average wait time for treatment and the number of deaths due to suicide, drug overdose or accidents. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Bayh has been a leader in the effort to support America's servicemembers and their families, including authoring legislation in 2005 to give more of our nation's soldiers relief from the Patriot Penalty, a pay cut many National Guard and Reserve members face when they are called to active duty and lose their civilian salaries. Bayh also introduced legislation passed by Congress to protect military families who are facing foreclosure, eviction or loan default due to financial hardship caused by their military service. In addition, Bayh has pushed to ensure that our troops in the field have the equipment they need to protect themselves in combat, including helping secure $2.2 billion for additional up-armored Humvees.  