Bayh Pledges to Continue Fight Against Unfair Trade Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh traveled across Indiana this week, visiting Hoosier companies to deliver on a promise he made at last summer to take a stand against overseas countries whose unfair trade practices have been hurting Hoosier businesses. Standing alongside dozens of hardworking Hoosiers at stops in Indianapolis, Evansville, Jeffersonville and Kendallville, Bayh announced that his efforts to draw attention to the impact of unfair trade have resulted in an agreement to hold a hearing on illegal subsidies and his Stopping Overseas Subsidies (SOS) Act before July 15th and to organize a meeting between the new U.S. Trade Representative and Indiana manufacturers. "Initially, the administration tried to turn a blind eye to cheating from foreign countries and refused to get tough on trade," Senator Bayh said. "So I fought back. I fought back for all the companies I've visited in Indiana, where workers get out of bed every morning with one hand tied behind their back because of unfair trade policies other countries use to their advantage. Now, the administration and Congress are paying attention and Indiana manufacturers will have a seat at the table when we talk about how to stop this cheating and level the playing field for American workers and businesses." After the administration repeatedly refused to allow a vote on Bayh's SOS Act, which would allow the United States to enforce its anti-subsidy laws against China, Bayh placed a hold on the administration's nominee for U.S. Trade Representative. The hold is a tool that can be used by senators to prevent a vote on a nominee. Bayh used his hold as leverage to draw attention to the impact unfair trade is having on U.S. companies. As a result, Bayh was able to win agreements to order a study of China's system of subsidies, to discuss his SOS Act during a Finance Committee hearing on China trade, and to set-up a meeting between the new U.S. Trade Representative Rob Portman and Indiana manufacturers suffering from unfair trade tactics. This week, Senator Bayh visited Standard Die Supply, Inc., an Indianapolis metal stamping company; Dexterous Mold  Tool, an Evansville company that makes injection and compression molds; Steel Dynamics, a Jeffersonville company which prepares steel for use in the auto industry and for making office furniture; and Dalton Corporation, a Kendallville company that makes residential air conditioning units. All of these businesses have suffered as a result of China's unfair trade practices. "The Hoosier companies I visited this week are doing everything they can to seek out honest, competitive advantages so they can succeed in today's global economy," Senator Bayh said. "These folks work so hard. They don't want any special treatment; they just want a chance to compete on a level playing field." In the Senate, Bayh has been a leader in the fight to investigate and stop unfair trade practices by foreign countries such as China, to help level the playing field for Hoosier companies. Bayh, along with several senators from both sides of the aisle, has introduced legislation to create a special trade prosecutor to identify trade violators and also introduced legislation to counteract the advantage gained by Chinese companies due to currency manipulation.  