Bayh Announces $140 Million for Additional SINCGARS Radios to Protect Troops Overseas Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today announced Senate Armed Services Committee approval of the Army's request to reprogram $140 million to produce an additional 20,000 SINCGARS radios needed to help keep troops safe as they continue fighting the war on terror. Bayh's work will also help provide greater job security for the 1,450 Hoosiers who work at ITT Industries.  The Hoosiers working at ITT Industries play an essential role in providing our troops with the equipment they need in Iraq and Afghanistan, Senator Bayh said. SINCGARS radios enable our troops to communicate sensitive information with each other in every kind of battle environment. This is a win-win situation, bringing greater protection for our troops in Iraq and greater job security for Hoosier workers. The funds will be used to provide the Army with an additional 16,000 SINCGARS radios for troops currently conducting missions in Iraq and Afghanistan and an additional 4,000 SINCGARS radios for troops that will be deployed during the fourth rotation for Operation Iraqi Freedom, including the 101st Airborne Division, the 10th Mountain Division and the 4th Infantry Division. The SINCGARS radio communications systems are used by U.S. military men and women on the ground in combat situations to provide secure voice and data communications capabilities. In fact, SINCGARS radios made at ITT were used by members of the 4th Infantry Division to capture Saddam Hussein last December. Bayh visited ITT Industries this May to announce his work to secure funding for ITT Industries to increase production of SINCGARS radios. This June, the full Senate approved Bayh and others' request for $63 million to purchase additional SINCGARS radios and other necessary hardware for the third infantry division as well as the Army National Guard. ITT Industries is a world leader in high-technology areas, including space systems and tactical wireless communications systems. ITT's instruments are on every GPS satellite system ever launched.  