Bayh and McCain Call for Real Congressional Reform Washington-- U.S. Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN) and John McCain (R-AZ) today held a press conference along with 9-11 Commission member Timothy Roemer and family members of 9-11 victims to call on the Senate to enact significant reforms needed to improve Congressional oversight on intelligence and homeland security. Bayh and McCain made the decision to speak out today in an effort to improve on the working group's recommendations, which did not address the 9-11 Commission's key proposal to give the Intelligence Committee the authority it needs to get the job done.  One minor change in the tenure of the Intelligence Committee will not be enough to ensure Congress is capable of doing its part in protecting the country and fighting the war on terror, Senator Bayh, a member of the Intelligence Committee, said. Deeper reforms are needed to ensure that we are doing everything we can to prevent a future attack. We cannot allow the efforts of the 9-11 families, the 9-11 Commission and many of our colleagues to be weakened by attempts to protect political turf and maintain the status quo. Senator McCain added, The 9/11 commission was clear that 'tinkering with the existing structure is not sufficient.' The proposal that is being suggested by the leaders of the task force is not much more than the status quo -- yet further proof that jurisdictional turf is held more sacred than necessary and constructive change. Senator McCain continued, Short-sighted turf battles do not serve the American people. Each of us in Congress must sacrifice our own self-interest to carry out the important institutional reforms recommended by the Commission. Bayh and McCain will be offering amendments in an effort to bring the working group's recommendations more in line with those from the 9-11 Commission. The 9-11 Commission included Congressional reform as one of its key priorities in its report released last summer, yet the reforms suggested so far fall short of the goals outlined in the report. In addition to their work supporting greater Congressional reform, McCain and Bayh were also key sponsors of the original legislation that would implement the 9-11 Commission recommendations. Senators McCain, Bayh, Joe Lieberman (D-CT) and Arlen Specter (R-PA) first declared their intent to support the 9-11 Commission's findings the day the Commission released its report last July.  