Bayh Announces $7.7 Million Appropriation to Build New Air National Guard Facility in Terre Haute Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Senate has appropriated $7.7 million for the construction of a new facility for the Indiana Air National Guard at Hulman Field in Terre Haute to analyze and distribute intelligence gathered from unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs).   The appropriation is part of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act of 2008. The legislation passed the full Senate today, with Bayhs support, by a vote of 92-1.  The facility, called a distributed common ground system (DCGS), would have the capacity to process, analyze and disseminate intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance data and information gathered by the U.S. Air Force and Air National Guard. This facility would be a vital link in our armed forces ability to analyze and utilize key intelligence collected to effectively support and protect our soldiers, said Senator Bayh, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. As a result of this project, work done by intelligence experts in Terre Haute would provide critical, real-time intelligence, information and analysis to our fighting men and women around the globe to help them carry out their missions. The new facility would become part of a global network of intelligence analysis centers that provide real-time analysis for armed forces of intelligence gathered through satellite systems and UAVs, including Predator and U-2. The facility would employ more than 385 part- and full-time military personnel. These resources are important to the new missions of the 181st Fighter Wing in Terre Haute, and I want to thank our Congressional delegation, including Senator Bayh and Congressman Brad Ellsworth, along with Mayor Kevin Burke for their support, said Major General R. Martin Umbarger, adjutant general of the Indiana National Guard. This outstanding unit will be transitioning from the legacy mission of the F-16 to the DCGS mission, which is state-of-the-art for the Air Force and the Air National Guard for the 21st century and beyond. These funds will accelerate that conversion to the new mission and support national defense.  