Lugar, Bayh Announce $12 Million Appropriation to Build Electronic Warfare Facility at Crane Washington-- U.S. Senators Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh today announced that the Senate has appropriated $12 million for the Crane Division, Naval Surface Warfare Center in Southwestern Indiana for the construction of a facility where new electronic warfare technologies and systems will be developed.    Senators Lugar and Bayh requested the funding for Crane, which was included in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act of 2008. The bill passed the full Senate today by a vote of 92-1. The new Secured Electronic Warfare Systems Engineering Facility will strengthen Cranes capacity to provide specialized engineering and development needed to create the next generation of electronic warfare systems to support U.S. combat forces. The Naval Surface Warfare Center is the largest employer in southern Indiana, Senator Lugar said. This additional funding to construct an electronic warfare systems facility will strengthen Cranes mission capabilities and continue to diversify its portfolio. Our enemies are now using wireless technologies and other highly advanced sensors against us in combat, so we must not be complacent in developing superior electronic warfare capabilities to protect our troops from potential attacks, Senator Bayh said. Crane has a proud history as a leader in developing cutting-edge technologies vital to the success of our military. This new facility will increase that capacity and ensure that the latest innovations are being employed to support our troops. The facility will include secure, specialized engineering laboratories that currently do not exist at Crane and improve its already extensive capabilities to develop, acquire and sustain electronic warfare systems for offensive and defensive applications, according to Zahid Din, Airborne Electronic Warfare Systems Division Manager. The people, equipment and facilities at Crane dedicated to electronic warfare make Crane a preeminent provider of the expertise and capabilities needed for all of our armed services, Din said. Whether protecting aircraft and ships from enemy missiles or denying enemies use of communications and sensors, electronic warfare systems provide our fighting men and women with a unique edge across the spectrum of warfare. This new facility will ensure Crane can continue to provide these vital services and products to our troops. Crane employs nearly 4,000 Hoosiers, making it Indianas 12th largest employer and contributes more than $320 million to Indianas economy annually. In efforts to preserve and enhance its military value, Crane has adapted over the years to the militarys evolving needs, including focusing on weapons systems testing and development.  