Bayh Announces $50,000 for Small Business Incubator in Grant County Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced a $50,000 grant from the USDAs Office of Rural Development to support the creation of a high-tech business incubator in Grant County.   Throughout Indiana, small high-tech companies are creating good, 21st century jobs for Hoosiers, many of them with the help of incubators like the one proposed for Grant County, Senator Bayh said. This is a good investment in the local economy and crucial for entrepreneurs who need the resources and support an incubator can provide to help them get their business plan and ideas off the ground. Its also exciting to see this partnership with Taylor University, Senator Bayh continued. This is valuable experience for the students wholl have a hands-on role making this high-tech incubator a reality and give them a chance see first hand the exciting and innovative work happening right here in Indiana. The Grant County Economic Growth Council will work with The Taylor University Center for Research and Innovation and students at Taylor University to develop the business plan for the proposed Grant County Innovators Network Center (GCINC). Plans for the GCINC include space for up to 20 start-up businesses.   The Grant County Economic Growth Council sees this as an excellent way to broaden the support for entrepreneurial development in Grant County, said Tim Eckerle, executive director for the Grant County Economic Growth Council. Additionally this financial support will allow for the further growth and development of Taylor Universitys Center for Research and Innovation. This grant will give Taylor University students and faculty tremendous opportunity to rub shoulders with the real world, said Dr. Don Takehara, director of Taylor Universitys Center for Research and Innovation. They will be responsible for writing and submitting a full business plan for the Grant County Innovators Network Center  the next critical step for making our community business incubator a reality. In addition to meeting this real need for Grant County, the real-life experience for students will be key training for these future leaders of our state and our country. Additional project partners include the Indiana Office of Community and Rural Affairs (Rural Capacity Grant), the Grant County Innovative Network, Indiana Wesleyan University, Ivy Tech Community College, Marion-Grant County Chamber of Commerce, Affordable Housing Corporation, Community Foundation of Grant County, Family Service Society, and LEAD, Inc.   