Senate Approves Bayh Amendment to Keep Funding for Predator Drones Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the U.S. Senate unanimously approved an amendment he offered to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill that would restore funding he called for to give U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) the intelligence-gathering tools and personnel that it needs. Earlier this year, the Senate Armed Services Committee adopted Bayh's plan to restore funding for USSOCOM to purchase much-needed Predator unmanned aerial vehicles after hearing of the shortfall from USSOCOM leaders. However, the funding was later cut from the bill, prompting Bayh to join with Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) to have the funding reinstated.  To succeed in the war on terror, America must maintain its edge in intelligence-gathering capabilities, Senator Bayh said. It is neither tough nor smart to force our Special Operations Command, which is at the forefront of the war on terror, to go without critical intelligence collection tools. My amendment will ensure that we have the resources necessary to find and destroy the terrorist networks that threaten our nation. At an Armed Services Committee hearing this spring, USSOCOM Deputy Commander Eric T. Olson testified that USSOCOM is lacking in intelligence gathering resources, and will remain short of crucial tools unless action is taken. In response to questioning from Senator Bayh, Admiral Olson stated that USSOCOM is short one full squadron of Predator unmanned aerial vehicles and in the number of Special Operations Forces that can be deployed around the globe. In April, Bayh wrote a letter to Senator Warner, Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, outlining his concerns about the shortfall. His amendment was then adopted by the Committee. Bayh's amendment to this week's Defense Appropriation's bill adds $64.5 million for accelerated purchase of predators and will make up the funding shortfall to ensure that USSOCOM has all the tools it needs to achieve its mission, by fully funding USSOCOM's intelligence and sensor collection capabilities in the coming years, including a second squad of Predators fully operational by 2010. According to Defense News, it was central to the detection and killing of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi in June. Senator Bayh, a member of the Armed Service and Intelligence Committees, has been an outspoken advocate for a tough and smart approach to national security in the 21st century, confronting terror threats abroad and protecting our homeland.   