American Hospital Association Endorses Bayh-Emanuel Flu Protection Act Washington-- As news reports continue to document the looming threat of a flu pandemic, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh and Congressman Rahm Emanuel (D-IL) announced today the American Hospital Association (AHA) has endorsed their legislation to strengthen the nation's vaccine supply and prevent future vaccine shortages. The Bayh-Emanuel Flu Protection Act is a comprehensive solution targeting the problems that have led to vaccine shortages for the past two years. The legislation will help ensure an adequate number of vaccines are produced each year by enacting a buy-back program and encouraging greater U.S. vaccine production, two key steps that will greatly reduce the risk of another vaccine shortage. The AHA joins the AARP, the American Lung Association and the American Public Health Association in supporting the legislation. "We simply cannot keep putting off a long-term solution to our nation's vaccine shortages," Senator Bayh said. "The Flu Protection Act offers a blueprint to ensure an adequate vaccine supply. I am honored that the American Hospital Association has decided to support my legislation and join me in the fight to enact these reforms in time to protect the American people before next year's flu season." "Flu vaccine shortages in the last two years have exposed the inadequacies of our vaccine supply and distribution system. The recent avian flu cases in Asia and the threat of a worldwide flu pandemic are stark reminders of the urgency of improving our methods for fighting the spread of the flu," said Congressman Rahm Emanuel (D-IL). "I thank the AHA for their support of our legislation, and look forward to working with them to pass the Flu Protection Act and strengthen our preparedness for annual flu epidemics and for the threat of a deadly pandemic flu." In endorsing the Flu Protection Act, the AHA stressed the necessity of implementing a long-term solution to the country's flu vaccine supply problems, especially in light of recent reports of the threat of a flu pandemic of yet unseen proportions. The organization also applauded the education, outreach and better public health planning initiatives in Bayh's legislation. "We applaud your leadership in developing a comprehensive approach to improving the nation's supply of flu vaccine," wrote Rick Pollack, the Executive Vice President of the American Hospital Association in a letter to Senator Bayh. "New varieties of influenza pose significant challenges to hospitals and health care systems in the United States. We believe that now is the time to implement a long-term solution to our flu vaccine supply problems." The Bayh-Emanuel Flu Protection Act, which Bayh first introduced in January 2004, would prevent confusion and a cycle of shortages by providing doctors and manufacturers with a more reliable idea of vaccine demand each year. The legislation calls for:  The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to work with manufacturers to determine a more accurate estimate of the number of vaccines needed each year and establishes a buy-back plan to remove the economic disincentives manufacturers currently face if they have left-over vaccines.  Tax credits to encourage greater U.S. vaccine production to avoid situations like last fall's, where problems with one manufacturer wiped out half of the nation's vaccine supply.  Funding for flu pandemic preparedness and research and development to discover faster, improved methods of vaccine production.  A public awareness campaign to educate members of vulnerable populations on the importance of getting a flu shot, a particularly helpful step toward repairing any confusion that may result from this year's shifting vaccination guidelines due to the supply fluctuations. As a result of his concern over recent flu shortages, Senator Bayh has become one of the most vocal proponents of increased efforts to prepare for a possible flu pandemic and increase our vaccine capabilities. Most recently, he urged the administration to address an accounting guideline that has inadvertently caused a shortfall in the Children's Vaccine Stockpile and to implement the steps outlined in his Flu Protection Act. He also called for an investigation into recent allegations that China had allowed the inappropriate use of amantadine, a key human antiviral drug for avian flu, on livestock, which may have allowed avian flu strains to develop resistance to the drug, rendering it useless in humans.  