Bayh Urges Energy Committee to Take Up Bipartisan Energy Plan Washington- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today submitted a statement for the record encouraging the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to take up his bipartisan energy plan during its hearing this morning on ways to reduce Americas dependence on foreign oil. In November, Bayh, along with Senators Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Norm Coleman (R-MN) and others, introduced the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, which would reduce the amount of oil we use by 2.5 million barrels per day in ten years, the same amount we currently purchase from the Middle East. The statement Bayh submitted today is the latest in a series of efforts Bayh has undertaken to promote his energy plan. Bayh took part in an energy roundtable last week with military and business leaders to discuss ways to reduce dependence on oil.  In February, Bayh took part in an energy meeting at the White House where he urged President Bush to support his energy bill. Senator Bayh has been a leader in the efforts to reduce American dependence on foreign oil. This May, the Senate passed a bipartisan amendment Bayh co-sponsored to provide a tax credit to encourage gasoline stations to install or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol. Bayh is also a co-sponsor of the Fuel Security Act, which dramatically increases the amount of ethanol used each year in an aggressive approach to move the country toward greater energy efficiency. The text of Bayhs statement is included below: Chairman Domenici, Senator Bingaman and Members of the Committee, thank you for having this hearing today on an issue so crucial to the well-being of our country. United States dependence on oil is the preeminent challenge of our generation. U.S. oil consumption affects more than just prices at the pump; it impacts our national security, our economy, our fiscal health and our environment. The United States uses twenty-five percent of the worlds oil but controls only three percent of the worlds proven oil reserves. As of right now, our demand from oil is only expected to grow, from nearly 21 million barrels a day now to 28 million barrels per day in 2030, of which nearly 70 percent will be imported. While demand in the U.S. will grow by approximately 25 percent, demand in China, India and other developing countries is projected to grow by 66 percent. To meet the projected world demand, global output would have to expand by 57 percent in 2025. The Energy Information Administrations (EIA) most recent forecast states that the price of crude is expected to remain high at $57 per barrel in 2030. The International Energy Agency (IEA) price forecast is even more dire. According to the IEA, if oil producing countries in the Middle East and Africa do not make immediate investments to increase production, the price will rise to $86 barrel in 2030. Even if the region does make the necessary investments, prices could average $65 a barrel. These forecasts assume the current projections for supply and demand but do not address the consequences of a supply disruption caused by terrorism, political unrest or weather. Last summer, the National Commission on Energy Policy and Securing Americas Energy Future conducted a simulation called Oil ShockWave to explore the potential security and economic consequences of an oil supply crisis. The event started by assuming that political unrest in Nigeria combined with unseasonably cold weather in North America contributed to an immediate global oil supply shortfall. This sent prices to over $80 barrel. The simulation then assumed that three terrorist attacks occur in important ports and processing plants in Saudi Arabia and Alaska which sent oil prices immediately soaring to $123 a barrel and $161 barrel six months later. At these prices, the country goes into a recession, millions of jobs are lost as a result of sustained oil prices, and the average household would pay almost $3,000 more each year for gasoline. This simulation almost became reality with the failed attack on Abqaiq in Saudi Arabia last month. Had the attack been successful, it would have removed four to six million barrels per day from the global market sending prices soaring around the world and would likely have had a devastating impact on our economy. One of the lessons from September 11th is that we can no longer be so dependent on places like Saudi Arabia, Russia and Venezuela for our energy supply. Yet we are more dependent on foreign oil from hostile countries today than we were on September 11th  making us more vulnerable and putting the United States in a uniquely disturbing position of bankrolling both sides in the war on terror. This goes to the heart of our security and our sovereignty. As the world confronts the prospect of a nuclear Iran, our leverage is dramatically limited by the fact that Iran is the second largest exporter of oil. We and our allies are vulnerable to energy blackmail. A few months ago, the Russians decided they werent pleased with the Ukrainian elections, so they simply decided to stop exporting natural gas to them- nearly causing an economic crisis in the region. How can we be sure that the radicals and America-haters who control the oil will never do that to us? Our economy is vulnerable to the price volatility of the oil market and we must do what we can to build resilience into our economy. The U.S. uses half as much oil to produce the same amount of gross domestic product (GDP) as it did in the 1970s, this is good news, but we must continue to do more. Decreasing the oil intensity of our economy will help us weather price shocks and make us more secure. We can reduce oil intensity by reducing our demand for oil. The risks faced above ground by depending on unstable suppliers and good weather are too great and to a certain extent out of our control. If the attack on Abqaiq would have been successful, there is little that we could do to moderate its impact on our economy and lower the prices which is why it is urgent that Congress and the President act now to start reducing our dependence on oil. There is no magic bullet to address a major shock to the oil market and we must take the steps necessary to reduce our dependence on oil which will make our nation stronger. We must bring the same urgency to energy security that we have on the War on Terror. Concrete steps are long overdue. But some of us have already begun to take them. Last year, I introduced legislation, the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act (VFCASA), with Senators Lieberman, Brownback, Coleman and 6 others to make significant reductions in our oil use. My bill would reduce projected oil use by two and a half million barrels per day in 2016 and seven million barrels per day in 2026. It also provides tools to meet these aggressive targets by improving the efficiency of vehicles and increasing the production and use of biofuels. VFCASA includes new approaches for manufacturers, the federal government, scientists and consumers, all designed to encourage greater energy security. The legislation requires that in 2012, ten percent of vehicles manufactured be flexible fuel vehicles, alternative fueled vehicles, hybrids, plug-in hybrids, advanced diesels and other oil saving vehicle technologies. This percentage rises each year until 50 percent of the new vehicle fleet will be one of these oil saving technologies. It also provides tax incentives for U.S. manufacturing facilities to retool existing facilities to produce advanced technology vehicles which will help shift the vehicle fleet to more efficient vehicles while minimizing the job impact of an increased market share of advanced technology vehicles. The bill builds on the Energy Policy Act (EPAct) of 2005 by expanding the number of consumers that can take advantage of the tax credit available for the purchase of more efficient vehicles. It offers a tax credit to private fleet owners who invest in more efficient vehicles. VFCASA contains robust research provisions in the areas of electric drive transportation, including battery research, lightweight materials and cellulosic biofuels. Each of these technologies hold great potential to play a key role in reducing our dependence on oil. For instance, lightweight materials, such as carbon composites and steel alloys, hold the promise of being able to double automotive fuel economy while improving safety without increasing the cost of the vehicle. Cellulosic biofuels, which the President mentioned in the State of the Union, have the promise to be cheaper than gasoline and produce seven to 14 times more energy than is used in its production. My bill doubles the funding for bioenergy research contained in EPAct and provides additional funding for production incentives for the production of cellulosic biofuels. Additionally, the legislation provides the tools to expand the alternative fueling infrastructure so that all vehicles that can run on E85 are able to fill up at the pump with E85. Although there are approximately 5 million vehicles capable of running on E85, very few actually run on E85 because the fuel is not readily available to them. Of the approximately 168,000 gas stations in the country, only 615 have E85 pumps. My bill expands the alternative fueling infrastructure tax credit in EPAct to 50 percent to drive investment in this vital infrastructure. The legislation directs the revenues received from CAFE penalties, already collected by the government from foreign manufacturers, to fund grants to finance the expansion of the alternative fueling infrastructure. These fines vary each year depending on CAFE compliance for that year but range from $21 million to $52 million a year. Since 1999, the Department of Energy has only given out $6.9 million in grants since 1999  in one year, the amount of money awarded could triple. One DOE grantee, the National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition, will able to build 300 stations with its $2 million grant this year. With at least 10 times that amount of funding available, we should be able to build at least 3,000 stations per year through this program alone. Addressing our dependence on oil is a challenge that we can no longer ignore. Events in the world from September 11th to Hurricane Katrina to the recent attempted terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia continue to show us how urgent it is that we act immediately. I hope that this hearing today is the only the Committees first step in tackling the challenge of American oil dependence. I look forward to working with the Committee on solutions, such as my legislation, to this critical problem facing our country. -- Editors Note: Description of Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act Below -- Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act Action PlanThe Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act aims to reduce American use of oil by 7 million barrels a day by 2026. It achieves this goal through a variety of initiatives, including those outlined below. New Vehicle Technology MandateSets targets for manufacturers to produce flexible fuel vehicles (FFV), alternative fueled vehicles, hybrids, plug-in hybrids, fuel cell vehicles or other qualified vehicles that meet a performance standard of 175 percent of average fleet fuel economy- starting at 10 percent in 2012 and rising to 50 percent in 2016. After 2016 at least 10 percent of the 50 percent requirement must be met by hybrids, advanced diesels, plug-in hybrids and other non-FFV vehicles. Leading by ExampleRequires federal and state vehicle fleets to cut oil use by 30 percent by 2016. In 2016, the legislation also requires that 23 percent of the fleets be advanced diesels, hybrids or plug-in hybrids to further contribute to oil reduction. Fuel Efficient Vehicles for the 21st Century  Provides tax credits for manufacturers and suppliers to retool their factories to produce advanced diesels and hybrids.  Creates a tire efficiency program for tires used on light duty vehicles. Creates a fuel economy testing program and the implementation of efficiency standards for heavy duty vehicles (trucks, buses, etc). Lifts the per manufacturer cap on consumer tax credits for the purchase of hybrids and advanced diesels so more consumers receive tax incentives to purchase hybrids. Allows hybrids to qualify under the 2005 Energy Policy Act alternative fuels fleet requirements. Provides a tax credit for large private fleets for purchasing more efficient vehicles for their fleets. Creates an RD program for electric drive transportation and light-weight materials, to reduce a cars weight without sacrificing safety. Encourages local educational agencies to develop a policy to reduce the incidence of school bus idling. Closes the SUV tax loophole which adversely incentivizes small businesses to purchase SUVs over other vehicles. Fuel Choices for the 21st Century Increases the ethanol infrastructure tax credit to 50 percent to encourage the construction of more E-85 pumps at gas stations. Uses CAFE penalties to fund DOE ethanol infrastructure grants program. Changes the authorization for production incentives for cellulosic ethanol to $200 million for five years.  Sets an additional near-term benchmark for the use of cellulosic ethanol as part of the renewable fuels standard included in the 2005 Energy Policy Act.  Creates a grant program to encourage new mass transit facilities and to build commercial developments around them. National Media CampaignAuthorizes a national media campaign for the purpose of decreasing oil consumption in the United States.  