Bayh Secures $9.38 Million for Final Phase of Gary National Guard Project Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Indiana Army National Guard is one step closer to receiving $9.38 million for the construction of the Armed Forces Reserve Center (AFRC), which marks the final phase of the ongoing project. The new reserve center will house three Army National Guard units that currently occupy overcrowded and outdated facilities, and will be connected to the Limited Army Aviation Support Facility for which Senator Bayh secured funding last year.  Construction of a new Armed Forces Reserve Center at the Gary-Chicago Airport is another major step toward providing our Hoosier military men and women with the resources they need to do their job, Senator Bayh said. This facility will enhance the readiness of our troops and provide an expanded homeland security role for the Guard in Northwest Indiana and the Chicago metro region. In addition, the entire project will create nearly two-hundred and fifty jobs for area Hoosiers. The Indiana Army National Guard plans to construct the new AFRC near the site for the Limited Army Aviation Support Facility at the Gary-Chicago Airport. At 91,000 square feet, the new facility will will provide more updated equipment and space than the buildings where the three units are currently stationed. Positioning these three units in Northern Indiana also provides a heavily populated area with additional security that could have a great impact on homeland security if needed in an emergency. The stationing plan provides for a Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team, a medical unit, an air evacuation unit, and a meteorological-type unit to be available immediately if necessary. The new facility will also provide proper classroom, storage, maintenance, shower/locker and administrative areas. Last year, Senator Bayh secured $15.5 million for the construction of first phase of the Indiana Army National Guard Project. The funding Senator Bayh secured today will fund the second and final phase of the project.  