Bayh Secures Nearly $37 Million to Repair Tanks Needed by Hoosier Troops Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that Allison Transmission is one step closer to receiving $37 million to help improve the operating capabilities of M1A1 Abrams Tank transmissions and to install new transmissions in older M113 Armored Personnel Carriers. The funds will help provide U.S. troops with the equipment needed to win the war on terror and ensure job stability for the 200 Hoosiers who work at Plant 14.  Securing these funds is a win-win situation for our troops and for the Indianapolis economy, Senator Bayh said. Hoosiers who are bravely sacrificing to ensure our national security deserve immediate access to the best equipment available to help them win this war. These funds will help ensure the swift delivery of needed tank transmissions to our soldiers while securing much needed Hoosier jobs at Allison Transmission's Plant 14. The new Transmission Enterprise Program is designed to modify and upgrade existing tank transmissions to provide soldiers with reliable protection and equipment in combat. The program will use $21.9 million to purchase modification kits produced by Allison Transmission, which include parts needed to overhaul and repair broken-down tanks. In addition to the funding for the Transmission Enterprise Program, Bayh secured $15 million to update and convert M113 Armored Personnel Carriers. Allison Transmission will help with the process of fitting older M113 carriers with new transmissions. Both projects will help ensure that U.S. troops have reliable, working armored equipment to keep them safe while serving their tour of duty. In February, Bayh announced an Army contract worth $67 million to produce transmissions for the Abrams M1A2 Battle Tank and the M113 Armored Personnel Carrier. This agreement, in addition to the $37 million secured today, has contributed to protecting the jobs of the 200 Indianapolis area Hoosiers currently working at Plant 14.  