Bayh Leads the Way to Secure More Than $1 Billion For Troop Protection Washington-- Delivering on his promise to provide increased funding for U.S. troops facing escalating violence in Iraq and Afghanistan, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Armed Services Committee unanimously approved his amendment to provide an additional $610 million for the Army to purchase more up-armored Humvees and armor kits for our men and women in uniform. Bayh made the pledge last week at a special Armed Services hearing after learning of reports describing U.S. troops trying to protect themselves from attack by bolting plywood and scrap metal to the sides of standard Humvees. According to a report in Newsweek magazine, nearly one out of every four deaths in Iraq could have been prevented if our troops had more access to armored vehicles.  Our brave men and women fighting overseas should never have been without the equipment they need while they are out defending our national security, Senator Bayh said. With the help of these funds, we'll be able to produce and send armored vehicles to our troops even faster than the Army had originally planned. Bayh worked with senators from both sides of the aisle to pass the amendment, which authorizes the Secretary of the Army to use the $610 million for purchasing additional up-armored Humvees and/or ballistic armor kits. As conditions in Iraq continue to change and evolve, the Bayh amendment gives the Secretary of the Army much-needed flexibility to use the funds to increase production of up-armored Humvees to 450 vehicles per month and/or purchase more add-on armor kits based on the service's most immediate needs. The Chairman and the Ranking Member of the Committee, Senators Warner (R-VA) and Levin (D-MI), as well as Senators Sessions (R-AL), Kennedy (D-MA), Inhofe (R-OK), McCain (R-AZ), Collins (R-ME), Talent (R-MO), Lieberman (D-CT), Reed (D-RI), Ben Nelson (D-NE), and Dayton (D-MN), co-sponsored Senator Bayh's amendment. In addition to his amendment, Senator Bayh also helped secure an additional $618 million, which will purchase more than 2,200 up-armored vehicles, and was approved by the Committee to address the Army's urgent request for more up-armored Humvees. According to the Associated Press, the up-armored Humvee probably ranks No. 1 on the wish list for many soldiers in Iraq, since it can stop AK-47 bullets, anti-personnel RPGs and most roadside bombs and mines - weaponry that makes short work of the non-armored version. In the same AP article, one soldier who survived a roadside bomb in an up-armored Humvee recommended every vehicle that goes out on the road should be 'up-armored.' Roadside attacks represent one of the biggest threats to U.S. troops serving in Iraq. However, only 20 percent of the Humvees currently in Iraq are up-armored. Up-armored Humvees can protect against attacks from small arms and roadside bombs. Providing the best equipment for our troops is the responsible thing to do, Senator Bayh said. People at the Pentagon should have made the request earlier, as soon as it became apparent that additional protection would be needed to keep our men and women safe in Iraq and Afghanistan. With this amendment, the Pentagon will now sufficient resources to fix the situation, so that not one more soldier has to die because he didn't have the equipment he needed. During last week's Armed Services hearing, Bayh was the first to inform senior Army officials that AM General and O'Gara-Hess, the Indiana and Ohio companies responsible for producing Humvees and their armor kits, would be able to increase production from 300 up-armored Humvees to as many as 450 vehicles per month. Last fall, Bayh worked with Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) to secure $239.3 million in the Iraq War Supplemental to produce more than 1,300 up-armored Humvees, a $60 million increase over the amount requested by the administration.  