Bayh, Lugar Urge President to Declare Indiana a Major Disaster Area Washington-- U.S. Senators Evan Bayh and Richard Lugar today urged President Bush to agree to Governor Daniels' request to declare Indiana a Major Disaster Area to speed relief to the Hoosiers working to rebuild in the wake of Sunday's devastating tornado. On Sunday, November 6th, a tornado tore through Western Kentucky and Southern Indiana, killing at least 22 Hoosiers and injuring more than 160, in the deadliest tornado to hit Indiana in 30 years. "My thoughts and prayers are with the families in our state and with our neighbors in Kentucky who lost loved ones during Sunday's devastating tornado," Senator Bayh said. "The images on television have shown America the depth of destruction caused by the tornado, but they also show the resilience and sense of community that we experience every day in Indiana. Neighbors coming together to help each other and volunteers traveling across the state to lend a hand -- it's all part of what it means to be a Hoosier and what will help see us through this terrible disaster. My office stands ready to help in any way possible, and I will continue working with Senator Lugar to urge President Bush to declare Indiana a federal disaster area, so that Hoosiers have the full support they need to rebuild." "Sunday's tornado in southwestern Indiana left a devastating and tragic path. It is with deep sympathy that I express my sincere condolences for the residents of Evansville, Newburgh and De Gonia Springs, whose homes and lives were destroyed on Sunday. I offer my condolences to the victims and their loved ones during this time of grievous loss. My thoughts and prayers are now for the strength and recovery of Vanderburgh and Warrick Counties," said Lugar. "Beyond the compelling humanitarian reasons for swift action, a stable and prosperous southwestern Indiana is essential to the economic growth and prosperity of our state. It is important that we commit ourselves to advancing a swift and strong recovery in this area," continued Lugar. In letters to President Bush and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Senators Bayh and Lugar outlined the devastation to hit the region over the weekend and stated their support for Governor Daniels' request for federal aid. The senators also outlined the damage caused by the F-3 tornado, including destroyed homes, damaged businesses, and power outages. In the letter, Bayh and Lugar emphasized that a timely response is crucial to helping families and businesses recover from the tornado.  