Bayh Calls on Army to Do Its Part Securing Armored Humvees Washington-- For the eighth time in less than 18 months, the Pentagon has drastically increased the estimated number of up-armored Humvees and bolt-on armor kits it needs in Iraq and Afghanistan, prompting U.S. Senator Evan Bayh to call on the Department of Defense to ensure that all of our troops have the armored vehicles and equipment they need while fighting the war on terror. Senator Bayh learned this week that the Army is short 3,000 up-armored humvees and needs an additional $350 million to provide bolt-on armor kits to protect troops serving in the Middle East. As a result, today Bayh asked Secretary Rumsfeld to provide a more accurate estimate of the Army's future Humvee needs and to work with companies like AM General and O'Gara-Hess to speed production and delivery of these important vehicles to our troops serving overseas. "Our brave men and women fighting overseas should never be without the equipment they need while they are fighting the war on terror," Senator Bayh said. "Once again, the Pentagon is short of the vehicle that our troops consider a number-one priority. These shortfalls and delays are unacceptable. The Pentagon must begin working with our manufacturers to increase production of up-armored Humvees and do whatever it takes to ship them to our troops as soon as possible." Since May of 2003, the Army's requirements for additional armored Humvees has grown from only 235 vehicles to more than 8,100 today. Senator Bayh wrote to Secretary Rumsfeld following the latest increase in requirements to ask the Pentagon for a more accurate estimate of its future needs out of concern that up-armored Humvee requirements will significantly increase yet again by the time the currently-requested vehicles are delivered to the Middle East. The workers at AM General and the other companies have increased their production levels to meet each previous Army demand, yet the Army continues to blame companies for shortfalls it failed to foresee. In his letter, Bayh points out that AM General and the other companies that help produce Humvees are willing and able to help meet the Army's needs. Last spring, during a hearing with Senior Army leadership, Bayh was the first to inform the service's officials that AM General and O'Gara-Hess, the Indiana and Ohio companies responsible for producing Humvees and their armor kits, would be able to increase production from 300 up-armored Humvees to as many as 450 vehicles per month. "Before we start building new roads in Iraq, we should invest in our own factories if that's what it takes to provide our troops with the equipment they need to get the job done," Senator Bayh said. "The funding is there and the companies are willing - the Army only needs to work with us to correct the shortfall." Senator Bayh has consistently led the way in the Senate to provide funding for more armored Humvees for our troops. Over the last five years, Senator Bayh has helped secure roughly $3 billion to produce almost 30,000 standard and armored humvees for all of the armed services.  