Bayh Asks Health Secretary to Provide Plan for Stockpiling Avian Flu Antivirals Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today urged Secretary of Health and Human Services Michael Leavitt to develop a plan to stockpile avian flu antivirals that meets recommended levels in case of an avian flu outbreak. In a letter written with Senators Reid, Obama, Kennedy, Durbin, and Harkin, Bayh called on Leavitt to explain why U.S. avian flu preparations are behind those of other countries and encouraged him to work with Congress to secure the needed antivirals if his department lacks the authority or resources to do so alone. "Right now, we are woefully unprepared, with only enough antivirals to cover less than two percent of the American people," Senator Bayh said. "It is vitally important that Secretary Leavitt develop a focused plan to ensure that we are prepared for a possible avian flu outbreak. We cannot afford to wait, but need to work proactively to protect the national security interests and health interests of the American people." In the letter, Bayh and his colleagues called on Leavitt to: explain why U.S. preparations are behind those of other nations, explain his plan to provide sufficient protection for the American people, provide Congress with an assessment of whether his administration possesses the legal authority to address this issue, and to immediately consult with them on legislation to address this problem if his office lacks such authority. The Infectious Disease Society of America has recommended that the United States stockpile enough antivirals to treat up to 50 percent of the population. However, the United States has only secured enough antivirals to treat less than two percent of the American people in the event of an avian flu outbreak. Many other countries have already placed orders for the antivirals, meaning that it will take until the end of 2007 to deliver enough to cover just 25 percent of the U.S. population. With no proven vaccine for avian flu, the antivirals, which are used once patients have caught avian flu to increase their chance of survival, represent the best response available today for avian flu. With demand for the antivirals already high, the letter encourages Leavitt to come to Congress if needed for the authority to create more antivirals. Tamiflu, which experts believe to be the best treatment option currently available, is manufactured by one company, Hoffman-La Roche, at a single plant in Switzerland. The letter asks Leavitt to provide an assessment of the authority the administration has to seek alternative sources of Tamiflu, in the event of an emergency, and to consult with Congress should the Secretary conclude that additional legal authority is needed. Avian flu, also known as the bird flu, is a virus spread by chickens, ducks and other birds that has surfaced primarily in Southeast Asia. Currently, most humans have caught avian flu from infected birds, though experts predict that it is only a matter of time before the virus mutates and can be passed more efficiently from human to human. Leading flu experts say the world is long overdue for a flu outbreak, and with no previous exposure to the disease, humans will be especially susceptible to avian flu. In a matter of weeks, an outbreak in Asia could trigger a world-wide pandemic spread by international travel and globalization, making it especially important that the United States begin planning for such an emergency today.  