Bayh Offers Resolution Calling for Official Complaint Against China for Currency Manipulation Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today offered a resolution co-sponsored by Senators Stabenow (D-MI) and Schumer (D-NY) calling for the administration to ask the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to file an official complaint against China for manipulating its currency to gain an unfair trade advantage. Bayh, a leading voice to ensure fair trade for U.S. manufacturers, introduced the resolution as a response to recent statements by the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Rodrigo de Rato, that indicated that China is not manipulating its currency to create an unfair trade advantage. According to an article in the Washington Post last week, de Rato said there is "no evidence" of currency manipulation. "The IMF's insistence that China is not manipulating its currency flies in the face of direct evidence from workers and companies across America," Senator Bayh said. "I have seen the results of this cheating in Indiana and across the country, as manufacturers have lost contracts, laid off workers and even been forced to shut down entirely because they can't compete against Chinese companies benefiting from an unfair advantage. The IMF, by its own rules, should be investigating this problem, and my resolution will help make that happen." Bayh's resolution includes evidence that China manipulates its currency and cites IMF rules that require it to take action against such cheating. The resolution states that China has "intervened massively in the exchange markets to block appreciation of their currency" and argues that IMF rules "enjoin member countries to 'avoid manipulating the exchange rates to gain unfair competitive advantage over other member countries." Economists estimated that China's currency may be undervalued from anywhere between 15 percent and 40 percent. If this proves true, it means that Chinese manufacturing companies effectively receive a 15 percent to 40 percent subsidy on their exports, creating a false subsidy that U.S. companies cannot match. Earlier this year, Bayh introduced legislation with Senators Charles Schumer (D-NY) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) that calls for a tariff increase for all products from China to negate the country's artificial currency advantage until its government agrees to value its currency at a more accurate level. The tariff would be applied to all products from China and would be applied on top of any current tariffs that are already in place, though President Bush would be able to remove the tariff once he believes that China has moved to a fair, market-based currency. In April, Bayh also joined a bipartisan group of senators and members of Congress in filing a petition with the U.S. Trade Representative seeking the elimination of the undervaluation of China's currency. The petition calls on the administration to file a case in the WTO to challenge and end China's currency manipulation practices.  