Bayh, McCain, Lieberman, Specter Announce Introduction of 9-11 Commission Legislation Washington-- In an effort to strengthen the nation's security at home and in the war on terror, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh, along with Senators McCain (R-AZ), Lieberman (D-CT) and Specter (R-PA), today held a press conference to announce the introduction of their legislation that is designed to implement the recommendations made by the 9-11 Commission in July. The legislation, created in a joint effort between senators on both sides of the aisle, encompasses a variety of subjects including intelligence reform, a new foreign policy, better security at home and ways of re-organizing the government.  The senators introduced their legislation on the first day the Senate returned to session following the August recess, delivering on a promise to begin implementing crucial national security improvements that they first made on July 22nd, when the 9-11 Commission first released its findings. Together, we have proven that we can rise above partisan politics, but it remains to be seen whether or not we can rise above bureaucratic inertia, Senator Bayh said. I am hopeful that we can; for the sake of the nation, we must. I am worried that the wake up call that America received on 9-11 may not be answered if we wait until after November 2nd and the country moves onto other things. This momentum is important. Time is not on our side. Among other things, the legislation would: Create a strong National Intelligence Director with real budget authority and a National Counterterrorism Center to pull together intelligence activities; establish a far-reaching information sharing network to promote sharing of intelligence and homeland security information throughout government, including with state and local agencies; develop an integrated screening system using a network of screening points at U.S. borders, in the transportation system and other critical infrastructure that must be protected against terrorist attack; increase aid to Afghanistan; renew support for Pakistan and open new avenues of dialogue and diplomacy with the Muslim world; and ensure that civil liberties and privacy rights are protected as reforms are implemented. 9-11 Commission Chairman Thomas Kean and Vice Chairman Lee Hamilton also attended the press conference to demonstrate their support for the legislation, as did Representatives Chris Shays (R-CT) and Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), who will introduce the companion legislation in the House.  