Bayh Announces $1.75 Billion for Armored Humvees for Troops in Iraq Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that he has helped secure $1.75 billion for additional up-armored Humvees, which will help provide up to 10,000 up-armored Humvees for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. The funding was included as part of the Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2007, which was approved by the Senate today. The Senate bill will now be reconciled with the House version in conference committee before being sent to the President's desk for signature.  Year after year, the Pentagon continues to underestimate the critical role up-armored Humvees play in protecting our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, Senator Bayh said. Every day our troops on the front lines are put in danger unnecessarily because they do not have the protective equipment they need. This funding will help ensure that up-armored Humvees are available to our troops so they can stay safe while accomplishing their mission. Senator Bayh has consistently led the way in the Senate to provide funding for more up-armored Humvees for our troops, in the face of repeated failures on the part of the Pentagon to ensure protective equipment for our military men and women. While the funding in the Defense Appropriations bill will help ensure our troops' safety, Bayh has said he will not stop fighting for more Humvee funding until we are sure our troops have all the equipment necessary to protect themselves while they defend our national security. This funding will help the U.S. Armed Forces move toward their goal of up-armoring all Humvees that are in use in Iraq and Afghanistan. In addition to helping protect our troops, the funding will also mean continued economic opportunity for the South Bend area. AM General estimates that 2,234 Hoosier jobs will be maintained as a result of this funding. Every day our troops go out to the front lines to protect America, and yet we have failed repeatedly to provide them with the equipment they need to protect themselves, Senator Bayh said. Our troops do right by us everyday. We need to do right by them and provide them with the protective equipment they need. Over the last six years, Senator Bayh has helped secure roughly $5 billion to produce almost 40,000 standard and up-armored Humvees for all of the Armed Services.  