Senate Orders GAO Probe to Study Effectiveness of World Bank Programs in Fighting Global Poverty Washington-- The United States Senate has ordered an independent review of the World Banks effectiveness in alleviating world poverty in light of the susceptibility of international aid programs to corruption and graft by foreign governments.  The Senate voted unanimously last night to adopt an amendment offered by Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) ordering a Government Accountability Office (GAO) assessment of the effectiveness of programs administered by the International Development Association (IDA). The amendment was included in the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 2008, which passed by a vote of 81-12. The motto of the World Bank is working for a world free of poverty, but there is a real question as to whether the Bank, as currently constituted, is an effective instrument for alleviating poverty, Senator Bayh said. Bank officials are too willing to accept corruption as just another cost of doing business in certain countries. The amendment passed last night expresses the Senates desire for the World Bank to employ transparent procurement procedures. In the fall of 2005, the Senate passed legislation threatening to withhold 20 percent of international development aid funding if the World Bank adopted less stringent procurement systems allowing recipient countries to determine how IDA funding will be spent. Such systems invite graft and corruption and waste U.S. taxpayer dollars, Senator Bayh said. The vast majority of World Bank lending is in countries that no longer need the Bank for development finance, Senator Bayh said. Bank leaders are evaluating success based on the volume of loans approved versus the effectiveness of the loans in alleviating poverty. This study could help produce a roadmap for beneficial reform. The legislation passed last night also expresses the Senates concern that a high percentage of senior level World Bank employees enjoy excessive compensation and benefitsand concern that thousands of Bank consultants have annual incomes similar to, or greater than, the incomes of senior-level employees.  