Bayh Calls on Congress to Implement All 9-11 Commission Recommendations Washington-- Days away from the five-year anniversary of the September 11th attacks, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today called on Congress to implement all of the remaining 9-11 Commission's recommendations to help protect Americans from potential terror attacks in the future. Bayh, a member of the Senate Armed Services and Intelligence Committees, is co-sponsoring legislation that will implement the recommendations and was an author of the original legislation introduced following the 9-11 Commission's report to transform all of their recommendations into law. "Next Monday marks the five-year anniversary of the September 11th attacks and it could not be a more important time to ensure that we are making progress on our national security efforts," Senator Bayh said. "While we are safer now than we were on September 11th, we are not nearly as safe as we can and must be. This legislation will help us finish the job and implement all of the remaining 9-11 Commission's recommendations." The legislation (S.3456), introduced by Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ), calls for implementation of 9-11 Commission recommendations that have yet to be enacted. Specifically, the bill includes recommendations on: - Funding for first responders and a new grant program to assist state and local governments in achieving essential capabilities for terrorism preparedness - Establishment of a comprehensive screening system and international collaboration on border and document security; ncreased oversight of potential WMD proliferation through the creation of the Office of Nonproliferation Programs - Semiannual reports by the Secretary of Defense describing the plans and strategies of the U.S. Northern Command - Creating a more comprehensive coalition strategy against Islamic terrorism and the need to engage other countries in developing this strategy After the initial 9-11 Commission's report was released in 2004, Bayh joined with a bipartisan coalition to introduce legislation implementing all of the Commission's recommendations. Several key pieces were passed by Congress, including the creation of the Director of National Intelligence and increased Congressional oversight of intelligence, but others were caught up in red tape and partisan fighting. "Improving homeland security should not be a partisan issue," Senator Bayh. "In the days immediately following September 11th, the American people came together to rebuild and recover like never before. We owe it to them to get the job done now."  