Bayh Calls for Defense Bill Conferees to End Patriot Penalty Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh, joined by Senators Richard Durbin (D-IL) and Mary Landrieu (D-LA), today sent letters to the leaders of the Senate Armed Services Committee and all senators who will be involved in negotiating the final version of the Defense Authorization bill urging them to retain his legislation eliminating the Patriot Penalty. Last month, the Senate unanimously approved an amendment offered by Senators Bayh and Richard Durbin (D-IL) that would help end the Patriot Penalty, a pay cut many National Guard and Reserve members face when they are called to active duty and lose their civilian salaries. The legislation must remain in the conference version that goes before the President's desk for signature in order to become law. "This provision will provide crucial assistance to the members of the National Guard and Reserve whose families are struggling to keep up with mortgage, car, child care and education payments," Senator Bayh said. "Its inclusion in the final conference report is essential to continuing the war on terrorism, to preserving the strength of our armed forces, and to maintaining our moral obligation to those who defend our nation." In a letter, Bayh, Durbin and Landrieu urge the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee to work with their counterparts in the House to keep the Patriot Penalty legislation in the final version of the conference report, which combines the House and Senate versions of the same bill. Bayh wrote the letter to demonstrate the existing support for his legislation as the Senate prepares to finish work on the Defense Authorization bill this month. A similar letter is circulating in the House authored by Congressman Tom Lantos (D-CA). The amendment offered by Senators Bayh and Durbin would provide reservists with a direct payment to make up for the difference between their civilian salary and their military salary. Reservists who have been called up to active duty for more than six months and have suffered a cut in pay of at least $50 per month qualify for assistance. The amendment would provide up to $3,000 per month to eliminate the Patriot Penalty. According to a recent Department of Defense study, more than 50 percent of all Reservists reported a loss in income when they were called up for active duty. The average income loss for Reservists on active duty equals $4,416 per year. At the same time, recruitment rates for the year are currently 24 percent below normal for the Army National Guard and 20 percent below normal for the Army Reserve.  