Bayh's Flu Protection Act Offers Solution to Cycle of Vaccine Shortages Washington-- As health officials began meeting today to determine what flu strains should be included in next year's vaccine, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh introduced legislation to strengthen the nation's vaccine supply. Bayh's Flu Protection Act is a comprehensive solution targeting the problems that have led to shortages for the past two years and now a surplus that is adding to the uncertainty facing next year's flu season. The legislation will help ensure an adequate number of vaccines are produced each year by enacting a buy-back program and encouraging greater U.S. vaccine production, two key steps that will greatly reduce the risk of another vaccine shortage.  We simply cannot keep putting off a long-term solution to these problems, Senator Bayh said. The Flu Protection Act offers a blueprint to stabilize our supply. It is critical that we enact these reforms in time to make a difference for next year's flu season. The fall-out from this year's initial vaccine shortage is already hindering efforts to prepare for next year's flu season. The initial shortage and ensuing surplus have created a mixed message that makes it difficult for doctors and manufacturers to gauge demand for next year's vaccine, jeopardizing efforts to avoid another shortage as health officials delay placing vaccine orders or request fewer flu shots than normal. Dr. Anthony Fauci of the National Institute of Health recently admitted that [t]hings are really still up in the air. We just don't really know what's going to happen yet. The President of the American Academy of Family Physicians said doctors just don't have a clue about what will happen. Widespread uncertainty has left doctors unable to decide how many vaccines to order, patients unsure of whether they should get a shot, and manufacturers in the dark over the number of vaccines to make, Senator Bayh said. As a father myself, I cannot imagine that any parent who held their child while waiting in line for a flu shot would allow a day to pass without some progress being made to prevent future shortages. We need a supply we can rely on and a consistent message for the public if we want to put a stop to these shortages. Bayh's Flu Protection Act, which he first introduced in January 2004, would prevent this confusion and cycle of shortages by providing doctors and manufacturers with a more reliable idea of vaccine demand each year. The legislation calls for:  The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to work with manufacturers to determine a more accurate estimate of the number of vaccines needed each year and establishes a buy-back plan to remove the economic disincentives manufacturers currently face if they have left-over vaccines.   Tax credits to encourage greater U.S. vaccine production to avoid situations like this fall's, where problems with one manufacturer wiped out half of the nation's vaccine supply.  Funding for flu pandemic preparedness and research and development to discover faster, improved methods of vaccine production.   A public awareness campaign to educate members of vulnerable populations on the importance of getting a flu shot, a particularly helpful step toward repairing any confusion that may result from this year's shifting vaccination guidelines due to the supply fluctuations.  