Bayh Meets with Indiana Farm Bureau to Talk Trade, Energy Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh met on February 7th with members of the Indiana Farm Bureau to discuss his support for expanding markets for agricultural products, strengthening our trade laws and moving towards energy independence by increasing our use of ethanol.  In the meeting, Senator Bayh discussed his bipartisan legislation aimed at breaking America's dependence on foreign oil, in part by increasing our use of ethanol. The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act would mandate 7 million barrels in oil-savings in 20 years by encouraging the use of ethanol and other renewable fuels. This legislation will provide a new niche for corn and soybean farmers in Indiana, all part of Senator Bayh's efforts to seek out new markets for Hoosier farmers in an increasingly competitive field and to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. By tapping the energy potential of Indiana's farm fields, we can ensure a reliable domestic energy supply to meet our nation's needs, while creating thousands of jobs for Hoosier farmers, said Senator Bayh. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, ethanol production adds 25 to 50 cents to the value of a bushel of corn, or as much as $5.5 billion to the entire corn crop in a season. That means better wages for farming families and a boost to our agricultural economy. In fact, doubling the nation's ethanol consumption would create 234,840 new jobs across the country. Indiana's farmers represent some of the very best of our state's traditions and history, our farmers must be an integral part of charting our progress in the future, Senator Bayh said. It is critical that we give Hoosier farmers every opportunity to reach new markets to sell their products. I will continue to work to make certain that our trading partners contribute equally to an open trading system for agriculture so that Hoosiers get a fair shake when trying to expand their businesses. Senator Bayh has championed legislation to protect Hoosier jobs, including those in agriculture, by keeping international markets open to Hoosier products and by demanding a level playing field for Hoosier workers. American farmers are among the most efficient in the world, but they are frequently denied access to overseas consumers. Bayh has supported opening new markets for U.S. agriculture by strengthening trade relations with foreign countries. He has also introduced legislation to strengthen U.S. trade laws so that the United States can better defend itself against challenges brought against it by foreign countries in the World Trade Organization.  