Bayh Joins Effort to Restore Great Lakes Washington-- To ensure that future generations of Hoosiers can continue to enjoy the fresh water and natural beauty provided by Lake Michigan, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh co-sponsored legislation this week to restore and preserve the Great Lakes. Bayh joined six other senators from both sides of the aisle to support the Great Lakes Restoration Act, which would speed clean-up work and develop ways to monitor water quality in the lakes. "The Great Lakes are as much a part of our Hoosier heritage as our dunes and forests, and they deserve the same kind of attention to their preservation," Senator Bayh said. "Thousands of Hoosiers visit their shores each summer to fish, swim, and create memories to last a lifetime. This legislation will ensure that the Great Lakes remain to be enjoyed by future generations." In 2001, there were nearly 600 beach closings ordered because of e. coli bacteria and approximately 1,400 fish consumption warnings issued because of high levels of pollutants in the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes states currently outspend the federal government in their effort to clean and restore the lakes, yet more help is needed to combat the problem. The Great Lakes Restoration Act would help restore the Great Lakes by providing $6 billion over 10 years to clean and address specific problems identified in each Great Lakes state's ecosystem. It would also establish a task force to oversee a comprehensive restoration effort and report on the measurable successes of such efforts. Finally, the legislation calls for the development of indicators that would be used to track water quality in the lakes. Initial clean-up efforts would likely focus on contaminated sediment clean-up, water quality improvements and pollution reduction, all of which would also improve the water quality of Great Lake drinking water. In addition, grants could be used to restore area wetlands, improve public access to the lakes and encourage the preservation of original coastal wildlife that is currently threatened by invading species not native to the Great Lakes ecosystem. President Bush created an Interagency Task Force in 2004 to study the current Great Lakes environmental situation, the ninth such study to be conducted on environmental issues surrounding the lakes. Instead, Bayh and his senate colleagues believe that more urgent action is needed to address the environmental problems. Senators Levin (D-MI), Stabenow (D-MI), DeWine (R-OH), Kohl (D-WI) and Dayton (D-MN), joined with Senators Bayh and Lugar (R-IN) in co-sponsoring the Great Lakes Restoration Act. Bayh is a member of the Wilderness and Public Lands Caucus.  