Bayh Proposal to Increase Support for Small Manufacturers Signed into Law by President Washington  Indiana could receive more funds to support the growth and competitiveness of the states small manufacturers, thanks to a provision sponsored by U.S. Senator Evan Bayh that was included in the America Competes Act and signed into law today by President Bush.  The Bayh provision increases the funding available for the federal Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) by $37 million over four years. MEP provides assistance to small manufacturers through not-for-profit centers in each state to help strengthen competitiveness in the global economy and improve productivity through use of technology.  Indianas MEP is the Purdue University Technical Assistance Program, which provides direct assistance to 300 small businesses across the state, with an economic impact of $61 million each year. Indianas MEP program currently operates seven regional offices. The increase in funds could mean additional resources for Indianas MEP to strengthen its work with small business owners at the grassroots level by increasing its number of regional offices and staff, as well as provide additional assistance. Small manufacturers play a critical role in Indianas economy yet all too often are forced to lay off workers or close their doors as a result of foreign competition, Senator Bayh said. The America Competes Act sends a clear signal that we stand behind our small manufacturers and are committed to providing them with even more resources to help strengthen their business and provide good jobs for Hoosiers. President Bushs 2008 budget proposal cut funding for MEP by more than 50 percent, which would have forced the program to close offices across the country. However, the America Competes Act sent to the President by Congress included an amendment authored by Senators Bayh, Herb Kohl (D-Wis.), and Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) to increase available funding by $37 million.  Our manufacturers here in Indiana are working every day to make their products faster, better and cheaper; run more energy efficient plants; create new innovative products and market opportunities; operate greener processes and employ a stronger workforce, said Dave Snow, director of Indianas MEP. Just this year, weve see the need for MEP assistance increase by 50 percent. With this type of support, we would have the capability to add more regional offices, provide more experts in key areas and increase our services. Senator Bayh has a long record of supporting Indianas manufacturers and small businesses, including recently filing a bill that would double funding for the Small Business Innovation Research program that provides needed capital for research and development by small businesses and manufacturers. Additionally, Bayh has introduced a bill to strengthen the enforcement of laws protecting American intellectual property from being stolen by overseas competitors and used to make counterfeit products.  