Congress Passes Measure to Prevent Medication Errors at Hospitals Washington-- U.S. Senators Evan Bayh and Richard Lugar today announced that the Senate passed legislation late last night that includes steps to prevent hospital medication errors similar to recommendations in a bill introduced by the Indiana Senators on Wednesday. Medication safety language was added to the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 after Senators Bayh and Lugar sent a letter to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley (R-IA) and Ranking Member Max Baucus (D-MT) urging the Committee to take action to help prevent tragedies like the infant deaths that occurred at an Indianapolis hospital in September. Congressman Dan Burton and Congresswoman Julia Carson led an effort for similar legislation that the House passed Friday. The bill will now be sent to the President's desk to be signed into law.  The inclusion of hospital quality reporting requirements in this bill gives patients the information they need to better protect themselves and their families from medical errors by requiring hospitals to report whether they are meeting established safety standards, Senator Bayh said. By creating incentives for hospitals to use the latest technology to prevent mistakes, we will be able to significantly reduce the number of costly and tragic medical errors in Indiana and nationwide. The Institute of Medicine has estimated that medication errors injure at least 1.5 million Americans annually and cost our health care system more than $3.5 billion per year. While addressing the problem of medication errors will require a multi-faceted approach, this is a vital first step, said Senator Lugar. The adoption of this measure will encourage hospitals to develop safety measures designed to prevent medication errors, which in turn will save lives. The bill passed by both the Senate and the House requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop quality standards, including medication safety measures, that the Secretary determines will improve hospital quality. Hospitals that do not disclose whether they have adopted the new standards will be penalized by receiving reduced Medicare reimbursements. This requirement will build on quality control measures recently implemented as part of the Deficit Reduction Act. Possible safety measures could include:  Electronic prescribing to prevent errors because pharmacy staff cannot read handwriting or dosage information;  Bar coding of individual dosages with scanners that can compare the patient record with the drug to be administered both at the time order is filled in the pharmacy and at the patient bedside;  Using smart IV infusion pumps that alert nurses if the dose exceeds hospital-established limits before infusion begins. According to a recent report from the Institute of Medicine, medical errors injure at least 1.5 million Americans each year and cost our health system more than $3.5 billion per year. On average, a hospital patient is subject to at least one medication error each day, and many of these mistakes are preventable.  