Bayh Introduces Bipartisan Legislation to Reduce Pork Barrel Spending Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined a bipartisan group of eight other senators to introduce legislation designed to reduce opportunities for members to insert into bills special projects that are never voted on and to increase public oversight of wasteful spending. At a press conference led by Senator John McCain (R-AZ) this morning, Bayh called the introduction of the Pork Barrel Reduction Act an important step toward restoring fiscal sanity to Washington. "Our growing deficit threatens not only our economic interests, but also our national security and our position as a leader in the global community," Senator Bayh said. "As a former governor, I understand the importance of real fiscal responsibility and once vetoed a state budget because I didn't think it was fiscally sustainable. The legislation we are introducing today will help bring that kind of common sense to Washington." Currently, pork barrel spending is routinely added at the last minute and is buried in appropriations bills that are thousands of pages long. These "earmarks" are largely not subject to individual votes. The practice allows politicians to slip in funding for projects that otherwise might not receive support, and has been under scrutiny recently for the role it has played in the ongoing lobbyist scandal. The Pork Barrel Reduction Act, introduced today by Senators McCain (R-AZ), Feingold (D-WI), Kyl (R-AZ), Bayh (D-IN), Ensign (R-NV), Graham (R-SC), Sununu (R-NH), Coburn (R-OK), and DeMint (R-SC), calls for a number of steps designed to make it more difficult to insert pork barrel spending into bills, including provisions that:  Give individual members the opportunity to challenge pork-barrel projects by raising a "Point of Order," which would require a 60-vote approval for unauthorized earmarks  Give members more time to review conference reports so they have an opportunity to amend legislation before it is sent to the President  Give the public and the media more time to study details of a bill to provide a better understanding of what is in legislation  Require recipients of federal money to disclose any amount that they spend on federal lobbyists "This work should not be done behind closed doors," Senator Bayh said. "Americans deserve better than pork barrel politics. Our legislation will help ensure that real priorities -- from fiscal responsibility to our national security -- are no longer weighed down by wasteful spending." Citizens Against Government Waste, a fiscal watchdog group, estimates that pork barrel spending last year cost taxpayers $27.3 billion, up from $10.1 billion in 1995. The recently enacted transportation bill had 6,371 earmarks in it alone, which included the now infamous $223 million "Bridge to Nowhere." Senator Bayh has been a long-time leader in the Senate to restore fiscal responsibility and reduce the budget deficit. Most recently, Bayh was one of 15 Senators and only 4 Democrats to vote against the Bridge to Nowhere, a $223 million project to connect a small Alaska town to an island that was one of 6,371 earmarks included in the Transportation bill. In his first term, Senator Bayh voted against 16 appropriation bills, totaling $920 billion in new spending.  