Finance Committee Allots $75 Million for Bayh's Fatherhood Initiative Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Senate Finance Committee has included $50 million in mandatory funding and $25 million in discretionary funding to promote responsible fatherhood in the reauthorization of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program, a crucial step in Bayh's decade-long effort to end the epidemic of absentee fathers in America. Bayh has called on men to share the responsibility of raising their children since his time as governor of Indiana and most recently wrote to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee urging them to include funding in this year's reauthorization. The funding was approved by the Committee with bipartisan support. "This funding represents a significant step in our efforts to end the epidemic of absentee fathers in America," Senator Bayh said. "This has been a long fight and there is more work to do, but the rewards will be well worth the effort if we can begin reversing the trend of fatherless families to encourage healthier children and stronger communities." The number of children growing up in homes without fathers has more than quadrupled over the past 40 years, from five million children in 1960 to more than 24 million today. At the same time, studies show that these children are five times more likely to live in poverty, twice as likely to commit a crime, twice as likely to drop out of school or abuse drugs or alcohol, and more likely to commit a crime, commit suicide or become pregnant as a teenager. Bayh sent a letter to Senators Grassley (R-IA) and Baucus (D-MT), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee, earlier this week requesting funding to target fatherlessness and emphasizing the bipartisan support for his Responsible Fatherhood Act. Bayh's Responsible Fatherhood Act calls for community outreach to raise awareness of the impact fatherlessness has on children and communities, as well as workshops to help men find jobs and receive training so they can live up to their responsibilities as fathers. In the reauthorization bill, the Finance Committee set aside $50 million in mandatory spending for state and private organizations to establish responsible fatherhood workshops and $25 million for state and national media campaigns to increase awareness. Encouraging responsible fathers would help promote stronger families and more secure children, root out some of our most persistent social challenges, and build on efforts to reduce government dependency on welfare. The Responsible Fatherhood Act is an extension of Bayh's work to reduce fatherlessness as Governor. Bayh's administration held one of the first national conferences on responsible fatherhood, removed marriage penalties in government programming and used media and grants to promote responsible fatherhood. While governor, Senator Bayh also more than doubled the amount of money collected for child support payments.  