Senate Committee Passes Bayh Co-Sponsored Legislation to Study Impact of Violent Media on Children Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh announced that bipartisan legislation he co-sponsored to study the effect of violent media on children has been approved by the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee and will be submitted to the full Senate for consideration. The Children and Media Research Advancement Act (CAMRA) will fund research into the impact of television, video games, and other media on children's development.  As the father of twin sons, I am particularly concerned by the increasingly violent and graphic nature of television shows and video games, Senator Bayh said. It is our responsibility as parents and policymakers to better understand the impact that this media is having on our children so we can help protect them from inappropriate and potentially damaging images. In December, I introduced a bill to prohibit businesses from selling Mature-rated, violent video games to young kids. Today's legislation will build on that effort by looking at the impact of all kinds of media to arm parents with the information they need to raise healthy children. Recent studies into the impact of electronic media on children have indicated negative developmental effects and highlighted the need for more research into this increasingly important subject area. CAMRA directs the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to review and synthesize existing research and establish research priorities on the impact of electronic media on social and behavioral development of children. The Act also requires the CDC to develop a program that funds additional research determined to be necessary concerning the role and impact of electronic media on the development of children and adolescents. In December of 2005, Senator Bayh traveled across Indiana to speak with parents about the dangers of violent video games and the importance of introducing legislation to help parents protect their children from such violence. Later that month, Bayh worked with Senators Lieberman (D-CT) and Clinton (D-NY) to introduce the Family Entertainment Protection Act, a bill that prohibits any business from selling or renting a Mature or Adults-Only game to a person who is younger than seventeen. The bill also requires an annual, independent analysis of game ratings and requires the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to conduct an investigation to determine whether hidden content like in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is a pervasive problem and take appropriate action.  