Bayh Makes the Case for Jobs at Indianapolis DFAS Center Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today closely questioned the Pentagon Comptroller in making the case for bringing jobs to Indianapolis' Defense Financial and Accounting Service (DFAS) center when other centers are closed according to the Base Closure and Re-Alignment (BRAC) recommendations. In particular, Bayh expressed concern over recent reports have indicated that some jobs originally slated for the Indianapolis DFAS site may go to a center in Cleveland instead. Bayh, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, met with Tina Jones, the Under Secretary of Defense responsible for DFAS, during a subcommittee hearing on Department of Defense Financial Management this afternoon and used the opportunity to make the case for bringing the jobs to the Indianapolis center. "I think we all want the same things, which is objectivity, transparency, what's right for the department, what's right for the taxpayers, and not to allow parochial factors or political factors to get involved in these kind of decisions," Senator Bayh said. "We just feel that with the cost of space, the availability of space, and the cost of labor, there are a lot of objective factors that argue in favor of Indiana." The hearing gave Bayh another opportunity to make the case for the hundreds of jobs that could be accomodated at DFAS-Indianapolis. It was the latest in a series of efforts by Senator Bayh in support of the important military work performed in Indiana, including an in-person meeting with BRAC Chairman Anthony Principi and Senator Lugar earlier this year and testimony that Bayh submitted during the BRAC hearings in St. Louis and Washington. The Department of Defense has recognized the strength of the Indianapolis DFAS Center throughout the BRAC process, ranking Indianapolis the highest on military value out of all facilities not located on a Department of Defense installation. Overall, Indianapolis is ranked 9th, compared to Cleveland's 12th, largely due to Indianapolis' lower operating costs and local pay levels.  