Senate Accepts Bayh-Durbin Amendment to End the Patriot Penalty in Defense Bill Washington-- The U.S. Senate today unanimously accepted an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill offered by U.S. Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN) and Richard Durbin (D-IL) that would help eliminate the Patriot Penalty, a pay cut many National Guard and Reserve members face when they are called to active duty and lose their civilian salaries. Bayh first introduced legislation targeting the Patriot Penalty in January and has been a leader in repeated efforts to provide military families with the financial support they need while our troops are serving overseas.  Tonight's vote is a crucial step forward in the effort to ensure that no one is forced to take a pay cut for serving their country, Senator Bayh said. No one should be forced to choose between doing right by their family and doing right by their country. Surely we can find it in our hearts and in our budgets to support our troops while spending so much in Iraq, and I will continue working with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure we end the Patriot Penalty. The amendment offered by Senators Bayh and Durbin would provide reservists with a direct payment to make up for the difference between their civilian salary and their military salary. Reservists who have been called up to active duty for more than six months and have suffered a cut in pay of at least $50 per month qualify for assistance. The amendment would provide up to $3,000 per month to eliminate the Patriot Penalty. According to a recent Department of Defense study, more than 50 percent of all Reservists reported a loss in income when they were called up for active duty. The average income loss for Reservists on active duty for a year equals $4,416 per year. Reservists whose families face financial hardship during their deployment may be less likely to re-enlist as a result of the Patriot Penalty. Reservists make up 35 percent of the forces on the ground in Iraq, making their future strength essential to maintaining U.S. military power. Ending the Patriot Penalty would make service in the National Guard and Reserves a more attractive choice by removing concerns over pay for those now contemplating service to their country, helping stem the recent recruitment losses.   