Bayh Announces $1 Million to Help Indiana Youth Institute Promote Responsible Fatherhood Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Indiana Youth Institute (IYI) will receive $999,000 to promote and encourage responsible fatherhood as a part of a $50 million grant program created by Congress as part of legislation Bayh authored to address the epidemic of absentee fathers. Bayh has been a leader in the effort to promote responsible fatherhood throughout his Senate career and during his two terms as governor of Indiana. "The epidemic of absentee fathers is quickly becoming one of the worst social crises facing our country today," Senator Bayh said. "Organizations like the Indiana Youth Initiative play a critical role in giving men the tools they need to become a positive force in their children's lives, and this funding will help them continue to address this critical issue. By stemming the tide of fatherlessness today, we can help prevent the poverty, crime, drug abuse and teen pregnancies that threaten the promise of tomorrow." In July, Senator Bayh sent a letter to the Department of Health and Human Services in support of IYI's application for funding under his Promoting Responsible Fatherhood Community Access Program. Thanks to Senator Bayh's support, IYI was awarded a grant that will enable it to organize five local fatherhood symposia each year for five years in communities throughout Indiana. Each symposium will include state and national experts on father involvement, keynote speakers from the National Fatherhood Initiative and information for organizations wishing to apply for the Indiana Responsible Fatherhood Coalition grant program. This year's summits are scheduled for November 13th through 17th in Gary, Indianapolis, Evansville, Lawrenceburg and Fort Wayne. "The federal government is addressing a vital social issue through this funding, and IYI is grateful for the opportunity this grant provides to make a real difference in the lives of Indiana children," IYI president Bill Stanczykiewicz said. "IYI appreciates how U.S. Sen. Evan Bayh followed his work on this legislation by supporting our proposal, and we appreciate the approval of that proposal by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. IYI looks forward to doing this important work." The Responsible Fatherhood Act, parts of which were signed into the law by President Bush earlier this year, was the first piece of legislation Bayh introduced in the Senate. The Act was authored as an extension of Bayh's work as governor to reduce the number of absentee fathers in Indiana, where Bayh's administration held one of the first national conferences on responsible fatherhood, removed marriage penalties in government programming and used media and grants to promote responsible fatherhood. While governor, Senator Bayh also more than doubled the amount of money collected for child support payments.  