The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act Washington-- The Bayh-Voinovich Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act treats IP theft with the seriousness it demands, offering a focused, aggressive solution to stop domestic and international counterfeiting. The legislation would protect American jobs and strengthen national security by creating one organized force to combat IP theft and elevating the government's response to IP theft to the same level as money laundering and other black-market crimes.  The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act would: Create an Organized Force: To create a more organized force, the legislation would establish an Intellectual Property Enforcement Network to replace the loose, interagency approach currently responsible for tracking IP theft, which shows little evidence of cooperation. Under the proposed legislation, federal agencies would share intelligence to aid each other in identifying, tracking, arresting, and prosecuting IP criminals. Additionally, formal mechanisms would be established for working with state and local law enforcement and the private sector. Increase Enforcement Team Oversight: In recognition of the growing problem caused by IP theft and the increasing role it plays in supporting terrorism, the legislation would add agencies that oversee terrorism financing to the enforcement network and place the head of the network in the White House. Until now, a crucial element in fighting IP theft has been left out of the government's efforts -- agencies that track terrorist financing. Now, for the first time ever, this legislation would add the Department of Treasury's Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence to the enforcement team it creates. The Central Intelligence Agency has a built-in role as well. Strengthen International Enforcement: To encourage a global effort against IP theft, the legislation would mandate the establishment of an international enforcement team made up of qualified countries to track and identify IP criminals. The global enforcement team would be modeled on a similar international team that fights money laundering and other black-market crimes. Countries allowed into the task force must satisfy certain criteria, including having passed effective laws preventing IP theft and demonstrating a track record of enforcing those laws. The President would be encouraged to make cooperation with the global enforcement team a priority among U.S. trading partners. Require Increased Oversight: To ensure cooperation among the agencies and to track progress fighting IP theft, the head of the enforcement network and his White House counterpart would be required to report to Congress annually. Each report would include information on how the agencies are working together, as well as on the establishment and operations of the global enforcement team.   