Bayh, Voinovich Unveil New Legislation Targeting Intellectual Property Theft Washington-- U.S. Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN) and George Voinovich (R-OH) today introduced new legislation called the Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act that will significantly enhance Intellectual Property (IP) enforcement domestically and internationally. The new legislation will protect American jobs and businesses by creating one organized force to combat IP theft and elevating the government's response to IP theft to the same level as money laundering and other black-market crimes. "Part of the American promise is the idea that through hard work and ingenuity, every American can get ahead in life, but when we allow foreign companies to steal our ideas at the cost of American jobs, that opportunity to succeed disappears, too," Senator Bayh said. "To make sure that every hardworking American can succeed, we need to start treating intellectual property theft with the seriousness it demands to protect American jobs and strengthen our national security." "In the fierce competition of the 21st-century global marketplace, intellectual property is one of the few areas where America has a clear advantage over foreign competitors. It is vital that we protect that advantage, level the playing field, and ensure continued economic growth for Americans," said Voinovich. I am so pleased to have the opportunity to work with Senator Bayh on safeguarding the national security and economic health of our country by improving the management, coordination and effectiveness of domestic and international intellectual property enforcement." The strategy for combating intellectual property theft today has produced few results, offers little encouragement for cooperation among agencies in charge of IP investigations, and leaves out agencies that specialize in tracking terrorist financing, to the detriment of our national security interests. The legislation introduced by Bayh and Voinovich would include those agencies and elevate the way we treat IP theft to the same level as money laundering and other black market crimes. The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act would: According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, counterfeiting costs U.S. businesses as much as $250 billion a year, and 750,000 American jobs have been lost due to counterfeit merchandise. Counterfeit drugs make up ten percent of the pharmaceutical market, and thousands of fake machine parts are used in airplanes each year.  