Bayh Calls on HUD to Protect Affordable Rental Housing Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today called on Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Alphonso Jackson to reconsider a proposed fee increase on loans for the creation and rehabilitation of affordable rental housing. Bayh joined Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and a bipartisan coalition of 24 other senators in a letter criticizing a HUD plan to increase by 71 percent fees on Federal Housing Administration (FHA) affordable multifamily housing mortgage loans, nearly doubling the premiums on these programs. "An increase in premiums on this important loan program will translate to higher rents and prevent numerous working families from finding affordable housing," Senator Bayh said. "At a time when everything from energy to health care is putting an ever-increasing burden on family budgets, it is important that we protect programs like the FHA affordable rental housing loans." FHA insurance programs help finance the construction and improvement of rental housing designed to meet the needs of low and moderate income families and communities. According to HUD, FHA assisted almost 109,000 households in Fiscal Year 2005, including more than 85,000 families in rental housing. The proposed fee increase would significantly increase the cost of, and in some cases prohibit, rehabilitating and developing rental housing for working families. "Both the House and Senate Appropriations Committees urged HUD to submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a thorough assessment of the potential adverse effects of the proposed increased premiums," the senators wrote in the letter. "Congress should have an opportunity to carefully review and evaluate the consequences of these proposed increases before they are implemented." As a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, Senator Bayh been a consistent supporter of funding for affordable housing programs. In the past, Bayh has cosponsored legislation designed to increase homeownership opportunities by providing investors with a credit of up to 50 percent of the cost of constructing a new home or rehabilitating an existing property. Additionally, in 2003 Bayh secured $6 million for new public housing to revitalize the depressed Meadows neighborhood in Indianapolis.  