Bayh Thanks Hoosier Companies for Helping End Patriot Penalty Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today introduced a resolution in the Senate praising Hoosier companies that are helping to end the Patriot Penalty by volunteering to pay the difference between the civilian and National Guard and Reserve salaries of their employees. Cummins, Daimler Chrysler and Raytheon were among the companies Bayh thanked for playing a crucial role in making sure Reservists could serve their country without exposing their family to financial hardship. As he recognized these patriotic companies for their generosity, Bayh urged his colleagues to help him end the Patriot Penalty for all Guard and Reserve members who have been called to active duty, so that no family is left unable to pay its bills because of service to their country. Indiana currently has 5,315 Reservists on active-duty service.  These companies deserve to be recognized for doing the right thing without being asked or hoping for special praise, Senator Bayh said. Thanks to their generosity, Hoosier Reservists are able to go to Iraq and Afghanistan with the knowledge that their family will not suffer financially because of their service. I hope more companies will follow their lead. In the meantime, I will continue fighting to end the Patriot Penalty for all guard families. The Patriot Penalty hurts the heroes of our country at a time when we should be doing everything possible to thank them for their service. When many National Guard or Reserve members are called to active duty, they lose their civilian salary and benefits in exchange for deployment salary, which often results in a significant pay cut and financial hardship for the members and their families. The loss in income creates an immediate, additional burden on families struggling with the absence of a loved one, making it more difficult to pay bills and buy groceries, and can also wreak havoc on a family's long-term goals, such as purchasing a home or putting a child through college. According to a Pentagon study, more than 40 percent of all guard members reported a loss in income when they were called up for active duty. It is likely that the impact today is much greater, given the longer and more frequent deployments abroad in connection with the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Bayh has offered a solution to end the Patriot Penalty by fully compensating 99 percent of Reservists who have suffered a pay cut while serving their country. Under Bayh's proposal, companies already doing the right thing would receive tax benefits for addressing the Patriot Penalty on their own, which would also be available for other companies to encourage them to join the effort. In addition, Bayh's legislation calls for a direct payment of no more than $50,000 to make up the wage differential for Reservists whose employers cannot or will not help. To bolster his efforts to end the Patriot Penalty, Bayh has requested a study from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that will examine the financial impact the Patriot Penalty is having on our Reservists. Given the urgency of the situation for many guard families, along with the lack of detailed information outlining the extent of the problem, Bayh asked the GAO to complete the study in six months. The findings should serve as a powerful argument in favor of ending the Patriot Penalty.  