Bayh Continues Fight to Bring Home Indiana’s Bioterrorism Funding Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today continued his fight to ensure that Hoosiers are given back the money that was set aside for Indiana's bioterrorism preparedness plan before time runs out. Bayh urged Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Tommy Thompson for the second time to immediately release the $4.3 million that was set aside in 2002 for Indiana's approved bioterrorism preparedness. The CDC's refusal to allow Indiana to access its money has forced the state to put its bioterrorism preparedness plan on hold, which has delayed efforts to improve the state's homeland security. The delay could lead to Indiana losing the funding entirely.  It is unacceptable for the CDC to place the health and safety of Hoosiers on hold, Senator Bayh said. We should not have to ask once, let alone twice, to access the funds we've already been assigned in order to protect Hoosiers. The people of Indiana are depending on this funding to hire essential health care staff and continue implementing the plan they need to ensure that residents are prepared in the event of an attack. Bayh again demanded in a letter to Secretary Thompson that he release Indiana's funding for bioterrorism preparedness before the clock runs out. Despite the CDC's promises for an immediate response, after meeting the CDC's request for more information, Indiana is still awaiting access to their bioterrorism funding. Concerned over the looming deadline, Bayh expressed concern that Hoosiers cannot wait any longer to receive the funding. Indiana's approved bioterrorism plan includes a time sensitive budget and this delay is causing a funding shortfall. Just weeks ago, Senator Bayh urged HHS to release Indiana's bioterrorism preparedness funding to protect Hoosiers in the event of an attack. Secretary Thompson responded to Bayh's initial request with assurances that HHS and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) would not withhold this funding from the states. While assurances have been made, HHS did not provide a specific time line. Until Indiana's carry-over request is formally approved, Indiana cannot access its funding. If the CDC continues delaying approval of Indiana's request, the state could miss the deadline to use the funds and will lose it. By law, the states should have access to their bioterror funds through August of 2004. The allocation of funding for Indiana's bioterrorism preparedness comes directly from efforts made by Senator Bayh immediately following the tragic events of September 11th, when he led the way to ensure that all Hoosiers are protected against a possible bioterrorist attack. In October of 2001, Bayh introduced the State Bioterrorism Preparedness Act to provide Indiana's department of health with more than $18.5 million to establish better information sharing, surveillance techniques and effective health strategies to guard against bioterrorist attacks. The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which provided this funding includes parts of Bayh's bill, and was passed into law in 2002. Bayh learned from Governor Kernan that Indiana has not been able to access the money that is vital to continue carrying out its bioterrorism plan. They were also joined later by the National Governor's Association (NGA) and today by members of Indiana's House delegation from both sides of the aisle. Senator Bayh and Governor Kernan worked directly with HHS and officials from other states to create Indiana's state bioterrorism plan, which included efforts to determine the best preventative measures to safeguard against potential threats and develop new bioterrorism preparation programs to educate Hoosiers.  