Snowe, Bayh Introduce First Bipartisan Senate Iraq Bill Since Bush Veto Washington-- U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Senator Evan Bayh (D-Ind.) joined together today to discuss the introduction of bipartisan legislation that would require the Iraqi government to meet benchmarks outlined by the Iraq Study Group and the administration. If Iraq does not meet the benchmarks, U.S. forces associated with the surge would redeploy, and the remaining forces would transition to a far more limited mission. The effort comes just one day after Senator Snowe returned from Baghdad, where she found the "good news mixed, but the bad news deeply disturbing." The Snowe-Bayh legislation requires the Iraqi government to meet specific benchmarks, including Iraqi assuuming control of its military, disarming and demobilizing sectarian militias, holding a referendum on amendments to the Iraqi constitution that ensure participation by all religious and ethnic groups, holding provincial elections, enacting oil revenue sharing, and reforming de-Ba'athification. If the benchmarks are not met, the remaining forces would transition to a mission of: (a) training and equipping Iraqi forces; (b) assisting deployed Iraqi brigades with intelligence, transportation, air support and logistics; (c) protecting U.S. and coalition personnel and infrastructure; and (d) maintaining rapid reaction teams and special operations forces to undertake strike missions in Iraq against al Qaeda and for other missions considered vital by the U.S. commander in Iraq. "After my weekend trip to Iraq, I am more convinced than ever before that the Iraqi government doesn't understand that our commitment is not infinite and that Americans are losing patience with the repeated failure of the leadership in Baghdad to end sectarian violence and move toward national reconciliation," said Senator Snowe, who as a senior member of the Select Committee on Intelligence, traveled to Iraq and participated in the first trip by a congressional delegation to downtown Ramadi. "We need to impress upon them that the Iraqi government needs to make more concessions and make them soon." "We need a bipartisan solution that Democrats and Republicans can agree upon that puts pressure on Iraq's leaders to make the tough decisions that democracy demands. This legislation provides accountability for progress and real consequences for continued foot-dragging by politicians in Baghdad. They must know that American lives are precious, and American patience is not without bounds," said Bayh, a senior member of the Select Committee on Intelligence and the Senate Armed Services Committee. Bayh visited Iraq in January. Under the Snowe-Bayh approach, General David L. Petraeus would be required to report on whether the benchmarks toward national reconciliation have been met within 120 days of the bill's enactment. General Petraeus would be required to coordinate his report with the Director of National Intelligence, and the General Accountability Office will offer a stand-alone, parallel assessment of Iraqi progress toward meeting the benchmarks. If any one of the milestones has not been achieved, then General Petraeus would be required to report to Congress 14 days later with a plan to end the President's military surge and change the mission of the remaining U.S. forces in Iraq to the four non-combat roles set forth in the Iraq Study Group with the objective of completing that transition within six months of General Petraeus' testimony before Congress. "It is imperative that this Congress understand the importance of placing the future of Iraq's independence in the hands of those who should want it most  the Iraqi people and their government. It's absolutely disgraceful that we have not been able to sit down and reach consensus on what needs to be done in Iraq. Irrespective of our differences in positions, we should be working to set a higher standard, both in terms of public discourse and the manner in which we approach this issue. We both are hopeful that this legislation will set forth a new direction for that vital debate," said Senator Snowe. "National security must not be a partisan issue," Senator Bayh said. "It's time we put our full energy into taking the practical steps necessary to build a national consensus on Iraq."  