Funding for Additional Up-Armored Humvees Included in Final Iraq Supplemental Bill Washington-- Tonight the U.S. Senate approved the final version of the Iraq Supplemental bill, which included a Bayh amendment providing $150 million in additional funding for up-armored Humvees along with key provisions to prevent future shortages of the vehicles. The additional funding is the result of Senator Bayh's amendment to the Senate version of the Iraq Supplemental bill, which he added after learning that Pentagon officials were short 1,800 up-armored Humvees in Iraq. It is the ninth time in two years that the Pentagon has underestimated the need for up-armored Humvees in Iraq.  The final version of the bill also contains two key reporting requirements for the Secretary of Defense, which Senator Bayh designed to prevent shortfalls from building up over time again. According to the bill, the Secretary of Defense must report more frequently regarding the number of up-armored Humvees needed on the ground and must report on ways to speed shipments of the vehicles to Iraq. Our troops do right by us everyday and today Congress took a significant step towards doing right by them, Senator Bayh said. It is our moral obligation to provide our men and women fighting in Iraq with the equipment they need to do their job safely. This funding will help meet the immediate need, but more remains to be done. Our troops should not have to pay the price for the Pentagon's mistakes. Bayh said that while the $150 million is an important step towards meeting the need for up-armored Humvees in Iraq, it falls short of the amount he originally requested. His amendment to the Senate version of the Iraq Supplemental bill provided $213 million to purchase additional up-armored Humvees. Bayh said that he will continue to fight for additional funding to make sure that the Pentagon's mistakes do not jeopardize the safety of our troops. It's time that we started erring on the side of doing more rather than less to protect our troops, Senator Bayh said. I will keep fighting until I can look our military men and women in the eye and tell them that they have the best equipment possible. Senator Bayh has consistently led the way in the Senate to provide funding for more up-armored Humvees for our troops, in the face of repeated failures on the part of the Pentagon to ensure protective equipment for our military men and women. Over the last five years, Senator Bayh has helped secure roughly $3 billion to produce almost 30,000 standard and up-armored Humvees for all of the Armed Services.  