Bayh Applauds Evansville's Signature School Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today congratulated the Signature School in Evansville for its recent ranking in Newsweek Magazine as one of the top 100 high schools in the nation. Signature School ranked 54th on the magazine's list. The ranking takes into account the portion of all graduating seniors with at least one passing grade on an Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate test. Signature's percentage was 76 percent.  In recognition of this honor, Senator Bayh entered the following tribute to the Signature School into the Congressional Record of the United States Senate: Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to Evanville's Signature School, which was recently ranked by Newsweek Magazine as one of the top one hundred high schools in the nation. This ranking is a remarkable honor to the school, and it demonstrates the hard work and dedication to educational excellence of the students and teachers at Signature. I am honored to have the opportunity to commend the achievements of Signature's students and the commitment of Signature's families and teachers, which made this prestigious recognition possible. Now more than ever, education is the key to greater personal opportunity. Here in Washington, I have fought to ensure that education is available and accessible to all our nation's students. However, the real, heroic work is done on the ground, in our schools. The Signature School is a perfect example of what can happen when teachers and students unite around the goal of achieving academic excellence. Signature was the first charter school in Indiana, created to offer a challenging curriculum and nurturing educational environment to its students. Signature was a half-day program offering accelerated courses for a decade, before the passage of Indiana's charter school law, allowing Signature to become a full-day, independent charter school in 2002. Since then, Signature has been able to focus full-time on offering Evansville students the opportunity to compete at a national level. As Newsweek's rankings demonstrate, the school has certainly succeeded in accomplishing its mission. I want to take a moment to pay special tribute to Signature's teachers and principal, Vicki Snyder. With their focus on quality education and dedication to their students, every teacher and staff person at Signature has helped ensure that their graduates have the necessary tools to excel in today's increasingly competitive world. This summer, as Signature's graduates take the next step in their lives, they do so well-prepared to assume the mantle of leadership for their generation. I look forward to following their future successes, and I hope they will remember their extraordinary education and someday return the favor and give back to the youth of our country so that they can enjoy similar opportunities.  