Bayh Secures $76 Million For Indianapolis-Based Companies to Help Protect U.S. Troops Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that $76 million was approved for Indianapolis-based defense companies to help protect U.S. troops. The funds will aid military men and women in carrying out their duties more quickly and efficiently as well as provide job security for Indianapolis area workers. The $27 million for Rolls-Royce, $12 million for Raytheon and $37 million for Allison Transmission were approved as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2005. The NDAA is now scheduled to be voted on by the Senate before Memorial Day.  Rolls-Royce, Raytheon and Allison Transmission play a key role in the war on terror by providing our troops with the equipment they need to defend our nation, Senator Bayh said. These defense companies and the thousands of hardworking Hoosiers they employ will help transform our nation's military while also providing a significant opportunities for jobs and economic growth right here in Indiana. Rolls-Royce would use $5 million to conduct studies on ways to improve gas turbine engine technologies and $15 million to increase the take-off and landing capabilities, or thrust power, for Joint Strike Fighters (F-35), a tactical aircraft that will be used by the Air Force, Navy and Marines. Increasing the thrust capabilities will make it easier for the plane to navigate in and out of difficult terrain during missions.  Bayh also secured $7 million for Rolls-Royce to produce and install wing upgrades on U.S. Special Operations Command helicopters, which include the installation of Infrared Engine Suppression kits that reduce infrared emissions given off by the helicopter. The infrared reduction technology makes it significantly more difficult for the MH-47 helicopters to be detected by heat-seeking missiles. Raytheon will receive $5 million to increase the number of reconnaissance aircraft equipped with radars used to collect intelligence. This funding will mean better access to much needed, new technology and improved safety for U.S. troops one year earlier than currently planned. In addition, $7 million has been approved for Raytheon to accelerate the production of advanced defense systems that help protect large aircrafts by reducing the amount of infrared emissions and implementing a warning system when danger is detected. In addition, Senator Bayh announced on Friday that Allison Transmission is one step closer to receiving $37 million to help improve the operating capabilities of M1A1 Abrams Tank transmissions and to install new transmissions in older M113 Armored Personnel Carriers. The funds will help provide U.S. troops with the equipment needed to win the war on terror and ensure job stability for the 200 Hoosiers who work at Plant 14.  