Bayh Delivers $767 Million to Produce SINCGARS Radios for Troops in Iraq Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that Congress has passed the Iraq Supplemental Appropriations bill, including $767 million to produce nearly 37,000 SINCGARS radios and other necessary hardware to improve the military's communications capabilities in combat situations. The funds will address the current shortage of modern communications equipment and will create new jobs at ITT Industries in Fort Wayne to help meet the demand for the radios made there. In addition to the new jobs, the additional radio requirements will allow ITT Industries to bring back at least 70 former employees.  Our military men and women overseas and Hoosier workers in ITT Industries are working hard every day to ensure that America prevails in the war on terror, Senator Bayh said. This funding will mean better communications equipment for our troops in combat situations and new jobs for Hoosiers in Fort Wayne. The SINCGARS radio communication systems are used by U.S. Military men and women in combat situations to provide secure voice and data capabilities. The radios manufactured at ITT Industries were the radios used by the 4th Infantry Division, which found and captured Saddam Hussein. The radios called for in the Supplemental bill will be used by active duty as well as National Guard and Reserve units in Iraq and Afghanistan. Currently, the National Guard and Reserves are facing a serious shortage of high-quality, reliable communications equipment. We are pleased SINCGARS continues to be the tactical communications backbone for the U.S. military and grateful for Senator Bayh's continued support for high tech jobs in Indiana, said Lou Dollive, President and General Manager of ITT Industries Aerospace/ Communications Division. Bayh will continue working to ensure that U.S. troops have the radios and other equipment they need to do their jobs as safely and quickly as possible. Since being sworn into the Senate, Bayh has helped ITT Industries secure more than $300 million for the production of SINCGARS radios for the U.S. Army National Guard. Last year, Senator Bayh's work to secure additional funding to increase production at ITT Industries protected as many as 313 Hoosier jobs and led to more than 100 employees being called back to work. Last year, Bayh visited workers at ITT Industries to thank them for their hard work and the important role that they play in providing our troops with the communication equipment they need to fight the war on terror. ITT Industries is a world leader in high-technology areas, including space systems and tactical wireless communications systems. ITT's instruments are on every GPS satellite system ever launched, and they produce SINCGARS radios, which provide secure voice and data capability in combat situations.  