Bayh, Lincoln Announce the Formation of Senate Parents' Caucus Washington-- U.S. Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN) and Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) announced the formation of the Senate Parents' Caucus to develop and promote a pro-family agenda in the Senate. Bayh and Lincoln have extended an invitation to join the caucus to their Senate colleagues who share their belief that America's parents deserve a government that is more supportive of parents' efforts to support their children, strengthen their character and keep them safe.  Parents are virtually the only group of Americans who don't have a lobby in Washington, the senators wrote in their letter to colleagues. The Parents' Caucus will strive to reflect their concerns and give them voice. It will examine the impact of government policies on parents and kids, and work to develop a progressive, pro-family agenda that supports them in their crucial work. The caucus will work on several issues of particular interest to parents, from economic issues and tax policy to preventing school violence, teen pregnancy and drug abuse. Senator Bayh said that while the challenges facing American families have changed dramatically during the past decade, public policies have not caught up with these new realities. As a parent myself, I understand that today's families are confronted by challenges that my parents' generation never even dreamed of, Senator Bayh said. As technology continues to evolve and an increasing number of children are exposed to social pressures like gang activity and drugs in their schools, it is more important than ever to promote government policies that support parents in their efforts raise strong families and healthy children. Senator Bayh's work with Senator Lincoln to form the Parents' Caucus continues his commitment to supporting parents' efforts to raise healthy, responsible kids. To confront the growing epidemic of absentee fathers, Senator Bayh most recently joined Senator Barack Obama (D-IL) in introducing the Responsible Fatherhood and Healthy Families Act. In December, Bayh introduced the legislation to help parents limit their kids' exposure to violent or sexually explicit video games by prohibiting businesses from selling or renting Mature, Adults-Only, or Ratings Pending games to anyone younger than seventeen.  