Bayh Supports Dual Efforts to Defend Hoosier Companies Against Unfair Trade Washington-- As a part of his efforts to help Hoosier businesses compete and succeed in today's global economy, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh is supporting dual efforts to protect companies against unfair trade, one that helps small companies struggling against foreign imports and another that calls on the administration to keep tough trade laws in place at the World Trade Organization (WTO). In two separate, bipartisan letters, Bayh joined a number of his Senate colleagues in supporting the Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms (TAA for Firms) program, which helps companies compete in the global market, and in calling on the U.S. Trade Representative to maintain support for antidumping laws during ongoing negotiations before the WTO. "As we move into an increasingly globalized economy, our country needs a trade plan that is tough and smart, to stop foreign countries from cheating and to help our businesses improve their competitive advantage and create more jobs," Senator Bayh said. "The TAA for Firms program and our trade laws at the WTO are both integral parts of that plan. Together, these efforts will help ensure that our workers can compete and succeed, by giving them the resources they need at home and the support they deserve abroad against cheating foreign companies." In a letter sent yesterday, Bayh and 39 of his colleagues asked the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science to fund TAA for Firms at its congressionally-authorized level of $16 million. Since 1999, the program has helped retain or create approximately 48,039 jobs in communities negatively impacted by trade and increased sales at participating companies by more than $900 million. By helping businesses create and retain jobs, TAA for Firms saves taxpayers millions of dollars in unemployment assistance and stimulates both economic growth and tax revenues. Currently, ten Indiana companies with a combined workforce of 1,030 receive assistance under the TAA for Firms program. In a second letter sent today to U.S. Trade Representative Rob Portman, Bayh and 13 of his colleagues, asked Portman to support U.S. anti-dumping and anti-subsidy laws in the current round of WTO trade negotiations. These laws are crucial to protecting U.S. companies from foreign companies that cheat by flooding the global market with cheap goods or by using illegal subsidies such as free rent or electricity to undercut prices on U.S. goods. Last November, the Senate unanimously passed an amendment Bayh co-sponsored expressing the sense of Congress that our trade laws not be undermined in the WTO.  