Senate to Vote on Bayh Bill to Create Level Playing Field for Hoosier Workers Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh announced today that Senate leaders have agreed to schedule a vote by the end of July on his legislation to stop Chinese currency manipulation and ensure a level playing field for Hoosier workers. In light of charges that China is intentionally undervaluing its currency, the yuan, to give its businesses an unfair advantage over U.S. companies, Bayh has introduced legislation which calls for a tariff increase for all products from China. The tariff increase will negate the country's artificial currency advantage until its government agrees to value its currency at a more accurate level. This artificial undervaluation is a factor in the current job crisis facing Indiana's manufacturing industry. "The decision to hold a vote on my legislation is a significant victory for the effort to ensure a level playing field for American workers. There is significant momentum behind this bill and I am eager to put it to a vote, so that America's workers can finally have the trade agreement they deserve," Senator Bayh said. "American workers are the greatest in the world, but they need a level playing field to compete." If economists' estimates are correct, Chinese manufacturing companies effectively receive a 15 percent to 40 percent subsidy on their exports, creating a false subsidy that U.S. companies cannot match. The 27.5 percent tariff included in Bayh's legislation represents the estimated advantage China gains from its currency undervaluation. The tariff would be applied to all products from China and would be applied on top of any current tariffs that are already in place, though President Bush would be able to remove the tariff once he believes that China has moved to a fair, market-based currency. "U.S. workers are the most productive in the world and our manufacturers are working hard to succeed in a global economy," Senator Bayh said. "But, they should not be asked to compete with one hand tied behind their back." Senator Bayh has been fighting to end unfair global competition with China for two years now, originally introducing this legislation in September of 2003. He has continued his efforts on behalf of Indiana manufacturers throughout the two years, requesting a Department of Treasury investigation to examine the potential threat posed by currency manipulation last July, and later questioning Treasury Secretary John Snow over the administration's progress in their investigation at a Banking Committee hearing in October 2004. He co-sponsored a Senate resolution a month later calling for speeded negotiations with China or the re-evaluation of yuan at market-accepted rates. Last week, the Senate agreed to hold an up-or-down vote on Senator Bayh's legislation by the end of July. Since March 2001, the manufacturing sector has lost approximately 2.6 million jobs, accounting for nearly 90 percent of the total U.S. jobs lost, even though manufacturing employment makes up 14 percent of the U.S. workforce. This trend has hit Hoosiers particularly hard, as manufacturing jobs make up the greatest portion of the Indiana's workforce.  