Bayh Calls on Energy Secretary to Support Plug-In Hybrid Vehicle Development Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh sent a letter to Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman Friday urging him to support the development of fuel-efficient Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles (PHEVs). Joined by a bipartisan coalition of 17 Senate colleagues, Bayh called on the Secretary to include at least $90 million in the President's FY 2008 budget request to encourage the development of PHEV technologies and to expand the market for these clean-running vehicles. The funding could be used for work including the development of more efficient, longer running batteries and a joint flexible fuel/hybrid vehicle publicity campaign.  As you know, PHEVs promise to significantly reduce our nation's dependence on oil while saving consumers hundreds of dollars at the pump each year and greatly reducing vehicular pollution and greenhouse gasses, Senator Bayh wrote in the letter. The 2005 Energy Policy Act laid the framework for beginning to reduce oil dependence through a next generation of vehicles. A financial commitment from the federal government is vital if we are to see PEHVs on the road over the next few years. Hybrid vehicle registrations in the United States increased by more than 80 percent in 2004, but plug-in hybrids still account for less than one half of one percent of the vehicles on America's roads. Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles can run on stored electricity for up to 60 miles before beginning to burn gasoline from the fuel tank, so much of the energy they use comes from electricity. Unlike gasoline, electricity can be generated cleanly and efficiently from America's domestic natural energy resources. Achieving energy independence is one of the great challenges of our generation, one that will impact everything from our national security to our economy, Senator Bayh said. By increasing the number of hybrid electric cars on our roads, we can reduce our dependence on oil so that America no longer has to rely on countries like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela to meet our energy needs. Senator Bayh has been a leader in the efforts to reduce American dependence on foreign oil. Last year, Bayh led a bipartisan group of cosponsors in introducing the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, which creates tax incentives for manufacturers to retool their factories to produce hybrids and lifts current limits on the number of consumers who can qualify for tax credits when they buy hybrid vehicles. In May, Bayh visited the Metropolitan Transit System in Evansville to take an up-close look at one of the city's four new hybrid buses and to highlight the role of hybrid vehicles in reducing fuel costs and making America more energy independent.  