Bayh Supports Tax Break for Teachers Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh voted in favor of a tax deduction for teachers who spend their own money on classroom supplies as part of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 Congress passed this weekend. Bayh encouraged Hoosier teachers to take advantage of the tax deduction, which provides a $250 deduction for educators' out-of-pocket classroom expenses. "Often, teachers selflessly spend part of their own paychecks to ensure that their classrooms are equipped with the tools that students need to learn," Senator Bayh said. "Teachers are the foundation of our children's education, and extending this tax credit is an important step toward supporting teachers in their effort to provide the best possible learning environment in their classrooms." Educators eligible for the credit include K-12 teachers, school counselors, principals and teacher's aides. Qualified educators can claim the deduction, up to $250, on their personal tax returns beginning this April. Deductions can be claimed for several types of school supplies, including books, computer equipment and educational software. The deduction for classroom expenses that teachers pay out of their own pockets was first established in the Job Creation and Worker Assistance Act of 2002 and later extended through the end of 2005 when it again expired. The bill passed by Congress on Friday extends the deduction through 2007. Senator Bayh is committed to supporting America's teachers by providing the resources they need to provide a quality learning environment for their students. As governor, Bayh emphasized that federal education standards must be accompanied by adequate financial support, proposing changes to the way federal education dollars are divided to provide Indiana schools with their fair share of funding. In the Senate, Bayh has sponsored legislation to cut through federal red tape and give Indiana schools more flexibility to spend education dollars, and since the passage of the No Child Left Behind Act, he has voted to provide Indiana schools with an additional $200 million to help students succeed.  