Bayh Calls for Congressional Hearings on Mine Safety Washington-- In the wake of the recent tragedy at Sago Mine, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh called for congressional hearings to examine the safety of the nation's coal mines. In a bipartisan letter written to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pension (HELP) Committee, Bayh and twelve other senators from coal-mining states requested oversight hearings on the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA). No such hearings on the MSHA, which is responsible for ensuring mine safety, have been held in the last five years. Over the past 12 years, 471 coal miners have been killed in mines.  We make this request while the tragedy of last week's Sago Mine disaster is fresh in the minds and hearts of us all, Senator Bayh and his colleagues wrote. We know that miners, retirees, and their families throughout the country are well aware of the risks inherent in working in even the safest mines, but we must work to minimize those risks so that such a tragedy never occurs again. In his letter to Chairman Enzi and Senator Kennedy, Senator Bayh called for a thorough congressional review of miner training procedures, industry safety practices, new safety proposals and developing technologies to improve miner safety, as well as careful consideration of current and future federal regulatory oversight. Bayh urged the senators to focus on these issues in order to prevent future calamities. The hearings and the MSHA investigation into the Sago Mine tragedy will provide Senator Bayh and his colleagues with the facts necessary to develop bipartisan mine safety legislation. We believe strongly that the miners who risk death or serious injury to enable our economy to thrive deserve nothing less than our utmost efforts to guarantee a safe working environment, Senator Bayh and his colleagues wrote. We look forward to sending strong, bipartisan mine safety legislation to the President for his signature before the end of the year. The miners who died at Sago deserve no less. Indiana has the seventh largest coal industry in the country. Indiana's mines yielded 35 million tons of coal in 2004 and include seven underground coal mines in Greene, Gibson, Knox and Pike counties of southwestern Indiana.  