Bayh Joins Lugar to Promote Indiana Bases at Meeting with Top BRAC Commissioner Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh, along with Senator Richard Lugar, today met with the Chairman of the Base Re-Alignment and Closure Commission to urge him to re-evaluate the decision to move jobs from Crane and to praise the decision to move 3,500 new jobs to the Defense Financial and Accounting Service (DFAS) center in Indianapolis. The face-to-face meeting gave Bayh a powerful opportunity to make the case for the state's bases and military jobs. It was the latest in a series of efforts taken by Senator Bayh in support of the important military work performed in Indiana, including testimony he submitted during the regional hearing in St. Louis last month.  Nothing beats the opportunity to make your case person-to-person, and today Senator Lugar and I made the most of our meeting with Chairman Principi to outline the strengths offered by Indiana's bases, Senator Bayh, a member of the Armed Services Committee, said. This meeting was important in our efforts to keep the new jobs coming to Indiana and hopefully regain the jobs currently slated to leave Crane. I will continue working with all members of the Indiana delegation to fully support our bases during the BRAC process. During their meeting, Senator Bayh emphasized to Chairman Principi that Crane meets or exceeds all of the requirements that were used for the 2005 BRAC round. Crane possesses exceptional technical and industrial capabilities, which has allowed it to reduce costs and support rapid deployment to meet the military's constantly changing needs. Its location is also ideal, in close proximity to necessary transportation infrastructure and utilities, but removed from any potential terrorist threat and without any environmental issues. Additionally, they pointed out that the facility enjoys tremendous state and community support. Bayh's meeting with Principi is the latest in a long line of meetings with key military leaders connected to the BRAC process. During his time in the Senate, Bayh has been a committed supporter of Crane, securing more than $90 million for various military construction and research and development work at the Indiana base. Crane is the military's leading source for the production and development of pyrotechnic devices, such as infrared decoy flares and candles, which are used for mortar and artillery illumination rounds. The base has played a critical role in producing life-saving equipment for our soldiers during Operation Iraqi Freedom and providing needed equipment to troops currently serving at home and abroad.  