Bayh Urges Continued Support for Public Broadcasting Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined NUMBER senators in a letter requesting that the 2007 funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) at least be equal to the corporation's current funding. In the letter, the bipartisan coalition asked Senators Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Tom Harkin (D-IA), the chairman and ranking member of the Labor, HHS and Education Appropriations Subcommittee, to remember the essential role the CPB plays in providing all Americans with access to high-quality, non-commercial programming.  The fundamental purpose of public broadcasting is to provide programs and services which inform, enlighten and enrich the public, the senators wrote in the letter. These programs and services enhance the knowledge and inspire the imagination of hundreds of thousands of Americans. Every year, CPB funds more than 1,100 locally operated public radio and television stations nationwide through Community Service Grants (CSG), including stations in Fort Wayne, Indianapolis, Evansville and Elkhart. Although only about 20 percent of public broadcasting's funding comes from the federal government, local stations often use these grants to conduct fundraising drives and attract public support, making the government's funding crucial to public broadcasting's continued success. A bill currently in the House would cut funding to public broadcasting by $100 million, and the President's proposed budget also cuts funding to CPB by $103.5 million. This funding is critical to the success of local public broadcasting, Bayh said. It is important that we continue to support independent stations whose only goal is producing quality programming. CPB was created by Congress as a private, nonprofit corporation in 1967 with the mission of facilitating development of and ensuring universal access to non-commercial high-quality programming and telecommunication services. At the time, the number of public broadcasting stations nationwide was less than 300. Almost 30 years later, that number has more than tripled thanks to this highly effective program.  