Hatch, Bayh Press White House to Address Russian Piracy Washington-- Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Sen. Evan Bayh (D-Ind.) today called on President Bush to oppose Russian entrance into the World Trade Organization (WTO) because of Russia's rampant theft of American intellectual property and its trade barriers against American goods. The two senators jointly signed a letter to the President, which outlines some of Russia's unfair trade practices. "I understand why Russians want the benefits of membership in the WTO, a community of laws and fair trade," Hatch said. "But when they're blatantly defiling those laws, we need to tell them 'no.' America cannot support Russian admittance into the WTO until Russia starts playing by the rules." "Intellectual property theft is a drain on the American economy, stealing American ingenuity and taking away American jobs," Bayh said. "The administration needs to take a stand against the cheating and piracy committed by foreign companies and insist that other countries play by the same rules if they want to benefit from membership in the WTO. Turning a blind eye to Russia's obvious trade violations will make it that much harder to enforce fair trade laws elsewhere in the world." One example of Russian piracy is music CDs. The International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA) reports that, despite the fact that Russia needs only five CD-manufacturing facilities to meet domestic demand, there are currently 47 such plants in operation in Russia -- and at least nine of them are located on military bases. The IIPA has confirmed that Russian pirates ship their wares to 27 foreign markets, compounding the theft of American revenue. Moreover, the Russian government is considering legislation to eliminate current intellectual property protections. The Russians also maintain unfair trading barriers on many American goods, such as discriminatory licensing requirements. For example, the Russians are now requiring sanitary certification, which is typically reserved for agricultural goods, on items like furniture and Styrofoam cups. The current U.S. trade deficit is too large to ignore the revenue that a balanced trade situation with Russia could generate. "Our country's economic vitality depends on trading partners who are partners -- not pirates," Hatch said. "Due to our current trade deficit, the U.S. needs to become more aggressive with industrial nations who discriminate against American goods." The Senators' entire letter is included below. May 11, 2006 Dear Mr. President: We respectfully request the United States refrain from entering into a bilateral agreement supporting Russian accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO), until the Russian Government takes strong affirmative measures to correct the theft of intellectual property and abandon numerous other trade distorting polices. As you well know, since the end of the Second World War, the United States has, on a number of occasions, accepted non-reciprocal trade concessions in order to further important Cold War and post-Cold War foreign policy objectives. Examples include offering Japan and Europe non-reciprocal access to American markets during the 1950s and 1960s in order to strengthen the economies of our allies and prevent the spread of Communism. At the time, this policy was affordable due to the tremendous size of the trade surpluses the United States enjoyed. Though supporting developing economies of the poorest nations is still a noble objective, prudence demands, due to the size of our current trade deficit, that the United States maintain an aggressive posture when negotiating with more industrialized nations. For example, in the case of China's accession to the WTO, the United States should have insisted that China significantly correct market irregularities, such as the rampant theft of intellectual property and the pegging of its currency, before our nation agreed, in significant part for foreign policy reasons, to the 1999 U.S.-China Bilateral Agreement on WTO Accession. Today, our nation faces a similar dilemma regarding Russia's desire to become a member of the WTO. As you know, Russia has become a bastion of intellectual property theft. For example, the respected International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA) reports that despite the fact that Russia only requires the equivalent of five CD manufacturing facilities to meet domestic demand, there are currently 47 Russian CD manufacturing plants in operation. The IIPA has confirmed that 24 of these plants are producing pirated material and at least nine of these factories are located on military installations. It is currently believed that Russian pirates ship their wares to approximately 27 foreign markets, further denying export earnings to American companies. Adding insult to injury, we have been informed that the Russian government is proceeding with legislation that would eliminate current intellectual property protections. Clearly, this situation runs counter to American economic interests, during a time in which a nation's international standing is firmly rooted in its economic vitality. However, our concerns also run the gamut of trade matters. For example, in the United States Trade Representative's 2006 National Trade Estimate Report on Foreign Trade Barriers, Russia is described as "maintaining a number of barriers with respect to imports, including tariffs and tariff rate quotas, discriminatory and prohibitive charges and fees, and discriminatory licensing registration, and certification regimes." This was clearly shown in 2003 with the imposition of a quota on poultry. The report goes on to discuss how "non-tariff barriers are frequently used to restrict foreign access to the market." This includes Russian agencies imposing scientifically unsubstantiated sanitary and phytosanitary restrictions on agricultural products, as well as requiring phytosanitary certificates for such non-agricultural products as styrofoam cups and furniture. According to the report, Russia imposes a 15 percent export on ferrous steel scrap, restricting world supplies of steel scrap and increasing the cost to U.S. steel producers. Large and unproductive impediments also confront the importation of American pharmaceutical products. History has shown conclusively that nations' adopting aggressive non-tariff barriers continue to hinder the importation of American goods despite those nations' WTO obligations. This unease has only been emphasized by Russia's enactment in 2004 of a new Customs Code that was allegedly designed to bring that nation's "customs regime into compliance with WTO requirements." Therefore, we believe the United States should refrain from entering into a bilateral agreement supporting Russian accession to the WTO, until the Russian government takes strong affirmative action in these areas, which can be quantified, verified and have been sustained over a period of time. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Evan Bayh and Orrin G. Hatch, United States Senators  