Bayh Co-Sponsors Amendment to Extend Medicare Deadline Washington-- With only days left for thousands of Hoosier seniors to choose a plan under the new Medicare prescription drug plan, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today co-sponsored an amendment offered by Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Olympia Snowe (R-MN) to extend the Medicare prescription drug sign-up deadline and give seniors the time needed to make the best choice for their health care needs. At the same time, Bayh is also signing onto a letter to President Bush calling on him to extend the enrollment deadline through the end of the year, so that seniors who choose plans between now and then are not forced to pay a penalty. "My office has heard from hundreds of Hoosiers who are concerned and confused over choosing a plan through the new Medicare prescription drug program," Senator Bayh said. "But there are thousands more who haven't signed up for a plan yet and unless the current deadline is extended, they will have to pay a penalty to get needed coverage. Our seniors deserve the time needed to choose the best plan for them without fear of fines or added penalties and that is exactly what I am asking the administration to give them." The current deadline for choosing a Medicare prescription drug plan is Monday, May 15th. More than 5 million eligible Americans have not signed up for a plan, including more than 260,000 Hoosiers, who will have to pay an extra fee if they choose to join a plan after the deadline. In response to widespread concern from Hoosier seniors, Bayh has repeatedly supported extending the sign-up deadline. Bayh voted for an amendment to the tax reconciliation bill that would extend the deadline and joined a bipartisan group of Senators in writing Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist in April to ask that he take up legislation to extend the deadline. "Extending the deadline is a commonsense solution that both Democrats and some Republicans can agree on," Senator Bayh said. "The administration has already extended the deadline for some seniors - surely they can do the same for the others who have faced the same confusion when trying to choose a plan." Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt has extended the deadline for some low-income seniors and Hurricane Katrina evacuees. Much of the delay in sign-up stems from confusion over the different plans offered and the coverage they each provide. In some places, seniors were asked to choose from as many as 40 different plans in order to sign-up for coverage. A Government Accountability Office study recently reported that one-third of seniors who called for help on the government's Medicare help line were given incorrect information, making matters that much harder for seniors struggling to choose an appropriate plan.  