Bayh Supports Legislation to Increase Ethanol Availability Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today co-sponsored a bipartisan amendment to the Highway bill to help reduce American dependence on foreign oil by providing a tax credit to encourage gasoline stations to install or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol. Millions of Flexible Fuel Vehicles across the country run on E-85 ethanol, a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. "Recent high gas prices are just one example of the danger of relying on places like Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Russia for our energy needs," Bayh said. "Ethanol is good for the environment, good for the economy, and good for our national security. We need to make the most of every opportunity to substitute ethanol and other energy sources for oil in order to decrease our dependence on foreign oil." The amendment would provide a tax incentive of 50 percent, up to $30,000, for gas stations to use toward creating or expanding E-85 pumps. By increasing the number of E-85 pumps, the amendment will help decrease regular gasoline consumption and encourage more drivers to make the switch to Flexible Fuel Vehicles, further reducing the nation's dependence on foreign oil. There are more than five million vehicles currently in the United States that can use E-85 fuel, though a shortage of E-85 pumps causes many drivers to use regular gasoline instead. In fact, if every Flexible Fuel Vehicle today was able to run exclusively on E-85 fuel, they would cut U.S. gas consumption by more than four billion gallons each year. Ethanol is a plant-based fuel additive that can be used with or in place of regular gasoline to reduce carbon monoxide emissions, which pose health threats and environmental concerns. The proposed legislation will not only reduce dependence on foreign oil, but also increase demand for corn and soy products. Bayh is a co-sponsor of the Fuel Security Act, which dramatically increases the amount of ethanol used each year in an aggressive approach to move the country toward greater energy efficiency. Bayh also has voted to support the renewable fuels standard several times in the Senate and has written many letters to the Energy Conference Committee in support of a renewable fuels standard.  