Bayh Announces $480 Million for Rolls-Royce to Develop Engine for Joint Strike Fighter Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh announced that he has helped secure $480 million for Rolls-Royce for the development of an alternate engine for the Joint Strike Fighter. The funding was included in the U.S. Department of Defense Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008, which the Senate unanimously approved last week.   The funds will support the development of an engine known as the F136 for the Joint Strike Fighter F-35 Lightning II, which is a next-generation, advanced stealth aircraft designed to meet the needs of the U.S. military and other partner nations, including the United Kingdom. The F136 will be one of two engines that will be available to nations purchasing the F-35 Lightning II. The Joint Strike Fighter will play a critical role in the success of our armed forces in the 21st Century. Rolls-Royce and its team are on the front lines of using the latest technology to develop an engine that will not only meet the needs of our military, but go a long way toward ensuring the success of whatever mission they face, Senator Bayh said. These funds will make it possible for Rolls-Royce and its partners to take the development of this engine to the next level and make sure it has the capacity to meet our military goals. Rolls-Royce is developing the F136 through a joint venture with GE. The GE Rolls-Royce Fighter Engine Team includes a team of 800 engineers and technicians, working on the project at Rolls-Royces facilities in Indianapolis, Plainfield and Bristol, England, as well as at a GE facility in Cincinnati. Engine competition in the F-35 Lightning II program will benefit taxpayers in the long run. It will also result in improved reliability and performance for the aircraft and the warfighter, said Mark Rhodes, senior vice president of the GE Rolls-Royce Fighter Engine Team. Were committed to executing our schedule on time and within budget, creating a high-value product for the customer.  Rolls-Royce Corporation currently employs more than 4,000 workers at its Indiana facilities. In all, Rolls-Royce employs more than 5,700 workers at 64 facilities in 26 states. In addition to the $480 million secured by Senator Bayh for the development of the F136, the bill includes other appropriations for Rolls-Royce totaling $240 million for other Department of Defense programs, including the purchase of Advanced Hawkeye aircraft and Global Hawk air vehicles. The defense appropriations bill now heads to a conference with the House of Representatives. The final legislation is voted on again by both congressional bodies. The bill then heads to the President for his signature. Senator Bayh serves as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.  