Bayh Secures $9.38 Million for Final Phase of Gary National Guard Project Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced passage of the fiscal year 2005 Military Construction Conference Report, which includes $9.38 million that he fought for to fund the construction of the Armed Forces Reserve Center (AFRC). These funds will create 200 to 250 new job opportunities for area Hoosiers and represent the final phase of construction for the Indiana Air National Guard's ongoing efforts to provide guard members with updated resources. The new reserve center will house three Army National Guard units that currently occupy overcrowded and outdated facilities, and will be connected to the Limited Army Aviation Support Facility for which Senator Bayh secured funding last year.  Construction of a new Armed Forces Reserve Center at the Gary-Chicago Airport is a major step forward to help ensure that our troops have the resources they need to protect our country, Senator Bayh said. This facility will provide our members of the armed forces with updated training facilities and play an important role in helping the Guard in Northwest Indiana and the Chicago metro region improve our homeland security. In addition, the entire project will create nearly 250 jobs for area Hoosiers. The Indiana Army National Guard plans to construct the new AFRC near the site for the Limited Army Aviation Support Facility at the Gary-Chicago Airport. At 91,000 square feet, the new facility will provide more space and offer more updated equipment than the buildings where the three units are currently stationed. Positioning these three units in Northern Indiana also provides a heavily populated area with additional security that could have a great impact on homeland security if needed in an emergency. The stationing plan provides for a Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team, a medical unit, an air evacuation unit, and a meteorological-type unit to be available immediately if necessary. The new facility will also provide proper classroom, storage, maintenance, shower/locker and administrative areas. This May, Senator Bayh visited the future site of the Reserve Center and personally thanked local guard members for their work to keep Hoosiers safe. Bayh also spoke of the economic impact the new center will have for area residents saying, This is a win-win situation. The new reserve center will create new jobs for local Hoosiers and provide greater protection against a possible terrorist attack for all of Indiana, all at no cost to Hoosier taxpayers. Last year, Senator Bayh secured $15.5 million for the construction of first phase of the Indiana Army National Guard Project. The funding Senator Bayh announced today will fund the second and final phase of the project. All that remains in finalizing the funding is the President's signature.  