Bayh Calls on President to Immediately Release $151 Million Remaining in Energy Assistance Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today called on President Bush to immediately release the remaining $151.5 million in the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency fund and provide much-needed assistance for low-income families struggling with high energy costs.  Bayh was one of 52 senators who signed a letter to the President calling for the release of the funds. The senators noted that a recent national survey by the National Energy Directors Association found that millions of low-income households this year are facing a severe hardship in paying arrearages from last winters heating bills, coping with impending and actual shutoff of service and meeting rising air conditioning costs. This is the second time in two months that Senator Bayh has urged the Administration to release the LIHEAP contingency funds. Following a July 13 letter to the President, signed by Bayh and 37 of his colleagues, the Administration released $50 million to assist low-income households in 12 states. Indiana was not among those 12 states. If the Administration fails to release the remaining funding, $131 million of the fiscal year 2007 balance in the LIHEAP contingency fund will expire on Sept. 30 and go unused. The text of the letter is included below. September 11, 2007 The President The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: The $50 million released last week from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency fund is a good first step to address hotter than normal conditions experienced in several parts of the country this summer. However, a significant need still exists across the nation for additional home energy assistance to help families and seniors meet rising arrears and shut-off notices. We strongly urge you to immediately release the remaining $151.5 million in the LIHEAP contingency fund and provide funding to all states to address this emergency. If the Administration fails to release the remaining funding, $131 million of that balance will expire on September 30. Earlier this summer the National Energy Directors Association (NEADA) conducted a national survey of utility arrearages and shutoffs. The survey found that millions of low-income households this year are facing a severe hardship paying arrearages from last winters heating bills, coping with impending and actual shutoff of service, and meeting rising air conditioning costs. The survey estimated that at least 1.2 million households have been disconnected from electric and natural gas service during the three-month period following the end of state shutoff moratoriums. This was a conservative estimate as the level of shutoffs was likely to go higher as utilities completed credit and collection procedures. The statute specifically defines a significant increase in home energy disconnections as an emergency and reason for the release of funds. According to the Energy Information Administration (EIA), U.S. residential electricity prices are expected to increase at a rate of 3 percent this year. States undergoing market restructuring continue to experience more rapid price increases as rate caps expire and higher fuel costs are passed through to consumers. In some instances, customers may see rate increases of up to 50 percent. Low-income Americans experience a much higher energy burden than the average American household. Too many of these households face difficult financial choices in trying to meet basic human necessities on an income that simply wont stretch far enough to cover it all. No family in our nation should be forced to choose between paying an energy bill and putting food on the table for themselves and their children. No senior citizen should have to decide between buying life-saving prescriptions and paying utility bills. For individuals and households that may have to face these difficult choices, LIHEAP makes a real difference in their ability to cope with adverse circumstances. It would be unfortunate to permit $131 million in LIHEAP contingency funds to expire given the need to help families and seniors restore service and reduce energy burdens. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, (Signed by 52 Senators, including Senator Evan Bayh)  