An Open Letter from U.S. Senator Evan Bayh on the Third Anniversary of the September 11th Attacks Washington--  Dear Friends: Today marks the third anniversary of September 11, 2001, the day our nation was forever changed -- united by tragedy, the ensuing sorrow and the immediate resolve to punish those responsible and ensure the safety of our families and friends. Americans from across the country and citizens from around the world will gather today to honor the individuals who lost their lives in the attacks in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. We will also take a moment to remember and celebrate the heroism shown by every firefighter, police officer and rescue worker. As we honor the lives lost that day, we are reminded of our duty to do all that can be done to ensure that a day like September 11th never happens again. Momentum is important and time is not on our side, which is why I am working with Senators McCain (R-AZ), Lieberman (D-CT) and Specter (R-PA) to pass legislation that will enact the recommendations set forth by the 9-11 Commission to better protect Americans. The single greatest thing that we can bring to this mission is urgency, and I am committed to doing everything I can to keep Hoosiers and all Americans safe from the potential threat of terrorist attacks. While we have made great strides in fighting terrorism and improving homeland security, the recommendations set forth by the members of the 9-11 Commission will further these efforts. Together, we have proven that America's founding principles are enduring, that we will not flinch when faced with terror and that we will not abandon our beliefs by failing to defend them against those who attack our people. A long road still lies ahead, but creating a more peaceful world for future generations is an end worth our hard work and sacrifices today. Next week, I will travel across Indiana to speak directly with Hoosiers about the immediate need to enact the Commission's recommendations. Americans asked for the expert, unbiased insight of the 9-11 Commission members, and now we --- as Americans and members of Congress, not Republicans or Democrats --- must take action. As we use this day to remember the tragedy of September 11th, we must also remember its aftermath. In the initial months following the September 11th attacks, Americans came together like never before. We worked across party lines to protect our country and to begin to heal our wounds. In the midst of unimaginable sorrow, we forged a common bond that allowed us to create a stronger nation. Now we must come together again to enact crucial reforms that will bring greater national security and help us win the war on terror. America is stronger than ever. We will forever remember those we lost on September 11, 2001. In honoring their memory, we will remain true to our commitment to freedom and democracy.   