Bayh Puts Hold on Nominee to be U.S. Trade Rep; Calls for Vote on Legislation to Level the Playing Field for American Workers and Companies Washington-- Expressing frustration at the Bush administration's failure to enforce trade agreements, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today informed Senate Majority Leader Frist that he has placed a hold on Congressman Rob Portman (R-OH), the President's nominee to be the U.S. Trade Representative. Bayh, a long-time advocate for tougher trade laws, said he would release the hold and allow Congressman Portman's nomination to come up for a vote, if Senate leaders would allow a vote on his Stopping Overseas Subsidies (SOS) Act - bipartisan legislation that will allow the United States to fully enforce its anti-subsidy laws. "I decided to take this step because I cannot sit idly by while American workers and companies continue to be victimized by foreign countries who violate our trade agreements with impunity," said Bayh. "Everyday American workers get up in the morning and already have one hand tied behind their backs, because of illegal Chinese subsidies. Yet, the administration and the Republican leadership refuse to take any action. I am confident that if given a chance, the Senate will pass my legislation, helping American workers and giving Congressman Portman an additional tool to fight unfair trade." The SOS Act was written as a solution to a federal court decision from 1986 that the Commerce Department says prevents it from applying anti-subsidy laws to non-market economies such as China's, which are using this decision to gain an unfair trade advantage. The legislation would allow the U.S. to apply its anti-subsidy laws to all of our trading partners, regardless of the technical definition of their economy. Illegal subsidies can take many forms, including loans that are never expected to be repaid, free or low-cost rent in government-owned facilities, and free raw materials or energy supplies. These illegal subsidies have contributed to the loss of nearly 3 million manufacturing jobs over the last several years and created a record $618 billion trade deficit. The trade deficit with China alone was $162 billion, by far the biggest gap with any of the U.S.'s trade partners. The SOS Act has been endorsed by the National Association of Manufacturers and a bipartisan group of more than 50 lawmakers in both chambers, including chief sponsors Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) and Representatives Phil English (R-PA) and Artur Davis (D-AL). "I don't oppose Congressman Portman. He is qualified for the job, and if a vote is allowed on my legislation, I look forward to voting to confirm him for this important position," said Bayh. The decision to try to compel a vote on the SOS Act is the latest in a long line of actions that Bayh has taken to defend American workers and companies through tougher enforcement of trade law. Since joining the Senate, Bayh has fought for full enforcement of U.S. trade laws, including efforts to end Chinese currency manipulation, prevent steel dumping, and to strengthen U.S. trade laws to counter unfair rulings by the World Trade Organization. "I believe in free trade, but the system is not going to work if we allow our competitors to cheat. It's one thing if they win when they have a competitive advantage, but it's not right when they win simply because they cheat," said Bayh. Last fall, Bayh met with workers at a foundry in Kendallville, Indiana. This facility suffered a 30 percent drop in its business due in part to illegally subsidized companies in China and other countries. "Every time the topic of trade comes up, I think of those workers in Kendallville. These folks work so hard. They don't want any special treatment; they just want a chance to compete on a level playing field," concluded Bayh.  