Nonprofit Names Bayh one of the Best U.S. Senators for Children Washington-- The nonpartisan Children's Defense Fund today named U.S. Senator Evan Bayh as one of the best senators for children, awarding him a 100 percent rating in the nonprofit's annual Congressional Scorecard. The organization bases its scorecard ratings on key votes that affect children, including support for federal spending on children's programs. "As public servants, we have a tremendous responsibility to America's children, which is why I am so proud to receive this honor from the Children's Defense Fund," Senator Bayh said. "From keeping our economy strong to protecting our national security and providing affordable health care, we must always remember that the decisions we make in government today will have a dramatic impact on the next generation. It is our duty to our children to be good stewards of our country so that they can enjoy an America even stronger than the one we inherited." The Children's Defense Fund awards its Senate rankings based on 10 votes that directly impact the lives of children. This year, selected votes addressed a range of issues affecting children, including: an amendment to add $6.3 billion in funding for education programs and increase the amount of a Pell Grant; an amendment to add $7 billion for low-income healthcare, education and vocational training; a measure to expand the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program to help more low-income families pay heating bills; and a bill to support working families by increasing the federal minimum wage. "I applaud Senator Bayh for his commitment to improving the lives of children in Indiana," Children's Defense Fund President Marian Wright Edelman said. "Senator Bayh is a dedicated advocate for children and has truly earned the distinction of being one of the best senators for children." Senator Bayh has been a leading advocate for children in Congress. One of Bayh's first pieces of legislation in the Senate was the Responsible Fatherhood Act, parts of which were signed into the law by President Bush last year. Additionally, Bayh has consistently pushed for legislation that supports America's working families, including raising the minimum wage, and as governor, Bayh established the 21st Century Scholars program, which provides full in-state tuition to any Indiana high school graduate who pledges to remain drug- and alcohol-free.  