Bayh Calls on Delphi CEO to Take Executive Pay Package Off the Table Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today sent a letter to Steve Miller, the Chairman and CEO of the Delphi Corporation, urging him to take a proposed pay package for Delphi executives off the table during the company's reorganization following its bankruptcy declaration. "Circumstances, like that of your company, and decency require that the highly paid not seek to enrich themselves on the backs of middle class working families," Senator Bayh wrote in his letter. "In that spirit, I urge you to take the current incentive plan for Delphi's executives off the table." In his letter, Bayh applauded Delphi's recent decision to rescind a proposed wage cut for workers, but expressed serious concerns about the unequal treatment of Delphi's executives and rank-and-file workers in the incentive plan. The current Delphi plan that Miller approved would give 600 executives and managers $510 million in compensation, while rank-and-file workers would potentially have their wages cut or lose their jobs. In addition, it sets up performance bonuses for executives that could kick in regardless of whether the company operates at a loss for the year. The Delphi plan also includes a costly severance program, which would generously compensate key executives. If even 30 percent of executives took their severance, the cost to the company would be $30.5 million. "We are at a unique time in history. Business, government and workers have the opportunity to come together to find a solution to our country's competitive challenge," Senator Bayh wrote. "Each group needs to step up to the plate and to ask itself: What can I do to help the United States be a better and stronger competitor in the global economy? There needs to be a new partnership for the future of the American workforce." Last month, Senator Bayh sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Rob Portman urging him to visit the workers and business leaders in Kokomo, Indiana, to help provide a solution to the current crisis facing the Delphi Corporation and DaimlerChrysler. Portman had previously promised Bayh that he would visit Indiana to learn more about the importance of enforcing our trade laws. Bayh has been a leader in the Senate in pushing to eliminate illegal trade practices and urging the government to come together and find innovative solutions to maintain America's competitive advantage.  