Lugar, Bayh Announce Hoosier Delegates to U.S. Senate Youth Program Washington-- Senators Richard G. Lugar and Evan Bayh today announced the appointments of Justin Kingsolver and Nicholas Leonard as the Indiana delegates to the 45th Anniversary United States Senate Youth Program in Washington, D.C. The states high school delegates were designated by Dr. Suellen K. Reed, Superintendent of Public Instruction. Justin Kingsolver, a resident of Fishers, is Vice Chairman of the LINK Youth Philanthropy Board at Hamilton Southeastern High School. Among his many leadership roles are: Captain of the Hamilton Southeastern High School (HSE) Quiz Bowl team, former Page for the United States Senate and member of the National Honor Society. Justin also serves on the HSE Principal Advisory Council and the Student Leadership Council. After college, he plans to pursue a career in public service.  Nicholas Leonard, a resident of Muncie, is Vice President of the National Honor Society, Co-Chair of the Mayor's Youth Council on Philanthropy, and Vice President of Latin Club at Muncie Central High School. His leadership roles also include: Captain of the Academic Team, Co-Captain of the cross county team and Co-Captain of the track and field team. Nicholas is the Principal Tenor Saxophonist in the Muncie Central Band. He plans to attend either the Massachusetts Institute of Technology or Purdue University. Chosen as Alternates to the 2007 program were Tyler DeMar, a resident of Porter, who attends Chesterton High School and Puja Parikh, a resident of Ft. Wayne, who attends Homestead High School. The student leaders will be in Washington, D.C., from March 3rd  10th for a week of intensive study of the people and machinery of the American governing system. The operations of the Senate will also be highlighted during the week. As in past years, arrangements are underway for the delegates to meet with leading cabinet members, a Supreme Court Justice and several key Congressional policy makers. Each of the 104 delegates will receive a $5,000 college scholarship. This scholarship, in addition to the program week in Washington, D.C., is made possible by a grant from the William Randolph Hearst Foundation. All transportation, meals, and accommodations are also provided. No government funds are utilized for the program. The chief educational officer in each state selects the delegates  two from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity. In addition to outstanding leadership abilities and a strong commitment to public service, the students rank academically in the top one percent of their states. They continue to excel and develop impressive qualities that are often directed toward public service. Former program delegates include Senator Susan Collins of Maine; Judge Robert Henry, U.S. Court of Appeals; former Ambassador to West Germany Richard Burt; Presidential Advisor Karl Rove and former Presidential Advisor Thomas Mack McLarty.  