Bayh Offers Greater Support for Indiana’s Small Manufacturers Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh continued his efforts to create more jobs and strengthen Indiana's economy by urging Senate conferees to support his amendment during final negotiations over the defense bill to immediately restore much-needed funding to a widely-popular manufacturing program that helps small manufacturers grow their businesses and hire more workers. In addition to these efforts, Bayh has introduced legislation that will significantly increase funding for the program in the future, a decision he shared with Hoosier workers during a series of visits to small manufacturers throughout Indiana last week. "At a time when Indiana's small manufacturers are working harder than ever to succeed, it makes no sense to take away funding for an organization designed specifically to help them create more jobs and expand their business," Senator Bayh said. "That's why I'm asking the Senate conferees to insist on immediate funding restoration and why I'm calling for significant new funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program, to provide more hardworking Hoosiers with jobs and more small manufacturers with the tools they need to succeed in today's fast-paced, global marketplace." The Reed-Bayh amendment, which will allow the Secretary of Commerce to reprogram $21.8 million back into this year's MEP program funding, was passed by the Senate and now awaits approval by the conference committee. Bayh, along with eight other senators from both sides of the aisle, sent a letter to the Senate conferees urging them to keep the funding, which will be used to help shore up resources that small manufacturers may lose because of recent spending cuts in the MEP program. Indiana's MEP program helps 1,000 small businesses each year and makes an economic impact of $160 million each year. It has helped create or save more than 1,300 Hoosier jobs in the past two years. However, the administration slashed funding for the program by more than 60% this year from $106 million to $39 million, forcing the MEP program to close offices across the country, including four in Indiana (Muncie, Terre Haute, Portage and New Albany). In addition to providing immediate support for Indiana's small manufacturers, Senator Bayh has also announced plans to increase future funding for the MEP program to provide continued economic opportunities for Indiana's small manufacturers. Last week, Bayh visited a series of Hoosier companies that used the MEP to grow their business and hire more workers to emphasize the positive impact Indiana's MEP program has on the state's economy and announce his legislation that proposes funding the MEP at $220 million per year. With this level of support, Indiana's MEP program could receive an additional $4 million each year to reopen its closed centers and help more small manufacturers with consulting, accounting, marketing, and certification needs, along with other services designed to help small manufacturers grow and succeed. These steps are vital to strengthening Indiana's economy and providing new jobs and better job security for Hoosiers. Indiana has 11,000 manufacturers, 98% of which are small manufacturers. These companies employ close to 300,000 Hoosiers across Indiana, providing greater economic opportunities for thousands of Hoosier families.  