Bayh Fights to Bring Back Indiana’s Bioterrorism Funding Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today urged Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Tommy Thompson to immediately release funding set aside for Indiana to help ensure the safety of Hoosiers in the event of a bioterrorist attack. Indiana has more than $4 million left of the funds received in 2002 to work on its approved bioterrorism plan, but the CDC is refusing to release the money to the state and instead may use it for other CDC programs.  These funds belong to Indiana and should be released immediately so we can protect Hoosiers from a potential bioterrorist attack, Senator Bayh said. This is unacceptable. Until the CDC releases these funds, Hoosiers will not have the ability to hire essential health care staff and continue implementing the plan they need to ensure their health and safety in the event of an attack. Each day that we wait to receive these funds puts Hoosiers one day further behind in implementing the safety precautions outlined in Indiana's approved bioterrorism plan. Nothing is more important than making sure Hoosiers are safe and that we are prepared to deal with any possible threats to our citizens and our communities, Governor Kernan said. Now the federal government is considering redirecting funds previously allocated to Indiana to deal with bioterrorism threats, funds that literally will mean essential equipment for our first responders and our laboratories. Indiana and other states depend on these types of partnerships with the federal agencies to ensure our communities are prepared, and a decision like this would severely undercut our efforts to make the critical investments in our public health and safety resources. Senator Bayh learned from Governor Kernan that Indiana's carry-over request had been deferred and that Indiana could not access the money it needed for its bioterrorism plan. Together, Senator Bayh and Governor Kernan led the charge with twenty senators, including Senator Lugar, to demand the release of the carry over funding in a letter to Secretary Thompson. The senators expressed concern that their states are now left without the funds they were counting on to address shortfalls in public health needs and to help prevent or respond to a biological attack. Bayh and others also pointed out that current law states that these funds should be accessible for states through August of 2004. Immediately following the tragic events of September 11th, Senator Bayh led the way to ensure that all Hoosiers are protected against a possible bioterror attack. In October of 2001, Bayh introduced the State Bioterrorism Preparedness Act to provide Indiana's department of health with more than $18.5 million to establish better information sharing, surveillance techniques and effective health strategies to guard against bioterrorist attacks. Based on his experiences as governor, Senator Bayh understood the importance of including state and local officials in the prevention and preparedness efforts because they know best the strengths and weaknesses of each community's emergency response team. The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act (PHSBPRA) of 2002, which includes parts of Bayh's bill, was passed into law in 2002. The Act gives states two years to spend the money they were allotted; therefore Indiana should have until August 31, 2004 to spend the remaining $4 million they received for bioterrorism preparedness. By blocking the funds now, the CDC is not only ignoring the PHSBPRA guidelines, but also creating a dangerous delay in states' abilities to prepare for potential attacks. Senator Bayh will continue to work with his fellow senators from both sides of the aisle and Governor Kernan to ensure that Hoosiers and all Americans are able to access their fair share of the funding. Senator Bayh and Governor Kernan worked directly with HHS and officials from other states to determine the best preventative measures to safeguard against potential threats and develop new bioterrorism preparation programs to educate Hoosiers.  