Bayh Announces $75 Million to Create New Jobs, Boost Hoosier Economy Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced tax credits that could result in $75 million worth of investments to fund community and economic development projects throughout the state of Indiana. The tax credits, allocated through the New Market Tax Credit (NMTC) program, include $50 million for the Community Bankers Association of Indiana (CBAI) and $25 million for the Indiana Redevelopment Corporation (IRC).  This funding will mean new job opportunities and a better quality of life for hardworking Hoosiers across Indiana as well as new options for entrepreneurs looking to expand their businesses, Senator Bayh said. These tax credits are a step in the right direction toward helping grow the Indiana economy by providing struggling communities with the money they need to build new daycare centers, manufacturing facilities and office space. Senator Bayh wrote a letter earlier this month to Owen Jones, the acting director of the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, which awards the NMTC program funding. In the letter, Bayh urged Mr. Owens to significantly increase funding for Hoosier projects, citing the potential for economic growth and community redevelopment represented by the tax credits. The NMTC is a tax credit provided to qualifying private investors or business owners to help increase the amount of money invested in projects that generally do not produce a high level of profit, such as cleaning up neighborhoods. The $50 million for CBAI will be used to offer low-interest loans and equity investments to businesses in need of capital to build manufacturing and distribution facilities, community centers, office and retail space, and other types of industrial facilities in low-income areas. IRC will use its $25 million to provide investors with interest rates up to 3 percentage points lower than current market loans to help fund the development of new community and day care centers for Hoosier residents. Last year, Senator Bayh worked to secure $6 million for Indiana through NMTC to help improve local economies and neighborhoods in New Albany, Versailles and Aurora.  