Bayh Urges Continued Support for Affordable Housing for Elderly Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh called on the Senate Appropriations Committee to maintain funding for the Supportive Housing for the Elderly program run by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). In a letter signed by 23 of his colleagues, Bayh pointed out the serious lack of available affordable elderly housing and urged that the program receive the same level of support it has in past years.  Our seniors deserve the right to age with dignity and be able to preserve their independence as long as possible, Senator Bayh, a member of the Special Committee on Aging, said. Right now, thousands of Hoosier seniors are unable to find affordable housing. Maintaining funding for the Supportive Housing for the Elderly program will help seniors in need of affordable and supportive housing. Despite the dearth of affordable elderly housing available, President Bush has proposed a 31 percent decrease in new construction funding for the Supportive Housing for the Elderly program, also known as the Section 202 program. If the President's proposed cuts were enacted this year, only 2,700 new homes would be financed through HUD, an average of a mere 54 homes per state. This drastic cut would have a dramatic effect on states already struggling to meet the need. The American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging estimates that there are at least nine seniors waiting for every occupied unit of HUD's affordable elderly housing. The Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly program has provided safe, affordable and supportive housing for low-income seniors who can no longer afford to maintain their own homes since 1959. According to official estimates, there are over 300,000 seniors living in 6,000 Section 202 developments across the country. These individuals are frequently isolated and frail and need supportive services to avoid premature nursing home placement. Senior housing communities provide services, including meals and transportation, which help these individuals remain independent. Maintaining current funding levels would help ensure that the program can meet the housing needs of today's seniors. Senator Bayh, a member of both the Special Committee on Aging and the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, believes that every senior deserves access to quality and affordable housing.   