Bayh Visits Indiana with Plan to Target Rising Cost of Higher Education Indianapolis, IN-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today visited Gary, South Bend, Fort Wayne, and Indianapolis to announce his support for legislation that will help Middle Class families struggling with the growing costs of higher education. At press conferences across the state, Bayh was joined by middle class families who would benefit from the plan.  The American Dream is founded on the idea that anyone who is willing to work hard and sacrifice will be able to create a better life for themselves and their children, Senator Bayh said. However, the rising cost of higher education is putting that dream out of reach for many Middle Class Americans. This legislation will provide much-needed tax relief for hardworking families and help ensure that the benefits of a college degree are available to all Americans. Between 2001 and 2006, average total tuition and fees have increased by 28 percent at private four-year colleges and universities, by 55 percent at public four year-year colleges and universities, and by 41 percent at public two-year colleges. A recent report showed that college undergraduates are finishing school with an average of $19,300 in student loan debt. The Higher Education Opportunity Act, introduced by Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY), would combine the HOPE and Lifetime Learning credits and the college tuition tax deduction into one simple, streamlined, easy-to-understand credit, combining the best features of the existing benefits. It would also expand the existing benefits, so that the average Middle Class family would receive $2,500 in tax relief to help pay the costs of a higher education. Currently, approximately 200,000 Hoosiers claim the HOPE Scholarship, Lifetime Learning tax credits, or tuition deduction and would benefit from the legislation. Among the many Hoosiers who would benefit from this legislation is Amy Kallaher of Fort Wayne. Amy would be able to claim an additional $1,380 next year as a college tuition tax deduction, making it easier to afford her degree. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, people with a bachelor's degree earn salaries more than 75 percent higher than those with only a high school diploma. Senator Bayh has been a leader in the effort to ensure that a quality higher education is available to Americans of every income level. In 1990, then-Governor Bayh created the 21st Century Scholars program, which promises at-risk middle school students full tuition scholarships at any public university in the state in return for staying drug, alcohol and crime-free and maintaining passing grades.   