Bayh Honors American Veterans Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh issued the following statement today to commemorate Veterans Day.  Today, we honor the 24 million veteransincluding more than 542,000 in Indianawho have demonstrated their uncommon valor and patriotism by serving in the United States armed forces. Their bravery and sacrifice has enabled Americans to enjoy a level of freedom and prosperity unmatched in the history of man. Early next year, more than 3,400 Hoosiers will move out with the 76th Infantry Brigade Combat Team as part of the largest deployment of the Indiana National Guard since World War II. These Hoosiers will follow in the footsteps of their courageous forebears who fought in previous American engagements throughout the world. These are Americas real-life heroes. To honor their sacrifice, we must find it within our hearts and our wallets to do right by the men and women who defend our country. Sadly, though, one in eight veterans in our country lacks health insurance. The result is that thousands are not receiving the care they deserve. Last week, the Senate sent to the President a comprehensive appropriations bill that provides $23.5 billion for military health care programs. We also include a long-overdue pay raise for military personnel and allocate $11.6 billion in emergency funds for mine resistant vehicles to protect troops in Iraq from improvised explosive devices. But I believe we must do even more to make caring for Americas wounded warriors a top national priority. We must invest in cutting-edge treatment to help soldiers returning home with debilitating Traumatic Brain Injuries, the signature injury of this war. We must embrace our responsibility to ease their transition to life back home. And we must strengthen our efforts to address veterans unemployment, homelessness and medical care. My Veterans Day pledge is to continue doing everything in my power in the United States Senate to ensure that our government honors military service by providing our veterans and returning soldiers with the highest-quality health care and supportive services available.  