Bayh Calls for Intelligence Hearing on Iran Intelligence Gathering Efforts Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh, along with Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), today wrote the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Intelligence Committee requesting that they hold at least one hearing on the state of U.S. human intelligence collections on Iran before the end of the month. In a letter, Bayh and Snowe, both members of the Intelligence Committee, noted a recent report critical of U.S. intelligence collection on Iran, and on-the-ground visits by their Committee staff, as indications that ensuring that we have the best possible information on Iran must be a matter of considerable Committee focus. "As we continue our efforts to stop Iran's pursuit of nuclear technology, the world must know that we are relying on accurate, up-to-date intelligence to make our case," Senator Bayh said. "Instead, this already challenging task has been made more difficult by the intelligence failures in Iraq. We cannot afford to wait to address this critical intelligence shortfall if we hope to convince other countries to help us with Iran." Last month, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence issued a report critical of U.S. intelligence collection on Iran. The report noted "many significant information gaps" in a variety of fields, including Iran's nuclear, biological and chemical programs. Following the report, Senate Intelligence staffers were sent to the Middle East, where they assessed the state of human intelligence collection on Iran. "Through its links to terrorism and its continued nuclear materials enrichment activities, it is clear that we should be committing maximum resources to ensure top-quality intelligence on Iran," Senator Bayh said. "Instead, recent reports cite major intelligence gaps on Iran in some of the key areas of concern. A committee hearing would help improve us better understand how to meet our intelligence collection requirements." In their letter, Bayh and Snowe requested a closed door hearing to discuss intelligence gathering on Iran. They also requested inviting several key intelligence officials tasked with gathering information on Iran so the committee can best understand the state of current intelligence efforts there. Bayh has been a leading voice in the Senate calling for a national security strategy that is both tough and smart, including a renewed focus on the dangers posed by Iran. Earlier this year, Bayh introduced legislation calling on administration to enact a series of sanctions against Iran in an effort to halt its efforts to restart its nuclear program. Sanctions included cutting off supplies of refined gasoline and enacting a worldwide ban on the sale of arms to Iran.  