Bayh Celebrates Decade of Success in Reducing Teen Pregnancy Washington-- As a member of the Honorary Committee for the 10th Anniversary Celebration of the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today congratulated the National Campaign on its remarkable achievements in reducing teen pregnancy rates across the country. Teen birth rates across the country and in Indiana have dropped by almost thirty percent over the past decade. Bayh was chosen to be a part of the Honorary Committee based on his long record of work to strengthen families and prevent teen pregnancies. "As one of the leading causes of poverty, teen pregnancy tears at our social fabric and places enormous financial burdens on taxpayers, while creating great personal obstacles that all the children who must raise children of their own must overcome," said Senator Bayh. "I am proud to congratulate the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy on its success in reducing the teen pregnancy rate over the past decade and continue to support its on-going efforts." The National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy applauded Senator Bayh's dedication to improving the well-being of children, youth and families by preventing teen pregnancy. "We greatly appreciate Senator Bayh's commitment to making progress on reducing teen pregnancy by joining the National Campaign's 10th Anniversary Celebration Honorary Committee," said Sarah Brown, Director of the National Campaign. Ten years ago, the National Campaign challenged the nation to reduce the teen pregnancy rate by one-third over the next decade, a call Senator Bayh echoed in 2002 in legislation he introduced in the Senate. It is now almost certain that the nation will meet this goal. In Indiana, the teen pregnancy rate has declined 26 percent from 1991 to 2002, reducing the number of teenage mothers by approximately 19,000 Hoosiers. Today's event will celebrate the nation's achievements in reducing teen births and outline the work that remains to be done. Despite the one-third reduction in teen pregnancy, one in three teen girls still gets pregnant before age 20. A father of two, Senator Bayh has a long record of supporting strong, healthy families and reducing teen pregnancies. As governor, Bayh established Project RESPECT (Reducing Early Sex and Pregnancy by Educating Children and Teens), which leveraged millions of dollars in paid television and radio advertising to reduce teen pregnancies. In addition, Project RESPECT distributed nearly $1 million in grants to schools, social service agencies and faith-based groups to help teach young Hoosiers about the effect teen pregnancy can have on their lives and the prevention services available to them in their community. To continue building on his work as governor, Senator Bayh authored the Responsible Fatherhood Act to improve the lives of children, prevent teen pregnancies and spotlight the importance of parental involvement in child development.  