Emanuel, Bayh Call on President to Prepare for Flu Pandemic Washington-- Today, U.S. Representative Rahm Emanuel (D-IL) and Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) released a letter to President Bush calling for the administration to act now and prepare for the possibility of a flu pandemic. "Today, we learned an American company mailed a deadly flu strain to 3,700 laboratories in the U.S. and around the world as part of a routine test kit," said Emanuel. "This news is a stark reminder of the very real threat of a flu pandemic our county faces. It is our responsibility, as a Congress and as a nation, to take the necessary steps to prepare for a possible pandemic." In early April, President Bush signed an executive order authorizing the government to impose quarantine in case of an outbreak of the avian flu currently impacting Southeast Asia. Quarantine is only one of the tools the administration could employ to prevent the spread of pandemic flu. There are additional steps that the administration could take to lead states and localities, as well as other nations, to better prepare for an outbreak of pandemic flu. "This latest mix-up shows why the administration can no longer afford to turn a blind eye to the dangers of a possible flu pandemic," said Bayh. "Avian flu is not just a health problem, it is a national security threat that must be dealt with and I urge the administration to implement the recommendations in our Flu Protection Act to prevent a possible pandemic." This year, Emanuel and Bayh introduced legislation in the House and Senate that deals specifically with improving our knowledge of and preparedness for pandemic flu. The Flu Protection Act (S. 375, H.R. 813), would create a guaranteed government buy-back program to improve incentives for producing vaccines, educate the public about the importance of receiving a flu shot, increase funding for research into improved vaccine technologies, including for combating avian flu, and require the rapid development of contingency plans for the distribution of vaccinations in the case of a pandemic.  