Bayh Announces Formal Senate Apology to Victims of Lynchings Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Senate will pass a resolution tonight that formally apologizes to the victims of lynching and their descendants for the Senate's failure to enact anti-lynching legislation. As an original co-sponsor of the resolution, Bayh commended his colleagues for taking this important step towards racial reconciliation. The resolution, which was authored by Senators Allen (R-VA) and Landrieu (D-LA), will be the first time that the Senate recognizes its failure to outlaw a crime that cost thousands of American lives. "Acknowledging this dark part of our history will enable us to learn from our past mistakes and begin moving forward," Senator Bayh said. "Although this apology is long overdue, I pray that the passage of this resolution will help foster a national reconciliation and continue the dialogue to heal this very old wound." From 1882 to 1968, nearly 5,000 Americans, predominantly African-Americans, lost their lives in hangings, floggings and burnings across the country. Despite these abhorrent crimes, and even as their colleagues in the House of Representatives passed strong measures to make lynching a federal crime, the United States Senate blocked each piece of legislation that could have prevented some of these violent killings. The resolution passed today apologizes for the Senate's failure to pass a federal law criminalizing lynching, which would have afforded protection to the innocent and made resources of the U.S. government available for the prosecution of these crimes. Bayh was inspired to take an active role in the passage of this resolution based in part on his own interaction with a Hoosier lynching survivor. James Cameron, of Marion, Indiana, survived an attempted lynching in 1930, when he was wrongfully accused of assaulting a white couple in Marion. A mob lynched the two men he was with that night, yet Cameron miraculously survived. The female victim later confirmed that he had no part in the assault. As governor, Bayh gave Cameron an official pardon from the State of Indiana. Mr. Cameron traveled to Washington, D.C., to be present for the passage of this important amendment. In 1988, Cameron founded America's Black Holocaust Museum, a museum devoted to preserving the history of lynching in the United States and sharing the struggle of African-Americans for equality from the time of slavery through the Civil Rights movement.  