Senate Adopts Bayh Provision To Help Soldiers With Traumatic Brain Injuries Washington-- The U.S. Senate late yesterday passed the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act to better ensure that the more than 25,000 service members who have sustained injuries in Iraq and Afghanistan receive the world-class treatment, care and services they deserve. The legislation, which passed unanimously, included a provision originally introduced by Senator Evan Bayh, to provide immediate help for wounded soldiers with traumatic brain injuries (TBI).  The legislation passed as an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization Bill and allows severely wounded soldiers to retain their active duty status for up to three years, with the option of an additional two-year extension. Retaining their active duty status means soldiers can continue to receive care through the Department of Defense at specialized private rehabilitation hospitals and facilities. It also requires the development of a comprehensive plan on prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, and treatment of TBI and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and authorizes $50 million for improved diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of service members with TBI or PTSD.Earlier this year, Bayh introduced legislation to extend active duty status for wounded soldiers with TBI, which has been called the signature injury of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Up to now, bureaucratic red tape and a system designed to handle body trauma and aging veterans has made it difficult for these soldiers to obtain specialized care. Until now, the system prevented some of our returning soldiers from receiving the care they need and deserve, Senator Bayh said. Time plays a critical role in recovery from a traumatic brain injury. Delays in medical treatment and services can have severe consequences to the quality of life of our returning heroes. This legislation ensures that they will have immediate and ongoing access to the best possible medical care. Traumatic brain injuries can include those caused by shrapnel that penetrate the skull, but also injuries with no visible signs, caused by shockwaves from IEDs and mortars. More than 2,000 American soldiers have received a traumatic brain injury in Iraq or Afghanistan. Most problems with care have occurred when soldiers with TBI have been transferred from active duty status to retired, where they can no longer access private care centers and must receive treatment through the Veterans Administration. Some VA hospitals lack access to advanced cognitive therapy programs that maximize the recovery prospects of TBI patients. This is a critical step forward for the soldiers affected by traumatic brain injury, said Stacy Payne, executive director of the Brain Injury Association of Indiana. This means these soldiers will be able to take advantage of the best possible rehabilitation care and emotional support available. Senators Bayh and Clinton worked with the Military Officers Association of American and the Wounded Warrior Project to draft the legislation to provide an immediate solution to the problems returning soldiers afflicted with TBI were encountering. In addition to the TBI provisions, the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act requires periodic reports on the Armys action plan to respond to the deficiencies that came to light earlier this year at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. The legislation requires the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop a comprehensive policy by Jan. 1, 2008, on the care, management and transition from the military to VA or civilian life for severely injured service members. The act also requires the Secretary of Defense to establish uniform standards for military medical treatment facilities, specialty medical care facilities and military quarters that house patients. What we discovered at Walter Reed earlier this year is appalling, Senator Bayh said. The brave men and women recovering at Walter Reed and other military hospitals have made incredible personal sacrifices to defend our nations freedom, and we owe it to them to provide the safest and most effective treatment possible when they return from combat. The Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act will help ensure that these soldiers are treated with the respect they deserve throughout their recovery.  