GAO, IRS Commissioner Endorse Bayh Approach to Closing Capital Gains Tax Gap Washington-- U.S. Senator Bayh today urged the Senate Finance Committee to take immediate action to close the $17 billion capital gains tax gap by bringing the Simplification Through Additional Reporting Tax (START) Act to the Senate floor, in the wake of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study, which confirmed that the START Act would be an effective solution to the capital gains tax gap.  Today, both the Government Accountability Office and the IRS Commissioner agreed that the approach my legislation takes would be an effective way to help close the capital gains tax gap, Senator Bayh said. The Senate Finance Committee should follow their advice and take up the START Act to reduce the deficit by billions and simplify our tax code. Taxes are always a contentious debate in Washington, but we can all agree that every taxpayer should pay what they legally owe. The START Act would require brokerage houses and mutual fund companies to track and report to taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service the adjusted cost basis, or purchase price, when they sell a stock, bond, or mutual fund. By ensuring that the IRS receives an independent verification of individuals' investment value, as currently occurs with wages, the START Act would crack down on taxpayers who are not paying their fair share in taxes. Today's GAO report endorsed this approach, confirming that cost basis reporting would be a valuable and effective tool in closing the tax gap as well as in reducing the burden on taxpayers by helping individuals file accurate tax returns without having to do confusing and time-consuming calculations. In a Senate Finance Committee hearing this morning, IRS Commissioner Mark Everson reinforced this sentiment, agreeing that cost basis reporting would help close the tax gap. Currently, about $17 billion in capital gains taxes go unpaid every year in part because of confusion among honest taxpayers over how to compute their capital gains and tax cheating. Since the IRS has virtually no ability to detect this misreporting, it can be done with impunity, leaving honest taxpayers to pick up the tab. Today's GAO report found that in 2001, more than 7 million taxpayers who sold securities misreported capital gains or losses. At a time when our nation is facing urgent fiscal challenges, Bayh's legislation would help collect legally owed capital gains taxes, which could represent as much as $170 billion over the next ten years. The START Act was introduced in the Senate in March, and Representative Rahm Emanuel introduced companion legislation in the House in May.  