Senate Passes Bayh Amendment Mandating Major Reductions in American Consumption of Foreign Oil Washington-- The United States Senate passed an amendment late Tuesday authored by U.S. Senator Evan Bayh that, for the first time ever, would require the federal government to meet strict oil savings targets and significantly reduce American consumption of foreign oil by 10 million barrels a day by the year 2031. The amendment passed by a vote of 63-30.  Breaking our dangerous dependency on foreign oil is one of the defining challenges of our time, Bayh said in a statement delivered on the Senate floor prior to the vote. Our ability to grapple with this issue will affect our economy, our environment, and the quality of the world that we will leave our children. Unfortuantely, today we arenot doing nearly enough to meet this challenge. We can, and must, do better. Currently, the United States consumes about 20 million barrels of oil a day, which accounts for about 25 percent of the worlds oil consumption. The United States imports more foreign oil today that it did before the September 11th attacks. The Bayh amendment would direct the executive branch to devise and enforce new federal requirements to achieve oil reduction goals of 2.5 million barrels-per-day by 2016, 7 million barrels by 2026, and 10 million barrels by 2031. Bayhs amendment directs the Office of Management and Budget to work with the Secretaries of Energy and Transportation and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to develop the most cost effective way to reach strict oil savings targets. Every three years, federal officials would have to certify to Congress that the savings targets re being met or adjust course to meet them. The Bayh amendment replaces weaker language contained in the underlying Senate energy legislation, which focused on reductions in gasoline consumption rather than foreign oil. Because gas is refined in the United States, reductions do not necessarily address the national security issues posed by importing vast quantities of oil from politically unstable countries like Iran and Venezuela.  In January, the President made headlines at the State of the Union with his declaration that America is addicted to oil, Bayh said. Unfortunately his declaration was not backed up with action to lead us toward energy independence. My plan replaces rhetoric with real accountability for progress.  