Bayh Urges Greater Support for Hoosier Small Manufacturers Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today urged the Secretary of the Department of Commerce to transfer or reprogram funding back to a popular manufacturing program, arguing that this year's funding cut is hurting small manufacturers and costing Hoosier jobs. The cut, which reduced the funding level from $106.6 million in 2003 to $39 million for this year, was included in the Omnibus spending package. The Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program has already closed 58 regional offices across the country and cut jobs by 15 percent, leaving small manufacturers without the tools and workers needed to compete in today's global marketplace. "Small manufacturers play a vital role in Indiana's economy," Senator Bayh said. "At a time when Indiana is facing thousands of lost jobs, it makes no sense to strip the funding right out from under the very programs that help Hoosier manufacturers grow and compete. Our manufacturers are working harder than ever to succeed, and providing support for the MEP program is crucial to their continued survival and success." Senator Bayh, along with 54 of his fellow senators from both sides of the aisle, emphasized the significant number of jobs that result from MEP funding and argued that this cut is stifling economic growth in a letter to Secretary Evans. The senators pointed out the importance of the MEP programs citing last year's modest $106.6 million investment that generated billions of dollars in increased sales, investment and job creation. If this funding cut is not restored, the MEP's ability to continue providing new job opportunities and economic growth will be severely constrained. On July 1, 2004 two-thirds of the MEP centers will face being shut down without the renewal of funding. The Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) Program assists nearly one thousand Indiana small manufacturers each year by helping them improve their productivity, profitability and global competitiveness. In addition, with full funding, the program will generate nearly $300 million each year for Indiana businesses, according to an estimate from the Indiana Business Modernization and Technology Corporation, which runs eight MEP centers across Indiana. A recent study by the National Academy of Public Administration praised the effectiveness of the program and concluded that the "MEP program is uniquely situated to create the nationwide network and infrastructure that can provide systematic and comprehensive productivity improvement assistance to small manufacturers." Despite the program's high ratings and success on behalf of small manufacturers, the administration has sought to cut the program for the past three years. This year, Senator Bayh wrote letters urging the administration and Senate appropriators to fund the program at $110 million. He has written similar letters in past years to support the program. Last July, Senator Bayh introduced an amendment to the Small Business Administration Reauthorization bill that doubled the amount of money small manufacturers could borrow from $2 million to $4 million. The additional funds will allow companies to purchase more equipment and hire additional workers to better compete on a global scale. Indiana's Certified Development Companies (CDC's) estimated that the bill could create between 200 and 400 additional jobs each year.  