Bayh Announces Passage of JOBS Bill to Help Hoosier Manufacturers Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced the Senate passage of a major economic initiative that will create thousands of new Hoosier jobs and provide important tax relief for Indiana's manufacturers without costing taxpayers a dime. The Jumpstart Our Business Strength (JOBS) bill passed overwhelmingly and includes important economic benefits that will start helping Indiana's economy beginning this year, with the full benefits scheduled to be in place by 2009.  The JOBS bill is a major shot in the arm for Indiana's economy, Senator Bayh said. It means more jobs for hardworking Hoosiers and crucial support for Indiana's 8,000 manufacturers as they compete against companies from overseas. Best of all, the money used to spur our economy will come at no cost to honest taxpayers, coming instead from cheating businesses like Enron, that will now be forced to pay their fair share of taxes. The JOBS bill encompasses a wide variety of initiatives designed to strengthen the economy, including a nine-percent tax deduction for manufacturers that will effectively lower manufacturers' top corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 32 percent. The tax deduction is available to all American manufacturing companies, meaning that all of Indiana's 8,000 manufacturing companies can qualify for the deduction. The tax deduction can be used by companies to hire more workers and invest in high-tech equipment, making Indiana manufacturers more competitive in the global market-place. Senator Bayh introduced several amendments to create more jobs and provide a level playing field for Hoosier workers that were included in the JOBS bill. Bayh's amendments, along with the other initiatives included in the Senate JOBS Bill, will help spur economic development and job creation for manufacturers across the country, and especially in Indiana. Indiana remains the number-one manufacturing state in the country based on the percentage of manufacturing jobs (20 percent) in the state. Below are brief descriptions of Senator Bayh's three key amendments: Bayh's amendment to extend and modify the Work Opportunity Tax Credit will save more than 4,600 Hoosier jobs. The WOTC connects workers who normally have trouble finding work with employers looking to hire by offering tax credits to cover the training of the new employees. Nearly 14,000 Hoosiers find work through the WOTC every year, allowing them to leave the welfare rolls and join Indiana's economy as productive contributors to our workforce. With Bayh's modifications, which included extending the age range for workers, even more Hoosiers will be able to apply for jobs through the WOTC. Bayh's amendment demanding greater transparency from U.S. companies attempting to move their headquarters overseas will force the unpatriotic companies to disclose the number of employees they would hire from foreign locations. This amendment represents the second half of Bayh's efforts to stop unpatriotic companies from skipping out on paying their fair share of U.S. taxes. Last year, Bayh introduced this legislation, which included a provision to help close the Bermuda loophole, which allows companies to use an overseas post office box to avoid domestic taxes. This provision is already included in the FSC/ETI bill. Bayh's amendment closing a tax law loophole for foreign bow and arrow manufacturers will help provide a level playing field for Hoosier manufacturers facing unfair competition from overseas. Without Bayh's amendment, companies like Easton Technical Products in Monticello, Indiana are forced to compete against foreign companies that could sell their finished bows and arrows at a 12.4 percent price advantage by taking advantage of a tax law loophole. The Monticello plant employs 70 Hoosiers and generates revenues of $11 million per year for Easton Technical Products. The manufacturing sector plays a vital role in the Indiana economy, accounting for a significant portion of jobs across the state. Despite the recent economic downturn, Indiana's manufacturing workforce has remained strong compared to other states. The percentage of manufacturing jobs in Indiana is 20.2 percent, which is high when compared to the average percentage of manufacturing jobs in other states, 11.2 percent.  