Bayh Urges Support for Firms Adjusting to Global Economy Washington-- In an effort to help more businesses compete successfully in the global economy, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh called for the inclusion of $16 million for Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms (TAA for Firms) in the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) appropriations bill. In a bipartisan letter, Senator Bayh and 23 of his colleagues asked Appropriations Subcommittee on CJS Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) and Ranking Member Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) to maintain the Senate-recommended level of $16 million for TAA for Firms when the bill is reconciled with the House version in conference committee.  TAA for Firms provides successful and cost-effective aid to small and medium-sized manufacturing and agricultural companies that experience a loss of jobs and sales because of foreign imports. Globalization presents unparalleled opportunities for economic growth and job creation, but brings with it many challenges, Senator Bayh said. We have an obligation to help our businesses improve their competitive advantage so they can succeed in the global economy. The TAA for Firms program helps create jobs and economic growth, rather than simply leaving companies and their workers in the scrap-heap of history as the economy changes. This funding will make sure that with hard work, companies can get back on their feet, moving forward again. Earlier in the year, Senator Bayh and his colleagues were successful in including $16 million for the TAA for Firms program in the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Senate Appropriations bill. In their letter, they argue that this fully authorized level of $16 million in funding should be maintained in conference committee. The House version of the bill only includes $12 million. Despite being chronically underfunded, the TAA for Firms program assists hundreds of companies by providing technical assistance to help manufacturing and agricultural firms improve their competitive advantage. Since 1999, the program has helped to retain or create approximately 48,039 jobs in communities negatively impacted by trade, and increased the sales at participating companies by more than $900 million. The $16 million provided in the Senate Appropriations bill will allow the TAA for Firms program to continue helping firms create and retain jobs, thereby averting the need for millions of dollars in unemployment assistance while stimulating both economic growth and tax revenues. Bayh has been a leader in the effort to define a positive strategy to grow the American economy and empower our workers with the skills to be competitive in the global marketplace. By supporting programs like TAA for Firms, the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) and other initiatives, Bayh has also worked to ensure that businesses and workers have the tools and resources needed to succeed in a changing economy. While helping workers adapt to the global economy, Bayh also has fought hard to ensure that competition is fair for Hoosier companies by championing legislation that would crack down on unfair trade practices.  