Bayh Calls for Changes to Delphi Pension Plan Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today called on key senators to make a change to the Delphi pension plan as part of possible changes to the recently-enacted pension bill. In the letter written by Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Bayh and 9 other senators, including Senator Lugar, ask their colleagues overseeing the pension discussions to take Delphi's current situation into consideration and take steps to ensure that Delphi can meet its pension obligations to its employees and retirees.  The Pension Protection Act of 2006 will help secure the retirement benefits of millions of Americans, Senator Bayh said. However, some workers are still in danger of losing part of their pensions -- including thousands of Delphi workers and retirees in Indiana and other states. I encourage you to address the Delphi situation while you review other outstanding issues involving the pension bill, to ensure that all workers can enjoy the retirement security they have earned. There are 8,987 Delphi employees and retirees in Indiana. Delphi filed for bankruptcy in October 2005 and expects to owe $2.7 billion to retirees under its pension plan when it emerges from bankruptcy court. However, as the law currently stands, Delphi would be required to pay this amount in full as soon as it emerges from bankruptcy, an obligation it may be unable to meet. As a result, its pension responsibilities could fall to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), a government-run organization that takes over pensions that companies have defaulted on, limiting the pension benefits that some Delphi retirees and employees could hope to receive and increasing the chance of a taxpayer bailout. Unless we make changes to address the Delphi situation, workers and retirees risk losing part of their pensions and taxpayers everywhere risk getting stuck with the bill, Senator Bayh said. We owe it to everyone involved to make sure the retirees get the pensions they deserve for their years of hard work. At the same time, I will continue working to make sure that all Delphi workers are treated fairly during the rest of the bankruptcy proceedings. In addition to today's letter, Senator Bayh has introduced legislation called the Fairness and Accountability in Reorganizations Act, to protect the rights of workers during corporate bankruptcy proceedings. The legislation would ensure that workers are treated more fairly during reorganizations by limiting executive compensation deals and requiring corporations to provide a more accurate picture of their holdings before attempting to modify collective bargaining agreements or promised health benefits. Bayh also wrote the Delphi CEO in January asking him to take the company's generous executive compensation package off the table during the company's reorganization. Most recently, Bayh co-chaired a roundtable meeting with Congressman John Conyers, who introduced the same legislation in the House, to discuss the importance of protecting worker rights during the Delphi proceedings. United Auto Workers President Ron Gettelfinger, along with other labor leaders, took part in the roundtable.  