Bayh Introduces Amendment to Address Latest Armored Humvee Shortage Washington-- In response to recent reports of another up-armored Humvee shortage in Iraq, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today introduced an amendment to the Iraq Supplemental Appropriations bill to provide funding for additional up-armored Humvees. The Pentagon has been forced to revise its requirement for up-armored Humvees in Iraq for the ninth time in two years now. Last week, Pentagon officials also admitted that nearly 1,000 of the 8,100 fully armored Humvees that were supposed to be in Iraq by April 1st had not yet reached U.S. troops. This news comes on the heels of a GAO report faulting the Pentagon for failing to take advantage of the option to increase production rates of the much-needed vehicle.  It is our moral obligation to provide our men and women fighting in Iraq with the equipment they need in the field, and it seems that the Pentagon just can't get this right, Senator Bayh said. I'm offering an amendment to dramatically increase funding for fully armored Humvees and have begun working with other senators to reach an agreement as soon as possible. Every little bit helps, and every minute counts. Our troops should not have to pay the price for the Pentagon's mistakes. Bayh's amendment calls for $742 million to purchase additional up-armored Humvees, enough to meet the Pentagon's latest requirement and anticipate future demands due to the loss of vehicles damaged or destroyed in battle. The amendment also includes two key provisions designed to prevent future significant shortfalls from building up over time again, by requiring the Secretary of Defense to report more frequently regarding the number of Humvees needed on the ground and to report on ways to speed shipments of the vehicles to Iraq. These much-needed vehicles help no one when they are sitting in parking lots, millions of miles from Baghdad, Bayh said. In this day and age, surely we can get armored Humvees from the factory to the front lines in less than seven weeks. Our brave troops and their families deserve better than this from their leaders. Army leaders have consistently argued that the Humvee shortfall was due to slow production levels at AM General and O'Gara-Hess, the two companies responsible for producing the armored vehicles. However, the GAO study released last Friday supports Bayh's argument that the Pentagon failed to take advantage of the companies' production capabilities. Last spring, Bayh had to correct Army officials during an Armed Services meeting when they stated that the maximum production level of the two companies was 350 vehicles per month. Today, the companies are producing 550 per month. The GAO study faults the Pentagon for making a decision to pace production at the companies rather than use the maximum available capacity. Since May of 2003, the Army's requirements for additional up-armored Humvees has grown from only 235 vehicles to more than 10,000 today. Senator Bayh has consistently led the way in the Senate to provide funding for more up-armored Humvees for our troops. Over the last five years, Senator Bayh has helped secure roughly $3 billion to produce almost 30,000 standard and up-armored Humvees for all of the Armed Services.  