Bayh Offers Legislation Ending Patriot Penalty As Amendment to Iraq Supplemental Bill Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh offered his legislation to eliminate the Patriot Penalty as an amendment to the Iraq Supplemental Appropriations bill. Bayh took to the Senate floor to offer his legislation last night in an attempt to target the pay cut many National Guard and Reserve members face when they are called to duty and lose their civilian salaries, hurting Reservists and dragging down recruitment numbers. "It's not right to force the men and women in the Guard and Reserve to choose between love of country and love of family," Senator Bayh said. "The funding it would take to end the Patriot Penalty is a drop in the bucket compared to the $80 billion being requested for Iraq this week. Surely we can find it, both in our hearts and in our budget, to do right by these people that we placed in harms way to defend our country." Bayh's amendment, which has been co-sponsored by Senators Jon Corzine (D-NJ) and Mark Pryor (D-AR), would fully compensate 94 percent of Guard and Reserve members who have suffered a pay cut while serving their country. The legislation would provide a direct payment of up to $10,000 to private sector employers that are making up the difference in pay to their guard member-employees and would offer the same direct payment to reservists who are self-employed or whose companies cannot make up the salary difference. According to a recent Department of Defense study, more than 50 percent of all Reservists reported a loss in income when they were called up for active duty. The average income loss for Reservists on active duty for a year equals $4,416 per year. Reservists whose families face financial hardship during their deployment may be less likely to re-enlist as a result of the Patriot Penalty. The Reserve Officers Association has endorsed Bayh's legislation writing, "Guard and Reserve members should be able to serve their country knowing that their family will be taken care of and financial ruin will not occur." Reservists make up 40 percent of the forces on the ground in Iraq, making their future strength essential to maintaining U.S. military power. However, Lt. Gen. Roger C. Schultz, the chief of the Army National Guard, reported at a House Armed Services Committee hearing in February that the Guard had met only 56 percent of its quota in January. Ending the Patriot Penalty would make service in the National Guard and Reserves a more attractive choice by removing concerns over pay for those now contemplating service to their country, helping stem the recent recruitment losses. In Indiana, only 33 percent of National Guardsmen in one battalion chose to re-enlist after serving a year in Iraq, compared the battalion's typical re-enlistment rate of 85 percent. "Ending the Patriot Penalty is a matter of national security," Bayh said. "With the Guard and Reserve playing a larger role in our national defense than ever before, we need to take steps to increase our recruitment and retention to make serving in the Guard and Reserves an attractive choice for new recruits as well as the experienced troops we need to retain as leaders for the future." To bolster his efforts to end the Patriot Penalty, earlier this year Bayh requested a study from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that will examine the financial impact the Patriot Penalty is having on our Reservists. Given the urgency of the situation for many guard families, along with the lack of detailed information outlining the extent of the problem, Bayh asked the GAO to complete the study in six months. Bayh has also introduced a resolution recognizing Hoosier companies who are already helping end the Patriot Penalty for their employees serving in the Guard and Reserve.  