Lugar-Bayh Initiative Included in Defense Bill Washington-- Efforts by U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh to support the establishment of a nuclear fuel bank were boosted by the inclusion of a $50 million authorization in the House-Senate conference report on the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008.  The Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Committees on Armed Services included in their Statement of Managers recognition of the need for the Lugar-Bayh legislation: The Conferees support the creation of an international nuclear fuel bank under the auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).  Some countries  including Iran  have justified the need for developing their own uranium enrichment and reprocessing facilities, which could make nuclear reactor fuel or nuclear weapons-usable materials.    The creation of international mechanisms to supplement the international nuclear fuel market could remove the need for national enrichment and reprocessing capabilities in states that do not currently possess them, and support global nonproliferation efforts and discourage new countries from developing national uranium enrichment facilities. The Conferees note that the House has already passed H.R. 885, the International Nuclear Fuel for Peace and Nonproliferation Act, and note that the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations has reported S. 1138, The Nuclear Safeguards and Supply Act of 2007.  Conferees note that additional work will be required in order to provide appropriate guidance to the Executive branch regarding criteria for access by foreign countries to any fuel bank established at the IAEA with materials or funds provided by the United States. The Armed Services committee progress on the nuclear fuel bank is an important beginning and we will continue to work to advance this critical new component of nuclear nonproliferation, said Lugar, the Republican leader of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.    This is a significant step forward in ensuring the technology and resources are in place to manage the expansion of civilian nuclear power abroad.  It will also provide safeguards against rogue nations who would use civilian nuclear energy programs as a cover for nuclear weapons development, said Bayh, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Link to press release on committee passage of the Lugar-Bayh bill: http://www.lugar.senate.gov/press/record.cfm?id=277911.  