Bayh Joins Senate Manufacturing Caucus Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that he has joined the Senate's new Manufacturing Caucus. A tireless advocate on behalf of Indiana's manufacturers, Bayh's leadership role in the Manufacturing Caucus will give him a new platform from which to help Indiana manufacturers compete and succeed.  At a time when Indiana's manufacturers are working harder than ever to succeed in an increasingly competitive global economy, we must do everything we can to help our manufacturers continue to grow and create jobs, Senator Bayh said. I am pleased to be a part of an organization that recognizes the critical importance of manufacturing to our nation's economic future. Launched today, the Senate Manufacturing Caucus was formed to spearhead Congressional efforts to address problems facing the country's manufacturing industry and try to reverse the job loss in the manufacturing sector. The bipartisan Caucus will work to identify root causes of the current manufacturing crisis and champion policies to help ensure that America's manufacturing base remains competitive. For Senator Bayh, joining the Manufacturing Caucus is a natural extension of his work to support Hoosier manufacturers. His efforts have been recognized by industry leaders across the country and the state. We are very appreciative of the efforts of Senator Bayh to help launch this vital caucus, said John P. Surma, President and Chief Executive Officer of United States Steel Corporation. Senator Bayh has been a great supporter of manufacturing and of the steel industry in particular, and we are hopeful that this new initiative will constitute a strong first step to address the nation's manufacturing crisis. As a senator, Bayh has worked hard to support Indiana's manufacturers in a variety of ways. Most recently, Bayh introduced legislation to stop illegal trade practices that give Chinese companies unfair advantages. Bayh has also called for greater support for the Manufacturing Extension Program and has invested in Indiana's manufacturing future by supporting Indiana's life sciences, nanotechnology and advanced manufacturing centers. In addition, Bayh has introduced a tax credit to help small businesses give health benefits to their employees. These steps are vital to strengthening Indiana's economy and providing new jobs and better job security for Hoosiers. Indiana has 11,000 manufacturers, 98% of which are small manufacturers. These companies employ close to 300,000 Hoosiers across Indiana, providing greater economic opportunities for thousands of Hoosier families.  