Bayh Urges Hoosiers to Take Advantage of 2006 Hybrid Vehicle Tax Credit Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today urged Hoosiers and energy-conscious Americans nationwide to take advantage of the 2006 hybrid motor vehicle tax credit. A list of qualifying cars was recently released by the IRS. Enacted in 2005, the tax credit was included as part of the Energy Policy Act as an incentive for consumers to purchase fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles.  Achieving energy independence is one of the great challenges of our generation, one that will impact everything from our national security to our economy, Senator Bayh said. The movement toward fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles is an important part of reducing our dependence on foreign oil. I hope more Hoosiers will use this opportunity to save money on gas by investing in greater fuel economy and clean energy. To qualify for the full deduction, certified vehicles must be purchased before the end of the first calendar quarter following quarter in which the manufacturer sells its 60,000th vehicle. Consumers may claim 50 percent of the credit on vehicles purchased during the following six months, and 25 percent during the six months after that. For 2006, the IRS has certified 18 hybrid models from Ford, Toyota, Mercury, Lexus and Honda for tax credits up to $3,150. The deduction applies to vehicles purchased on or after January 1, 2006, and replaces the $2,000 clean-burning fuel deduction allowed on new hybrid vehicles purchased before December 31, 2005. Hybrid vehicles use a combination of gasoline and electric power to both increase fuel economy and reduce air pollution. In 2005, Senator Bayh led a bipartisan coalition in introducing the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, legislation aimed at breaking America's dependence on foreign oil. The act mandates 7 million barrels in oil-savings in 20 years and encourages the mass-production of hybrid vehicles and cars that can burn any combination of gasoline and alternative fuels. Additionally, the bill lifts the 60,000 per manufacturer cap so more Americans can qualify for tax credits on hybrid vehicles. According to the Department of Transportation, hybrid vehicle registrations increased 81 percent in the United States in 2004, the most recent year for which statistics are available.   