Bayh Honors Small Business Development Centers for 25 Years of Service Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today co-sponsored a resolution recognizing the Small Business Development Centers (SBDC) for their 25 years of service to America's small businesses and entrepreneurs. In Indiana, SBDCs helped their clients create or retain nearly 6,000 jobs in the past year alone.  Small businesses are the engine of our economy and it is crucial that they have the support they need to succeed in today's global marketplace, Senator Bayh said. The Small Business Development Centers in Indiana have proven themselves to be one of the most effective means of ensuring that small businesses have the resources necessary to grow and create more jobs for Hoosier workers. I am proud to support the SBDCs and offer my grateful appreciation as they celebrate their 25th year of service. Senator Bayh joined a bipartisan group of colleagues to honor the SBDCs' record of effectiveness on behalf of the nation's small businesses. Over the past 25 years, the SBDCs have provided counseling to more than 11 million Americans. SBDCs offer services ranging from counseling new business start-ups to providing sustainability programs for struggling firms to assisting growing firms develop expansion plans. In 2003, SBDCs helped create and retain over 163,000 jobs across America. There are nine SBDCs in Indiana with 12 regional centers, all devoted to providing new and existing small businesses with the tools necessary to succeed. In 2004, the regional centers provided services to more than 10,248 existing and start-up businesses helping them obtain $34,751,273 in loans and $18,511,499 in equity financing. With small businesses creating three out of every four new jobs nationwide, Senator Bayh, a member of the Small Business Committee, has worked to ensure that Hoosier workers and entrepreneurs are prepared to succeed in our constantly evolving economy. Senator Bayh has consistently voted in favor of increased funding for SBDCs and has introduced legislation designed to make it easier for small business owners to offer health benefits to their workers. Bayh has also fought for countless Hoosier businesses facing unfair competition from overseas companies benefitting from currency manipulation. In Indiana, small businesses make up 97.5% of all companies and employ more than one million Hoosiers.  