Senators Bayh, Voinovich Hold Summit to Discuss Stronger Federal Response To Counterfeiting of American Goods Indianapolis U.S. Senator Evan Bayh and Senator George Voinovich (R-OH) today convened a summit at the Indiana University Emerging Technologies Center in Indianapolis to discuss the far-reaching impact of intellectual property theft and launch a national partnership committed to passing stronger federal legislation to combat the counterfeiting of made-in-the-USA consumer goods by foreign companies.  The diverse 35-member alliance, called the Coalition Against Piracy  Idea Theft (CAP-IT), supports the Bayh-Voinovich plan to strengthen laws that protect American intellectual property, including product designs, brand names and copyrighted material, which are often stolen by foreign companies and used to make counterfeit products. The Senate legislation, called the Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act, will improve IP theft enforcement and increase penalties by creating one organized force to combat IP theft by elevating the government's response to IP theft to the same level as money laundering and other black-market crimes.  It's outrageous that American products are being pirated and counterfeited every day in countries like China, which then sells its knockoffs as Made in the USA, Senator Bayh said. Intellectual property theft harms Indiana's economy, bleeds Hoosier jobs and jeopardizes the health and safety of our citizens. Unfortunately, the federal response in Washington thus far has not been commensurate with the seriousness of the problem. My legislation with Senator Voinovich will treat intellectual property theft with the urgency that it demands.  In the fierce competition of the 21st century global marketplace, intellectual property is one of the few areas where American jobs and businesses have a clear advantage over foreign competitors, Senator Voinovich said. It is vital that we protect that advantage, level the playing field and ensure our continued economic growth.  According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, counterfeiting costs U.S. businesses as much as $250 billion annually, and 750,000 American jobs have been lost due to counterfeit merchandise. IP theft also poses a threat to the health and safety of American citizens; counterfeit drugs make up 10 percent of the pharmaceutical market, and $3 billion in phony auto parts are sold in the United States each year. The Department of Commerce estimates that the U.S. auto industry could hire over 200,000 more workers if we put a stop to the counterfeit auto parts trade.  At the press conference, Senators Bayh and Voinovich were joined by Ken Zeller, president of the Indiana State AFL-CIO; Moe Davidson, Region 3 Director of the United Auto Workers; Kevin Brinegar, President of the Indiana Chamber of Commerce; and Ed Pease, Senior Vice President of Rolls Royce North America.   