Bayh Introduces START Act of 2006 to Close Tax Gap Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today introduced legislation to help close the $17 billion capital gains "tax gap" by making the tax code fairer and simpler for American taxpayers. Senator Bayh's legislation, the Simplification Through Additional Reporting Tax (START) Act of 2006, will require brokerage houses and mutual fund companies to track and report to taxpayers and the IRS investment information related to capital gains taxes, making it easier for taxpayers to file their tax returns and helping the IRS crack down on would-be cheaters. Senators Barack Obama (D-IL), Tom Carper (D-DE), and John Kerry (D-MA) are original co-sponsors of the START Act. "No business would succeed if it failed to collect $17 billion in sales every year, and the United States government can't afford to operate that way either," Senator Bayh said. "My legislation will help reduce the deficit by billions, while making our tax code simpler and fairer. Our current deficit is a threat to our economy, our security and our future -- we need to do something to make sure that our children will inherit more from us than our unpaid bills." Currently, about $17 billion in capital gains taxes go unpaid every year. A portion of this tax gap results from taxpayers not understanding how to compute their capital gains. However, a larger source of the problem is taxpayers who intentionally inflate the original value of their investments, thereby hiding gains or manufacturing losses. Since the IRS has virtually no ability to detect this misreporting it can be done with impunity, leaving honest taxpayers to pick up the tab. Bayh's START Act will require that brokerage houses and mutual fund companies report to taxpayers and the IRS the "adjusted cost basis," or purchase price plus any necessary adjustments, when they sell a stock, bond, or mutual fund. This will help individuals file accurate tax returns without having to do confusing and time-consuming calculations. Last year, 32 million taxpayers reported a capital gain or loss. The START Act makes the tax code fairer by ensuring that the IRS receives an independent verification of individuals' investment value, as currently occurs with wages. Americans cannot underpay their taxes related to wages because their employers submit wage information reports, W-2 forms, to the IRS. No comparable reporting occurs with stocks and capital gains income. The START Act would eliminate this inequity by requiring brokerage firms and mutual funds to provide cost basis information to the IRS, closing the door on taxpayers who are not paying their fair share in taxes. "To address our growing deficit, some in the Republican Party are calling for cuts in Medicaid, while some in my party are calling for tax increases," Senator Bayh said. "But before we do either, we should first do something we all can agree on -- close the tax gap. Reducing the deficit and simplifying the tax code is a win-win for the 130 million taxpayers who are confused by a tax code that becomes more complex and burdensome every year." The federal government now fails to collect close to $350 billion in taxes that are legally owed each year, including the $17 billion gap caused by the failure to collect capital gains taxes. This tax gap exceeds this year's projected deficit of $336 billion. The START Act would help collect the portion of the tax gap related to capital gains income, which could represent as much as $170 billion in lost revenue over the next ten years.  