Bayh Calls on Bush to Meet With Auto Industry Leaders Before Election Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today wrote to President Bush urging him to reconsider his decision to postpone for a second time a meeting with the three leading U.S. auto manufacturers to discuss the crisis in the auto industry. After postponing the meeting in May, Bush was scheduled to meet with leaders of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler last week, but has since announced that the meeting will not be held until after the midterm elections in November.  General Motors, Ford, Chrysler and other auto manufacturers were once the symbol of American prosperity; in recent years, they have become representative of the challenges posed by the global economy, Senator Bayh wrote in his letter. It is in everyone's best interest to develop new partnerships and a strategy for success in the global economy. This must be a priority. In his letter, Bayh called for increased federal funding and strong tax incentives so American auto manufacturers can design and produce the next generation of high-mileage vehicles. Senator Bayh held up his home state, where almost 100,000 manufacturing workers have lost their jobs in the past five years, as an example of the challenges faced by U.S. workers in the new economy. Our auto industry is burdened with billions of dollars in legacy and retirement costs, but also with a 20th century government policy, Senator Bayh wrote. We live in a new global marketplace dominated by technology and innovation, yet Federal spending on research and development is at an all-time low. Bayh has been a leader in the Senate to protect worker rights during the ongoing Delphi bankruptcy proceedings. In July, Senator Bayh and Congressman John Conyers, Jr., (D-MI) hosted a Congressional roundtable to discuss the crisis in the U.S. auto industry, including recent bankruptcies such as Delphi's. Earlier this year, Bayh and Conyers introduced the Fairness and Accountability in Reorganizations Act, designed to protect the rights of workers during corporate bankruptcy proceedings that currently give greater weight to the executives who run them. During bankruptcy negotiations in January, Bayh wrote Delphi Chairman and CEO Steve Miller urging him to take a proposed pay package for Delphi executives off the table during the company's reorganization following its bankruptcy declaration.  