Bayh Announces 800 Jobs Coming to Indy DFAS Center Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) has decided to send 800 jobs to the Indianapolis DFAS Center as part of the on-going Base Re-Alignment and Closure (BRAC) process, the most jobs any center will receive nationwide through this process. Bayh praised the decision as recognition of the Indy center's outstanding capabilities and vowed to continue promoting the strengths of the Indy site for future opportunities.  Today's decision means 800 new jobs are coming to the Indianapolis area, and that is good news for our state, Senator Bayh said. Indianapolis will gain more jobs through this re-alignment than any other center, proving that military leaders have recognized the value of the work we do in Indianapolis and across Indiana. I will continue working with the other members of the Indiana delegation to highlight the importance of our state's military work as the final job decisions are made in the base re-alignment process. The Indianapolis DFAS Center, which is expected to become the national DFAS headquarters in 2009, will gain 800 jobs through the re-alignment process, more than any of the other remaining DFAS centers. The next largest re-alignment will send 500 to 600 jobs to a center in Ohio. The Department of Defense had originally recommended consolidating the current 26 DFAS sites to three, which would have brought a larger number of new jobs to Indianapolis. However, the BRAC Commission decided to keep five centers open nationally, a decision that impacted the number of jobs originally recommended to go to each site as well. Throughout the BRAC process, Bayh, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, highlighted the strengths of the Indianapolis DFAS center during a series of meetings with military leaders. During a subcommittee meeting last month, Bayh closely questioned the Department of Defense official in charge of DFAS to ensure that the decision made concerning DFAS jobs was an objective one based on each center's capabilities. Bayh also took part in an in-person meeting with BRAC Chairman Anthony Principi and Senator Lugar earlier this year and submitted testimony during the BRAC hearings in St. Louis and Washington.  