Bayh Announces Federal Aviation Administration Formally Offers Letter of Intent to City of Gary for Airport Expansion Washington-- The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) today has formally offered a Letter of Intent (LOI) to the City of Gary, which commits the FAA to providing $57.8 million for improvements and expansion that will help the GCA stake its claim as the third major airport in the region. Senator Bayh, who secured priority attention for the GCA's efforts in 2003 with the help of Alabama Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL), said the official decision was good news for the entire region, which is expected to see as many as 320 new jobs as a result of the airport expansion. "Today's announcement is the result of years of work, and it is proof of the difference we can make by working together with people from both sides of the aisle," said Senator Bayh. "The approval of this funding will create more than 300 new jobs in Gary and will ensure that the GCA can secure its place as the third major airport in the region. I was proud to work with Senator Shelby to get the ball rolling and with the rest of the Indiana delegation throughout the following process." In 2003, after working for more than a year to include similar language in other bills, Bayh worked with Senator Shelby to include instructions in the FY2004 Transportation Appropriations bill that directed the FAA to give priority attention to the airport's Letter of Intent (LOI) application. Only the GCA and a Birmingham airport received such consideration in the bill. The Letter of Intent means that the GCA will no longer be dependent upon yearly funding allocations from Congress and instead will be able to move forward with long-term efforts outlined in its 20-year Master Plan. In January, the Department of Transportation announced its intention to approve the GCA's application following a required 30-day review period in Congress. Today's announcement represents the last step in the LOI application process. As soon as the FAA receives the GCA's grant application for this year, the process of fulfilling the LOI will begin. The funding will be provided to the GCA over ten years and will be used for projects including railroad relocation and runway extensions. These projects are especially crucial to the future growth of the airport, as the GCA is currently one of 300 airports nationwide that does not meet the latest runway safety standards. Senator Bayh has been a key supporter of the Gary/Chicago Airport since his time as Governor of Indiana, when he signed an airport agreement with Chicago Mayor Richard Daley that first aligned the GCA with the major Chicago airports. In all, Bayh has helped secure almost $40 million in federal assistance for infrastructure improvements at the airport, including $15.6 million for the construction of an Indiana National Guard Center at the airport. The Guard Center is expected to bring an additional 200 part-time and 50 full-time jobs to the airport.  