Bayh Celebrates Responsible Fatherhood, Recognizes “Golden Dads” Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined the National Fatherhood Initiative (NFI) to recognize the millions of hardworking, responsible fathers across America who make time for their children and to encourage more men to step up to the plate and play a role in their children's lives. At the Capital Children's Museum, Bayh spoke of the importance of promoting greater father involvement while kicking off a nationwide search for Golden Dads designed to catch good dads in the act of spending time with their children over the Father's Day weekend.  Across America, there are millions of good dads who work hard to make time for their children and who value that time more than any special award or recognition, Senator Bayh said. Recognizing the efforts of these Golden Dads is an important part of encouraging other men through their example to help our nation's mothers raise our children and ensure a better future for our entire society. I will continue working with my colleagues in the Senate to provide men with the resources and support they need to be responsible fathers. Bayh is the author of the Responsible Fatherhood Act, which is included in the welfare reform bill that is due to be renewed this year. The Responsible Fatherhood Act would enable states to provide community organizations, faith-based organizations, and not-for-profit groups with grants to strengthen fragile families through workshops and classes designed to help men take responsibility for their children and families and to promote the formation of married, two-parent families. The legislation is part of Bayh's ongoing efforts to encourage responsible fatherhood. As governor of Indiana, Bayh held the first ever fatherhood summit and established the first media program of its kind to encourage fathers to connect with their children. As a result of these and other efforts, thousands of Hoosier men have learned how to become better fathers, creating stronger families and brighter futures for millions of Hoosier children. This Saturday, members of the Indiana Youth Institute will visit the Indianapolis Children's Museum and Indianapolis Zoo to catch 100 area Golden Dads in the act of spending time with their children. Nine other cities will take part in the Golden Dads search, including Atlanta, Chicago, Denver and Washington, D.C.  