Bayh Introduces Legislation to Eliminate the Patriot Penalty Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today introduced legislation to eliminate the Patriot Penalty, a pay cut many National Guard and Reserve members face when they are called to duty and lose their civilian salaries. Since first outlining the details of his proposal, Bayh has spent the last month working with the Reserve Officers Association and others to ensure that his plan will effectively target the pay cut hurting Reservists and dragging down recruitment numbers in the National Guard. "It's not right to force the men and women in the Guard and Reserves to choose between love of country and love for their family," Senator Bayh said. "The Patriot Penalty is hurting the heroes of our country and threatening the strength of our military. Our Guard and Reserve families make countless sacrifices when a loved one is deployed - financial hardship because of their service should not be one of them." Bayh's Patriot Penalty Elimination Act would fully compensate 99 percent of Guard and Reserve members who have suffered a pay cut while serving their country and help ensure that no one serving will face a pay cut in the future. The legislation would provide a tax credit of up to $15,000 a year for companies that are already making up the salary difference for their Guard member-employees and would offer a direct payment of up to $50,000 a year to Reservists whose companies cannot or will not make up the difference. According to a Pentagon study, more than 40 percent of all Reservists reported a loss in income when they were called up for active duty, though the impact is likely much higher today, given the longer and more frequent deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan. Reservists whose families face financial hardship during their deployment may be less likely to re-enlist as a result of the Patriot Penalty. Reservists make up nearly half of the forces on the ground in Iraq, making their future strength essential to maintaining U.S. military power. However, Lt. Gen. Roger C. Schultz, the Chief of the Army National Guard, reported at a House Armed Services Committee hearing in February that the Guard had met only 56 percent of its quota in January. Ending the Patriot Penalty would make service in the National Guard and Reserves a more attractive choice by removing concerns over pay for those now contemplating service to their country, helping stem the recent recruitment losses. "With the Guard and Reserve playing a large role in our National Security strategy, we need to take steps to increase our recruitment and retention," Bayh said. "Ending the Patriot Penalty will make serving in the Guard and Reserves an attractive choice for new recruits as well as the experienced troops we need to retain as leaders for the future." To bolster his efforts to end the Patriot Penalty, Bayh has requested a study from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that will examine the financial impact the Patriot Penalty is having on our Reservists. Given the urgency of the situation for many guard families, along with the lack of detailed information outlining the extent of the problem, Bayh asked the GAO to complete the study in six months. The findings should serve as a powerful argument in favor of ending the Patriot Penalty. Bayh has also introduced a resolution recognizing Hoosier companies who are already helping end the Patriot Penalty for their employees serving in the Guard and Reserve.  