Bayh to Introduce Legislation Protecting Military Families from Funeral Protesters Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced plans to introduce legislation to protect military families nationwide from protesters who picket and disrupt the funerals of fallen American soldiers. Bayh was inspired to introduce his Dignity for Military Funerals Act after learning of the hate groups that have been traveling the country to protest military funerals, including one in Evansville.  Our troops are among the most selfless and idealistic people I have met, and they should be buried with the dignity they have earned, Senator Bayh said. They represent America at its finest. These protesters represent the worst. Bayh's Dignity for Military Funerals Act would limit protesting for one hour before, during and after all funerals for soldiers who were killed in active duty service. Protestors would be kept at least 300 feet from the funeral. The legislation also makes it a felony for people to violate these limits, punishable by at least one year in prison and as many as five. Bayh's bill is based in part on legislation that has already been approved in six states, including Indiana. Indiana's law went into effect earlier this month, in time to help discourage potential protests at a Kokomo soldier's funeral. At least 12 other states are considering similar legislation. The most visible group of protesters at military funerals are members of Reverend Fred Phelps' Westboro Baptist Church, who have protested at the funerals of at least 12 fallen U.S. soldiers. In January, the group came to Evansville to protest the funeral of Private Jonathan Pfender, who was killed in Iraq by a roadside bomb. I think it's great that Senator Bayh is doing something about these protests, said Peggy Jo Hammond, the mother of Private Pfender. Since my son was killed, knowing that other families will be protected from these protests brings a little happiness back in my soul. My heart goes out to the brave families like Private Pfender's, who must struggle to block out such despicable people in the midst of their deeply personal grief, Senator Bayh said. Our soldiers spend their lifetimes ensuring our safety and defending our freedom. It is our duty and our honor to protect them in death and provide their families with the dignity they deserve to say goodbye to their loved ones. My legislation will do just that.  