Bayh Questions Army Secretary on Tragic Death of Hoosier Guardsman, Care for Wounded Warriors Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today aggressively questioned Army Secretary Pete Geren at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing about the death of an Indiana National Guardsman who died while under the Armys care after receiving substandard care at a medical recovery unit at Fort Knox.    I think we all would agree that our servicemen deserve the best care, but that does not appear to have been the case when it comes to Indiana National Guardsman Sgt. Gerald Cassidy, Bayh said. By all indications, the enemy could not kill him but our own government didnot intentionally to be sure, but the result was just the same. Preliminary reports state that Sgt. Gerald Cassidy may have lain unconscious in his barracks room for several days and dead for several hours before being discovered. Cassidy, who suffered a traumatic brain injury from a roadside explosion in Iraq, died on Sept. 21. He had tried unsuccessfully for five months to get transferred to a private facility in Indianapolis that specializes in the treatment of TBI after receiving substandard care at Fort Knox. Bayh pressed the secretary on what assurances he could offer the American people following Cassidys death that the Army is providing a level of care that wounded soldiers need and deserve. Secretary Geren responded that the system had failed: We have relieved his entire chain of command. Three soldiers that were in his chain of command lost their jobs because of how they handled this case. Its unacceptable. Soldiers take care of soldiers. If somebody drops the ball in taking care of soldiers it violates everything soldiers stand for. During his questioning, Bayh referenced a September report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that found inadequate staffing levels in the warrior transition units set up to ensure better care for soldiers following the Walter Reed Medical Center scandal earlier this year. The GAO study reported that 17 of 32 warrior transition units were not fully staffed, while 46 percent of eligible soldiers had yet to be assigned to such a unit. The situation is particularly shocking given the revelations of Walter Reed, Bayh said. Im concerned whether we only respond to adverse publicity, that when these folks in the press go away, its back to just business as usual. In response, Geren said that the Army planned to have all warrior transition units fully staffed with 2,400 personnel by Jan. 1. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Bayh recently proposed new guidelines to ensure a timely review and referral of brain injured and post traumatic stress disorder patients, whether that facility is under management of the military, the Veterans Administration, or private care. The Senate and House of Representatives are expected to vote on the Department of Defense Authorization Bill in December, which includes wounded warrior legislation.  