Bayh Co-Sponsors Bill to Protect American Companies from Counterfeit Goods Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today co-sponsored legislation introduced by Senators Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) to protect companies from illegal counterfeiters by strengthening laws against trademark counterfeiting. The Stop Counterfeiting in Manufactured Goods Act will make domestic and international trade enforcement efforts more effective by mandating the destruction of counterfeit goods as well as allowing law enforcement officials to seize equipment used to make such illegal goods.  Every day, American workers get up in the morning and already have one hand tied behind their backs because of counterfeiting and other unlawful trade practices, Senator Bayh said. It's not right that when we have a competitive advantage, other companies are allowed to win because they cheat. This law will make it harder for counterfeiters to continue operating and helps put an end to the benefits of cheating. Currently, law enforcement officers are able to destroy counterfeit goods at their discretion, but are not permitted to seize any of the equipment used to make the illegal products. The Stop Counterfeiting in Manufactured Goods Act would mandate both the destruction of counterfeit goods and authorize the seizure of any property or equipment used to make them. The legislation will also make trafficking in counterfeit marks a crime. Counterfeiters often sell counterfeit versions of trademarks in the form of labels, patches or stickers, which can later be attached to generic merchandise to give the appearance of a genuine, name-brand product. This bill will clarify existing laws to prohibit trafficking in these counterfeit marks. This law will help law enforcement domestically, and it will also allow U.S. trade negotiators to demand similar anti-counterfeiting enforcement provisions in international trade agreements. Bayh has been a leader in the fight to investigate and stop unfair trade practices to help level the playing field for Hoosier companies. As the author of the Stopping Overseas Subsidies (SOS) Act, which would allow the U.S. to enforce its anti-subsidy laws against China, Bayh has been especially aggressive about getting tough on illegal trade from foreign countries. Bayh, along with several senators from both sides of the aisle, has introduced legislation to create a special trade prosecutor to identify trade violators and also introduced legislation to counteract the advantage gained by foreign companies due to currency manipulation.  