Bayh Announces Help Is One Step Closer for Hoosier Small Manufacturers Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $112 million following a request Bayh made for the immediate restoration of funding to a widely-popular manufacturing program that helps small manufacturers grow their businesses and hire more workers. Today's announcement is a major victory for Indiana manufacturers that rely on this program to grow their businesses and stay competitive with companies overseas. In addition to his efforts to restore funding, Bayh has also introduced legislation that will significantly increase funding for the MEP program in the future. "Today's decision reflects the success of the MEP program in creating jobs and greater economic stability in Indiana and across America," Senator Bayh said. "At a time when Indiana's small manufacturers are working harder than ever to succeed, we should make sure they have all the resources they need to succeed. That's why I have consistently supported the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program: to provide more hardworking Hoosiers with jobs and more small manufacturers with the tools they need to succeed in today's fast-paced, global marketplace." Bayh, along with 53 other senators from both sides of the aisle, first called on the Senate appropriators earlier this year to boost the MEP program's fiscal year 2005 budget to restore funding levels back to what they were prior to cuts made in 2003. Indiana's MEP program helps 1,000 small businesses each year, making an economic impact of $160 million and helping create or save more than 1,300 Hoosier jobs in the past two years. However, the administration slashed funding for the program by more than 60% this year from $106 million to $39 million, forcing the MEP program to close offices across the country, including four in Indiana (Muncie, Terre Haute, Portage and New Albany). Due to the persistent efforts of Senator Bayh and others, an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill was passed to give the Secretary of Commerce the ability to restore funding to the MEP program this year. In addition, Senator Bayh has also announced plans to increase future funding for the MEP program to $220 million per year, which would provide continued economic opportunities for Indiana's small manufacturers. With this level of support, Indiana's MEP program could receive an additional $4 million each year to reopen its closed centers and help more small manufacturers with consulting, accounting, marketing, and certification needs, along with other services designed to help small manufacturers grow and succeed. These steps are vital to strengthening Indiana's economy and providing new jobs and better job security for Hoosiers. Indiana has 11,000 manufacturers, 98% of which are small manufacturers. These companies employ close to 300,000 Hoosiers across Indiana, providing greater economic opportunities for thousands of Hoosier families.  