Senate Passes Combat Meth Act Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Senate passed the Combat Meth Act as part of the Commerce Justice Science appropriations bill. Bayh, a co-sponsor of the legislation, said the provision offers one of the toughest stances nationwide to fight back against the growing use of methamphetamine ravaging communities throughout Indiana and the Midwest. The Senate passed the legislation 91-4. "Today's passage of the Combat Meth Act is a key victory in our fight against methamphetamines, one of the greatest dangers to our communities today," Senator Bayh said. "Nothing short of a national commitment with tough, innovative laws will stop this drug that is destroying our families and threatening our communities. The Combat Meth Act uses a common sense approach with a proven track record to fend off the creation of new meth labs and help families rebuild their lives." The Combat Meth Act includes proposals designed to cut off access to meth ingredients, to offer support for families recovering from meth's devastating effects, and to help local law enforcement agencies and communities currently struggling with the exploding costs of meth prevention and rehabilitation. The key provision in the Combat Meth Act requires medicines containing pseudoephedrine to be kept behind pharmacy counters and limits sales to 7.5 grams (approximately 60-125 tablets depending on the dosage strength) per month. In Oklahoma, similar legislation has cut the number of discovered meth labs by 80 percent. The Indiana Meth Abuse Task Force have singled out this change as a crucial tool in the fight against meth. The legislation also provides $5 million to help children whose parents are addicted to meth. In 2004, there were more than 200 children in Indiana impacted by the use of meth, though the state police believe the actual number of children exposed to meth at home is much higher. Many local child service agencies have doubled their budgets to meet the overwhelming demand and still are struggling to provide treatment and foster care for the children. Overall, the meth industry costs the state of Indiana at least $100 million a year. The Combat Meth Act also encourages federal and local prosecutors to use tougher guidelines against meth cooks and traffickers and provides an additional $13 million for meth treatment and the creation of a national meth treatment center to research effective treatments for meth abuse. Methamphetamine is currently one of the fastest-growing drug threats in the nation, and the problem is particularly acute in the Midwest. The number of meth labs seized in Indiana increased from 177 in 1999 to more than 1,500 in 2004, an increase of 750 percent. In the past two years, Bayh has secured roughly $3.45 million for the Indiana State Police to combat the meth problem.  