Bayh Introduces Bill to Triple Cancer Research Funds Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today introduced legislation calling for a dramatic increase in cancer research funding. The legislation is designed to address the large number of promising projects that go unfunded each year, despite receiving NIH approval. A 2001 report stated that two-thirds of approved cancer research projects are not pursued due to a lack of funding. Bayh's legislation would help fill that gap by tripling U.S. spending on NIH breast cancer research. "Currently two-thirds of the approved research proposals are going unfunded. That is entirely unacceptable," Senator Bayh said at a scholarship event honoring his mother's legacy and her fight against breast cancer. "If we are going to dedicate ourselves to eliminating breast cancer in our lifetimes we have to do better than that, and I am going to personally dedicate myself to seeing that we do. I think we need to become more proactive in terms of trying to prevent illness whether its breast cancer, other kinds of cancer, or other diseases." In addition to tripling breast cancer research funding, Bayh's legislation would also increase colorectal and breast cancer screening rates by removing Medicare co-pays and extend the window of opportunity for new Medicare beneficiaries to be receive cancer screenings from six months to a year. "For all of us whose lives have been touched by breast cancer, this is definitely good news," said Dana Curish, executive director of the Susan G. Komen for the Cure Indianapolis Affiliate. "To eradicate breast cancer as a life-threatening disease, scientific progress must be complemented by sound public policy. We strongly support Sen. Bayh's efforts to increase public investment in breast cancer research and access to care." In the Senate, Bayh has cosponsored legislation to increase funding for breast and cervical cancer screening by more than $70 million. That bill is only awaiting approval from the President before becoming law. Bayh also supported the Breast Cancer Research Stamp, which has raised more than $50 million to help find a cure, and has worked to make cancer treatments available to more women. In addition, as governor of Indiana, Bayh signed legislation that required health insurance programs to include coverage for mammography services. Marvella Bayh served as the first national spokesperson for the American Cancer Society following her diagnosis of breast cancer, becoming one of the first women to speak publicly about her condition. Since 1979, the Marvella Bayh Memorial Scholarship has provided more than $130,000 in scholarships to first-year, female medical students interested in cancer research. Interested parties can donate to the Scholarship fund through Indiana University Foundation.  