Bayh, Allard Take Critical Step to Increase Availability of Affordable Housing Washington-- U.S. Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN) and Wayne Allard (R-CO) today introduced legislation to help families get the loans they need to purchase affordable homes. The FHA Manufactured Housing Loan Modernization Act of 2005 will make it easier for first-time homebuyers to purchase manufactured housing by reforming and modernizing the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Title I program.  Manufactured housing provides many American families with the opportunity to own their homes, said Senator Bayh, a co-chair of the Manufactured Housing Caucus. This legislation will help more families get the loans they need to realize the American Dream by owning their home. At the same time, it will provide much-needed job security for thousands of Hoosiers that work in this key industry. Manufactured housing allows many low-income and first-time families to become homeowners and share in the American dream of home ownership, said Senator Wayne Allard, Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Housing and Transportation. Reforming FHA's Title I programs will create better accountability within the program and make it financially self-sustaining, thus making affordable manufactured housing available to more families. Many families obtain financing for manufactured housing through the FHA Title I program, however, the number of loans insured through this program has fallen dramatically from more than 30,000 loans in 1992 to fewer than 2,000 last year. This drop is the result of out-dated regulations, including artificially low loan limits and an insurance system that results in large losses for Ginnie Mae, the governmental organization that securitizes FHA loans. The decline in FHA Title I loans has also contributed to the downturn of the manufactured housing industry, with production levels down 60 percent over the past six years. The FHA Manufactured Housing Loan Modernization Act of 2005 will modernize and strengthen the FHA Title I program to encourage a greater number of loans while ensuring that the program is financially self-sustaining. By increasing the amount of money that can be lent and treating the loan applications on a case-by-case basis, rather than a bundle of loans as is currently required, the Act will encourage Ginnie Mae to certify additional lenders and allow the FHA to insure more loans. To help ensure the program is fiscally sound and protects the government against losses, the legislation will give the FHA the authority to increase insurance premiums and improve underwriting standards.  