Department of Transportation Announces Intent to Approve Gary/Chicago Airport's Letter of Intent Application Gary, Indiana-- The U.S. Department of Transportation has announced its intention to approve the Gary/ Chicago Airport's (GCA's) Letter of Intent Application, which is expected to provide $57.8 million for improvements and expansion that will help the GCA stake its claim as the third major airport in the region. Federal, state and local elected officials met at the airport today to announce the expected approval, which will bring as many as 320 new jobs to the Gary area while also providing crucial long-term economic development opportunities for all of Northwest Indiana. The approval of the Letter of Intent (LOI) funding means that the GCA will no longer be dependent upon yearly funding allocations from Congress and instead will be able to move forward with long-term efforts outlined in its 20-year master plan. The funding will be provided to the GCA over ten years and will be used for projects including railroad relocation and runway extensions. These projects are especially crucial to the future growth of the airport, as the GCA is currently one of 300 airports nationwide that does not meet the latest runway safety standards. "Today's announcement is the result of years of work, and it is proof of the difference we can make by working together with people from both sides of the aisle," said Senator Bayh, who worked with Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL) to include language in a transportation appropriations bill ordering the Federal Aviation Administration to give priority attention to the airport's LOI in 2003. "The approval of this funding will create more than 300 new jobs in Gary and will ensure that the GCA can secure its place as the third major airport in the region. I was proud to work with Senator Shelby to get the ball rolling and with the rest of the Indiana delegation throughout the following process." Gary Mayor Scott L. King credits the collaborative effort of elected officials at the federal, state and local levels for this success. Mayor King stated, "The FAA's approval of the Gary/Chicago Airport's Letter of Intent is good news for Gary. The success was a product of every elected official representing our region working absolutely in concert together. It is these types of partnerships that will continue to result in positive outcomes for Gary and northwest Indiana." "This funding is essential for the development and expansion of Gary/Chicago Airport and will work to increase mobility in the Region, as well as foster economic development in Lake County," said U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar. "I appreciate the leadership of Pete Visclosky and Mayor King in advocating the continued development of the Gary/Chicago Airport and I also appreciate having an opportunity to work with Senator Bayh and Governor Daniels to move this process forward." "In my talks with Secretary Mineta about this LOI, I could tell he sees the same great potential we all do for the airport and for a surge of growth in Northwest Indiana," said Governor Mitch Daniels. "We've got years of work ahead, but today's decision and the creation of the Regional Development Authority gives us the basis to move from talk to action, dreaming to digging." "The airport is the cornerstone of the new economy in Northwest Indiana," said Visclosky. "Throughout the process, Mayor King, Governor Daniels, and Senators Bayh and Lugar have all worked together in support of this invaluable resource, and I believe the end result will be an improved quality of life for everyone in Northwest Indiana." The Department of Transportation has sent letters to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees outlining the Federal Aviation Administration's proposed investment in the GCA. As a formality, the Committees now have 30 days to review the letters, after which Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta is expected to make the formal offer to the city of Gary.  