Bayh Brings Home Indiana’s Bioterrorism Funding Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that he has brought more than $4.2 million home to Indiana to help protect Hoosiers in the event of a bioterrorist attack. Until today, the CDC had refused to allow Indiana to access its money, forcing the state to put its bioterrorism preparedness plan on hold, which delayed efforts to improve the state's homeland security. Bayh's persistent efforts led Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Tommy Thompson to release funding set aside for Indiana. The funds will be used to continue implementing the state's approved bioterrorism preparedness plan.  We should never have had to beg or fight for the funds we've already been assigned in order to protect Hoosiers, Senator Bayh said. Secretary Thompson made the right decision to give this funding back to our state, which knows best what its residents need. The release of Indiana's funds will enable Hoosiers to hire essential health care staff and continue implementing the plan they need to ensure their health and safety in the event of an attack. The release of Indiana's bioterrorism funding comes after weeks of work by Senator Bayh to ensure that Hoosiers had the resources needed to prepare against a possible attack. Just days ago, Senator Bayh spurred HHS to release Indiana's bioterrorism preparedness funding before time ran out. States were supposed to be able to access their bioterrorism funds through August of 2004, but if the CDC had continued delaying approval of Indiana's request, the state could have missed the deadline to use its funding and would have lost it. Bayh learned from Governor Kernan that Indiana was not able to access the money it needs to continue carrying out its bioterrorism plan. Senator Bayh and Governor Kernan led the initial charge to release Indiana's funding, along with twenty Senators, including Senator Lugar. They were also joined later by the National Governors' Association (NGA) and by members of Indiana's House delegation from both sides of the aisle. The terrorist threat in Columbus is a strong reminder to us all that terrorism is not limited to big cities, Senator Bayh said. This funding will immediately be put to good use, right here at home, where Hoosiers need and deserve protection. Bayh first succeeded by obtaining assurances from Secretary Thompson that HHS and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) understood the senators concerns regarding the importance of making these funds available for state and local readiness and that the HHS would keep the funding for state use. Earlier concerns had been raised over the CDC's possibly holding the funds for use on other CDC projects. Secretary Thompson did not immediately give a time line for when the carry-over requests would be granted. However, due to continued pressure from Bayh and others, Secretary Thompson announced today that Indiana would again be able to access their bioterrorism funding. We've worked hard at the state and local levels to put together a preparedness plan to ensure the health and safety of Hoosiers, Gov. Joe Kernan said. The release of these funds literally means public safety and health officers in our communities will be better prepared to prevent potential terrorist acts as well as respond immediately to emergency situations. We are grateful for the efforts of Senator Bayh and other members of our Indiana delegation to secure the resources Indiana needs to continue implementing our plan. This funding for Indiana's bioterrorism preparedness comes directly from efforts made by Senator Bayh immediately following the tragic events of September 11th, when he led the way to ensure that all Hoosiers are protected against a possible bioterrorist attack. In October of 2001, Bayh introduced the State Bioterrorism Preparedness Act to provide Indiana's department of health with more than $18.5 million to establish better information sharing, surveillance techniques and effective health strategies to guard against bioterrorist attacks. The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which provided this funding includes parts of Bayh's bill, and was passed into law in 2002. Senator Bayh and Governor Kernan worked directly with HHS and officials from other states to create Indiana's state bioterrorism plan, which included efforts to determine the best preventative measures to safeguard against potential threats and develop new bioterrorism preparation programs to educate Hoosiers.  