Bayh Co-Sponsors Bill to Eliminate Penalties for Medicare Sign-Up Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today co-sponsored legislation offered by Senators Baucus (D-MT) and Grassley (R-IA) that will eliminate the penalties currently facing seniors who did not choose a prescription drug plan by the May 15th sign-up deadline. "Removing the sign-up penalties will help thousands of Hoosier seniors who missed Monday's deadline to select a Medicare plan that works best for them," Senator Bayh said. "Our seniors should not be punished for taking the time to make the best decision, especially when they're choosing from more than 40 competing plans, and I am glad to support this bipartisan plan to remove that burden." As of last week, more than five million eligible Americans had not signed up for a plan, including more than 260,000 Hoosiers. Many of these seniors will have to pay an extra fee if they choose to join a plan during the next enrollment period, unless Congress passes today's legislation to waive the penalty. The next enrollment period runs from November 15th to December 31st. Last week, in response to widespread concern from Hoosier seniors, Bayh urged the administration to extend the deadline to give seniors the time needed to make the best choice for their health care needs without fear of penalties. Bayh cited dozens of calls to his office each day from Hoosier seniors regarding the deadline as evidence that more time was needed and expressed hope that his colleagues would heed the calls from their constituents and help seniors struggling amidst the many confusing drug plans. Bayh also co-sponsored an amendment last week to extend the sign-up deadline until the end of the year and earlier joined a bipartisan group of senators in writing Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist in April to ask that he take up legislation to extend the deadline. Much of the delay in sign-up stems from confusion over the different plans offered and the coverage they each provide. In some places, seniors were asked to choose from as many as 40 different plans in order to sign-up for coverage. A Government Accountability Office study recently reported that one-third of calls to the government's Medicare help line were answered incorrectly, making matters that much harder for seniors struggling to choose an appropriate plan.  