Bayh Offers Amendment to Highlight Dangers of Increased Dependence on Foreign Governments Washington-- As foreign investors account for more and more of our national debt, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today offered an amendment to the budget resolution requesting a Government Accountability Office study on the economic dangers posed by this increasing dependence on foreign governments to finance our spending.  Today, foreign governments hold nearly half of the U.S. debt, giving them the power to potentially cause a stock market slump or prompt the U.S. to temper its stance on key foreign policy issues. Bayh plans to use the results from the study to bolster efforts to reduce the deficit and cut back on the wasteful transfer of U.S. resources to our foreign competitors. Foreign governments and individuals are footing the bill for our wasteful spending, and the more of our debt they own, the less control we have, Senator Bayh said. It will become increasingly difficult to aggressively pursue our national interests when the person we're looking at across the negotiating table is the same person holding the purse strings. After all, he who pays the piper, picks the tune. Foreign ownership of U.S. debt has increased by 88 percent since 2001, and Americans are already suffering the consequences. Today, U.S. taxpayers send approximately $89 billion overseas each year to pay off the interest on foreign-held debt. That's more than the $86 billion the U.S. spends on health care for children ($45 billion), job training ($2.8 billion), and health care for veterans ($28 billion) combined. If countries like China or Japan chose to quickly sell their U.S. holdings, they could cause a devaluation of the dollar, an increase in interest rates, or a slump in the stock market. Just last month, news that South Korea's central bank was planning to sell some of its U.S. assets caused the Dow Jones to drop 174 points, or 1.6 percent, the worst percentage drop in five months. Fear of prompting such a move could lead the U.S. to modify its stance on positions that these countries oppose, including enforcing certain trade laws or acting to strengthen national security. We shouldn't be forced to design our national security or economic plans to suit another country's wishes, but if we don't rein in our growing debts, this is the future we face, Senator Bayh said. I hope the Senate approves my amendment, because the results will open some eyes to the dangers posed by our increasing dependence on foreign interests and will hopefully lead to a shared effort to reduce the deficit. Bayh's study would examine the impact that foreign-owned debt has on a number of fronts, including U.S. efforts to maintain a stable dollar and enforce a fair trade policy. The study would also track the increase in foreign-owned debt since 1980, identify the countries and organizations that hold U.S. debt, and calculate the tax dollars sent overseas to meet the interest payments of foreign held debt.  