Bayh Invites Hoosier Children to Recognize Indiana's Outstanding Dads Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today invited children across Indiana to take part in an effort to pay tribute to Outstanding Hoosier Dads by writing essays about what makes their father an outstanding dad. Bayh, a long-time leader in promoting responsible fatherhood, hopes to use the essays to recognize Hoosier men working hard to be good fathers while also encouraging other men to play a role in their children's lives. "Collecting essays from children across the state will help honor dads who go the extra mile to spend time with their kids and show them how much they care," Senator Bayh said. "As a nation, we have far to go to reverse the trend of absentee fathers, but there are millions of men who are already doing their part to help raise their children, and they deserve our thanks this Father's Day. At the same time, I hope these essays will serve as a reminder to all men to play an active role in their children's lives." Senator Bayh will enter three of the top essays he receives into the Congressional Record of the United States Senate. Participants whose essays are selected for the Congressional Record will receive a letter from Senator Bayh and a framed copy of the winning essay as entered into the Congressional Record. All Hoosiers under the age of 18 are encouraged to submit essays. Essays should be 150 words or less and should be sent to OutstandingDads@bayh.senate.gov or faxed to 202-228-2117. All essays must be turned in no later than June 4th. Participants should include their name, age, home address, phone number and the name of their father with their essay. Senator Bayh believes that encouraging responsible fathers can help promote stronger families and root out some of our most persistent social challenges. The number of children growing up in homes without fathers has more than quadrupled over the past 40 years, from five million children in 1960 to more than 24 million today. At the same time, studies show that these children are five times more likely to live in poverty, twice as likely to commit a crime, twice as likely to drop out of school or abuse drugs or alcohol, and more likely to commit suicide or become pregnant as a teenager. One of Senator Bayh's first pieces of legislation in the Senate was the Responsible Fatherhood Act, parts of which were signed into the law by President Bush earlier this year. The Act was authored as an extension of Bayh's work as governor to reduce fatherlessness in Indiana, where Bayh's administration held one of the first national conferences on responsible fatherhood, removed marriage penalties in government programming and used media and grants to promote responsible fatherhood. While governor, Senator Bayh also more than doubled the amount of money collected for child support payments.  