Congress Approves Bayh Proposal to Help Middle Class Families with Rising Cost of Higher Education Washington-- Congressional budget negotiators today approved a proposal sponsored by U.S. Senators Evan Bayh and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) that would help middle class families struggling with the growing costs of higher education by providing funds to make the college tuition tax deduction permanent. The deduction had been set to expire at the end of the year.  Over the past four years alone the cost of a private college education has gone up 28 percent. Over that same period of time, the cost of a four-year public university has gone up 55 percent, Senator Bayh said. This funding included in this congressional budget resolution could help as many as 4.4 million qualified students realize their dream of pursuing a college education.  The college tuition tax deduction, which became law in 2002, helps middle class families pay for college. It allows a $4,000 deduction for individual taxpayers with incomes below $65,000 and married couples with incomes below $130,000. It provides a deduction of $2,000 for singles with incomes below $80,000 and married couples with incomes below $160,000.  Under the Bayh proposal, the cost of extending the tax deduction is fully-paid for and would be offset by Bayh's START Act, which helps close the capital gains tax tap and several other tax gap proposals designed to increase information reporting. The tax gap is the difference between what the government collects in taxes every year and what it is legally owed. In 2001, the tax gap was $290 billion.  Making the deduction permanent not only provides families with important help, but it also removes confusion over how long the deduction is available. When the deduction originally expired in 2005, Congress waited until December of 2006 to provide a two-year extension. Because of this delay, the IRS did not have time to include the deduction on this year's tax forms which confused many of the 5 million taxpayers who claim the deduction each year.  Senator Bayh has been a leader in the effort to ensure that a quality higher education is available to Americans of every income level. In 1990, then-Governor Bayh created the 21st Century Scholars program, which promises at-risk middle school students full tuition scholarships at any public university in the state in return for staying drug, alcohol and crime-free and maintaining passing grades.   