Bayh Announces $344 Million for Additional Humvees For Troops in Iraq Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that $344 million for additional Humvees has been included in the Defense Authorization bill. This funding, along with the $150 million Bayh already secured in the Iraq Supplemental bill, will help address the current shortage of Humvees in Iraq. Just last month, the Pentagon admitted it was short 1,800 up-armored Humvees in Iraq, the ninth time in two years that the Pentagon has underestimated the need for up-armored Humvees in Iraq. The $344 million was approved by the Senate Armed Services Committee and will now move to the full Senate for consideration. Senator Bayh also announced that the Armed Services Committee approved $3 million for Mishawaka-based Remote Controls, Inc. to develop Antiballistic Windshield Armor.  Time and time again, the Pentagon has failed to provide our troops with the protective equipment they need,  Senator Bayh said. I was able to secure $150 million for up-armored Humvees in the Iraq Supplemental bill. This funding will go even further to ensure the safety of our brave men and women serving overseas, but, I will keep fighting until I can look our troops in the eye and tell them that they have the best equipment possible. Senator Bayh has consistently led the way in the Senate to provide funding for more up-armored Humvees for our troops, in the face of repeated failures on the part of the Pentagon to ensure protective equipment for our military men and women. Last week, Senator Bayh's amendment to the Iraq Supplemental bill allocated $150 million for additional up-armored Humvees. While the funding in the Defense Authorization and in the Iraq Supplemental bills will help ensure our troops' safety, Bayh has said he will not stop fighting for more Humvee funding until our troops have all the equipment necessary to protect themselves while they defend our national security. Over the last five years, Senator Bayh has helped secure roughly $3 billion to produce almost 30,000 standard and up-armored Humvees for all of the Armed Services. It's time that we started erring on the side of doing more rather than less to protect our troops, Senator Bayh said. Our troops do right by us everyday. We need to do right by them and provide them with the protective equipment they need. Bayh also announced that Remote Controls Inc. in Mishawaka will receive $3 million to develop antiballistic windshield armor (AWA). AWA is designed to protect operators and passengers of lightly or un-armored military vehicles from small arms fire and shrapnel. Unlike the widely used bullet proof windshields, the AWA system can survive repetitive assault and still allow the driver to see clearly.   