Bayh Calls for Senate Action on Flu Protection Act, Cites Growing Support Washington-- As Members of Congress return to Washington for a lame duck session this week, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh continues his efforts to pass his Flu Protection Act in order to help prevent a future vaccine shortage. Bayh contacted Senate leadership and appropriators again this week, asking them to allow the Senate to act on the legislation before Congress adjourns for the year or to provide the funding needed to enact some of the steps outlined in the Flu Protection Act. Unless Congress moves to enact the reforms called for in Bayh's legislation soon, the changes will be made too late to impact next year's flu season. "Last year, Congress failed to approve the Flu Protection Act to help prevent a future vaccine shortage," Senator Bayh said. "We cannot allow this to happen again. The plan is ready, the support is growing. All that remains is for Congress to act to protect the American people from another flu season nightmare." Support for Senator Bayh's Flu Protection Act, which he first introduced in January, increased dramatically while Congress was out of session and continues to grow. Just today, the American Nurses Association released a letter endorsing the legislation, writing that "The Flu Protection Act of 2004 will help ensure that an adequate amount of effective flu vaccine is available every year... The bill would also help the nation prepare for influenza epidemics and pandemics." During the recent recess, Senators Robert Byrd (D-WV), Thomas Carper (D-DE), and Mark Dayton (D-MN) joined eight other senators, including Aging Committee Chairman Larry Craig, as co-sponsors of Bayh's legislation. The American Public Health Association and the American Lung Association joined the American Association of Retired People (AARP) to declare their support for the Flu Protection Act as well. In its letter of endorsement, the American Lung Association specifically urged Congress to address the crisis during the lame duck session: "[L]awmakers need to be more engaged to ensure that a flu vaccine shortage is not a routine occurrence. We call on Congress to act on The Flu Protection Act of 2004 during the lame duck session this year. It would provide a positive public health response to flu and ensure that we begin to avert this crisis in the future." Timing is critical to successfully prepare for future flu seasons. Vaccine manufacturers and health officials will begin making decisions and producing the vaccine for next year's flu season as early as February. Over the past month, Bayh and Senator Larry Craig (R-ID) wrote letters to both Senate leadership and the Senate Appropriations Committee outlining the growing support for the legislation and urging their colleagues to take up the Flu Protection Act when they returned this week. In the case that the entire Senate could not vote on the Flu Protection Act, Bayh and Craig wrote to the Appropriations Committee in hopes that the committee would at least approve the funding needed to enact parts of the Flu Protection Act. To help prevent future vaccine shortages and increase the number of U.S. vaccine manufacturers, the Flu Protection Act calls for the CDC to develop a contingency plan in case of a future shortage, offers significant incentives to encourage vaccine production in the U.S., sets aside funds to encourage the creation of more vaccine companies with faster production times, demands greater cooperation between the government and vaccine manufacturers to provide a more accurate estimate on the number of vaccines needed each year, and calls for a public outreach program to educate the public on the importance of receiving a flu vaccine, especially if they are a member of a vulnerable population.  