Bayh Joins Bipartisan Coalition to Introduce Bill Aimed at Reducing America's Dependence on Foreign Oil Washington-- U.S. Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN) today joined Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Jeff Sessions (R-AL) to introduce bipartisan legislation aimed at breaking America's dependence on foreign oil. The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act would mandate 7 million barrels in oil-savings in 20 years and would also encourage the mass-production of cars that can burn any combination of gasoline and alternative fuels or, alternatively, cars powered by efficient hybrid engines. "Achieving energy independence is one of the greatest challenges of our generation, one that will impact everything from our national security to our economy," Senator Bayh said. "It will take an effort on par with the race to put a man on the moon, but we must find a way to reduce our dependence on foreign oil so that America is prepared for the future. We can't afford to rely on countries like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela for our energy needs any longer." The bill will also:  Push for the development and mass marketing of hybrid technologies, including hybrids that give drivers the option to plug them in at night;  Encourage the construction of more alternative fuel pumps at gas stations  Include, for the first time, fuel-efficiency standards for trucks  Offer standards to ensure fuel efficient replacement tires are offered for cars and trucks  Provide tax credits for manufacturers to retool facilities for advanced technology and alternative fuel cars and trucks Senator Bayh has been a leader in the efforts to reduce American dependence on foreign oil. This May, a bipartisan amendment Bayh co-sponsored to provide a tax credit to encourage gasoline stations to install or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol passed the Senate. Bayh is also a co-sponsor of the Fuel Security Act, which dramatically increases the amount of ethanol used each year in an aggressive approach to move the country toward greater energy efficiency. In addition, Bayh has voted to support the renewable fuels standard several times in the Senate and has written many letters to the Energy Conference Committee in support of a renewable fuels standard.  