Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act Washington-- Action Plan  The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act aims to reduce American use of oil by 7 million barrels a day by 2026. It achieves this goal through a variety of initiatives, including those outlined below. New Vehicle Technology Mandate Sets targets for manufacturers to produce flexible fuel vehicles (FFV), alternative fueled vehicles, hybrids, plug-in hybrids, fuel cell vehicles or other qualified vehicles that meet a performance standard of 175 percent of average fleet fuel economy -- starting at 10 percent in 2012 and rising to 50 percent in 2016. After 2016 at least 10 percent of the 50 percent requirement must be met by hybrids, advanced diesels, plug-in hybrids and other non-FFV vehicles. Leading by Example Requires federal and state vehicle fleets to cut oil use by 30 percent by 2016. In 2016, the legislation also requires that 23 percent of the fleets be advanced diesels, hybrids or plug-in hybrids to further contribute to oil reduction. Fuel Efficient Vehicles for the 21st Century  Provides tax credits for manufacturers and suppliers to retool their factories to produce advanced diesels and hybrids.   Creates a tire efficiency program for tires used on light duty vehicles.  Creates a fuel economy testing program and the implementation of efficiency standards for heavy duty vehicles (trucks, buses, etc).  Lifts the per manufacturer cap on consumer tax credits for the purchase of hybrids and advanced diesels so more consumers receive tax incentives to purchase hybrids.  Allows hybrids to qualify under the 2005 Energy Policy Act alternative fuels fleet requirements.  Provides a tax credit for large private fleets for purchasing more efficient vehicles for their fleets.  Creates an RD program for electric drive transportation and light-weight materials, to reduce a car's weight without sacrificing safety.  Encourages local educational agencies to develop a policy to reduce the incidence of school bus idling.  Closes the SUV tax loophole which adversely incentivizes small businesses to purchase SUVs over other vehicles. Fuel Choices for the 21st Century  Increases the ethanol infrastructure tax credit to 50 percent to encourage the construction of more E-85 pumps at gas stations.  Uses CAFE penalties to fund DOE ethanol infrastructure grants program.  Changes the authorization for production incentives for cellulosic ethanol to $200 million for five years.   Sets an additional near-term benchmark for the use of cellulosic ethanol as part of the renewable fuels standard included in the 2005 Energy Policy Act.   Creates a grant program to encourage new mass transit facilities and to build commercial developments around them. National Media Campaign Authorizes a national media campaign for the purpose of decreasing oil consumption in the United States.  