Bayh Equips Indiana with Funds to Fight Meth Epidemic, Improve Police Communications Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced Senate Appropriations Committee approval of $800,000 for two Indiana law enforcement efforts designed to crack down on crime. The funding includes $500,000 for meth enforcement as well as $300,000 for communications upgrades for the Indianapolis Police Department (IPD).  Senator Bayh secured $500,000 for the Indiana State Police to address the growing epidemic of methamphetamine production, distribution and use in Indiana. The funds will be used to assist the Indiana State Police's meth enforcement team operations. The epidemic of meth use in our state devastates families, places undue burdens on taxpayers and weakens the social fabric of our communities, said Bayh. Indiana State Police and other law enforcement agencies around our state should have the tools they need to fight crime and provide safety and peace of mind for all Hoosiers. Methamphetamine is currently one of the fastest-growing drug threats in the nation, and the problem is particularly acute in the Midwest. Meth production and use has dramatically increased in Indiana in a few short years. In 1994, there were just three clandestine meth labs seized by local and state law enforcement, and this year that figure is expected to exceed well over 800. In the past two years, Bayh has secured roughly $3.45 million for the Indiana State Police to combat the meth problem. The City of Indianapolis and the Indianapolis Police Department will purchase new radios to replace outdated communications equipment and help ensure the successful operation of the current system as they transition to a digital system. The new radios will be compatible with both the new digital system and the old analog system. The Metropolitan Emergency Communications Agency (MECA) in Marion County is responsible for implementing the county-wide public safety and public service communications system. MECA is in the early stages of converting its radio communication system from analog to digital to meet the federal interoperability standards, requiring that all departments in adjoining counties are able to communicate with each other and the Indiana State Police Department's radio system. The funding comes through the COPS Technology program at the U.S. Department of Justice. In the last three years, Senator Bayh has secured $2.4 million through the COPS program.  