Bayh Announces Senate Agreement to Take Up 9-11 Legislation Indianapolis-- With the U.S. Senate less than a month away from its scheduled end of session, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh announced today an agreement to take up the 9-11 legislation he introduced last week, along with Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Joe Lieberman (D-CT) and Arlen Specter (R-PA). The historic legislation, which includes all 41 of the 9-11 Commission's recommendations, will be considered during the week of September 27th as an amendment to another bill that addresses strictly intelligence reform.  I came here today expecting to outline plans for a fight against the typical Washington foot dragging and turf jealousies that were threatening our 9-11 legislation, Senator Bayh said. Instead, I am happy to announce that Washington has decided to follow our lead by working across the aisles to address an issue of the greatest importance to all Americans, Republican or Democrat. Senate Majority Speaker Bill Frist has set October 8th as the last day for the Senate to be in session, initially raising doubts about the Senate's ability to consider the 9-11 legislation before the end of the year. However, thanks in part to the fast introduction of the 9-11 legislation, it will be possible to take a Senate vote on the reforms before even the end of September. The same day that the 9-11 Commission released its recommendations, Bayh joined Senators Lieberman, McCain and Specter, as well as Commission Chair Tom Kean and Vice-Chair Lee Hamilton to announce their intention to introduce legislation that would put those recommendations into action as soon as the Senate returned to session. Following through on their promise, Bayh and the other Senators introduced the legislation last week, on the first day back in session. The legislation encompasses reforms designed not only to strengthen U.S. intelligence services, but also to improve homeland security and reform Congress to increase accountability and put an end to bureaucratic turf wars that have hampered national security reforms in the past. Through the creation of the 9-11 legislation, we proved capable of rising above partisan politics, Senator Bayh said. With today's news, we have shown that this kind of third way thinking allows us to overcome the bureaucratic inertia that has bogged down other important reforms in the past. I look forward to continue working with my colleagues to ensure passage of these crucial reforms, so we can strengthen our nation's security and win the war on terror. Among other things, the legislation would create a strong National Intelligence Director with real budget authority and a National Counterterrorism Center to pull together intelligence activities; establish a far-reaching information sharing network to promote sharing of intelligence and homeland security information throughout government, including with state and local agencies; increase aid to Afghanistan; renew support for Pakistan; and open new avenues of dialogue and diplomacy with the Muslim world.  