Bayh Urges Indiana Student Leaders to Apply for Senate Youth Program Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today encouraged Indiana high school students to apply to participate in the United States Senate Youth Program. The two outstanding students from the state selected for the program will receive a $5,000 college scholarship and spend a week in Washington visiting Capitol Hill, the White House, the Pentagon and the Supreme Court. In addition to academic achievement, students will be selected based on leadership abilities and a strong commitment to public service. "The Senate Youth Program is a great opportunity for young people to watch the federal government in action," Senator Bayh said. "It is always exciting to see young people actively participating in the democratic process, and I hope the students chosen from Indiana are inspired to continue their commitment to public service throughout their lives." Each year, the program brings two students from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity to Washington to participate in an intensive week-long governmental study. Delegate selection is administered by each state's chief school officer in cooperation with high school principals. To be eligible, students must be junior or senior elected student officers for the 2006-2007 academic year and must reside in the state where they attend school. The application deadline is October 15th, and delegate selections will be announced in December. For additional application information, students should visit www.ussenateyouth.org. The United States Senate Youth Program was established by a Senate resolution in 1962. Since then, more than 4,500 students have participated, including Senator Susan Collins of Maine, U.S. Appeals Court Judge Robert Henry and former Ambassador to West Germany, Richard Burt. The program is funded by the William Randolph Hearst Foundation. Senator Bayh is committed to promoting national service by expanding volunteer opportunities for young people in Indiana and across America. Each October Senator Bayh joins with Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis to host a Service Leaders Summit to honor the efforts of Indiana's extraordinary student volunteers. In 2005, Bayh sponsored a Senate resolution to officially recognize a National Youth Service Day, in recognition of the many important contributions young people make through community service.  