Bayh, Clinton Call for More Troops in Afghanistan Washington- On the heels of a four-day trip to Iraq and Afghanistan, U.S. Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN) and Hillary Clinton (D-NY) today wrote a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates urging him to deploy more troops to Afghanistan to maintain progress there and help the Afghans against a likely Taliban offensive in the spring. The Taliban - and its al Qaeda partner - remains a pernicious enemy, and a failure to defeat it decisively in the spring risks undermining public confidence in the government of Afghan President Hamid Karzai, Bayh and Clinton wrote in their letter. It would be tragic if we fail in Afghanistan because of an unwillingness to deploy a manageable size of additional troops to aid an important and willing ally during a time of true need." In their letter, Bayh and Clinton, both members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, described meetings at which American military commanders expressed concern that there would not be enough U.S. troops to fight insurgents and requested an increase of approximately 2,300 U.S. troops. The senators also highlighted the continued shortage in Intelligence, Reconnaissance and Surveillance (ISR) capabilities, including Predator unmanned aerial vehicles, and the importance of helping a country that has proven to be a willing partner in the fight against terrorism. Unlike in Iraq, we have a government in Afghanistan committed to promoting national interests over sectarian ones, is making tangible progress in governance, sincerely wants more U.S. help, and is fighting the enemy that brought us September 11th, Bayh and Clinton wrote. During their recent trip to Afghanistan, Bayh and Clinton attended a lunch hosted by Afghanistans President Hamid Karzai and later met in Lahore, Pakistan, with General Pervez Musharraf, the President of Pakistan. In Afghanistan, they also met with Major General Benjamin Freakley, Commanding General of the 10th Mountain Division and Fort Drum, had breakfast with U.S. troops at Bagram Airbase, and visited with U.S. troops stationed at Camp Eggers. In addition, Bayh and Clinton met with U.S. Ambassador Ronald Neumann and Lieutenant General Karl Eikenberry, commander of Combined Forces Command  Afghanistan.  