Bayh Response to Administration's Failure to Act Against China Currency Manipulation Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today offered the following statement after an administration report on exchange rates - already a month late - failed to recognize China's practice of manipulating its currency to gain an unfair trade advantage. "This report is a charade," Senator Bayh said. "Our government threatens its credibility when it denies the obvious. Workers and businesses across the country know exacty what is going on with China. We have responsibilities: We have to work hard, think smart, and make better products, but we cannot allow American ingenuity and hard work to be stolen by the industrial policy of another country. "The question is not whether America supports free trade, but what we do when our partners do not abide by the rules. The answer cannot be nothing." Earlier this year, Bayh introduced legislation with Senators Charles Schumer (D-NY) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) that calls for a tariff increase for all products from China to negate the country's artificial currency advantage until its government agrees to value its currency at a more accurate level. This artificial undervaluation is a factor in the current job crisis facing Indiana's manufacturing industry. Despite a Senate vote of 67 to 33 in support of this legislation, the administration continues to ignore the issue of Chinese currency manipulation. The 27.5 percent tariff included in the legislation represents the estimated advantage China gains from its currency undervaluation. The tariff would be applied to all products from China and would be applied on top of any current tariffs that are already in place, though President Bush would be able to remove the tariff once he believes that China has moved to a fair, market-based currency. In April, Bayh also joined a bipartisan group of Senators and Members of Congress in filing a petition with the U.S. Trade Representative seeking the elimination of the undervaluation of China's currency. The petition calls on the administration to file a case in the WTO to challenge and end China's currency manipulation practices. Economists estimated that China's currency may be undervalued from anywhere between 15 percent and 40 percent. If this proves true, it means that Chinese manufacturing companies effectively receive a 15 percent to 40 percent subsidy on their exports, creating a false subsidy that U.S. companies cannot match. The World Trade Organization and the International Monetary Fund prohibit currency manipulation for the purpose of gaining an export advantage.  