Snowe and Bayh Urge Acceptance of their Bi-Partisan Plan on Future of Iraq in Comprise Supplemental Washington In a letter sent today to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and White House Chief of Staff Josh Bolten, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Senator Evan Bayh (D-Indiana) urged that their legislation (S. 1336) serve as the framework for a workable bipartisan compromise as the House and Senate meet in conference to forge legislation on the Emergency Supplemental.  The Snowe-Bayh legislation introduced May 8, 2007,places the burden on the Iraqi government to achieve specific benchmarks within a 120-day period. Under the approach, if the Iraqi government cannot achieve satisfactory results within four months based on separate reviews by General David Petraeus the Government Accountability Office (GAO), U.S. commanders would begin planning a phased redeployment of these surge troops deployed in support of the Baghdad Security Plan.  Below is the text of the joint Snowe-Bayh letter:  Like you, we share the goal of sending the President a supplemental spending bill he can sign by Memorial Day, and as you well know, any such proposal must garner 60 votes in the Senate. Today's vote on the Feingold Amendment demonstrated that two-thirds of the Senate opposes establishing a date-certain for troop withdrawal from Iraq. Yet the vote on the Warner Amendment demonstrated that legislation setting political benchmarks for the Iraqi government tied only to economic assistance will not withstand a filibuster. In light of these votes, as well as the President's veto of last month's supplemental spending bill, we believe that the way forward lies in passage of legislation that ties the Iraqi government's achievement of key political benchmarks to the nature and extent of America's military presence in Iraq. We have introduced legislation to this effect (S. 1336), and believe it can form the basis of a workable bipartisan compromise.  In our view, the proposals that Congress has voted on thus far have focused on the tactical rather than the strategic issues. To us, the issue is one of ensuring the Iraqi government completes in good faith the benchmarks for national reconciliation that they have already agreed to and that are a necessary pre-condition for stability in Iraq. We maintain that the continuation of our military presence, particularly those units deployed to Iraq as part of the surge, must be inextricably linked to the Iraqi government's performance on those benchmarks - especially as the surge was designed to allow the Iraqi government the opportunity to achieve those benchmarks.  Therefore, on May 8, 2007, we introduced S. 1336, which would require the Commander of Multi-National Forces-Iraq, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, to issue a report within 120 days as to whether Iraqis have enacted and begun implementation on six critical benchmarks commonly acknowledged as necessary to political and national reconciliation. Further, he would then testify before Congress and should any of the benchmarks remain outstanding, present us with a plan for the phased redeployment of those US forces deployed to Iraq in support of the Baghdad Security Plan as well as a plan to begin the transition our forces from combat to support as outlined by the Iraq Study Group last December.  We believe this approach will not only be acceptable to both sides but will also make good policy. Our bill inextricably ties the U.S. military surge mission to the political reconciliation we all believe is necessary for stability in Iraq. It further affirms our commitment to funding the troops while they are in harm's way, and allows our commanders to planning for the next phase with an objective for completion within an appropriate period. In short, it makes clear that if the Iraqis themselves do not live up to their end of the bargain and make the necessary political compromises to stabilize their own nation, the nature of U.S. military presence in Iraq will change significantly.  As the House and Senate embark on another conference in an attempt to provide supplemental funds for our troops, we suggest that S. 1336 can provide the framework for compromise that the Legislative and Executive Branches must make in order to hold Iraqis responsible for their own nation's future, and begin the transition of our combat forces that America is demanding.   