Senate Approves Highway Bill to Address Nation's Transportation Needs Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today voted in support of the Senate Highway bill, which was approved by the Senate 89 to 11, to authorize an average of $969 million a year for Indiana's transportation needs for the next five years. Bayh said the bill could create as many as 16,000 additional jobs in Indiana and would ensure that more Hoosier tax dollars are returned to Indiana to build better, safer roads at home.  The Highway bill means more jobs for Hoosier families, safer roads for our drivers, and a better rate of return for taxpayers, Senator Bayh said. With this bill, Indiana will begin receiving more money back for every dollar we send to Washington for the Highway Trust Fund. It's a matter of simple fairness - when Hoosiers send a dollar out to repair our nation's roads, we should get a dollar back. This legislation makes significant progress in getting us to that point, creating thousands of new jobs at the same time. The Senate bill includes an average increase of $308.6 million over current authorized levels for Indiana's transportation needs, for an average increase of 46.7 percent. In addition, this bill will help create an additional 16,000 Hoosier jobs, according to Department of Transportation estimates. The bill also ensures that Indiana will receive a better rate of return on the tax dollars it sends to the federal government as part of the Highway Trust Fund each year, the first increase on Indiana's return since 1998. Indiana is one of thirty-two donor states, which pay more to the Highway Trust Fund than they receive back. Hoosiers currently get back 90.5 cents for each dollar paid to the Highway Trust Fund. However, a provision in the Senate Highway bill supported by Senator Bayh will begin correcting that imbalance, by increasing Indiana's rate of return from 90.5 cents to 92 cents over the next five years. Two Bayh amendments were also approved as part of the Highway Bill:  Bayh's Clean School Bus provision will provide $55 million a year for the next two fiscal years for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to help school districts purchase new, environmentally-friendly buses. Bayh's bill will also bring greater job security to Hoosiers who will build the new, environmentally-friendly bus engines at both Cummins and International Trucking.  Bayh's ethanol amendment will help reduce American dependence on foreign oil by providing a tax credit to encourage gasoline stations to install or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol, a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline used by millions of Flexible Fuel Vehicles across the country. The amendment would provide a tax incentive of 50 percent, up to $30,000, for gas stations to use toward creating or expanding E-85 pumps. The Highway bill will now go before a House-Senate Conference Committee, which will produce a final version to be voted on by both the House and Senate.   