Bayh Announces $6 Million for Crane Defense Work Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that $6 million was included in the Defense Authorization bill for defense technology projects at Crane, work that reflects the base's leadership in developing and manufacturing the high-tech products needed in today's global war on terror. The funding was approved by the Senate Armed Services committee last week and must now come before the full Senate.  This funding reinforces what I and other members of the Indiana delegation have been saying for years - Crane's technological expertise and research facilities make it a leader in developing and manufacturing the equipment our military counts on to win the war on terror, Senator Bayh said. With this funding, Crane will be able to begin developing the technology needed to meet the increased demands for reconnaissance work that will keep our troops out of harms way. Crane will use $3 million to expand the capabilities of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV's) in electronic warfare. Unmanned vehicles are being used so often, especially in Iraq, that the Department of Defense made the development of multi-purpose unmanned aerial vehicles its number one recommendation in its recent plans outlining the future of UAV's. The new technology developed at Crane will be used to develop UAV's with advanced capabilities that can help identify insurgent strongholds and to defend against improvised explosive devices, which continue to plague U.S. troops in Iraq. Crane will use the remaining $3 million to develop smaller, high-quality, more cost-effective circuit boards for the next generation of defense equipment. Military manufacturers are requesting smaller, lighter products with greater capabilities to meet demands on new equipment. This work is part of a broader effort at Crane to support the military's unique requirements for electronic components. As the electronic circuit board industry faces increasing competition from overseas, it is vitally important that Crane continue to research and develop printed circuit board technology to ensure that we are not dependent on others for this important military technology. During his time in the Senate, Bayh has secured more than $90 million for various military construction and research and development work for the Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center.   