Bayh Cosponsors Amendment to Restore Funds for Fighting Meth Washington-- Citing off-the-chart increases in the number of meth labs discovered in Indiana and across the country, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today sponsored an amendment to the budget resolution offered by Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) that will provide full funding for the COPS Methamphetamine Enforcement and Clean Up program over the next five years.  Under the current budget proposal, funding to fight meth would be cut by more than $160 million, a move that could potentially cripple local efforts to address the rapid increase in meth labs throughout the country. The epidemic of meth use destroys families, places undue burdens on taxpayers, and exhausts local law enforcement, Senator Bayh said. It doesn't make sense to take away funding to fight meth while communities are left to face such a fast-growing problem alone. Our law enforcement officers are working hard to wipe out meth labs and they deserve our full support. State and local police departments are already struggling to meet the expenses connected with increased responsibilities for homeland security and are quickly becoming overwhelmed by the costs of finding, destroying and cleaning meth labs. In Indiana, the meth industry costs the state at least $100 million a year. Costs will likely rise in the future, as the number of meth labs continues to grow, up 750 percent in Indiana alone over the last five years. I've seen the devastation meth can cause in a community and the deep roots it lays down in our hometowns, Senator Bayh said. We need to offer nothing less than our full resources to win this war. Earlier this year, Bayh cosponsored the Combat Meth Act, which cuts off access to one of the key ingredients in meth by requiring medicines containing pseudoephedrine to be kept behind pharmacy counters. In Oklahoma, similar legislation has cut the number of discovered meth labs in half. The legislation also provides $5 million to help children whose parents are addicted to meth, encourages federal and local prosecutors to use tougher guidelines against meth cooks and traffickers and provides an additional $15 million under the COPS program for state and local law enforcement efforts. Methamphetamine is currently one of the fastest-growing drug threats in the nation, and the problem is particularly acute in the Midwest. Meth production and use has dramatically increased in Indiana in a few short years. In 1999, there were 1,106 meth cases submitted to the Indiana State Police crime lab. This year, the number of cases is expected to top 3,000. In the past two years, Bayh has secured roughly $3.45 million for the Indiana State Police to combat the meth problem.  