Senate Approves Bayh Amendment on Dangers of Increased Dependence on Foreign Governments Washington-- The U.S. Senate today unanimously approved an amendment authored by U.S. Senator Evan Bayh requesting a Government Accountability Office study on the economic dangers posed by increasing dependence on foreign governments to finance our spending. Bayh's amendment was added to the Senate Budget Resolution, which is currently being debated in the Senate.  Today, foreigners hold nearly half of the U.S. debt, giving them the power to potentially cause a stock market slump or prompt the U.S. to temper its stance on key foreign policy issues. Bayh will use the results from the study to bolster efforts to reduce the deficit and cut back on the wasteful transfer of U.S. resources to our foreign competitors. We shouldn't be forced to design our national security or economic plans to suit another country's wishes, but if we don't rein in our growing debts, this is the future we face, Senator Bayh said. Today's passage of my amendment demonstrates shared concern over the dangers posed by our increasing dependence on foreign interests, which I hope will lead to a shared effort to reduce the deficit. Foreign ownership of U.S. debt has increased by 88 percent since 2001, and Americans are already suffering the consequences. Today, U.S. taxpayers send approximately $89 billion overseas each year to pay off the interest on foreign-held debt. That's more than the $86 billion the U.S. spends on health care for children ($45 billion), job training ($2.8 billion), and health care for veterans ($28 billion) combined. If countries like China or Japan chose to quickly sell their U.S. holdings, they could cause a devaluation of the dollar, an increase in interest rates, or a slump in the stock market. Just last month, news that South Korea's central bank was planning to sell some of its U.S. assets caused the Dow Jones to drop 174 points, or 1.6 percent, the worst percentage drop in five months. Fear of prompting such a move could lead the U.S. to modify its stance on positions that these countries oppose, including enforcing certain trade laws or acting to strengthen national security. We need to take a serious look at the debt we are piling up with foreign countries because with every additional dollar we owe, we are giving up a another piece of our national sovereignty, Senator Bayh said. The more of our debt these foreign governments control, the more leverage they will have at the negotiating table on issues like trade, currency and even national security. This study will show us the direction we need to take to begin reversing this trend and regaining control in international relations. Bayh's study will examine the impact that foreign-owned debt has on a number of fronts, including U.S. efforts to maintain a stable dollar and enforce a fair trade policy. The study will also track the increase in foreign-owned debt since 1980.  