Bayh Urges Full Funding of Grants Program for America's Libraries Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today sent a letter urging the Senate Appropriations Committee to fully fund the Grants to State Library Agencies (GSLA) program, which provides libraries big and small with the resources they need to sustain basic services as well as implement innovative literacy, educational and career-related services. Citing the importance of libraries in narrowing America's "digital divide," the senators called on the Committee to provide at least $171.5 million for the GSLA program, the amount recommended by the President and provided by the House version of the Appropriations bill. "Our nation's libraries are so much more than places to borrow books; they are hubs for our communities and portals to our world," the Senators wrote in the letter. "Only a strong, continued investment by Congress will enable libraries to undertake exciting projects that help library users of all ages and backgrounds improve their skills, expand their knowledge base to master challenges, increase student academic achievement and encourage lifelong learning." In a letter to Senators Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Tom Harkin (D-IA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bayh and his colleagues emphasized that fully funding the GSLA program would provide smaller states the resources needed to implement valuable library services and programs that until now have only been available in larger states. Because states are required to match funds received under the program, the impact of a shortfall of federal funding would be amplified. For example, the approximately $122,000 funding shortfall to Indiana under the Senate bill could amount to a loss of as nearly $500,000 in commitments to Hoosier public libraries. "As we enter a more knowledge-based economy, libraries provide an increasingly vital resource for Hoosiers young and old to access essential literacy, educational and career development services," Senator Bayh said. "Fully funding the Grants to State Library Agencies program will help ensure that Hoosiers from all economic backgrounds have access to the technology and information they need to develop important job skills and keep learning throughout their lives." A strong believer in the educational importance of libraries, Senator Bayh has consistently supported increased funding for libraries, especially for technology and literacy programs. For the past two years, Bayh has joined his colleagues from both sides of the aisle to support efforts to increase funding for the Library Services and Technology Act to help libraries close the "digital divide" and allow libraries to improve their services. He has also urged that Congress boost funding for the Improving Literacy Through School Libraries program to help students increase their literacy skills and develop a love for reading.  