Two Hoosier Students Attend Hispanic Leadership Summit in Washington Washington-- Two outstanding Hoosier youth are participating today in the U.S. Senate Democratic Steering and Outreach Committees first Latino Youth Summit at the invitation of U.S. Senator Evan Bayh. Democratic senators were asked to select two Hispanic youth leaders from their state to participate. Marcos Dominguez, Jr., and Gabriela Marie Rodriguez were selected by Senator Bayh based on their leadership and service to their community. This summit is an excellent opportunity for these young people, and Im proud to have both of them representing the Hoosier state, said Senator Bayh. The interaction the youth attending have with senators and their staff offer them unique insight into how the federal government operates and hopefully encourages them to remain active participants at all levels in their communities. Dominguez was born in Indianapolis but lived in Caracas, Venezuela until 1999 when he returned to Indianapolis to finish high school. He now attends Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI), where he is a senior studying journalism. Since 2004, he has been the photo editor of IUPUIs newspaper, The Sagamore. In addition, he works as a photojournalist for WIIH - Univision. Rodriguez was born in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico and moved to Indianapolis in 2000. She attended Lawrence North High School, where she graduated with an Academic Honors Diploma and served as her senior class secretary/treasurer. She is currently a sophomore at Indiana University, in Bloomington, pursuing a double major in Psychology and International Studies. In addition, she works as an undergraduate research assistant for the Developmental Psychopathology Lab at the IU Psychology Department. This is the first year for the Latino Youth Summit, which provides Hispanic youth leaders from across the country a chance to engage in a dialogue with senators and discuss issues facing the Hispanic community. During the summit, students will hear from numerous senators, including Majority Leader Harry Reid and the President of the National Council of the La Raza, Janet Murgua.  