Bayh Calls on President to Protect Consumers from Price-Gouging Washington-- With oil prices topping $70 a barrel today and reports indicating that summer gas prices will rise 25 percent across the country compared to last year, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh and 14 of his colleagues called on President Bush to support a federal ban on price-gouging for oil and gas during national emergencies. In a letter, Bayh and his colleagues, including Senators Cantwell (D-WA) and Reid (D-NV), urged President Bush to support legislation Bayh co-sponsored to protect American consumers from price gouging at the pump this summer by punishing companies that illegally manipulate oil and gas prices during times of declared national energy emergencies. The legislation, which is already has wide support in the U.S. Senate, is modeled on similar laws in 28 states, including Indiana. In their letter, Bayh and his colleagues stressed the importance of creating a comprehensive strategy for ensuring greater energy independence and emphasized that a strong federal price gouging law should be one part of that plan. "A strong federal price gouging law is only one element of the equation when it comes to putting our nation on the path toward greater energy independence," Senator Bayh and his colleagues wrote. "A comprehensive and smart approach to this vital issue of national security will help curb the tremendous volatility in energy prices that is impacting consumers, businesses and the American economy as a whole." The legislation being considered in the Senate would grant the President the authority to declare a temporary national energy emergency when a potential or existing disruption of oil supplies presents a danger to the health, safety or welfare of the United States. This declaration would trigger a ban on price gouging, punishable by federal penalties. The legislation also grants states the ability to pursue civil actions related to price gouging on behalf of residents. In Indiana, the governor can trigger a price gouging law when he or she declares an energy emergency. Bayh, a long-time supporter of reducing our dependence on foreign oil, pointed to the price-gouging and the overall increase in gas prices as additional indicators that the country must explore more energy alternatives. He has authored bipartisan legislation aimed at breaking America's dependence on foreign oil by mandating oil-savings, encouraging the mass production of hybrid vehicles and increasing incentives for producing biofuels and ethanol.  