Bayh Joins Bipartisan Coalition Honoring Patriot Guard Riders Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined a bipartisan group of senators in honoring the Patriot Guard Riders, a nationwide network of volunteers who shield the loved ones of fallen service members from protests at military funerals. The resolution, introduced by Senators Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Pat Roberts (R-KS), pays tribute to the Patriot Guard Riders for showing support for our soldiers by protecting their families from picketers who disrupt the memorial services of fallen American soldiers. In March, Bayh introduced the Dignity for Military Funerals Act to limit protesting to 300 feet away for one hour before, during and after all funerals for soldiers who were killed in active duty service.  These volunteers selflessly give their time to protect and honor military families who have made the ultimate sacrifice, Senator Bayh said. They represent the best of American values. These protesters represent the worst. The Patriot Guard Riders started in 2005 as a small group of American Legion Riders in Kansas who made a commitment to shield mourners at military funerals from interruption by protesters. The group has since grown into a national network of tens of thousands of volunteers from all walks of life who are dedicated to honoring the memory of America's fallen soldiers. The most visible protesters at military funerals are members of Reverend Fred Phelps' Westboro Baptist Church, who have protested at the funerals of dozens fallen U.S. soldiers. On Sunday, they came to Huntington to protest the funeral of Indiana National Guard Staff Sgt. Paul S. Pabla, who was killed while on foot patrol in Mosul, in northern Iraq. Members of the Patriot Guard Riders stood with their backs to the protesters, using American flags to block the protest from the view of those attending the funeral. In May, Congress passed legislation similar to Senator Bayh's that prohibts protests at military funerals in national cemeteries. While praising this as a positive first step, Senator Bayh continues his efforts to provide protection for all military funerals.  