Bayh Celebrates National Adoption Day Washington-- A member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today encouraged all Americans to recognize National Adoption Day, which will be held on Saturday, November 19th, by helping raise awareness of the need to find permanent, loving homes for the thousands of children currently looking for adoptive families. More than 523,000 foster care children live in the United States, and 118,000 of them are eligible for adoption.  With hundreds of thousands of children looking for permanent families, efforts to encourage adoption are critical to ensuring that all of our children grow up in the kind of loving environment they deserve, Senator Bayh said. National Adoption Day is an opportunity to learn more about adoption and other ways to support children without a permanent family. Since 1987, the number of children in foster care has nearly doubled, and the average time a child remains in foster care has lengthened to nearly three years. If only one out of every 500 Americans adopted a child in the foster care system, all of the children eligible for adoption would have permanent homes. Each year, approximately 20,000 children in foster care will age out of the system without ever being placed with an adoptive family. A member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, Senator Bayh has been a leader in the effort to support foster care children and raise awareness about the importance of adoption. As part of a campaign sponsored by Voice for Adoption (VFA), a national organization dedicated to speaking out for our nation's waiting children, Senator Bayh is displaying a portrait of a teenage girl who is in the Indiana foster care system, and is eligible for adoption. Bayh also hosts an annual summer intern who spent his or her formative years in foster care, through the Congressional Foster Youth Internship Program. In addition, each year Senator Bayh honors a Hoosier with the Angel in Adoption award to recognize individuals who have improved the lives of children through adoption. National Adoption Day is an annual event sponsored by the National Adoption Day Coalition on the Saturday before every Thanksgiving.   