Bayh Encourages Hoosiers to Celebrate National Youth Service Day Washington-- In recognition of the important contributions young people can make in their communities, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today urged Hoosiers to recognize National Youth Service Day beginning this Friday. This weekend-long celebration will mark the 18th annual National Youth Service Day. Senator Bayh co-sponsored a resolution, which passed the Senate earlier this year, to give this year's National Youth Service Day the official designation it deserves. "Every day, young people across the country translate their desire to help others into impressive contributions to their communities," said Senator Bayh. "By recognizing their outstanding work, National Youth Service Day is a way to both thank current volunteers as well as inspire other young people to make a difference in their own communities. There are projects set up across Indiana, and I urge all young Hoosiers to join with the millions of Americans across the country and take part in a service project this weekend." Youth Service America and the Campus Outreach Opportunity League organized the first National Youth Service Day in 1988. Since then, NYSD has grown to include more than 38 national partners and millions of young people nationwide. Concurrent with National Youth Service Day is Global Youth Service Day, which will be celebrated by youths in more than 125 countries. Senator Bayh has worked throughout his Senate career to make public service opportunities available to young Americans and encourage them to serve their country. In 2002, he joined with Senator McCain to author the Call to Service Act. Among other things, the bill expanded Americorps, a network of national service programs that involve more than 50,000 Americans, including many young people, to meet critical needs in education, public safety, health, and the environment. In addition, Senator Bayh hosts Service Leaders Summits in Indianapolis each fall, inviting high school students from across Indiana, who are nominated by their communities because of their outstanding service. Bayh's Service Leaders Summits include workshops on volunteerism with other Hoosier service leaders and service activities in the Indianapolis area. To learn more about service events this weekend in Indiana, please visit: Youth Service of America Website  