Bayh Asks for Extension of Medicare Rx Deadline Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today called for an extension of the Medicare prescription drug deadline to give seniors more time to choose the right plan for their needs. In a bipartisan letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, Bayh joined 47 of his colleagues in urging Frist to allow a vote on legislation Bayh co-sponsored that would extend the enrollment deadline by six months.  By extending the enrollment deadline and delaying late enrollment penalties, we can make sure that our constituents are not forced to make hasty decisions about their health care, the Senators wrote. The stakes here are too high to deny seniors the time and resources they need to make an informed decision. Since the implementation of the new Medicare prescription drug program, there has been widespread confusion about the numerous drug plans offered. Each of the options differs in terms of premiums, cost-sharing requirements, drugs covered and pharmacy access. For many seniors, sorting through these plans has been bewildering and overwhelming. In addition, the Medicare drug benefit is experiencing implementation problems that have disproportionately affected the most vulnerable beneficiaries. As of March, only 35 percent of Hoosier Medicare beneficiaries who could voluntarily enroll in a stand-alone Medicare drug plan had actually done so. Yet, seniors who do not choose a plan by May 15, 2006 will face a substantial financial penalty. In January, Senator Bayh co-sponsored legislation introduced by Senators Ben Nelson (D-FL) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) to expand the open enrollment period to the entire year of 2006 to ensure that seniors had sufficient time to choose which plan is best to suite their health care needs. In their letter, the Senators asked Senator Frist to bring this legislation to the Senate floor as soon as possible. Senator Bayh, a member of the Aging Committee, is committed to providing seniors with the quality health care they need. Earlier this year, Bayh introduced legislation to ensure that seniors receive their much-needed prescriptions while problems with the new Medicare prescription drug plan are resolved. In addition, Bayh has championed legislation with Senator Grassley (R-IA) that improves the affordability and availability of private long-term care insurance by providing tax credits to help individuals purchase private long-term care insurance.   