Nearly 5,000 Job Openings Available During State-Wide Job Fairs, Job Training and Small Business Summits Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh visited towns and cities throughout Indiana this August to connect Hoosiers with the jobs and resources they need to succeed in today's economy, co-hosting job fairs with more than 5,000 job openings for Hoosiers looking for work and organizing small business summits to help local entrepreneurs grow their businesses. Thousands of Hoosiers attended the summits, which were held in South Bend, Hammond, Fort Wayne, Marion, Indianapolis, Lafayette, Evansville, and Terre Haute over the course of ten days.  Co-sponsors for the Job Fairs, Job Training and Small Business Summits included Indiana University South Bend, JobWorks, Northern Indiana Workforce Investment Board, Inc., St. Joe County Chamber of Commerce, The Greater Elkhart County Chamber of Commerce, South Bend Area Small Business Development Center (SBDC), South Bend SCORE, Possibility Network, Purdue University Calumet, Northwest Indiana SBDC, WorkOne, Center for Workforce Innovations, Workforce Development Services, Lake County Integrated Delivery Services Board, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne, City of Fort Wayne, Workforce Investment Board, Fort Wayne Women's Bureau, Northeast Indiana Workforce Investment Board SBDC, Marion/Grant County Chamber of Commerce, Ivy Tech State College, Tucker Career and Technology Center, Marion Community Schools, Grant County Workforce Investment Service, Grant County Economic Growth Council, City of Marion, Northeast Indiana Workforce Investment Board, Indianapolis Private Industry Council, Office of Mayor Bart Peterson, Indiana State University, Terre Haute Chamber of Commerce, Terre Haute WorkOne, Lafayette WorkOne, Tecumseh Area Workforce Investment Board, Greater Lafayette SBDC, Evansville WorkOne, City of Evansville, Evansville SBDC, Evansville Small Business Center, Ivy Tech State College Southern Indiana, New Albany WorkOne, Southern Indiana SBDC, and Southern Indiana Chamber of Commerce. At the summits, Hoosiers could meet with local companies looking to hire, talk to nearby universities and not-for-profit organizations about job training options, and attend workshops with experts to help them start or grow a small business. In each city, Bayh also recognized a local entrepreneur who had used an SBA loan or other federal resource to start or grow a small business, such as Tony and Crystal Obey, who started Sears Carpet Care after attending the small business workshops in Evansville last year. For the eight job fairs, Bayh brought together more than 280 companies seeking to fill nearly 5,000 jobs. Bayh said he held the summits to provide a shot in the arm to speed up the state's economic recovery by growing Indiana's economy one job and one business at a time. Each time someone finds a job, starts a business or expands their business, they are building a brighter economic future for Indiana, Senator Bayh said. Small businesses are the engines of economic development and job training is the key to providing individuals with greater economic opportunities. I'm working hard to ensure that all Hoosiers - job seekers and entrepreneurs - have every tool they need to succeed. During his visit home to Indiana, Bayh also announced that he will introduce legislation next month designed specifically to assist small businesses, called the Small Business Growth Initiative. With this package of legislation, Bayh will take on the main challenges faced by Hoosier entrepreneurs in order to create a better environment for growing businesses and creating jobs. Among the steps called for in his Small Business Growth Initiative, Bayh outlines plans to increase access to capital by providing greater funding for the Small Business Administration's loan program, to fight back against the soaring costs of health care by providing a 50% small business health care tax credit, and to encourage long-term small business investments by extending tax incentives for entrepreneurs hoping to expand their business through the purchase of new equipment or software. Bayh's legislation will also include a tax credit for worker training.  