Bayh to Introduce Senate Resolution Calling for Sanctions on Iran Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that he will introduce a Senate resolution calling on the Bush administration to enact a series of aggressive sanctions against Iran in an effort to stop Iran's recent attempts to restart its nuclear program. Bayh, a member of the Senate Intelligence and Armed Services Committees, said that the administration must take immediate action to avoid confronting a nuclear-armed Iran in the near future. "We have wasted valuable time, diverted resources and ignored this problem at our peril," Senator Bayh said. "No one wants to forestall the need to use military force more than I do, but if we are to do so, we must act now. Time is of the essence." Bayh's resolution calls on the Bush administration to work with the international community and the United Nations Security Council to enact a series of economic, political and diplomatic sanctions designed to stop Iran from developing nuclear weapons without necessitating the use of military force. Sanctions in Bayh's resolution include:  Cutting off supplies of refined gasoline to Iran  Cutting assistance to countries whose companies invest in Iran's energy sector  Enacting a worldwide, comprehensive ban on arms sales to Iran  Withdrawing U.S. support for Iran's accession to the WTO  Calling on the UN Security Council to limit travel of some Iranian officials, reduce diplomatic exchanges with Iran, and ban Iran from participating in world events such as the World Cup and the Olympics While Iran is one of the world's largest exporters of oil, it lacks the refining capacity to make the gasoline it needs to power its economy. Iran currently imports 40 percent of its refined gasoline from abroad, making it especially vulnerable to sanctions on its gasoline supply. Bayh's resolution also includes a growing list of troubling actions taken by the Iranian government, ranging from its poor human rights record and limits placed on democracy to its record of state-sponsored terrorism and recent threats against Israel and the United States. "We should never have arrived at this juncture," Senator Bayh said. "During his State of the Union speech in 2002, President Bush famously called Iran part of the 'Axis of Evil,' but then followed that up by ignoring and then largely deferring management of this crisis to the Europeans. This approach has certainly been damaging to our national security." Bayh recently returned from a trip through the Middle East, where he spoke with officials in several countries regarding the threat Iran poses to the region, including its support of terrorist groups in Israel, Afghanistan and Iraq, some of which are directly involved in the death of Americans. In December, Bayh joined Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) to send a letter to UN Secretary General Kofi Annan urging the UN to condemn statements made by Iranian President Mohammed Ahmadinejad and by the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran Ali Khameni threatening the existence of Israel and the United States.  