Bayh Statement Regarding Attacks on Israel Washington-- I stand strongly with the people of Israel in their efforts to eliminate the threats to them from Hezbollah, Hamas and their sponsors in Syria and Iran. No nation can be asked to turn the other cheek day after day, when its people are subject to daily missile strikes against civilian targets and cross-border raids that kill and capture its citizens.  A cease-fire is not enough. Hezbollah operates a mini-state and military in southern Lebanon. It has an arsenal of thousands of missiles and operates outside the control of the Lebanese government, despite United Nations Security Council Resolution 1559 that calls for disarming Hezbollah, removing all foreign forces from Lebanon - including those from Iran - and deploying the Lebanese army to secure the border with Israel. It is the failure of any of the parties mentioned to comply with this resolution that has broken the peace in southern Lebanon and left Israel with no choice but to protect the innocent. Such willful intransigence and continuous wanton efforts undermine efforts of leaders in Israel and Palestine to achieve a lasting peace is unacceptable, as is Iranian and Syrian adventurism intended to foment violence and unrest. For these reasons, the American people and I resolutely support Israel in this fight. I also appreciate the public comments of leaders from the Arab world, including those from Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Egypt, that make clear Hezbollah and its foreign allies in Tehran and Damascus created this crisis. It is my hope that others in the Islamic world will speak out against this dangerous extremism and recklessness. At times such as these it is clear that American support for Israel and American leadership in the international community to put meaningful pressure on enemies of peace such as these terrorist groups and their patrons is critical. Stronger steps are required, and that is why I am the original Democratic sponsor of the Iran Freedom Support Act in the Senate and am working with Senator Schumer and others to strengthen the Iran Libya Sanctions Act. I will continue to find other mechanisms to contain these threats to regional peace and American interests.  