Bayh and NGA Fight to Bring Back Indiana’s Bioterrorism Funding Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today was joined by the National Governors Association (NGA) in urging the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to immediately release funding set aside for Indiana to help ensure the safety of Hoosiers in the event of a bioterrorist attack. Indiana has more than $4 million remaining from the funds it received in 2002 to work on its approved bioterrorism plan, but the CDC is refusing to release the money to Indiana and 17 other states, and instead may use it for other CDC programs.  These funds belong to Indiana, which needs the money to finish its approved bioterror plans to protect Hoosiers from a potential bioterrorist attack, Senator Bayh said. This is unacceptable. Indiana has had to delay plans to hire essential health care staff and to improve its ability to respond to emergencies because the CDC is dragging its feet with our funds. Every day that we wait for these funds puts the state of Indiana one day further behind in implementing its bioterrorism plans and protecting Hoosier residents. Senator Bayh, along with twenty senators from both sides of the aisle, demanded the release of their states' carry-over funding in a letter to HHS Secretary Tommy Thompson last week. The senators expressed concern that their states are now left without the funds they were counting on to address shortfalls in public health needs and to help prevent or respond to a biological attack. Today, the NGA seconded their concerns, citing specific projects and plans that have been put on hold while their states are forced to wait for their bioterrorism funds. Bayh pointed out that current law states that these funds should be accessible for states through August of 2004. The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act (PHSBPRA) of 2002, which includes parts of a bioterror bill introduced by Senator Bayh, gives states two years to spend the money they were allotted; therefore Indiana and other states should have until August 31, 2004 to spend the remaining funds they received for bioterrorism preparedness. By blocking the funds now, the CDC is not only ignoring the PHSBPRA guidelines, but also creating a dangerous delay in states' abilities to prepare for potential attacks. Immediately following the tragic events of September 11th, Senator Bayh led the way to ensure that all Hoosiers are protected against a possible bioterror attack. Based on his experience as governor, Senator Bayh understood the importance of including state and local officials in prevention and preparedness efforts because they know best the strengths and weaknesses of each community's emergency response team. In October of 2001, Bayh introduced the State Bioterrorism Preparedness Act to provide state departments of health with more than $3.5 billion to establish better information sharing, surveillance techniques and effective health strategies to guard against bioterrorist attacks. It was language from this bill that was included in the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002.  