Bayh Announces Senate Approval of Study on How Media Affects Children Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced the unanimous Senate approval of legislation he co-sponsored commissioning an in-depth study into how electronic media, including violent and sexually explicit video games, affect children's physical and mental development. The Children Media Research and Advancement (CAMRA) Act establishes a special program within the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development to set research priorities and directs the Centers for Disease Control to issue grants to researchers to examine the impact of media exposure on children's cognitive, social, physical, emotional and behavioral development.  Today, television and video games are changing so rapidly than parents and teachers often are unable to keep up, Senator Bayh said. This bill will provide something that is currently lacking from this debate -- accurate, objective data on how the television our children watch, the video games they play and the websites they visit can impact their development, both in the short term and well into adulthood. This study will give parents the tools they need to make responsible decisions about what is appropriate for their children. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, 99 percent of all children in the United States live in a home with a TV set, and 50 percent live in a home with three or more TVs. Forty-three percent of four- to six-year-olds have a TV in their bedrooms. However, very little data exists on how children's exposure of electronic media can affect their attitudes and beliefs about drugs and alcohol, violence, sexuality, body image and food choices. Senator Bayh has been a leader in the Senate's effort to monitor children's exposure to media. In December, Senator Bayh joined with senators Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) to introduce the Family Entertainment Protection Act, which would prohibit business from selling or renting Mature, Adults-Only, or Ratings Pending games to anyone younger than seventeen and would authorize the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to conduct an annual, random audit of retailers to monitor enforcement and report the findings to Congress.   