Bayh Proposes Property Tax Relief for Homeowners Washington-- Senator Evan Bayh today introduced legislation that would correct an inequity in the tax code and provide federal tax relief for homeowners, including nearly one million Indiana homeowners who have been hit with high property tax bills following the recent reassessment.   Under Senator Bayhs Homeowner Tax Fairness Act of 2007, homeowners who do not itemize their federal income taxes would be allowed to claim a new standard deduction for their real, state and local property taxes. The current tax code favors itemizers because they can take advantage of deductions, like the one for their property taxes, that other taxpayers cannot. Nearly one million Hoosier homeowners do not itemize their federal income tax returns and would qualify for tax relief under the Bayh proposal. Middle class Hoosiers are working harder than ever to meet their financial commitments, and the recent property tax increase has not made that any easier, Senator Bayh said. Right now, homeowners who dont itemize their federal returns are effectively being asked to pay taxes on their taxes. They are paying their local property taxes and then the IRS is taxing them again by preventing them from claiming a deduction on this expense. Its time we put a stop to this double taxation. Hoosier homeowners who do not itemize will pay an average of $1,200 in property taxes this year, according to Indiana Legislative Services Agency estimates. A single, middle-class homeowner (with an income between $31,800 and $77,100) would receive a $300 tax break under the Bayh plan. A middle-class homeowner in that same tax bracket with a $2,000 property tax bill would get a tax cut of $500. Only 20 percent of Hoosiers who made $75,000 or less chose to itemize their federal income tax filings in 2006. By contrast, 93 percent of Hoosiers who made $200,000 or more itemized last year. Middle class and lower-income homeownersincluding senior citizens living on a fixed incomeare least likely to itemize their federal income taxes, according to the IRS National Taxpayers Advocate.  By forcing Washington to treat itemizers and non-itemizers the same, we are restoring a measure of fairness to the tax code and providing needed relief to middle class Hoosiers affected by the recent property tax reassessment, Bayh said. This is helpful to Hoosiers and right for the country. Bayh vowed to work across the aisle to secure bipartisan support for his legislation in the Senate. Companion legislation introduced this week in the U.S. House of Representatives by Rep. Baron Hill (D-IN) already has bipartisan support. Original cosponsors of the House bill include Reps. Dan Burton (R-IN), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Brad Ellsworth (D-IN), Mike Pence (R-PA), Vito Fossella (R-NY), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), John Hall (D-NY), and Patrick Murphy (D-PA).  