Bayh, Lugar Stand up for Visteon Workers Washington-- U.S. Senators Evan Bayh and Dick Lugar today sent a letter calling on the Department of Labor to use its Trade Adjustment Assistance program to help workers at Visteon Corporation in Connersville. On February 1st, Visteon executives announced that the 890 workers at the Connersville facility would lose their jobs by September.  The funding Bayh and Lugar requested would be used to subsidize the retraining of the laid off workers, so they can promptly rejoin the work force with new marketable skills. The health care, extended unemployment, and job training offered by TAA will give these workers an opportunity to get back on their feet. Senator Bayh said. In the case of Connersville, where Visteon is the largest employer, we are providing a safety net for an entire community. I will continue working with Senator Lugar to make sure the Visteon workers -and all Hoosiers hurt by unfair trade- have the support they need to move forward while we continue fighting unfair trade in Washington. In the letter, the Indiana Senators request that the Secretary take note of the significant competition that companies in Connersville and throughout Indiana have faced in recent years, indicating that shifts in production to lower-cost countries have played a major role in the decline of manufacturing jobs for the region. Over the past decade Visteon has slowly moved its 3,500 positions out of Connersville. The jobs being lost in this latest round of layoffs are being consolidated into other facilities, including facilities in Mexico and Portugal. Under current legislation, the Visteon employees losing their jobs to Portugal would not be eligible for assistance. Senator Bayh recently co-sponsored the Trade Adjustment Assistance Improvement Act of 2007, which would specifically help the people of Connersville by covering workers whose firms shift production to non-Free Trade Agreement countries such as Portugal, India, or China. The Trade Adjustment Assistance Improvement Act of 2007 would expand the TAA program by lowering the age limit for workers, extending benefits to the service industry and covering workers whose firms shift production to non-Free Trade Agreement countries like China and India. The bill also lowers the price-decline threshold for farmers and streamlines the application procedure, so more workers can get benefits sooner.   