Bayh Calls on Committee Leaders to Increase AP Exam Funding Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined a letter calling on the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Labor and Health and Human Services Education Appropriations Subcommittee to increase funding for the Advanced Placement program for 2008. The funding will be used to subsidize Advanced Placement exams as well as for teacher training, so that more high school students can participate in the AP program. In the letter, the Senators request that Congress provide funding to make it more feasible for all students to participate in the AP program. The Senators emphasized the importance of advanced learning to the nation's economy, pointing out that students in the United State currently are falling behind their peers overseas. The AP program, administered by the College Board, is an internationally recognized set of 30 rigorous courses in subjects ranging from history to chemistry. The classes are taught to high school students at their schools by specially trained teachers. Students obtain college credit for an AP course by passing the exams offered by the College Board. Most recently, Senator Bayh reported that the Indiana Department of Education was awarded $55,650 in federal funds to help students pay for Advanced Placement tests scheduled for this May. The students that meet the eligibility requirements will have their fees paid for by the State. Last year more than 16,000 Hoosier students participated in the AP program, taking 25,353 AP exams at the end of their coursework. "The AP program helps students reach their goals of attending college. Many times test fees can be a hindrance for students, and with these funds we are ensuring that all students have the opportunity to benefit from the AP program," Senator Bayh said. "Additionally, expanding teacher training and subsidizing test fees will help strengthen Indiana's competitiveness and fortify the Hoosier workforce for the future." As governor, Bayh initiated a program to pay the cost of Advanced Placement tests given by the College Board as a way to encourage more high school students to take Advanced Placement tests in mathematics and science. The number of students taking the tests increased by more than 700 percent in the program's first year.  