Bayh Pushes for Fatherhood Initiative at National Fatherhood Institute Anniversary Celebration Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh spoke at the 2005 National Fatherhood Initiative (NFI) Anniversary Celebration last night to draw attention to the growing epidemic of absentee fathers in America and to highlight significant progress in his efforts to promote responsible fatherhood nationwide. Bayh spoke before a crowd of more than 300 responsible fatherhood leaders and supporters, including First Lady Laura Bush, who is spearheading a White House effort to encourage fathers to play a more active role in their children's lives. During his remarks, Bayh said that the Senate Finance Committee's recent decision to include $75 million to promote responsible fatherhood in the reauthorization of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program was a crucial step in his decade-long effort to end the epidemic of absentee fathers in America. In the bill, $50 million in mandatory spending is set aside for states and private organizations to establish responsible fatherhood workshops, with another $25 million authorized for media campaigns to increase awareness. Bayh also reminded the audience that while this funding was a key victory for promoting responsible fatherhood, much work remains to be done to educate the public about the impact absentee fathers have on their children and urged listeners to continue their efforts in support of his Fatherhood Initiative. "The epidemic of absentee fathers is quickly becoming one of the worst social crises facing our country today," Senator Bayh said. "This problem hasn't always received the attention it deserves in the past, but we have made great progress this year to support our work. With additional support from First Lady Laura Bush, I hope we can break the logjam that has hampered our progress in the past and make real progress on behalf of the 24 million children who go to bed each night without a father in their lives." The number of children growing up in homes without fathers has more than quadrupled over the past 40 years, from five million children in 1960 to more than 24 million today. At the same time, studies show that these children are five times more likely to live in poverty, twice as likely to commit a crime, twice as likely to drop out of school or abuse drugs or alcohol, and more likely to commit a crime, commit suicide or become pregnant as a teenager. Encouraging responsible fathers would help promote stronger families and more secure children, root out some of our most persistent social challenges, and build on efforts to reduce government dependency on welfare. Bayh's efforts in the Senate are an extension of his work to reduce fatherlessness as governor. As governor, Bayh held one of the first national conferences on responsible fatherhood, removed marriage penalties in government programming and used media and grants to promote responsible fatherhood.  