Bayh Encourages Hoosier Teachers to Apply for Civic Education Awards Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today encouraged Hoosier civics and government teachers to apply for the 2007 American Civic Education Teacher Awards (ACTEA). The awards are given annually by the Center on Congress at Indiana University to elementary and secondary teachers who excel in motivating students to learn about Congress, the Constitution and public policy and to become active participants in the democratic process. Applications must be postmarked by March 10th. "Civics and government teachers help inspire our country's next generation of leaders," Senator Bayh said. "It is a tremendous responsibility, and they deserve our thanks. By applying for the Civic Education Awards, these teachers will not only receive the recognition they deserve, but also will serve as an example for their students and colleagues." Each year, the ACTEA program recognizes three teachers who do exemplary work in preparing students to become engaged citizens. The honorees travel twice to Washington, DC, to meet with the official historians of the Senate and House of Representatives to further develop their skills. Additionally, they attend floor sessions and committee hearings in Congress, meet members of Congress and visit the National Archives and Supreme Court. To apply, candidates should submit an application form, a two-page "self-portrait" essay and three letters of recommendationtwo from fellow teachers and one from their school's principal. The honorees will be recognized during the Congressional Conference on Civic Education in September. As governor of Indiana and now as senator, Bayh has worked to make quality primary and secondary education available to every child. His proudest accomplishment as Governor was the creation of the 21st Century Scholars program, which provides college tuition to qualifying students who pledge to remain drug, alcohol and crime free and maintain passing grades. The Center on Congress at Indiana University was established by former Hoosier Congressman Lee Hamilton to improve public understanding of Congress and promote civic engagement, particularly among young people. For more information or to download an ACTEA application visit http://centeroncongress.org.  