Bayh Joins Indiana Delegation to Make the Case for Crane Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today urged the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission to re-evaluate Crane's work for the military and encouraged the Commission to keep the jobs currently located there. In submitted testimony to the BRAC regional hearing in St. Louis, Bayh praised the BRAC decision to move 3,500 new jobs to the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) of Fort Benjamin Harrison, but also expressed concern about the 683 jobs slated for realignment at the Crane Division of the Naval Surface Warfare Center.  For the most part, I am very pleased with the Pentagon's BRAC recommendations, especially with the plan to move almost 3,500 jobs to Indiana, Senator Bayh said. However, I am concerned with the recommendations regarding the work performed at Crane. I urge the Commission to take all of Crane's capabilities into account in this decision, including its joint service to the Army and Navy. On behalf of the 4,000 Hoosiers who work at Crane and the thousands of others supporting their efforts, I hope the BRAC Commission will consider these factors as they evaluate the Pentagon's recommendation for Crane. In his testimony for the hearing, Senator Bayh emphasized that Crane meets or exceeds all of the requirements that were used for the 2005 BRAC round. Crane possesses exceptional technical and industrial capabilities, which has allowed it to reduce costs and support rapid deployment to meet the military's constantly changing needs. Its location is also ideal, in close proximity to necessary transportation infrastructure and utilities, but removed from any potential terrorist threat and without any environmental issues. Additionally, Bayh pointed out that the facility enjoys tremendous state and community support. When the Pentagon released its recommendations on May 13th, it also announced that it would hold regional hearings around the country to allow for additional public input and provide an opportunity for communities impacted by BRAC to present any disagreements over the recommendations. At today's hearing in St. Louis, a delegation from Indiana was able to make the case for Crane, praise the decision to move jobs to DFAS at Fort Benjamin Harrison, and discuss other recommendations that impact Indiana. A representative from Senator Bayh's office was also in attendance at the hearing. During his time in the Senate, Bayh has been a committed supporter of Crane, securing more than $90 million for various military construction and research and development work at the Indiana base. Crane is the military's leading source for the production and development of pyrotechnic devices, such as infrared decoy flares and candles, which are used for mortar and artillery illumination rounds. The base has played a critical role in producing life-saving equipment for our soldiers during Operation Iraqi Freedom and providing needed equipment to troops currently serving at home and abroad.  