National Military Family Association Endorses Legislation Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the National Military Family Association (NMFA) has endorsed his legislation to protect military families nationwide from protesters who picket and disrupt the funerals of fallen American soldiers. Bayh, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, first announced plans to introduce his legislation last Wednesday. On Thursday, Bayh introduced his bill with Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA).  The NMFA endorsed Bayh's legislation today with the following statement: The National Military Family Association appreciates the efforts of Congress to show proper respect for military families who have made such a great sacrifice and to offer protection for them in their time of grief. It is unfortunate that protection against disruptive behavior needs to be legislated but the Dignity for Military Funerals Act will help with that protection. The NMFA is a national advocacy group dedicated to serving America's military families (www.nmfa.org). My heart goes out to the military families who have had to endure these protests in the midst of such personal grief, said Senator Bayh. Our soldiers have made the ultimate sacrifice for their country, and we should make sure their families can say goodbye to them in peace. The Dignity for Military Funerals Act does just that. The Dignity for Military Funerals Act would limit protesting for one hour before, during and after all funerals for soldiers who were killed in active duty service. Protestors would be kept at least 300 feet from the funeral. The legislation also makes it a felony for people to violate these limits, punishable by at least one year in prison and as many as five. Our military men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice deserve to have a funeral with honor and dignity, said Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. It's only right that the family members of our fallen military men and women have peace and respect at this very difficult time. Bayh's bill is based in part on legislation that has already been approved in six states, including Indiana. Indiana's law went into effect earlier this month, in time to help discourage potential protests at a Kokomo soldier's funeral. At least 12 other states are considering similar legislation.   