Bayh Recommendation to Eliminate Flu Vaccine Shortages Receives Go Ahead Washington-- A key provision from U.S. Senator Evan Bayh's Flu Protection Act will be used as an important tool to prevent a future flu vaccine shortage. At Senator Bayh's urging, Congressional appropriators today included language in the omnibus spending bill to allow the government to purchase flu vaccines, clearing the way for the Centers for Disease Control to buy-back vaccines at the end of the flu season, thus removing the economic disincentive currently facing vaccine manufacturers. The changes made by the appropriators allowing for a government buy-back program is a main component of Bayh's Flu Protection Act, legislation Bayh first introduced nearly one year ago to prevent future flu vaccine shortages. "By providing the CDC with the ability to purchase flu vaccines if necessary, as recommended in the Flu Protection Act, Congress has provided the government with an important tool to help prevent future shortages," Senator Bayh said. "It is my hope that we will continue building on this progress, to ensure that no American has to stand in line with a young child or older parent, hoping that they will be one of the few to receive a vaccine again. I encourage the CDC to make the most of this new opportunity and implement a buy-back program as suggested in the Flu Protection Act." Bayh reached out to Senate leadership and Senate appropriators throughout the fall, urging them to support the recommendations outlined in the Flu Protection Act by either allowing action on the legislation or by setting aside the funding needed to implement some of its reforms. With time running out, Bayh personally spoke with appropriators, pointing out the importance of acting now in order to impact next year's flu season. (Vaccine manufacturers and health officials will begin making decisions and producing the vaccine for next year's flu season as early as February). As a result of Bayh and other's efforts, Congressional appropriators increased the amount of funding originally set aside for flu-related efforts from $75 million to $100 million and explicitly added language allowing for the purchase of flu vaccines, in addition to research and development, another component of the Flu Protection Act. Before this change, CDC officials said they had no authority to purchase vaccines for the general public. While this change represents a significant step forward, more remains to be done before Americans are truly protected against the kinds of vaccine shortages they have faced over the past two years. Bayh has pledged to continue working with the CDC to urge them to follow the buy-back plan outlined in the Flu Protection Act and to continue working in Congress to implement other steps included in the legislation to prevent future shortages. U.S. Representative Rahm Emanuel (D-IL), who introduced companion legislation to the Flu Protection Act last February, said: "These resources will ensure we don't repeat the vaccine crisis this country is facing this year. I appreciate the efforts of Senator Bayh, as well as all of the conferees on the omnibus Appropriations bill, in taking an important step forward to try to prevent future flu vaccine shortages. Though we have our work cut out for us, this funding will improve our ability to protect Americans from the flu virus." To help prevent future vaccine shortages and increase the number of U.S. vaccine manufacturers, the Flu Protection Act calls for the CDC to develop a contingency plan in case of a future shortage, offers significant incentives to encourage vaccine production in the U.S., sets aside funds to encourage the creation of more vaccine companies with faster production times, demands greater cooperation between the government and vaccine manufacturers to provide a more accurate estimate on the number of vaccines needed each year, and calls for a public outreach program to educate the public on the importance of receiving a flu vaccine, especially if they are a member of a vulnerable population. During the recent recess, Senators Robert Byrd (D-WV), Thomas Carper (D-DE), Mark Dayton (D-MN), and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) joined eight other senators, including Aging Committee Chairman Larry Craig (R-ID), as co-sponsors of Bayh's legislation. The American Public Health Association, the American Lung Association, and the American Nurses Association joined the American Association of Retired People (AARP) to declare their support for the Flu Protection Act as well. There are 29 bipartisan co-sponsors of the House version of the Flu Protection Act.  