Bayh Criticizes CDC for Ignoring Flu Plan Until Second Crisis Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today exposed the Centers for Disease Control for presenting ideas the organization had ignored last year as new solutions to prevent future flu vaccine shortages. Over the past few days, CDC and other health officials have outlined possible solutions, including a buy-back program for unused vaccines, that were included in Bayh's Flu Protection Act, which he introduced last January in response to last year's flu vaccine shortage. At a press conference today, Bayh criticized the CDC for failing to act on his proposals last year and called on Congress and the administration to take up and pass his Flu Protection Act during the lame duck session following the election. "Had Congress passed the Flu Protection Act or the CDC taken up the recommendations in January, we would be a year ahead of where we are today," Senator Bayh said. "Instead, we're in the midst of yet another vaccine shortage, with no progress made to prevent another. This is outrageous - we cannot afford to fail again." Today Bayh urged his colleagues to take up the legislation when they return next month, emphasizing the importance of acting quickly to make the necessary reforms in time for next year's flu season. Vaccine manufacturers and health officials will begin making decisions and producing the vaccine for next year's flu season as early as February. After last year's flu season, Bayh introduced the Flu Protection Act to help eliminate the potential for future shortages. Bayh, along with Congressman Emanuel, who introduced companion legislation in the House, wrote to Secretary Thompson both when they introduced the Flu Protection Act and immediately after Chiron's announcement to urge the CDC to enact their recommendations. Last year, the bill received support from both sides of the aisle, yet Congress failed to take up the legislation and the CDC did not adopt any of the reforms. Since Chiron announced that it would be unable to provide its supply of vaccines, the number of co-sponsors on Bayh's bill have doubled. "We can't afford to outsource our public health," Bayh said. "When it comes to the nation's security and our public health, that's something we need to ensure ourselves." With only two companies splitting production between them, the risk of a serious shortage resulting from one company's failure is high. In addition, only one of the two companies currently producing flu vaccines for the United States is based in the country. Chiron, the company responsible for the 50 million unusable doses affecting this year's supply, manufacturers its flu vaccines in the United Kingdom. To address this vaccine gamble, Bayh's Flu Protection Act called for the CDC to develop a contingency plan in case of a future shortage; offered significant incentives to encourage vaccine production in the U.S.; set aside funds to encourage the creation of more vaccine companies with faster production times; demanded greater cooperation between the government and vaccine manufacturers to provide a more accurate estimate on the number of vaccines needed each year; and called for a public outreach program to educate the public on the importance of receiving a flu vaccine, especially if they are a member of a vulnerable population.  