Bayh Urges Additional Funding to Counter Rising Natural Gas Prices Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today urged the Senate Appropriations Committee to include $1.2 billion to help families across the country with the rising costs of natural gas for heating homes as part of a comprehensive hurricane supplemental bill. The additional funding, which would be used by the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), would help off-set the rapidly increasing cost of natural gas brought about by Hurricane Katrina.  Hoosier families are already being squeezed by high gas prices, Senator Bayh said. To add the skyrocketing costs of natural gas to the mix is too much for many families to bear. These high prices are the result of damage caused by Katrina and are well beyond what could have normally been anticipated. Extra funding is needed to help families heat their homes this winter. Bayh, along with 24 bipartisan senate colleagues, sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee today calling on them to include $1.2 billion in the hurricane supplemental bill in response to Katrina's role in the rapidly increasing natural gas prices. Nearly 35 percent of the Gulf region's natural gas production remains shut down due to damage from the hurricane. While oil production is expected to be largely back on track by the end of the month, it is unclear when natural gas production will return to normal. As a result, the federal Energy Information Administration now predicts that natural gas prices will increase 77 percent or more this winter in the Midwest. More than 60 percent of Indiana households use natural gas to heat their homes. With natural gas prices increasing so severely, more Americans than usual are expected to apply for assistance in paying their heating bills, making it essential that states have the funding they need through LIHEAP to help residents heat their homes this winter. Heating increases of this magnitude will place a heavy burden on families in every class, Senator Bayh said. We should to act now to help additional families in need before cold weather arrives. Heating oil prices are also expected to dramatically increase. In the letter, Bayh writes that heating costs for the average family using heating oil are projected to hit $1,568 during the coming winter, an increase of more than $611 from last winter's prices.  