Bayh Calls on Finance Committee to Protect States' Ability to Attract New Jobs Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined a bipartisan coalition of senators in a letter supporting legislation that would secure states' right to offer tax incentives to attract businesses and create new jobs. In the letter, the senators urged Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley (R-IA) and ranking member Senator Max Baucus (D-MT) to take action on the Economic Development Act before Congress goes into recess to establish the constitutionality of state tax incentives.  Traditionally, it has been the prerogative of each state to determine how to use its tax base, including the best ways to promote economic development within its borders, the senators wrote in the letter. Congress generally has not interfered in that process. Before coming to the Senate, many of us were state and local officials who participated in these decisions and understand the important role that tax policy plays in maintaining strong states and communities. The Economic Development Act, which Bayh co-sponsored after learning of the potential business concerns from a constituent in Fort Wayne, was written in response to the Sixth Circuit's 2004 decision in Cuno v. DaimlerChrysler. In the case, the court struck down Ohio's investment tax credit as discriminating against interstate commerce in violation of the Constitution. While the Supreme Court invalidated part of the Cuno decision in May, state tax incentives remain in jeopardy, highlighting the need for Congressional action on the legislation to clarify states' rights. As governor of Indiana, Bayh saw first-hand how tax incentives can be a critical tool for state economies. During his time as governor, Bayh created the Economic Development for a Growing Economy (EDGE) initiative, which used tax incentives and other tools to help the state retain and create Hoosier jobs. In 2006 alone, Indiana has used tax incentives to create more than 15,700 new jobs according to the Indiana Economic Development Corp., including 2,067 at the new Honda assembly plant in Greensburg. Tax incentives are an essential part of creating and sustaining job growth in Indiana, Bayh said. Future economic development depends on keeping the tax burden low enough that Hoosier businesses are able to compete globally. Without the assurance that these incentives will remain in place, many of Indiana's largest employers may choose to do business elsewhere. In the letter, the senators noted that the legal uncertainty surrounding tax incentives should be resolved as quickly as possible since businesses make investment and hiring decisions based on their availability.  