Bayh Wins Battle to Secure Additional Up-Armored Humvees Washington-- The U.S. Senate today passed U.S. Senator Evan Bayh's amendment by a vote of 60 to 40 to provide $213 million for additional up-armored Humvees for troops serving in Iraq. The amendment, which was co-sponsored by Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA), will help ensure that our troops have the up-armored Humvees that they need in the field immediately and help prevent future shortfalls. Senator Bayh introduced the amendment to the Iraq Supplemental Appropriations bill in response to a request by Pentagon officials for another 1,800 up-armored Humvees. The Pentagon has been forced to revise its requirement for up-armored Humvees in Iraq for the ninth time in two years now. "There is an old saying that we are all familiar with - fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me. Fool me nine times and it qualifies as an emergency that must be addressed particularly when the lives and the limbs of our military men and women are at stake," Senator Bayh said, arguing in support of his amendment from the Senate floor. "I am referring to the fact that the Pentagon has now on nine consecutive occasions underestimated the need for up-armored Humvees in Iraq. This money will address the current shortage and get our troops the equipment they need to carry out their mission." The Bayh-Kennedy amendment provides for $213 million to purchase additional up-armored Humvees. The amendment also includes two key provisions designed to prevent future significant shortfalls from building up over time again. It requires Secretary of Defense to: "These much-needed vehicles help no one when they are sitting in parking lots, millions of miles from Baghdad," Bayh said. "In this day and age, surely we can get armored Humvees from the factory to the front lines in less than seven weeks. Our brave troops and their families deserve better from their leaders." The $213 million will meet the immediate need for up-armored Humvees, but falls short of the amount Senator Bayh originally requested. However, Bayh indicated that he will continue to fight for additional funding to make sure that the Pentagon's repeated mistakes do not jeopardize our troops' safety. "Our troops do right by us everyday, today the Senate did right by them," Senator Bayh said. "It is our moral obligation to provide our men and women fighting in Iraq with the equipment they need to do their job safely. This funding will help meet the immediate need, but more remains to be done. Our troops should not have to pay the price for the Pentagon's mistakes." Army leaders have consistently argued that the Humvee shortfall was due to slow production levels at AM General and O'Gara-Hess, the two companies responsible for producing the armored vehicles. However, a GAO study released two weeks ago supports Bayh's argument that the Pentagon failed to take advantage of the companies' production capabilities. Last spring, Bayh had to correct Army officials during an Armed Services meeting when they stated that the maximum production level of the two companies was 350 vehicles per month. Today, the companies are producing 550 per month. The GAO study faults the Pentagon for making a decision to pace production at the companies rather than use the maximum available capacity. Since May of 2003, the Army's requirements for additional up-armored Humvees has grown from only 235 vehicles to more than 10,000 today. Senator Bayh has consistently led the way in the Senate to provide funding for more up-armored Humvees for our troops. Over the last five years, Senator Bayh has helped secure roughly $3 billion to produce almost 30,000 standard and up-armored Humvees for all of the Armed Services.  