Bayh Secures $718 Million to Produce SINCGARS Radios for Troops in Iraq Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the Senate approved the Iraq Supplemental Appropriations bill, which includes $718 million to produce nearly 37,000 SINCGARS radios and other necessary hardware made at ITT Industries in Fort Wayne to improve the military's communications capabilities in combat situations. "These radios mean better communications and increased safety for our troops on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan," Senator Bayh said. "It is absolutely critical that our soldiers can rely on their radios to get the information they need during the heat of battle. This funding means greater safety for our troops overseas and new jobs and economic opportunities for Hoosiers in Fort Wayne." The funds will address the current shortage of modern communications equipment and will create approximately 70 new jobs at ITT Industries in Fort Wayne to help meet the demand for the radios made there. In addition to the 70 new jobs, the additional radio requirements have allowed ITT Industries to bring back 70 former employees. The supplemental bill will now move to a conference committee to be reconciled with the House version of the bill. The SINCGARS radio communication systems are used by U.S. Military men and women in combat situations to provide secure voice and data capabilities, and were even used by the 4th Infantry Division when they found and captured Saddam Hussein. The radios called for in the supplemental bill will be used by active duty as well as National Guard and Reserve units in Iraq and Afghanistan. Currently, the National Guard and Reserves are facing a serious shortage of high-quality, reliable communications equipment. "We are pleased SINCGARS continues to be the tactical communications backbone for the U.S. military and grateful for Senator Bayh's continued support for high tech jobs in Indiana," said Lou Dollive, President and General Manager of ITT Industries Aerospace/ Communications Division. Bayh will continue working to ensure that U.S. troops have the radios and other equipment they need to do their jobs as safely and quickly as possible. Since being sworn into the Senate, Bayh has helped ITT Industries secure more than $300 million for the production of SINCGARS radios for the U.S. Army National Guard. Last year, Senator Bayh's work to secure additional funding to increase production at ITT Industries protected as many as 313 Hoosier jobs and led to more than 100 employees being called back to work. Last May, Bayh visited workers at ITT Industries to thank them for their hard work and the important role that they play in providing our troops with the communication equipment they need to fight the war on terror. ITT Industries is a world leader in high-technology areas, including space systems and tactical wireless communications systems. ITT's instruments are on every GPS satellite system ever launched, and they produce SINCGARS radios, which provide secure voice and data capability in combat situations.  