Bayh Meets with Crane Commanding Officer to Discuss Base's Importance to Military Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh met with the Commanding Officer at Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center today to discuss the key role Crane plays in supporting our Armed Forces in an effort to bolster the case for keeping Crane open in the face of the upcoming base closure announcements. The Department of Defense's Base Re-Alignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission is expected to announce its list of bases recommended for closure on May 16th, making this last month especially crucial in the effort to keep Crane and the 4,000 jobs it represents in Indiana.  Crane's contributions are vital to our Armed Forces, Senator Bayh said. From airborne electronic warfare components to chemical and biological detection systems, Crane is continually leading the effort to meet the challenges our troops face on the battlefield. As we approach the upcoming base closure and realignment decision, I will continue doing everything possible to remind the BRAC Commission of Crane's value to our Armed Forces on behalf of Crane and the 4,000 Hoosiers who work there. Crane is the military's leading source for the production and development of pyrotechnic devices, such as infrared decoy flares and candles, which are used for mortar and artillery illumination rounds. The base is also playing a critical role in producing life-saving equipment for our soldiers during Operation Iraqi Freedom and is providing needed equipment and support to troops currently serving at home and abroad. More than 4,000 Hoosiers are employed at Crane. Bayh has also been a leader in the effort to create an independent commission assigned to evaluate U.S. bases overseas in conjunction with the domestic BRAC round. Bayh and others on the Senate Armed Services Committee believe that while we investigate domestic base closures, we should also widen the pool to include potential foreign base closures. This will help ensure that domestic base jobs are not being lost when overseas employment could be reduced instead. At the same time, it is likely that more domestic bases will be needed to house and train U.S. troops as they return home from Iraq.  