At Fort Wayne Job Fair, Bayh Calls for Doubling Federal Funding for Small Business Innovation Fort Wayne, IN-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today hosted the fifth annual Job Fair, Job Training and Small Business Summit in Fort Wayne, recognizing the growth and innovation of local company Zoom Information Systems and discussing legislation he introduced earlier this month to double federal funding for small business innovation.  At the daylong job fair at IPFW, 50 Northeast Indiana companies were on hand with more than 700 job openings in professions including computer science, education, health care, manufacturing, transportation, government and law enforcement. Educational institutions and career counselors provided counseling and assistance to job seekers, and several organizations and government officials helped small business owners with information and assistance. Today is about connecting Hoosiers with jobs and connecting entrepreneurs with the resources they need to start and grow their businesses, Senator Bayh said. In Indiana, 1.3 million Hoosiersroughly half of our states workforceare employed by small businesses. Small business growth and development is fueling our economy and creating innovative, good-paying 21st century jobs for middle class Hoosiers. Bayh, a member of the Senate Committee on Small Business, shared details of legislation he filed earlier this month to double funding for the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. Currently, all federal agencies with external RD budgets exceeding $100 million are required to set aside 2.5 percent to support research and development efforts by small businesses. Bayhs bill would double that set aside amount to 5 percent. Indiana small businesses received nearly $17 million in SBIR funding in 2005 to spur innovations in areas such as military security, agriculture, manufacturing, biotechnology and medicine. If enacted, Senator Bayhs legislation could double that figure and bring in more than $34 million in crucial RD dollars for Hoosier entrepreneurs. My proposal would reward innovation and help Indiana build the new economy of tomorrow, Senator Bayh said. Twenty percent of SBIR grants lead to the founding of small companies, while one in four SBIR projects bring new products and processes to the market. Doubling SBIR funding would give more Hoosier entrepreneurs the chance to make their ideas a reality and create more good-paying 21st century jobs for Hoosiers. This week, Bayh is also hosting job fairs and small business summits in four other Indiana cities: Indianapolis, Kokomo, South Bend and Terre Haute. In total, more than 5,000 job opportunities are available at the five job fairs. The Fort Wayne Job Fair is being co-sponsored by Indiana University Purdue University Fort Wayne, Ivy Tech Community College - Northeast, the Fort Wayne Womens Bureau, the Service Corps of Retired Executives, WorkOne Northeast, the Northeast Indiana Innovation Center, the Greater Fort Wayne Chamber of Commerce, and the Northeast Indiana SBDC. Bayh was joined at the Fort Wayne job fair by local small business Zoom Information Systems, which develops innovative products and technology to help state and local governments analyze transportation data to enhance road safety, as well as save drivers time and money. Zoom is located in the Northeast Indiana Innovation Center, a certified technology park and business incubator. Working with Senator Richard Lugar, Bayh has secured more than $2.3 million in federal funds to support the center. Companies like Zoom Information Systems prove that innovation doesnt just happen on the East or West Coast. Right here in Indiana, Hoosiers are developing the technology that will be vital to the United States competitiveness in the global marketplace, Senator Bayh said.  Across the country, small businesses have provided as much as 80 percent of net new jobs over the last decade. Small businesses employ 41 percent of the nations high tech workers and generate 13 to 14 times more patents per employee than large firms. Our investment in small business development is fueling one of the primary engines for middle class success  from helping entrepreneurs get their ideas off the ground to helping existing small businesses create challenging, good-paying jobs for middle class Americans, Senator Bayh said. Senator Bayhs agenda for small business development and innovative jobs for Hoosiers:  Earlier this month, Senator Bayh filed legislation to double funding for the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. SBIR is the major RD funding resource for small businesses and entrepreneurs, resulting in the creation of innovative job opportunities. This could result in more than $34 million in RD dollars for Hoosier small businesses.  Two weeks ago, President Bush signed the America Competes Act, which included a Bayh-sponsored provision that increases funding available for the federal Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program by $37 million. MEP provides direct assistance to small manufacturers, helping increase their competitiveness in the global market through technology and innovation. Currently, Indianas MEP provides direct assistance to 300 small manufacturers, with an economic impact of $61 million.  Senator Bayh voted in May to reauthorization the Small Business Administration (SBA) lending program. Over the past five years, the lending program has helped create nearly 20,000 jobs in Indiana alone and helped retain thousands more. If the reauthorization bill becomes law, the lending program would help create nearly 2,000 additional jobs in Indiana next year.  