Bayh Urges Labor Board to Hear Cases Clarifying National Labor Relations Act Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined 24 senators in a letter to National Labor Relations Board (NRLB) Chairman Robert Battista calling on the Board to reverse its decision not to hear arguments in three cases expected to clarify collective bargaining rights for Hoosier workers. In the letter, the coalition of senators asked Battista to remember that the outcome of the cases, which are expected to answer questions regarding the definition of supervisor, could impact the collective bargaining rights of hundreds of thousands of American workers. In Indiana, thousands of workers, including an estimated 18,000 registered nurses and 28,500 construction workers, could lose their right to unionize or bargain collectively if the board significantly broadens the definition.  The question of who is a statutorily defined supervisor is of fundamental importance to labor relations in the United States and the right of employees to protection under the [National Labor Relations] Act, and we're dedicated to protecting that right, the senators wrote in the letter. Healthcare professionals and workers from many different industries have expressed their concern to us about the outcome of these cases. The three so-called Kentucky River casesOakwood Healthcare, Inc., Golden Crest Healthcare Center, and Croft Metals, Inc.are expected to resolve issues left open by the Supreme Court's Kentucky River decision in 2001. The cases address whether certain employees can be considered supervisors, a significant designation because supervisors are prohibited from forming unions under the National Labor Relations Act. The outcome of the cases is of particular concern to Indiana because of the potential impact on the manufacturing sector. More than 1,000 Hoosiers have contacted Senator Bayh's office urging him to call on NLRB to reverse its decision. This dispute has gone on long enough; this important issue clearly merits a hearing before the National Labor Relations Board, Senator Bayh said. We can do right by workers and business at the same time by holding oral arguments so that the board can reach a fully informed decision. In their letter, the senators noted that the Supreme Court has rejected the NLRB's definition of supervisory status twice in the past 10 years, and expressed concern that the board has not held oral arguments in any cases during Battista's tenure as chairman. The board's ruling on the Kentucky River cases is expected sometime this summer.  