Senate Passes Amendment to Meet Latest Up-Armored Humvee Needs Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today applauded Senate passage of an amendment he co-sponsored to provide 1,826 up-armored Humvees for the U.S. Marines, who are expected to triple the number of armored vehicles they need in Iraq and Afghanistan. The new requirement, which was revealed yesterday, increases the required number of up-armored Humvees from 498 to 1,826, the latest in a series of dramatic increases since the start of the Iraq War. The amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill passed the Senate unanimously this afternoon. "This amendment will provide our troops with the up-armored Humvees they need and make sure that the Pentagon lives up to its pledge that all Humvees in Iraq will be fully armored," Senator Bayh said. "After everything we have learned in the past two years about the importance of armored Humvees, it is mind-boggling that the Pentagon would consider sending any Humvees to Iraq without the maximum level of protection. For too long, the Pentagon has dragged its feet and underestimated critical equipment needs - our troops should not have to pay the price for the Pentagon's mistakes." In addition to securing up-armored Humvees for the Marines, today's amendment includes funding to ensure that all Army Humvees going to Iraq in fiscal year 2006 (FY2006) are fully armored. Despite assurances from administration officials that all Humvees in Iraq would be fully armored, the Army was planning to send 4,037 Humvees to Iraq in FY2006 without the maximum level of armor. The amendment will provide $105 million to purchase the armor kits that are needed to provide maximum security for the troops traveling in these Humvees. Bayh has been a vocal critic of the Pentagon's failure to accurately estimate the number of vehicles needed to keep troops safe in Iraq. Since May of 2003, the Army's requirements for additional up-armored Humvees has grown from only 235 vehicles to more than 10,000 today. Senator Bayh has consistently led the way to provide funding for more up-armored Humvees for our troops, securing roughly $3 billion to produce almost 30,000 standard and up-armored Humvees for all of the Armed Services over the past five years. Most recently, Bayh introduced an amendment to the Iraq Supplemental that provided an additional $150 million for up-armored Humvees.  