Bayh Calls for Greater Federal Support for National Guard Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined Indiana Governor Joe Kernan to urge his Senate colleagues to expand current support for our country's national guard and reserve members and their families, as more of them face increased time on duty, away from their home and loved ones. Bayh and Kernan appeared before a joint-hearing of the Senate HELP Subcommittee on Children and Workforce and the Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel to discuss their efforts to help Indiana's guard families meet the challenges that come when a loved one is serving overseas and to encourage greater support from the federal government in providing these important benefits. The committees are currently studying what the federal government can do to help states in this crucial work.  At today's hearing, Bayh and Kernan specifically highlighted Indiana's efforts to support Hoosier guard and reserve families during deployment to emphasize the state's military-friendly environment. Indiana's national leadership on important issues like support for our military's families should also bolster the state's case as it works with military officials to keep Crane, Camp Atterbury and its other military installations open. Our national guard and reserve members are not just soldiers, Senator Bayh said. They are small business owners, bread-winners, parents and spouses. Their families depend on them year round, regardless of whether or not they are on active duty. While they are away defending our country, we owe our guard members and their families our full support. These families deserve more than our gratitude for their service, but also job security, quality health care, and greater opportunities for education as well. Indiana has the fifth-largest national guard in the nation, with more than 14,000 Hoosiers serving. Since 9-11, nearly 8,000 members of the Indiana Air and Army National Guard have been called to active duty. As the war on terror continues, many of these reservists have faced longer tours of duty, leaving thousands of Hoosier families to cope with their absence. When they are called to duty, guard members leave behind good paying jobs and their families, which can cause strains and hardships on family members coping with their absence. At the National Governors Association conference last weekend, governors expressed their concerns over the largest national guard call-up since World War II and the impact its had on the troop's families and the states' abilities to respond to natural disasters and crime. To help, Senator Bayh has supported several measures designed to support guard families, including legislation to provide full funding for Guard and Reserve access to health insurance known as TRICARE. This fiscally responsible approach would not only provide guard members and their families with much-needed coverage, but would also save the military a great deal of time and money that is usually spent making sure members are healthy enough for active duty. Bayh has also supported increasing imminent danger pay and family separation allowances, to help families facing the loss of a steady paycheck while their loved one is serving, and supports tax credits for employers of guard and reserve personnel to encourage more employers to pay the difference between civilian and military pay while their employees are called to active duty.  