Bayh Calls on FDA to weigh Restrictions on Imports of Unsafe Chinese Ingredients Washington-- Responding to a disturbing weekend news report that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) confiscated 107 contaminated food imports from China at U.S. ports last month alone, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today called on the FDA to consider restricting the importation of food and medicine ingredients from China until it can be established that its bulk ingredients meet U.S. health and safety standards. In a letter to FDA Commissioner Andrew von Eschenbach, Senator Bayh called on the United States to exercise its rights under the World Trade Organization to restrict imports from countries that have failed to institute an adequate food safety regime. "While our over-stretched FDA inspectors have been vigilant in policing this problem, recent evidence indicates that a firmer approach is needed," Bayh wrote. Bayh's request comes on the eve of this week's two-day, U.S-China "strategic dialogue" in Washington. In his letter, Bayh noted the recent deaths of Panamanian children from tainted Chinese cough syrup as well as the recent announcement by the FDA that chicken feed used at 38 Indiana poultry farms had been contaminated by tainted feed ingredients from China containing the toxic chemical melamine. "While international trade can be a powerful tool for economic growth and job creation, we must not lose sight of our fundamental responsibility to protect Americans from imports that pose serious health and safety risks," Senator Bayh said. "By restricting food and drug imports from countries with poor quality standards, we can take an important step toward ensuring the security of the American food supply." In the letter, Bayh noted that over the past several years, the United States has rejected numerous food imports from China because they are contaminated, filthy or laced with illegal pesticides, creating an enormous burden on already overextended FDA inspectors. Bayh called for the more aggressive approach of restricting imports from countries with ineffective safety inspection procedures to ensure the safety of food and medicine imported into the United States by making more effective use of FDA inspectors. "The recent discovery of the chemical melamine in American pet food and agricultural feed highlights how vulnerable the U.S. food supply is to both accidental and intentional contamination," Senator Bayh said. "We must treat this as a wake-up call and provide the FDA with the funding it needs to ensure that all of the food products that come through our ports and from our fields are safe and free of toxic chemicals like melamine." In a separate letter sent to President Bush today, Bayh called on the administration to release the FDA Import Strategic Plan, which was developed years ago to guard against agents and toxins posing a serious threat to public health, but never released. Bayh also called for more comprehensive screening and inspection procedures for agriculture and food items under a Homeland Security Presidential Directive issued on February 3, 2004.  