Bayh Seeks to Protect Consumers from Effects of Price-Gouging Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today co-sponsored legislation that would put in place a federal ban on price-gouging for oil and gas during times of national emergencies. The legislation is modeled on similar laws in 28 states, including Indiana, that punish companies engaged in price-gouging when the President has declared a temporary national energy emergency. The need for such legislation was made clear in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, when Americans saw gas prices explode to more than $5 a gallon in some towns. "At a time when most Americans were coming together to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina, some unscrupulous companies used the storm as an excuse to make an unfair profit at the expense of others, and they should be punished," Senator Bayh said. "This legislation would give the federal government the ability to put a stop to price-gouging and to punish those companies do so." The Energy Emergency Consumer Protection Act of 2005 grants the President the authority to declare a temporary national energy emergency when a potential or existing disruption of oil supplies presents a danger to the health, safety or welfare of the United States. This declaration would trigger a ban on price gouging, punishable by federal penalties enforceable by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). The legislation also grants states the ability to pursue civil actions related to price gouging on behalf of residents. In Indiana, the governor can trigger a price gouging law when he or she declares an energy emergency. Bayh, a long-time supporter of reducing our dependence on foreign oil, pointed to the price-gouging and the overall increase in gas prices this summer as additional indicators that the country must explore more energy alternatives. "Recent high gas prices are just one example of the danger of relying on places like Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Russia for our energy needs," Senator Bayh said. "We need to seek out other energy sources in order to decrease our dependence on foreign oil." This summer, Bayh co-sponsored several amendments designed to reduce reliance on foreign oil that were accepted as part of the Energy bill, including an amendment increasing incentives for producing biofuels and another to encourage more gas stations to install or expand pumps that offer E-85, an ethanol-gasoline blend used by Flexible Fuel Vehicles.  