Bayh Stresses Job Creation, Legislation to Help Small Manufacturers During Evansville Visit Evansville, IN-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh visited Evansville Sheet Metal Works, Inc., today to discuss his efforts to increase federal support for Hoosier small manufacturers and other local small businesses. The visit came just two weeks after President Bush signed the America Competes Act, which included a provision authored by Bayh that increases funding available for the federal Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program by $37 million.  The MEP program provides direct assistance to small manufacturers, helping increase their competitiveness in the global market through technology and innovation. Currently, Indianas MEP administered by the Purdue University Technical Assistance Programprovides direct assistance to 300 small manufacturers, with an economic impact of $61 million. Evansville Sheet Metal Works has benefited from Indianas MEP by streamlining operations, strengthening services and bolstering personnel to remain competitive in the global marketplace.  Manufacturing is one of our countrys greatest economic strengths, and at the top of my domestic legislative agenda is doing everything in my power to ensure that Indianas small manufacturers have the tools to compete and win in the global marketplace, Senator Bayh said. With a level economic playing field, Indiana manufacturers can compete with any company anywhere in the world. Bayh, a member of the Senate Committee on Small Business, was joined at the news conference by Evansville Sheet Metal Works Vice President Andrew Hubbard, whose grandfather founded the small, family-owned sheet metal manufacturing business in 1946. Also speaking at the event was Mark Schmitt, a fabricator at the plant and a member of Sheet Metal Workers Local 20. At Wednesdays event, Senator Bayh outlined his agenda to create jobs and economic growth as the American economy undergoes continued changes wrought by globalization. In his remarks, Senator Bayh focused on the importance of retaining and creating good middle class jobs in communities impacted by trade. Bayh also shared details of legislation he filed earlier this month to double funding for the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program so Indiana companies lead the way in adapting to the realities of the 21st century economy. Currently, all federal agencies with external RD budgets exceeding $100 million are required to set aside 2.5 percent to support cutting-edge research and development efforts by small businesses. Bayhs bill would double that set aside amount to 5 percent. Indiana small businesses received nearly $17 million in SBIR funding in 2005 to spur innovations in areas such as military security, agriculture, manufacturing, biotechnology and medicine. If enacted, Senator Bayhs legislation could double that figure and bring in more than $34 million in crucial RD dollars for Hoosier entrepreneurs. My proposal would reward innovation and help Indiana build the new economy of tomorrow, Senator Bayh said. Twenty percent of SBIR grants lead to the founding of small companies, while one in four SBIR projects bring new products and processes to the market. Doubling SBIR funding would give more Hoosier entrepreneurs the chance to make their ideas a reality and create more 21st century, middle class jobs for Hoosiers. Senator Bayh also voted in May to reauthorization the Small Business Administration (SBA) lending program. Over the past five years, the lending program has helped create nearly 20,000 jobs in Indiana alone and helped retain thousands more. If the reauthorization bill becomes law, the lending program would help create nearly 2,000 additional jobs in Indiana next year.  