Senator Bayh Announces Grant to Delaware County Nonprofit To Combat Youth Drug, Alcohol Use Washington-- Senator Evan Bayh today announced that a Delaware County nonprofit organization has been awarded a $100,000 federal grant to prevent and reduce drug and alcohol abuse among youth.  Delaware County Coordinating Council to Prevent Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse is one of 90 community coalitions nationwide awarded funding this month under the Office of National Drug Control Policys Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Program. We have an obligation to ensure that our children grow up sober and smart, and programs like these play an important role in helping our young people steer clear of drugs and alcohol, Senator Bayh said. The Drug-Free Communities Support Program recognizes Delaware County Coordinating Council to Prevent Alcohol and Other Drug Abuses track record in helping Hoosier youth make smart, healthy choices. This new funding will allow Delaware County Coordinating Council to Prevent Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse to mobilize and organize the community to prevent and reduce substance abuse. Delaware County Coordinating Council to Prevent Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse was awarded the grant through a competitive peer review process. To qualify, all awardees must have at least a six-month history of working together on substance abuse prevention initiatives, develop a long-term plan to reduce substance abuse, and participate in a national evaluation of the Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Program. Senator Bayh has a long history of fighting the proliferation of illegal drugs and keeping narcotics out of the hands of Hoosier children. Bayh cosponsored the Combat Meth Act, legislation requiring that pseudoephedrine, a main ingredient in methamphetamines, be sold behind the pharmacy counter and in limited quantities. The bill was subsequently signed into law by President Bush. In December of 2006, Congress passed and the President signed into law, a five-year extension of the Drug-Free Communities Act. Since 1997, ten competitions have awarded over $450 million in grants to more than 1,000 community anti-drug coalitions. The Office of National Drug Control Policy administers the DFC program in conjunction with Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.   