Congress Passes Bayh Amendment Requiring Quarterly Reports on Iraq Progress Washington-- Congress last night approved the final Defense authorization bill containing an amendment authored by U.S. Senator Evan Bayh that will require the Pentagon and the CIA to jointly report to Congress and the American people once a quarter on progress in Iraq. The reports would include information on progress related to a specific set of benchmarks identified by top military leaders during an Armed Services Committee hearing in October. Senator Bayh praised today's vote as a means to bring accountability and candor to a process that is increasingly viewed with skepticism by the American people. "Last night's vote will bring two key elements that have long been missing from the administration's approach to Iraq -- accountability and candor," Senator Bayh said. "My legislation gives us specific benchmarks to measure our success and objectively judge our results. It also ensures that American people are made a part of the process, a crucial requirement for maintaining support for the war." Bayh's amendment requires the Pentagon and the CIA jointly brief key Congressional Committees on a quarterly basis on the progress being made on a strategy originally outlined by Generals Casey and Abizaid in October. During an Armed Services Committee hearing, General Casey told Bayh and others that "we have a strategy and a plan for success in Iraq." The generals outlined seven metrics that they are using to determine their success, based on the following categories: overall readiness assessment, personnel, command and control, training, sustainment/ logistics, equipment, and leadership. Bayh's amendment also encourages the administration to share these goals with the American people, when possible, in order to maintain public support for our effort. "The generals in charge of the war in Iraq have identified the benchmarks we must meet to succeed, and it is vital that Congress and the American people know whether or not these goals are being met," Senator Bayh said. "If they aren't, someone should be held accountable."  