Bayh Urges Young Hoosiers to Apply For 2007 Youth Service America Opportunities Washington- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today encouraged young Hoosiers to apply for Youth Service America (YSA) grants available for 2007. The grants provide up to $1,000 to young people who improve their communities by taking a leadership roll in local service projects. The YSA program has worked to promote youth service since 1986.  These grants offer an excellent opportunity for young Hoosiers to become involved in their communities for the first time or to continue their service, Senator Bayh said. When young people volunteer time to help their communities, they help establish a commitment to service that can last for generations. Each October Senator Bayh joins with Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis to host a Service Leaders Summit for Indiana's high school students who are leaders in public service. At the summit in Indianapolis, the students participate in workshops with other Hoosier service leaders to learn more about volunteering and then perform service activities as a group in the Indianapolis area. The following YSA grants are available to Indiana youth:   The Disney Minnie Grant encourages the participants to focus on the environment, disaster relief, community education, public health and awareness, hunger, literacy, and other community needs. Teachers, older youth (15-25), youth-leaders, and youth serving organizations are eligible to apply. In the past this grant has been used to fund projects in Kenyan orphan centers, combat the avian flu in the Republic of Georgia, and build schools in Iraq. The deadline for the Disney Minnie Grant is January 26, 2007.   The Youth Service America Youth Venture Program helps youth engage in community service and develop as young socially conscious entrepreneurs by providing the seed money to start civic-minded organizations. In the past, these ventures have included anti-peer pressure education campaigns and a bike repair shop with vocational training. The deadline for the Youth Service America Youth Venture Program is February 26, 2007.   A Lion in the House Community Service Grant, named after the film by Steven Bognar and Julia Reichart, helps fund youth-serving organizations. The projects funded by Lion Grants are to be led by youth, and will take place on National and Global Youth Service Day. The deadline for A Lion in the House Community Service Grant is February 1, 2007.   The Red, White, and Green Climate Change Grant is a project that promotes service and knowledge about climate change. Past recipients have changed the way their communities interact with the local environment by guiding them to expand in an environmentally friendly way. The deadline for the Red, White, and Green Climate Change Grant is March 9, 2007. In the Senate, Bayh has co-sponsored the Call to Service Act with Senator John McCain to expand volunteer opportunities including the AmeriCorps program. In 2005, Bayh sponsored a Senate resolution to officially recognize a National Youth Service Day in recognition of the many important contributions young people make through community service. To learn more about the grants and to apply, visit http://www.ysa.org/awards/award_grant.cfm   