Bayh Offers New Weapon to Fight Unfair Trade Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers to announce the introduction of the Stopping Overseas Subsidies (SOS) Act, which will allow the United States to fully enforce its antisubsidy laws and greatly increase the ability of companies in Indiana and across the nation to fight unfair trade from overseas.  The SOS Act was written as a solution to a federal court decision from 1986 that the Commerce Department says prevents it from applying antisubsidy laws to nonmarket countries such as China, which are using this decision to gain an unfair trade advantage. Free trade must also be fair trade, Senator Bayh said. This legislation stops the legal hairsplitting and cuts through the red tape to help level the playing field for American workers. The SOS Act provides a straightforward solution to the trade problem, allowing the Commerce Department to determine whether or not a subsidy exists regardless of whether the country in question is a nonmarket economy. With this change, the Commerce Department would be able to take direct action against China and other nonmarket economies that use illegal subsidies to support an aggressive export policy. Subsidies can take many forms, including loans that are never expected to be repaid, free or low-cost rent in government-owned facilities, and free raw materials or energy supplies. Bayh, along with Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), who co-sponsored the SOS Act, and Congressmen Phil English (R-PA) and Artur Davis (D-AL), who introduced similar legislation in the House, held a press conference today to emphasize the dramatic effects such subsidies can have on American companies. Representatives from the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) also attended the press conference to endorse the legislation, along with a broad coalition of other organizations representing the steel, agriculture, metalcasting, manufacturing and printing industries. During the press conference, Senator Bayh spoke of a tool and die company from Batesville that has competed against a company from Asia that was pricing its finished products at only a half-cent more than the cost of the materials used to make them, let alone the cost of shipping and production. I've met with many Hoosier manufacturers during my trips home who tell me about products they've seen from Chinese companies that cost less than the materials used to make them, Senator Bayh said. That's not right. While our manufacturers are working to succeed in today's global economy, I will continue fighting to make sure we are using every possible resource to help them here in Washington. In enforcing its trade laws, the United States classifies countries according to the market conditions in that country. Nonmarket economies include communist countries that are not subject to typical market conditions such as supply and demand. The SOS Act provides needed flexibility and greater fairness in addressing countries like China that are swiftly transitioning into market economies.  