Bayh Statement On Passage of the Senate Energy Bill Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) issued the following statement today on the passage of the CLEAN Energy Act of 2007:  The Senate energy bill reduces our dangerous dependency on foreign oil and raises fuel economy standards for the first time in a generation. I strongly support both of these goals. For me, this was a national security vote, first and foremost. America imports more foreign oil today than we did on September 11th. Reducing our dependence on oil-rich countries hostile to American interests is the defining challenge of our generation. I was pleased that one of the very first amendments considered and adopted during the energy debate was my proposal to reduce our consumption of imported petroleum by 10 million barrels a day by 2031. The executive branch finally will be held accountable for treating Americas energy security with the urgency it warrants. That said, I have serious concerns about some of the means used to achieve this important end. The final Senate bill places a disproportionate burden on the automotive sector to solve the energy crisis while letting oil companies off the hook. While I support an increase in fuel economy standards, I regret that the Senate could not broker a compromise to achieve a more equitable miles-per-gallon threshold. Stripping out key tax provisions that encourage the development of alternative fuels and energy-efficient technologies was also a mistake. Additionally, I am disappointed that the Senate approach could result in off-shoring the production of most small-size American cars, potentially threatening the jobs of thousands of our auto workers, including many in my state.  This was an imperfect bill, but in the end, the stakes in the energy debate were too high to do nothing and maintain an unacceptable status quo. The Senate bill meaningfully addresses the critical national security challenge of our time, which is why I voted for final passage, even if I disagreed with some of the means used to achieve this goal.  