Bayh Co-Sponsors Bill to Provide Cancer Screening to Women Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined a bipartisan coalition in co-sponsoring legislation providing breast and cervical cancer screening, outreach and case management to women with little or no health insurance. Offered by Senators Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program Reauthorization Act of 2005 provides funding to community-based health organizations through a federal grant program administered by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC).  The bottom line is that early detection saves lives, Senator Bayh said. As the number of uninsured Americans continues to rise, it is vitally important that all women have access to breast and cervical cancer screening services. The prognosis for patients whose cancers are caught and treated early is excellent. We can help protect the lives of American women by reauthorizing this important program. The death rate from both cervical and breast cancer has been declining steadily in recent decades. Researchers attribute the decline to earlier detection through screening, increased awareness and improved treatment. Still, simple screenings like breast exams, mammograms and pap smears remain out of reach for many women, especially minority groups and the uninsured. The National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program Reauthorization Act would increase funding of the program from $205 million in FY 2006 to $250 million in FY 2007. Additionally, the bill would allow the CDC to waive the current law's requirement that states provide 60 percent matching funds in order to qualify for grant funding as long as the number of women served would not be reduced. To date, more than 2.1 million women, more than half of whom represent underserved racial and ethnic minority groups, have received screenings as a result of this program. The additional $45 million the bill provides would allow another 147,000 women to receive cancer screens in 2007.   