Bayh Offers Amendment to Reduce U.S. Dependence on Foreign Oil Washington-- With oil prices nearing $60 dollars a barrel, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today introduced an amendment to the Senate energy bill that would cut oil consumption by 2.5 million barrels a day in 2020. Bayh, along with Senators Joseph Lieberman (D-CT) and Ken Salazar (D-CO), offered the plan to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil and to encourage further development of new fuels and technologies.  America's dependence on foreign oil is one of the gravest threats to our economy and national security. We cannot confront the challenges of the future without a real strategy to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, Senator Bayh said. This amendment will give us a realistic goal for gradually reducing our oil consumption while giving Americans more choices in alternative fuels such as ethanol to power their cars. Bayh's amendment establishes a coordinated system to plan and monitor America's oil savings, allowing the nation to move toward oil reduction efficiently and systematically. Under the amendment, the U.S. would be expected to reduce oil consumption by 1 million barrels per day by 2015 to 2.5 million barrels in 2020. In addition, the amendment would further enhance the production and use of alternative liquid fuels and would expand fuel choices for consumers by requiring manufacturers to produce more hybrids and vehicles that can use alternative fuels. The waiting lists for a Ford Escape hybrid is a sign of the growing consumer demand for energy efficient, hybrid cars. The amendment also helps enhance the country's national security and economic stability by reducing our dependence on countries that control most of the world's oil supplies. Sixty-five percent of the world's proven oil reserves are located in the Middle East, a particularly volatile region that is home to many extremist organizations that preach hatred of the United States. America spends $49 billion each year to protect Persian Gulf oil interests, money that could be reduced or redirected at home if the United States produced more of our own energy. Recent high gas prices are just one example of the danger of relying on places like Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Russia for our energy needs, Bayh said. Reducing our oil consumption is key to our future national security. We need to make the most of every opportunity to seek out other energy sources in order to decrease our dependence on foreign oil. The United States currently consumes 20 million barrels of oil per day and is expected to be using more than 28 million barrels by 2025, mostly for powering cars and other vehicles. Bayh's amendment would ensure that the United States has a strong, reliable system of alternative energy sources in place at a time when increased demand and decreasing supply are combining to drive the cost of oil higher and higher.  