Bayh Urges Full Disclosure on Study Potentially Linking MTBE to Cancer Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh is urging the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to notify Congress immediately on the status of an internal review that may link MTBE to cancer. The study's findings are especially important given the current debate over whether or not to include a House provision in the final version of the Energy bill that would prevent states from holding MTBE companies responsible for leaks that contaminated their water supplies. Bayh cited concern over the Indiana communities that have been impacted by MTBE contamination when he voted against the 2003 Energy bill.  Communities across America are already facing millions of dollars in clean-up costs through no fault of their own because of MTBE contamination,Senator Bayh said. Now a study from the EPA suggests that MTBE is a likely carcinogen. It would be incredibly reckless to let MTBE companies off the hook before we determine the full danger posed by their product. In a letter to EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson, Bayh and 20 additional senators from both sides of the aisle argued that the EPA should alert Congress to its expected findings for consideration in the ongoing debate over the MTBE liability waiver. The waiver contained in the House version of the Energy bill would cancel more than 150 lawsuits already filed against MTBE companies, including five in Indiana, and prevent any community contaminated with MTBE from seeking funds to clean its water supply in the future. This kind of blanket protection would also have serious consequences for people seeking help with medical bills should MTBE turn out to be a carcinogen. Without the ability to hold MTBE companies accountable, communities would be crippled by the costs of clean-up as taxpayers would be forced to pay for clean-up on their own. Medical expenses would only add to this overwhelming burden. Officials in Plainview, New York, estimate that if their community is forced to bear the cost of MTBE clean up, residents will have to pay 61 percent more in property taxes and 30 percent more in water bills. According to studies released by the American Waterworks Association and the American Metropolitan Water Association last month, the cost to clean up MTBE contamination in Indiana alone would cost anywhere from $200 million to $340 million, more than double the state's budget for police or six times the state's homeland security budget. Indiana taxpayers could anticipate an additional $112 in property taxes to cover the cost. MTBE, or methyl tertiary-butyl ether, is a chemical compound that is included in gasoline as an octane enhancer. It has a taste and odor so offensive as to make the water it contaminates undrinkable. Communities in at least 36 states have water supplies contaminated by MTBE after underground tanks at gas stations leaked and the MTBE found its way into wells. At least 14 water systems in Indiana are impacted by MTBE contamination, affecting more than 193,000 Hoosiers.  