Bayh Fights to Extend Long-Term Care Partnerships Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh joined two Hoosier residents this morning to urge his Senate colleagues to provide seniors across the nation with the same level of long-term care protection offered to seniors in Indiana. Ours is one of four states that currently offer long-term care policies. At least 16 other states have approved legislation that would allow them to mirror Indiana's success, but current federal legislation bars them from doing so. Senator Bayh is a co-sponsor of legislation that will allow other states to offer similar long-term care policies and attended today's hearing to emphasize the benefits that long-term care have provided to thousands of Hoosier seniors.  Through long-term care partnerships, Hoosiers who work hard and are responsible with their money can protect themselves against the risk of one day needing long-term care and being forced to sell all the things they spent a lifetime building in order to afford it, Senator Bayh said. At the same time, the state is able to save Medicaid dollars, an important benefit as states struggle with the rising costs of health care. It's a win-win situation that should be available to Americans everywhere. According to the Family and Social Services Administration, the state saves $35,000 per person for every year that person is able to delay depending on Medicaid for their long-term care costs. In Indiana, 31,042 partnerships policies have been sold, allowing thousands of Hoosiers to avoid spending down and losing their savings to qualify for Medicaid. Of the thousands of policies sold, only 13 individuals have needed to access the Medicaid program, representing millions of dollars in savings for the state. At the hearing, Bayh spoke about the important benefits Hoosiers enjoy because of long-term care insurance and highlighted the important savings they represent to the state. Bayh also introduced Melanie Bella, from Indiana's FSSA, and Bob Bishop, an Indianapolis-area resident who purchased long-term care insurance for both himself and his wife. Both Bella and Bishop testified at the hearing in favor of Indiana's partnerships. While Hoosiers are already able to purchase long-term care policies, Bayh's legislation to allow other states to offer partnerships would increase the number of companies offering policies and provide Hoosiers with more choices and benefits. This would result in higher quality policies for Hoosiers and all Americans, would increase the savings to Medicaid budgets across the country, and would enable residents to continue their policies in other states if they must move later in life. Making long-term care more affordable has been a long-standing priority for Senator Bayh. Long-term care partnerships first became available under Bayh's leadership as governor of Indiana. The first field hearing Bayh hosted after being sworn into the Senate and appointed to the Special Committee on Aging focused on the importance of helping Hoosiers find affordable long-term care. In addition, Bayh has authored legislation and fought hard to create a $3,000 tax credit to off-set the expenses incurred by family members who care for their loved ones at home.  