Bayh Urges Review of Chinese Bid for Unocal Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today urged the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to require a report on the implications of Chinese state-owned CNOOC's bid to acquire Unocal, a domestic oil producer. In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member, Senators Domenici (R-NM) and Bingaman (D-NM), Bayh emphasized that the potential transaction could have serious consequences for our national security and energy needs that demanded input from the Departments of Energy, Homeland Security and Defense. "We need to make sure that any foreign purchase of a U.S. company does not threaten our national security or limit much-needed natural resources," Senator Bayh said. "It would be imprudent to act too quickly without all the needed information on these issues. Before the administration even begins a review of CNOOC's bid, we should hear from our defense and energy leaders to discover any immediate concerns first." A report on the possible implications of a CNOOC-Unocal deal would be a valuable source of information for those officials who bear responsibility for approving or rejecting the transaction. The report was originally proposed by Senators Burns (R-MT), Dorgan (D-ND), Martinez (R-FL), Landrieu (D-LA), and Graham (R-SC). In the letter, Bayh also stressed that he was troubled by reports that CNOOC was receiving subsidized financing from the Chinese government. A long-time supporter of fair trade, Bayh has been outspoken against China's unfair trade practices, including illegal subsidies which give Chinese companies an artificial advantage over American companies. If media reports are accurate that the Chinese government is subsidizing CNOOC's bid, this is just the latest example of China seeking an unfair advantage for its businesses. Countless Indiana manufacturers have suffered as a result of foreign countries refusing to play by the rules when it comes to trade. To help level the playing field for Hoosier companies, Bayh has introduced legislation to allow the United States to enforce its anti-subsidy laws against China and also has pushed for the creation of a special trade prosecutor to identify trade violators.  