Bayh Announces $1.3 Million for Marion Storm Water Project Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced Congressional approval of $1.3 million that he fought for so the City of Marion could make much-needed repairs to its water distribution and drainage system. The funds will be used to address the area's severe water infrastructure problems, which have discouraged economic growth particularly in south Marion and on the Indiana Wesleyan University campuses.  Ensuring that Marion residents have a functioning water system is a vital part of maintaining the health and safety of area Hoosiers and providing the tools to strengthen their local economy, Senator Bayh said. A working water system is necessary not only to sustain quality living conditions, but also for businesses to carry out their daily work. The decline in Marion's manufacturing sector has resulted in significant revenue shortfalls for area maintenance and improvement efforts. This April, Senator Bayh urged Senate Appropriators to fund the Marion Water Loop and Deer Creek Storm project, which includes plans to increase access to drinking water and increase storm water drainage capacity, to boost declining water pressure, and to relieve flooding problems that occur during periods of heavy rain. The funds will be used by the Marion Water Loop and Deer Creek Storm Water project, a collaborative effort by the City of Marion, the Marion Utilities Service Board and Indiana Wesleyan University. Helping the Hoosier economy continues to be a top priority for Senator Bayh, which is why he hosted a series of Job Fairs, Job Training and Small Business Summits this August throughout Indiana, including one in Marion. At the summits, Bayh brought together local job-seekers with companies looking to hire and organizations that offer job training. In addition, local entrepreneurs could meet with experts who could offer assistance in starting and growing small businesses. While at the Marion summit, Bayh met with job seekers looking for work in the Marion area. There were nearly 5,000 jobs available at the summits across the state.  