Bayh Secures $6.8 Million for Gary Improvements Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced Congressional approval of $6.8 million for Gary improvements that will mean greater economic opportunities and safer streets for Gary residents. The funding comes as part of the omnibus spending bill and includes $2.8 million for the Gary Chicago Airport, $500,000 for the Gary Police Department, $2.5 million for the South Shore Commuter Rail, and $1 million for Gary Green Link.  The Gary Chicago Airport will use the $2.8 million to relocate railroad tracks near the airport's runway, clearing the path for future expansion, which will in turn help the airport attract more business. Such expansions are crucial for the GCA to secure its place as the third major airport in the Chicago-area. As more and more travelers turn to the Gary Chicago Airport for flights, we must make sure the GCA has the necessary resources to meet this increase in demand, Senator Bayh said. With this funding, the airport will be able to relocate the railroad tracks that could hamper its future growth while increasing the safety of its passengers, pilots and workers. The Gary Police Department will use the $500,000 to invest in new technology and surveillance equipment needed to track and prevent drug trafficking in its area. With the funding, the GPD will be able to install mobile data terminals and in-car cameras for the department's fleet of police vehicles. Because of its close location to Chicago and access to several major highways, the City of Gary is more vulnerable to drug trafficking than the average city its size. However, this equipment will give officers a crucial advantage in communicating and sharing key investigative and surveillance information to reduce drug-related crime. Providing our police officers with the best technology is one of the key steps to winning the fight against crime in Gary, Senator Bayh said. The new equipment will give Gary police officers a real edge over criminals, helping them to continue their work reducing crime and increasing the overall quality of life in Gary. Bayh also announced $2.5 million to continue the design and construction of new, centralized traffic control and power distribution systems for the South Shore Commuter Rail. The $1 million for the Gary Green Link project will go toward the design and construction of a 30-mile bicycle and pedestrian trail that will connect Gary's rivers, the Lake Michigan shoreline and the nearby dunes.  