Bayh Announces $1.7 Million for Muncie Improvements Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced more than $1.7 million for Muncie efforts focusing on economic and high-tech growth, including $150,000 that will be used to bring new, technology-related industries to the area. The funding was included as part of the Omnibus spending bill that Congress approved late Saturday night.  The East Central Indiana Business Incubator will play an important role in encouraging high-tech businesses to start or settle in Muncie, helping to bring more jobs to the area, Senator Bayh said. As a member of the Small Business Committee, I know firsthand the impact that successful companies have on their community and am happy to announce funding that will help this city-wide effort to diversify and strengthen the local economy. The funding will be used to move the incubator from its temporary location on the Ball State University campus to a new, 30,000 square foot building provided by the City of Muncie. Bayh also announced $112,000 for the Muncie Police Department to improve its crime scene analysis abilities. The department will use the funding to purchase state-of-the-art laptop computers with high-tech features that will help capture and record crime-scene data on-site, providing faster and more accurate analysis. The importance of accurate, timely information cannot be underestimated when police officers are racing against the clock to solve a crime, Senator Bayh said. These new laptops will enable Muncie police officers to begin analyzing data right at the scene, providing a crucial advantage in the fight against crime. Most of the remaining funding for Muncie and Delaware County will be used for improvements along the Morrison Road Corridor. The county will use $1 million to widen and upgrade a two-mile stretch of the road, providing improved access to businesses and homes in the area. With these improvements, the county will be able to avoid realigning an entirely new roadway instead. Of the remaining funding, $250,000 will be used to provide wireless Internet access city-wide as part of the Digital Middletown Project, which will bring new educational opportunities and learning techniques to area schools, youth groups and philanthropies. Another $250,000 will be used by Ball State University's Human Performance Laboratory, a nationally recognized center for studying topics including pediatric obesity and the deterioration of skeletal muscle function in the elderly.  