Bayh Provides $11.25 Million for Indy Downtown Transportation Improvements Washington-- The City of Indianapolis is set to begin a major expansion of its downtown transportation infrastructure today as U.S. Senator Evan Bayh announced that Congress approved more than $11 million for transportation improvements and expansions. The funding was included as part of the omnibus spending bill, which the Senate approved late Saturday night. More than $5 million will be used for necessary infrastructure improvements and possible transportation realignment related to the design, planning and construction of a new convention center for Indianapolis.  This funding makes possible the road relocations and improvements necessary to building a new convention center, clearing the way for new growth and future investments in Indianapolis, Senator Bayh said. When plans for a new convention center are realized, these changes will help bring more residents and visitors to the area, benefitting local businesses and creating new jobs in the process. Congress also approved $3 million for a new downtown transit center and the purchase of new buses needed by IndyGo to expand its bus services in high density areas and increase the number of buses on existing routes. The new buses will circulate through the proposed downtown transit center, offering more efficient service and helping eliminate major bus traffic downtown. Senator Bayh secured roughly $11 million in previous appropriations cycles for the development of the transit center. Improving public transportation will provide environmentally sound, mass transit options for Indianapolis commuters and visitors, Senator Bayh said. The new transit center will help Indianapolis businesses continue to grow and attract visitors, and will also help people looking for a great place to live and work. In addition to these funds, Bayh announced $1.25 million for IndyGo to continue its IndyFlex service. IndyFlex represents a collaborative effort between employers, its MBE subcontractor and community service providers to provide an alternative route system that directly serves the most transit-dependent customers. The system helps job seekers reach companies for work that they would not have been able to access otherwise. Congress also approved $1 million to connect 146th Street in Hamilton County with I-69, offering drivers a safer, faster way to access I-69 from intersecting roadways. This particular segment of the I-69 corridor is home to several corporate or regional business headquarters and has been experiencing extreme traffic congestion in recent years as more motorists attempt to merge onto I-69. The remaining funds Bayh secured will be used by Ivy Tech State College to develop a multi-modal facility that will include a transfer station and parking garage serving Ivy Tech students, IUPUI students and local residents. The facility would be part of the IndyGo grid system, linking downtown campuses with outlying areas.  