Senator Bayh Secures $3 Million for South Bend Improvements Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that Congress has approved $2 million to relocate and expand TRANSPO's current operations center, clearing the way for greater economic development and job creation in the South Bend community. The funding passed as part of the omnibus spending bill, which the Senate approved late Saturday night.  The South Bend Public Transportation Corporation (TRANSPO) will use $1 million to finish its bus replacement initiative and begin the construction of a new bus maintenance and administrative facility. The current operations center was built in 1880 and can no longer meet the growing needs for public transportation within the community. The site of the new TRANSPO building is located in South Bend's Studebaker Corridor, a brownfields redevelopment area that has been targeted for economic revitalization. The new location will also allow TRANSPO to operate more efficiently, as the center will be located closer to the starting points of most of the bus routes, cutting down on travel time to and from the routes. The new center will also be equipped to handle alternative fueled vehicles that TRANSPO is interested in adding to its fleet, something the former center could not do. Over the last five years, Senator Bayh has secured $7.75 million to improve public transportation and provide new buses for TRANSPO of South Bend. Bayh also announced $1 million for the continued development of Notre Dame's College of Engineering Multidisciplinary Research Facility. Notre Dame's state-of-the-art engineering facility will ensure that the University maintains its ability to train the next generation of leaders in industry, academics and government in an environment conducive to the highest level of scientific learning. This money will help Notre Dame continue to improve its top-rate engineering facilities, Senator Bayh said. It will also allow the school to turn out some of the nation's best and brightest engineering students. Nanotechnology research at Notre Dame includes work on developing the next generation of computing technologies. Bayh believes nanotechnology research is crucial to economic development as well as scientific and technological advancement. Since serving in the U.S. Senate, Bayh has secured $11.5 million for Notre Dame to use for its engineering facility and nanotechnology research. Nanotechnology is the science of making electronic and mechanical devices on an atomic scale - 1,000 times smaller than a human hair - and will be extremely important to future scientific innovation.  