Bayh Announces $1.5 Million to Spur Terre Haute Economic Growth Washington-- A plan to attract new businesses and create new jobs in Western Indiana took a big step forward today as U.S. Senator Evan Bayh announced Congressional approval of his request for $500,000 for Terre Haute's new business incubator, in addition to $1 million he secured to help attract visitors and residents to businesses in downtown Terre Haute.  This collaborative effort holds tremendous promise for hardworking Hoosiers who are searching for new job opportunities, Senator Bayh said. The business incubator will play an active role in developing new businesses and attracting existing, successful businesses, which will help bring more jobs to the greater Terre Haute area. The funding will be used by the incubator in collaboration with Rose Hulman Ventures and Indiana State University to attract new start-up businesses to the area and create good paying jobs in Western Indiana. Senator Bayh urged Senate Appropriators this April to provide funding for Terre Haute's business incubator project. The incubator's goal is to create and attract new businesses to the area, creating new jobs for local Hoosiers. The $1 million for Cherry Street will be used for construction of a transportation facility in the downtown area to promote greater access to the area, by serving as a transfer center for buses and a hub for downtown parking. The development of a transit facility on Cherry Street will provide Hoosiers with easier access to downtown Terre Haute, spurring economic growth in the area and assisting in the revitalization of the downtown area, Senator Bayh said. Currently, there is only an outdoor transfer center for Terre Haute bus service. The center has no office space for ticketing and information, no protection from extreme weather, and no restroom facilities for drivers or customers. In addition to solving these problems, the new transfer center will also serve as a Greyhound bus station. Greyhound's current bus station is more than a mile from central downtown locations, and is not well situated to serve students and others who would utilize commercial bus transportation to and from Terre Haute. A member of the Small Business Committee, Bayh has a long history of helping small businesses access the resources they need to grow their business and create new Hoosier jobs. This August, Senator Bayh co-hosted the second annual Terre Haute Job Fair, Job Training and Small Business Summit, bringing together local job-seekers with companies looking to hire and organizations that offer job training. At this year's summit in Terre Haute, job seekers could meet with local companies that had more than 250 job openings. In addition, Bayh brought together local entrepreneurs with experts who can offer assistance in starting and growing small businesses. So far, 11 individuals have found new jobs through this year's job fair in Terre Haute.  