Bayh Secures More Than $9 Million for Evansville Area Improvements Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that Congress has approved more than $9 million for economic development and job creation in the Evansville community. Specific fund allocations include $1.25 million to begin initial planning stages of I-69, $4 million for work on Fulton Avenue, $2 million to upgrade the Lloyd Expressway, $1.5 million to construct a roadway on USI's campus, and $300,000 for the Pigeon Creek Enhancement Project.  The I-69 corridor will ultimately foster economic development and offer greater safety and convenience for Hoosiers traveling throughout Indiana, Senator Bayh said. This study will determine the most environmentally safe and fiscally responsible options for building the route. The Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) will use the funds to assist with planning the proposed highway route connecting Indianapolis and Evansville. According to INDOT, the new highway will mean 39,000 fewer personal injuries on the roadways over the next 20 years and 1,567 fewer accidents resulting in serious injury. In addition, the highway is expected to bring significant growth in personal and disposable income, as well as saving over $1 billion in driver time and vehicle operating costs over twenty years. Congress also approved $4 million to complete the engineering work and begin the construction of a new interchange between the Lloyd Expressway and Fulton Avenue. Another $2 million will be used to upgrade the Lloyd Expressway itself from Fulton Avenue to Eickhoff Road. The University of Southern Indiana will use $1.5 million to construct a much-needed perimeter roadway, which will relieve the heavy automobile traffic facing students who must cross University Boulevard to reach their classes. The perimeter loop road will provide access to parking areas and service roads and would become the primary route for a campus shuttle bus service. Construction of the western portion of the perimeter road has already been completed with University and state funds. The $300,000 for the Pigeon Creek Enhancement Project will be used to decrease the concentration of harmful waste discharged into Pigeon Creek and the Ohio River, as well as to help keep residential sanitary sewer rates low. Bayh also announced $250,000 to help Indiana State Police in their continued fight against the growing epidemic of methamphetamine production, distribution and use in Indiana. In 1994, there were just three clandestine meth labs seized by local and state law enforcement, and this year that figure is expected to exceed more than 800. In the past two years, Bayh has secured roughly $3.5 million for the Indiana State Police to combat the meth problem.  