Bayh Fights for Healthy Marriages and Responsible Fatherhood Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) to introduce legislation that will combine plans to promote his responsible fatherhood work with an effort to promote and support stronger marriages. Bayh and Santorum say they hope the Senate will take action on the Healthy Marriages and Responsible Fatherhood Act when it votes to extend welfare, which must take place before September 30th. "Mothers - especially single mothers - are heroic in their efforts to raise our nation's children, but men must also take responsibility for their children and recognize the impact they have on their families' well-being," Senator Bayh said. "Our legislation will encourage stronger families and help them meet today's social challenges by supporting marriage and encouraging men to carry their share of the load." Research indicates that married, two-parent families are the most likely type of family to include a man contributing financially to his children and being involved with them emotionally. By supporting stronger marriages in combination with Bayh's fatherhood legislation, the two senators hope to provide the best possible environment for families and children, giving them the strongest chance to beat the cycle of poverty, domestic violence and drug abuse. Studies show that fatherlessness is one of the root causes of many of the nation's most pressing and costly social problems. Children living without fathers are five times more likely to live in poverty and twice as likely to commit a violent crime, be involved with drugs or alcohol, and drop out of school. Young girls are also much more likely to become pregnant if they grow up without a father figure in their lives. Every year, the federal government spends $110 billion to treat drug and alcohol abuse, $8 billion a year on dropout prevent programs, and $7 billion on teenage pregnancy. As much as $105 billion has been spent on poverty relief programs for families and children in a single year. Since arriving in the Senate, Bayh has fought to develop a system like the one he created in Indiana to help men across America become better fathers. Bayh's legislation would enable states to provide community organizations, faith-based organizations, and not-for-profit groups with grants to strengthen fragile families through workshops and classes designed to help men take responsibility for their children and families and to promote the formation of married, two-parent families. With passage, funding will immediately be available to states for the creation of fatherhood organizations similar to what has already been established in Indiana as a result of Bayh's leadership. As governor of Indiana, Bayh held the first ever fatherhood summit and established the first media program of its kind to encourage fathers to connect with their children. As a result of these and other efforts, thousands of Hoosier men have learned how to become better fathers, creating stronger families and brighter futures for millions of Hoosier children.  