Bayh Supports Fair Pay for Workers Rebuilding Cities Destroyed by Katrina Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today co-sponsored legislation to ensure that workers helping to rebuild New Orleans and other cities damaged by Hurricane Katrina receive fair wages for their efforts. Earlier this month, President Bush suspended a federal law that requires workers on federal contracts to be paid according to average wages in the region. Bayh said that cutting wages for workers repairing the Gulf Coast hurts the families who need support the most.  On the Gulf Coast, we aren't just rebuilding cities -- we're rebuilding lives, Senator Bayh said. The workers whose wages would be cut are the same women and men struggling to support their families and find new homes to replace the ones they lost in the hurricane. They deserve all the support we can give them, not a cut in pay when they can least afford one. The Davis-Bacon federal law sets a minimum pay scale for workers on federal contracts by requiring contractors to pay the prevailing or average pay in the region. In the Gulf Coast, average pay for construction jobs includes $9.16 an hour for sheet metal workers in Mississippi and $10.00 per hour for laborers in Livingston Parish, Louisiana. President Bush suspended the law earlier this month, arguing that adhering to such wages would increase construction costs. However, during the massive clean-up and rebuilding efforts in New York City following the September 11th attacks, the President did not suspend Davis-Bacon. Bayh, a lead co-sponsor of the amendment to overturn Bush's suspension, argued that lowering the construction wages below the current averages would hurt families' ability to recover from Katrina and discourage others from following their example. The workers that would be hurt by President Bush's decision are hardworking Americans, trying to rebuild their lives through their own labor, Senator Bayh said. It will take thousands more like them to make the Gulf Coast whole again, and we should do everything we can to encourage more people to join the effort. The amendment, known as the Fair Wages for Hurricane Katrina Recovery Workers Act, is currently supported by 21 senators.  