At Indianapolis Job Fair, Bayh Calls for Doubling Federal Funding for Small Business Innovation Indianapolis-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh and Mayor Bart Peterson today hosted the fifth annual Job Fair, Job Training and Small Business Summit in Indianapolis, recognizing the growth and innovation of local company Carmel-based Medical Decisions Modeling and discussing legislation he introduced earlier this month to double federal funding for small business innovation.  Today is about connecting Hoosiers with jobs and connecting entrepreneurs with the resources they need to start and grow their businesses, Bayh said. In Indiana, 1.3 million Hoosiersroughly half of our states workforceare employed by small businesses. Small business growth and development is fueling our economy and creating innovative 21st century jobs for middle class Hoosiers. Bayh and Peterson, along with representatives of the Indianapolis Private Industry Council (IPIC), which co-sponsored the event, were at Conseco Fieldhouse for what was the largest gathering since the job fair series began in 2003. More than 100 Central Indiana companies offered more than 3,600 job openings to Hoosiers across a broad range of industries. The job fair offered resources and information for entrepreneurs and small business owners about obtaining funding and technical assistance. This is a perfect example of a successful public-private partnership, said Peterson. This event will offer businesses an opportunity to promote their company and strengthen their brand in the heart of the community as well as recruit from a pool of talented and diverse candidates. We have more employers offering more jobs today than ever before, said Joanne Joyce, president and CEO of IPIC, Marion Countys Workforce Investment Board. Were pleased that more and more companies have come to count on this job fair each year as a prime place for them to connect with the skilled workers they need to grow. Bayh, a member of the Senate Committee on Small Business, shared details of legislation he filed earlier this month to double funding for the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. Currently, all federal agencies with external RD budgets exceeding $100 million are required to set aside 2.5 percent to support research and development efforts by small businesses. Bayhs bill would double that set aside amount to 5 percent. Indiana small businesses received nearly $17 million in SBIR funding in 2005 to spur innovations in areas such as military security, agriculture, manufacturing, biotechnology and medicine. If enacted, Bayhs legislation could double that figure and bring in more than $34 million in crucial RD dollars for Hoosier entrepreneurs. My proposal would reward innovation and help Indiana build the new economy of tomorrow, Bayh said. Twenty percent of SBIR grants lead to the founding of small companies, while one in four SBIR projects bring new products and processes to the market. Doubling SBIR funding would give more Hoosier entrepreneurs the chance to make their ideas a reality. This week, Bayh is hosting job fairs and small business summits in four other Indiana cities: Fort Wayne, Kokomo, South Bend and Terre Haute. In total, more than 5,000 job opportunities are available at the five job fairs. At the Indianapolis event, Bayh discussed the important role that Hoosier small businesses play as innovators in the 21st century economy. Also speaking at the event was Harry Smolen, owner of Medical Decisions Modeling, a past SBIR recipient. Companies like Medical Decisions Modeling prove that innovation doesnt just happen on the East or West Coast. Right here in Indiana, Hoosiers are developing the technology that will be vital to the United States competitiveness in the global marketplace, Senator Bayh said. Across the country, small businesses have provided as much as 80 percent of net new jobs over the last decade. Small businesses employ 41 percent of the nations high tech workers and generate 13 to 14 times more patents per employee than large firms. Our investment in small business development is fueling one of the primary engines for middle class success  from helping entrepreneurs get their ideas off the ground to helping existing small businesses create challenging, good-paying jobs for middle class Americans, Bayh said. Senator Bayhs agenda for small business development and innovative jobs for Hoosiers: Earlier this month, Senator Bayh filed legislation to double funding for the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. SBIR is the major RD funding resource for small businesses and entrepreneurs, resulting in the creation of innovative job opportunities. This could result in more than $34 million in RD dollars for Hoosier small businesses Two weeks ago, President Bush signed the America Competes Act, which included a Bayh-sponsored provision that increases funding available for the federal Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program by $37 million. MEP provides direct assistance to small manufacturers, helping increase their competitiveness in the global market through technology and innovation. Currently, Indianas MEP provides direct assistance to 300 small manufacturers, with an economic impact of $61 million. Senator Bayh voted in May to reauthorization the Small Business Administration (SBA) lending program. Over the past five years, the lending program has helped create nearly 20,000 jobs in Indiana alone and helped retain thousands more. If the reauthorization bill becomes law, the lending program would help create nearly 2,000 additional jobs in Indiana next year.  