Bayh Praises Wisconsin, Iowa for New Legislation Based on 21st Century Scholars Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today praised officials in Wisconsin and Iowa for introducing legislation based in part on Indiana's successful 21st Century Scholars program that will help make college education more affordable for students in their states. Wisconsin Governor Jim Doyle and a group of 14 Iowa State Representatives, led by Representative Janet Petersen (D), both recently introduced legislation designed to increase access to higher education by helping families with the growing cost of a college education. Iowa State Senator Jeff Danielson (D) also introduced companion language in the Iowa State Senate as a study bill. Indiana's 21st Century Scholars program, was created by then-Governor Bayh in 1990 and has helped make Indiana a national leader in the percentage of students who go on to college. "In order to meet the challenges of tomorrow, it is absolutely critical that we provide all our children with the education they need to achieve their full potential," Senator Bayh said. "We've been helping students in Indiana realize their goal of a college education for 15 years through the 21st Century Scholars program, and I am proud to see Wisconsin and Iowa joining us in efforts based on our program." Under Governor Doyle's proposed plan, called the Wisconsin Covenant, all 8th grade students in Wisconsin will receive a financial aid package to help them attend a University of Wisconsin college, if they pledge to stay in school, stay out of trouble, apply for state and federal financial aid, and maintain at least a B average in high school. The amount of aid each family receives will be based on financial need, but each family will receive enough assistance through loan subsidies, grants and work study to cover the full tuition at any UW campus. The Iowa legislation is modeled even more closely after Bayh's 21st Century Scholars program, which is available to every child who qualifies for the free or reduced lunch program and who signs a written pledge to graduate from high school with passing grades and to avoid drugs and alcohol. In exchange, students are provided with a full college scholarship to the public university of their choice or with an equivalent scholarship to be used toward tuition at any private university in the state. "This is an example that I hope other states will follow and one I plan to support," Senator Bayh said. "A college diploma is the ticket to admission into the 21st century. By working together, we can ensure that our children have the skills needed to succeed in the jobs of the future." During his first term as governor of Indiana, Bayh created the 21st Century Scholars program to help more Hoosier families afford a college education for their children. As a result of the 21st Century Scholars program, Indiana has moved from 40th in the percentage of children who go on to higher education to 9th in the nation.  