Bayh Praises Plug-in Hybrid Electric Chevy Volt at Washington Auto Show Washington-- During a press conference at the Washington Auto Show, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today highlighted the important role that plug-in hybrid electric vehicles will play in increasing America's energy security by recognizing the Chevy Volt, General Motors' first commercially available plug-in hybrid. Senator Bayh also spoke about the DRIVE Act, legislation he introduced with 24 bipartisan cosponsors to break America's dependence on foreign oil.  Joined by members of the Set America Free Coalition, Senator Bayh noted provisions in the legislation designed to encourage the development and production of vehicles like the Volt and called on President Bush to support such concrete steps toward energy independence in his State of the Union speech tonight. The Chevy Volt is a perfect example of how we can use American resources and innovation to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and promote renewable sources of energy, Senator Bayh said. To meet our future energy needs, it will be crucial that America's leaders continue to support comprehensive, bipartisan energy strategies like the DRIVE Act that help promote and expand these important technologies. Last week Bayh joined with a coalition of 24 bipartisan cosponsors from across the ideological and geographic spectrum to introduce the DRIVE Act, which aims to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil by seven million barrels per day in 20 years - more than twice what we currently import from the Middle East. In addition to promoting plug-in hybrid electric vehicles like the Volt, the bill includes provisions to increase the availability of homegrown fuel like ethanol, require government fleets to significantly cut oil use, and promote the development of advanced diesel and flex-fuel cars and trucks. The DRIVE Act is the re-introduced version of legislation that Senator Bayh introduced last year. That bill - the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act - provided a mix of energy policy and energy tax incentives aimed at moving our economy toward both more efficient use of oil and a more diverse future mix of transportation fuels, including biofuels. In addition to his leadership on this energy legislation, Senator Bayh has voted to support the renewable fuels standard several times in the Senate and co-sponsored a bipartisan amendment to provide a tax credits for gasoline stations that install or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol, which passed the Senate in May of 2005.  