Bayh Secures $14 Million for Crane to Help Protect U.S. Troops Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced full Senate approval of $14 million that he fought for to help the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Crane Division continue funding important research and development projects that could lead to more advanced weapons systems for our nation's military. The 4,000 Hoosiers employed at Crane will use the funding for a variety of joint projects with Science Applications International Corporation's (SAIC) Bloomfield, Indiana operation and Purdue University, all designed to help U.S. troops defend themselves against detection and possible enemy attack.  The men and women at Crane play a vital role in providing our troops with the equipment they need to fight the war on terror, Senator Bayh said. These funds mean better equipment to ensure our national security and prevent catastrophes like the tragic bombing of the U.S.S. Cole. In addition, the funds mean better job security for the 4,000 Hoosiers who work at Crane and increased economic growth for Indiana. Crane houses the Integrated Radar Optical Surveillance and Sighting System (IROS3) and Directed Energy User Scrutiny Equipment programs (DEUSE). IROS3 will use $10.2 million to continue work on developing a system to better protect Navy ships that are pier side, anchored or transiting restricted waterways. IROS3 will enhance Navy ships' self-defense mechanisms through the integration of a Surface Search Radar (SSR), electro-optic sensors, stabilized gun mount assemblies, high intensity searchlights, acoustic loud hailers, digital nautical charts (DNC), Global Positioning System (GPS) reference information, a wireless data communications link system, and an operator console for both the bridge and CIC. The new technology will create a common situational scene for evaluating and engaging close in surface threats. DEUSE will use $2.5 million to continue work on ways to use directed energy as a primary means to disrupt, damage or destroy enemy equipment and facilities. DEUSE weapons, Crane and SAIC have partnered to help define, acquire and adapt the Active Denial System (ADS) technology for Naval applications. The integration of DEUSE into IROS3 will provide Navy ships with advanced non-lethal weapons systems that can be used to deter enemies without engaging in combat. The Purdue/Crane collaborative project will use $1.3 million to focus on research and lab equipment necessary to complement the Pentagon's efforts to reduce the threat posed by infrared missiles. The use of fourth generation shoulder-launched infrared sensing missiles provides one of the greatest challenges to national security at the present time. Crane personnel will provide the technology evaluation and testing for the research carried out to counteract these threats. The goal of Crane's research is to give the military a more secure and dependable capability to guard against this potential security hazard. Today's approval by the Senate is the final step needed in the approval process before the President's signature. This June, Bayh announced Senate approval of the Defense Appropriations Act, which included the funding for Crane's joint projects with SAIC's Bloomfield, Indiana operation and Purdue University. Crane is the military's leading source for the production and development of pyrotechnic devices, such as infrared decoy flares and candles, which are used for mortar and artillery illumination rounds. The base played a critical role in producing life-saving equipment for our soldiers during Operation Iraqi Freedom and is providing needed equipment to troops currently serving at home and abroad.  