Bayh Secures $21.8 Million to Help Indiana’s Small Manufacturers Grow Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced full Senate approval of $21.8 million that he fought for to reprogram funding back into a widely-popular manufacturing program that helps small manufacturers grow their businesses and hire more workers. Because of cuts made to the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program earlier this year, the MEP program was forced to close 58 regional offices across the country, including four in Indiana, and cut jobs by 15 percent, leaving small manufacturers without the assistance they need to compete in today's global marketplace. The funding was partially restored through a Reed-Bayh amendment, which was approved late last night by the House/Senate conference committee. "Small manufacturers play a vital role in Indiana's economy," Senator Bayh said. "At a time when Indiana is facing thousands of lost jobs, it makes no sense to strip the funding away from the very programs that help Hoosier manufacturers grow and compete. Our manufacturers are working harder than ever to succeed, and providing support for the MEP program is crucial to their continued survival and success." The conference committee approval is the last step needed in the approval process before the President's signature. The Reed-Bayh amendment, which will allow the Secretary of Commerce to reprogram $21.8 million back into this year's MEP program funding, was approved by the full Senate earlier this month. Before the cuts were made, Indiana's MEP program helped 1,000 small businesses each year and made an economic impact of $160 million each year. It has helped create or save more than 1,300 Hoosier jobs in the past two years. However, the administration slashed funding for the program by more than 60% this year from $106 million to $39 million, forcing the MEP program to close offices across the country, including four in Indiana (Muncie, Terre Haute, Portage and New Albany). Senator Bayh has consistently called for restoring funding for the MEP program, to provide all of Indiana's small manufacturers with the technical and business assistance they need to remain globally competitive. Early this month, Bayh, along with eight other senators from both sides of the aisle, sent a letter to the Senate conferees, urging them to keep the funding in the MEP program. In addition, Bayh and 54 of his fellow senators, emphasized the significant number of jobs that result from MEP funding and increased sales and investment that result from the program in a letter to Secretary Evans. Bayh has also written similar letters in support of the MEP program in the past. This June, Bayh visited a series of Hoosier companies that used the MEP to grow their business and hire more workers to emphasize the positive impact Indiana's MEP program has on the state's economy and announce his legislation that proposes funding the MEP at $220 million per year. With this level of support in the future, Indiana's MEP program could receive an additional $4 million each year to reopen its closed centers and help more small manufacturers with consulting, accounting, marketing, and certification needs, along with other services designed to help small manufacturers grow and succeed. Indiana has 11,000 manufacturers, 98% of which are small manufacturers. These companies employ close to 300,000 Hoosiers across Indiana, providing greater economic opportunities for thousands of Hoosier families.  