Senate Approves Defense Bill with Bayh Amendment Strengthening QDR Washington  The Defense Authorization bill passed by the Senate last night included an amendment authored by U.S. Senator Evan Bayh requiring all future Pentagon Quadrennial Defense Reviews (QDR) to provide specific, detailed recommendations on the numbers and types of weapons needed to succeed against 21st century threats, especially against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.  In addition, Bayhs amendment establishes an outside commission of experts to comment on the report. These improvements are intended to guide Congress and the Pentagons planning processes and to make sure the country is fielding the right systems in the right numbers for today and the future. A tough and smart national security strategy includes developing specific plans and purchasing the right weapons to meet new challenges, Senator Bayh said. Its not enough to identify future threats  what we need now is a plan for how we will be equipped to face them, which my amendment helps achieve. The QDR is a Congressionally-required report offered by the Pentagon every four years intended to define future defense planning. The 2006 QDR provided useful information on the threats the United States faces, but disappointingly little on the specific platforms we should be investing in to deter and defeat those threats. Without such specifics, Congress and the Pentagon will continue to pursue parochial needs and not necessarily recommend the most needed systems, regardless of which Service they belong to and where they are built.  In its last report, the Pentagon offered a good strategy, but no specifics for addressing future threats, Senator Bayh said. This amendment will hold our military leaders responsible for developing a comprehensive and specific plan for protecting the country. Senator Bayh, a member of the Armed Service and Intelligence Committees, has been an outspoken advocate for a tough and smart approach to national security in the 21st century, confronting terror threats abroad and protecting our homeland.  