Bayh Secures $14.1 Million to Protect Military and Civilian Aircrafts Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced full Senate approval of $14.1 million that he fought for to help Hoosier companies upgrade and equip aircraft with state-of-the-art defense technology and to conduct important research and development projects that could lead to more advanced weapons systems. The funds, which will help protect our military men and women against the threat of surface-to-air or heat-seeking missiles include $6.8 million for Raytheon; $6 million for Rolls-Royce; and $1.3 million for the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Crane Division. In the future, the technology enhanced and manufactured by these Indiana defense companies could also provide greater safety for U.S. travelers on commercial airlines.  The men and women at Crane, Rolls-Royce and Raytheon play a vital role in providing our troops with the technology they need to combat the danger posed by surface-to-air missiles, which could also lead to improved safety for commercial airline travelers, Senator Bayh said. These funds mean better equipment to ensure homeland security, better job security for Hoosiers and increased economic growth for Indiana. Raytheon will receive $6.8 million to accelerate the production of advanced defense systems that help protect large aircrafts by reducing the amount of infrared emissions and implementing a warning system when danger is detected. Rolls-Royce will use $6 million to address a budgetary shortfall identified by United States Special Operations Command to equip the remaining forty-seven of their fleet of sixty-five MH-47 helicopters with technology to reduce the enemy's ability to detect the aircraft with heat-seeking devices. The MH-47 helicopter is used by special operations units to carry out missions that help fight the war on terror. The Purdue/Crane collaborative project will use $1.3 million to focus on research and lab equipment necessary to complement the Pentagon's efforts to reduce the threat posed by infrared missiles. The use of fourth generation shoulder-launched infrared or heat-seeking missiles provides one of the greatest challenges to national security at the present time. Crane personnel will provide the technology evaluation and testing for the research carried out to counteract these threats. The goal of Crane's research is to improve the military's ability to guard against this potential security hazard. Crane is the military's leading source for the production and development of pyrotechnic devices, such as infrared decoy flares and candles, which are used for mortar and artillery illumination rounds. The approval by the full Senate is the final step needed in the approval process before the President's signature. This June, Bayh announced Senate approval of the Defense Appropriations Act, which included the funding for the Hoosier defense projects to research and produce devices to combat the threat posed by heat-seeking missiles. Equipping both military and civilian aircraft with defense mechanisms to combat the threats posed by heat-seeking missiles can protect aircraft in areas where ground-based security measures are unavailable or difficult to implement.  