Bayh Brings Home More Than $108 Million for Indiana's Small Manufacturers Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced Congressional approval of $108.1 million for a widely-popular manufacturing program that helps small manufacturers grow their businesses and hire more workers. This funding will allow the Hollings Manufacturing Partnership (HMP) program's (formerly known as the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program) regional offices, covering the areas of Richmond, Portage and New Albany that were closed earlier this year to re-open, restoring important services that help Hoosier manufacturers. The HMP regional offices were forced to close due to budget cuts enacted last year. "At a time when Indiana's small manufacturers are working harder than ever to succeed, it is our job to make certain that they have the tools and resources necessary to continue creating more jobs and expanding their businesses," Senator Bayh said. "That's why I have and will remain committed to fighting for funding for the Hollings Manufacturing Partnership program now and in the future, to provide more hardworking Hoosiers with jobs." Indiana's HMP program helps 1,000 small businesses and last year had an economic impact of $53 million. It has helped create or save more than 1,300 Hoosier jobs in the past two years. However, the administration slashed funding for the program by more than 60% this year from $106 million to $39 million, forcing the HMP program to close offices across the country, including three in Indiana (Richmond, Portage and New Albany). As a result of an amendment introduced by Senator Bayh, which was included as part of the fiscal year 2005 Defense Appropriations Act, the Commerce Department reprogrammed $8.5 million to the HMP program budget this year. The funding approved today will allow Indiana's HMP program to continue teaching small manufacturers more efficient production practices, how to select and use new computer systems, and how to improve financial management and implement strategic planning. In addition to providing immediate support for Indiana's small manufacturers, Senator Bayh has also introduced legislation to increase future funding for the HMP program to provide continued economic opportunities for Indiana's small manufacturers. Bayh's legislation proposes funding the MEP at $220 million per year. With this level of support, Indiana's HMP program could receive an additional $4 million each year to broaden the impact of the program to help more small manufacturers with consulting, accounting, marketing, and certification needs, along with other services designed to help small manufacturers grow and succeed. These steps are vital to strengthening Indiana's economy and providing new jobs and better job security for Hoosiers. Indiana has 11,000 manufacturers, 98% of which are small manufacturers. These companies employ close to 300,000 Hoosiers across Indiana, providing greater economic opportunities for thousands of Hoosier families.  