Bayh Announces Nearly $3 Million for Clark County Improvements Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced Congressional approval of nearly $3 million to help Hoosiers restore businesses that were destroyed in a recent fire and to assist with the redevelopment of a former military facility to attract new business to the area. Specific fund allocations include $250,000 for Spring Street Redevelopment, $1 million for transforming the Indiana Army Ammunition Plant (INAAP) into a new business center, and $1.8 million for the Ohio River Greenways. Last winter, a fire tore through an entire city block on Spring Street, destroying several restaurants and shops in downtown Jeffersonville. The city will use $250,000 to carry out the Indiana Spring Street Redevelopment Project. "The people of Jeffersonville are working hard to restore their community and re-open their businesses that were damaged in the fire," Senator Bayh said. "These funds will jump-start the renovation process and provide Hoosiers with much-needed resources to rebuild the Spring Street area and ensure that future generations are able to enjoy this historic neighborhood." Senator Bayh, Senator Lugar and Congressman Hill urged House and Senate Appropriators this April to include funding for Spring Street renovations as part of an Economic Development Initiative (EDI) to help the city restore buildings damaged by the fire and to continue the Spring Street revitalization efforts, which were underway before the fire. Spring Street is the home of numerous historic buildings, which are now occupied by local businesses. The EDI funds will be used by the City of Jeffersonville to rebuild and improve the Spring Street corridor and build new parking lots. Of the remaining funding, $1 million will be used to help transform a former military facility into a high-quality business park, to be called River Ridge Commerce Center. The Re-Use Authority will redevelop INAAP, by first constructing five building lots on 103 acres of land. These five buildings will eventually offer 1.4 million square feet of business space to attract local companies. Hundreds of new jobs will be created through the construction, engineering and other work associated with the first phase of redevelopment. Bayh also announced $1.8 million for the Ohio River Greenways Project. The seven-mile Greenway winds through the cities of New Albany, Clarksville, and Jeffersonville and includes vehicle, pedestrian, and bicycle paths, scenic overlooks, and picnic areas. The project is sponsored locally by the Ohio River Greenway Commission, which has also received support from the state.  