Bayh Announces Additional $750,000 for Purdue’s Center for Advanced Manufacturing Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced Senate Appropriations Committee approval of an additional $750,000 that he fought for to help Hoosier manufacturers sharpen their competitive edge in today's global market. Purdue University's Center for Advanced Manufacturing will use the funding to find new ways for Hoosier businesses to improve their manufacturing processes as well as ways to apply new techniques that will advance the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA) mission.  The Center for Advanced Manufacturing will play a crucial role in helping Hoosier manufacturers use cutting-edge technology to compete and succeed in today's fast-paced, global marketplace, Senator Bayh said. During a time when manufacturing jobs are declining, the Center will spur the discovery of better, high-tech production methods, which will help create new job opportunities for future generations of Hoosier workers. Senator Bayh urged Senate appropriators this April to support the Center, which will help Indiana manufacturers access new technologies that will allow them to compete and succeed against foreign companies. The funding will offset the cost of research equipment and technology, which will be used to research the development process of nano-devices, advanced materials, advanced sensors, alternative and advanced energy sources, portable power, advanced vehicles, biomedical devices, imaging and advanced electronics and communications. In July, Senator Bayh secured an additional $1.5 million for Purdue's Center for Advanced Manufacturing as part of the Department of Defense's spending bill. Indiana has 11,000 manufacturers, 98% of which are small manufacturers. These companies employ close to 300,000 Hoosiers across Indiana, providing greater economic opportunities for thousands of Hoosier families. As a senator, Bayh has worked hard to support Indiana's small manufacturers in a variety of ways. In June, Bayh visited the future site of Purdue's Center for Advanced Manufacturing to speak directly with area Hoosiers about the importance of investing in Indiana's manufacturing future and to outline the ways that the Center would support local economic development. In addition, Bayh has introduced legislation to stop illegal trade practices that give Chinese companies unfair advantages. Bayh has also called for greater support for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program and has invested in Indiana's manufacturing future by supporting Indiana's life sciences, nanotechnology and advanced manufacturing centers. A strong believer in helping enhance technology in Indiana, Senator Bayh is committed to his work to attract more high-tech businesses to the state. With the backing of $7 million previously secured by Senator Bayh, Purdue broke ground in September 2001 on the Birck Nanotechnology Center, which is scheduled to open this fall.  