Bayh Calls on Fed to Crack Down on Predatory Mortgage Lenders Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh joined a coalition of his fellow senators in a letter to Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke calling on federal regulators to crack down on predatory lending practices in the housing market. Following the recent surge in defaults and foreclosures on so-called subprime mortgages, the Senators urged Chairman Bernanke to step up enforcement of existing consumer protection laws and to institute new lending standards aimed at preventing lenders from using deceptive or unfair lending practices to take advantage of vulnerable borrowers. "The Federal Reserve has failed to fulfill its obligation to American consumers by repeatedly looking the other way as irresponsible lenders use aggressive and often abusive tactics to sell borrowers on loans they will never be able to repay," Senator Bayh said. "As more and more Americans are forced into foreclosure, it is time for Chairman Bernanke and the Reserve Board to take action to crack down on these unfair lending practices." In the letter, the senators recommended that the Board fulfill its obligations under the 1994 Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act by taking a number of steps to ensure that lenders don't knowingly lure consumers into loans they will be unable to repay by using aggressive and often deceptive marketing practices. Steps outlined in the letter included requiring all mortgage originators to evaluate a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage loan before the mortgage is approved by verifying the borrower's income and not issuing loans that will require as much as 60 to 70 percent of borrowers' incomes to repay. Subprime mortgages are home loans typically extended to borrowers whose credit is not good enough to qualify them for a traditional mortgage, and often involve higher, less stable interest rates. Recently, many borrowers took out subprime mortgages they could not afford over the long term with the expectation that their homes would appreciate enough to cover the increasing payments. When the housing bubble burst last year, these borrowers were left without a safety net, and now record numbers have been forced into foreclosure. Senator Bayh has been a leader in the effort to help working families who are struggling to make ends meet. Earlier this month, he met with middle class Hoosier families across Indiana who would benefit from legislation he supports to make higher education more affordable and help with the costs of caring for children and elderly family members.  