Statement of Senator Bayh on the Delay of the Dubai Port Deal Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) today released the following statement in response to Dubai Ports World's decision to delay its deal to take over operations at six U.S. ports. "While I am glad that both Dubai Ports World and the administration have expressed a willingness to delay the deal, it should not have taken a public uproar to ensure that this deal received the necessary scrutiny. Simply delaying this deal is a step in the right direction, but it will not solve the larger problem -- the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States (CFIUS) has devolved into nothing more than a rubber stamp. When Congress returns next week, I will offer comprehensive legislation that ensures that national security is given a much higher priority in all future business deals, whether they involve port security or any other homeland security concern. "A GAO report that I requested with my colleagues showed that CFIUS uses too narrow a definition of national security. Since 1988, CFIUS has rejected only one proposed acquisition of an American company. With its approval, a Chinese company now makes 80 percent of magnets that make our smart bombs work. A tough and smart national security strategy does not allow profit to trump the responsibility to protect the American people." Bayh's legislation would put in place several steps to reform the process to ensure that national security is given greater consideration in the review of such acquisitions, including:  Requiring the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to certify that there are no troubling national security implications before the sale is reviewed by CFIUS  Adding the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to the Committee to bolster national security consideration  Requiring CFIUS to consider the country in which the foreign investor is located, including its relationship with the United States and its expanding defense capabilities. Currently, the home country is not taken into account during the approval process, so a nation with possible ties to terrorism is given the same consideration as a long-standing ally, such as Great Britain  Requiring the President to notify Congress and relevant state officials of all proposed foreign acquisitions  Increasing transparency by requiring CFIUS to hold a public hearing on proposed transactions before a final decision is made  