Bayh Announces $67 Million For Indianapolis-Based Companies to Help Protect U.S. Troops Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced Senate passage of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, which includes $67 million that he fought for to increase production at Indianapolis-based defense companies to help protect U.S. troops. The funds will aid military men and women in carrying out their duties more quickly and efficiently as well as provide job security for Indianapolis area workers. The act will provide $37 million for Allison Transmission, $23 million for Rolls-Royce, and $7 million for Raytheon for fiscal year 2005.  The workers who make the defense equipment at Rolls-Royce, Raytheon and Allison Transmission play a vital role in providing our troops with the equipment they need to fight the war on terror, Senator Bayh said. These funds mean better equipment to protect our national security and better job security and economic growth for Indiana. Rolls-Royce will use $5 million to conduct studies on ways to improve gas turbine engine technologies and $15 million to increase the take-off and landing capabilities, or thrust power, for Joint Strike Fighters (F-35), a tactical aircraft that will be used by the Air Force, Navy and Marines. Increasing the thrust capabilities will make it easier for the plane to navigate in and out of difficult terrain during missions. Bayh also secured $3 million to help upgrade engines for cargo aircraft, or C-130Es, which the military uses to transport troops and heavy equipment. Raytheon will receive $7 million to accelerate the production of advanced defense systems that help protect large aircrafts by reducing the amount of infrared emissions and implementing a warning system when danger is detected. In addition, Senator Bayh announced this June that Allison Transmission is one step closer to receiving $37 million to help improve the operating capabilities of M1A1 Abrams Tank transmissions and to install new transmissions in older M113 Armored Personnel Carriers. These funds will help keep U.S. troops safe by providing reliable, long-lasting transmissions to power Abrams tanks and armored personnel carriers, and will also provide greater job stability for the 200 Hoosiers who work at Plant 14.  