Bayh Restores Crucial Funding to Help Small Manufacturers Grow Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that he has helped restore $21.8 million for a popular manufacturing program that helps Indiana small manufacturers grow their business and hire new workers. Because of cuts made to the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program earlier this year, the MEP program was forced to close 58 regional offices across the country, including four in Indiana, and cut jobs by 15 percent, leaving small manufacturers without the assistance they need to compete in today's global marketplace. The funding was restored through a Reed-Bayh amendment, which was approved late last night by the Senate as part of the National Defense Authorization Act.  Small manufacturers play a vital role in Indiana's economy, Senator Bayh said. At a time when Indiana is facing thousands of lost jobs, it makes no sense to strip the funding away from the very programs that help Hoosier manufacturers grow and compete. Our manufacturers are working harder than ever to succeed, and providing support for the MEP program is crucial to their continued survival and success. The Reed-Bayh amendment was designed to provide the Secretary of the Department of Commerce with the authority to transfer, or reprogram, funding back to the MEP program to help stem recent cutbacks that resulted when the MEP's FY2004 budget was cut by more than 60 percent. The cut, which reduced the funding level from $106.6 million in 2003 to $39 million for this year, has severely limited the MEP's ability to help Hoosier manufacturers expand their businesses. Because of the funding cut, Indiana's MEP program had to close its centers in Portage, Terre Haute, Muncie and New Albany, and scale back its other efforts as the amount of federal funding that they receive fell from $2.5 million in 2003 to $670,000 in 2004. This left local manufacturers without the resources and expert advice they depended on to identify new clients, develop new marketing strategies and obtain business certifications. The Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) Program assists nearly one thousand Indiana small manufacturers each year by helping them improve their productivity, profitability and global competitiveness. With full funding, the program generates nearly $300 million each year for Indiana businesses, according to an estimate from the Indiana Business Modernization and Technology Corporation. Senator Bayh has consistently called for full-funding for the MEP program, to provide all of Indiana's small manufacturers with the technical and business assistance they need to remain globally competitive. This year, Bayh, along with 54 of his fellow senators from both sides of the aisle, emphasized the significant number of jobs that result from MEP funding and increased sales and investment that result from the organization in a letter to Secretary Evans. Bayh has written similar letters in support of the MEP program in the past.  