 Bayh Announces $63 Million for Hoosier Workers to Produce More SINCGARS Radios Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced Senate passage of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, which includes $63 million that he fought for to purchase additional SINCGARS radios and other necessary hardware for the third infantry division as well as the Army National Guard. The funds will address budget shortfalls for communication equipment and other hardware and provide increased job security for the Hoosier workers who make the SINCGARS radios at ITT Industries.  These radios play a crucial role in ensuring that our troops can safely and effectively communicate with their commanding officers during combat situations, Senator Bayh said. This funding means greater safety for our troops overseas and increased job security for Hoosier workers who make the radios in Fort Wayne. Bayh's efforts will help meet the demand for an extra 285 radios that was identified by the Army Chief of Staff, General Peter Schoomaker. The SINCGARS radio communication systems are used by U.S. Military men and women on the ground in combat situations to provide secure voice and data capabilities. The radios manufactured at ITT Industries were the radios used by the 4th Infantry Division, which found and captured Saddam Hussein. Bayh will continue working hard to ensure that U.S. troops have the radios and other equipment they need to do their jobs as safely and quickly as possible. Since being sworn into the Senate, Bayh has helped ITT Industries secure more than $200 million for the production of SINCGARS radios for the U.S. Army National Guard. Last year, Senator Bayh's work to secure additional funding to increase production at ITT Industries protected as many as 313 Hoosier jobs and led to more than 100 employees being called back to work. This May, Bayh visited workers at ITT Industries to thank them for their hard work and the important role that they play in providing our troops with the communication equipment they need to fight the war on terror. The Hoosiers working at ITT Industries are essential to providing our troops with the equipment they need in Iraq and Afghanistan, Senator Bayh said. This is a win-win situation for our troops, who will have updated equipment to help them stay safe and for our workers, who now have increased job security. ITT Industries is a world leader in high-technology areas, including space systems and tactical wireless communications systems. ITT's instruments are on every GPS satellite system ever launched, and they produce SINCGARS radios, which provide secure voice and data capability in combat situations.  