Bayh and Army: Allison Jobs Vital Part of National Security Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that an Army report he commissioned last year strongly supports his efforts on behalf of the 200 Hoosiers working at Allison Transmission's Plant 14, providing greater job security for the workers by offering a powerful endorsement for securing future contacts with the plant. The long-awaited report recognizes Plant 14 as a vital part of current and future military operations and recommends a long-term investment strategy with Allison Transmission in order to keep its military production lines busy for the foreseeable future.  This report only proves what we in Indiana have known all along - that the workers at Allison Transmission play a crucial role in enhancing our national security and the success of our nation's military, Senator Bayh said. Some jobs simply cannot be replaced. The Army has recognized that it can't afford to lose Allison's valuable manufacturing and technical expertise, and as a result, has announced plans to develop a long-term contract with the company, giving the workers at Plant 14 the credit and job security they deserve. In describing Allison's military work over the last 50 years, the report states that the company's experience in military transmission design, development and production is unequalled. The workers at Allison Transmission are the only workers in America who make the transmissions that power Abram's tanks, which make up the majority of our combat force and will continue to be the most heavily-relied upon vehicle in the Army through at least the next 15 years. The Abrams tanks and armored personnel carriers driven by the transmissions from Allison provide critical protection to U.S. troops serving overseas. Keeping Allison's Plant 14 in business is not only good for national security, but is also the most fiscally-responsible option. According to the report, [t]he cost of losing Allison as a long-term partner if we do not begin implementation of this program in FY-05 will be significant and negatively impact the Army's ability to sustain transmission over the long term. The workers at Allison Transmission have the experience and technical know-how that you just can't put a price on, Senator Bayh said. As this report shows, their skills will be needed to continue providing our troops with long-lasting, reliable armored protection well into the future. Bayh originally requested the study on the operational readiness of the Army's fleet of Abram's tanks one year ago to emphasize the importance of the work done at Plant 14. For the past year-and-a-half, Bayh has secured funding for Allison Transmission to produce much-needed tank transmissions, while calling for more support to prevent the Army from losing its only domestic source of tank transmissions. Last February, Bayh visited Indianapolis to announce a contract between the Army and Allison Transmission, and then visited Plant 14 in May to announce Armed Services committee approval of additional funding that would allow Allison to repair and improve transmissions for Abram's tanks and armored personel carriers. Just yesterday, Bayh secured $37 million in the Senate Defense Authorization bill for Allison to repair tank transmissions and upgrade armored personnel carriers needed by troops serving overseas.  