Bayh Announces $3 Million for Purdue’s Center for Advanced Manufacturing Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced Senate passage of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, which includes $3 million that he fought for to bring Purdue's Center for Advanced Manufacturing (CFAM) one step closer to becoming a reality. Purdue's CFAM will explore new methods Hoosier manufacturers can use to reduce costs, improve production time and increase the quality of their goods. The CFAM will also spur local economic growth and help enhance national security efforts.  The Center for Advanced Manufacturing will help attract expert researchers to our state and create a new hub where Hoosiers can work to enhance our national security and improve manufacturing, Senator Bayh said. During a time when manufacturing jobs are declining, the creation of these facilities will help spur the discovery of innovative ways to produce new goods and ensure the development of new job opportunities for future generations of Hoosier workers. The funds to develop the Center for Advanced Manufacturing will promote economic development by addressing the research needs of new start-up companies, by supporting existing companies' demand for applied research or process improvement plans, and by bringing emerging new technologies to the manufacturing industries. CFAM will be a part of Purdue University and will conduct research to help companies solve complex problems and use emerging technologies and new security products effectively. Many of the security products that CFAM will research and help implement are based on cutting edge technologies, including nano-devices, advanced materials and sensors, alternative and advanced energy sources or fuel cells, portable power, advanced vehicles, biomedical devices, imaging electronics and new methods of communication. Senator Bayh is an ardent supporter of programs designed to enhance technology in Indiana and attract more high-tech businesses to the state. With the backing of $7 million previously secured by Senator Bayh, Purdue broke ground in September of 2001 on the Birck Nanotechnology Center, which is scheduled to open this fall. The center will be a world-class nanotechnology research facility and will help make Indiana home to innovative technologies and advancements in the new economy. Nanotechnology is an emerging field of science in which scientists manipulate matter at the molecular level, and their findings could lead to breakthroughs in areas such as medicine, manufacturing, construction, computing and telecommunications. Despite the recent economic downturn, the manufacturing sector remains a vital part of the Hoosier economy, accounting for 20 percent of all Hoosier jobs making Indiana the largest manufacturing state in the country. As of December 2003, there were 574,800 Hoosiers employed by manufacturing jobs.  