Bayh, Carson & Peterson vow to continue fight for Amtrak jobs in Beech Grove Indianapolis-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh, U.S. Congresswoman Julia Carson and Mayor Bart Peterson said today that they would continue to fight for the 640 jobs at the Amtrak maintenance facility in Beech Grove, which faces federal cutbacks that threaten the national rail service.  The Beech Grove Amtrak facility is pivotal in the lives of these workers, the Beech Grove community and the entire city of Indianapolis, Mayor Peterson said. It is our duty to do everything we can to ensure these jobs stay here and the facility stays open. Beech Grove in south central Marion County is home to one of Amtrak's three heavy maintenance facilities. It employs 640 workers and pumps $41 million into Indiana's economy each year through the wages it pays. Indiana is proud of Amtrak's significant presence in our state and the Hoosiers who work at Beech Grove to keep their trains running, Senator Bayh said. The work at Beech Grove represents hundreds of good-paying jobs and better economic opportunities for Hoosier families, and it's important that they remain in Indiana. I will continue working with Mayor Peterson and Congresswoman Carson to make sure these jobs stay in Beech Grove. Mayor Peterson said he will write to President George Bush, U.S. Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta, Amtrak President  Chief Executive Officer David Gunn, members of the Amtrak Board, members of the Indiana Congressional Delegation, and Governor Mitch Daniels to urge them to continue to support funding for Amtrak and the Beech Grove facility. Senator Bayh also wrote to Amtrak President David Gunn. Passenger rail travel is so important, and we're lucky to have 640 employees right here in Beech Grove who every day are helping to improve Amtrak service across the country, Congresswoman Carson said. Just last week I took an Amtrak train with four of my colleagues from Union Station in Washington to Penn Station in Baltimore to raise awareness about a bill I cosponsored that would fully fund Amtrak through 2008.  