Bayh Announces $21 Million in LIHEAP Funding for Hoosier Families Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh announced today that Indiana would receive an additional $21 million from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to help Hoosiers struggling to pay their heating bills.  This funding is great news for families across Indiana who still need help paying their skyrocketing heating bills, Senator Bayh said. As fuel prices hit record highs this year, it became impossible for many families to afford to heat their homes. Indiana's LIHEAP program received so many applications for assistance that it was forced to turn families away. This $21 million will help some of our most vulnerable families survive the cold weather. Earlier this week, President Bush signed into law a piece of legislation supported by Senator Bayh to release an additional $1 billion in LIHEAP funds to help state LIHEAP programs provide relief to more families. The State of Indiana will receive $21 million, bringing its total allotment of LIHEAP funds for the year to $75 million. This year, American families are facing record prices for gas and oil, which has strained state LIHEAP programs. Applications for LIHEAP assistance are at an all-time high, up by almost 13 percent in Indiana, and many states have run out of program funds for the regular winter heating season. The additional LIHEAP funding will help families avoid having to choose between paying their heating bills and purchasing other necessities. The National Energy Assistance Directors' Association found that 73 percent of families would cut back on, or even go without, food, prescription drugs, or mortgage and rent payments to pay for heat. LIHEAP provides an essential safety net for these households and helps low-income families, senior citizens and individuals with disabilities maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans -- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, almost 5 million low-income households across the country receive LIHEAP assistance. Senator Bayh has been a staunch supporter of the LIHEAP program to make sure that low-income families are able to pay their heating bills. Bayh has consistently pushed for the full funding of LIHEAP, including efforts to off-set rapidly rising energy costs in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. He has also introduced legislation to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil and to promote energy efficiency, in an effort to reduce and stabilize energy costs.   