Bayh, Emanuel Urge CDC to Follow Flu Protection Act Recommendations Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh and Congressman Rahm Emanuel (D-IL) today called on the administration to follow key recommendations included in Bayh's Flu Protection Act to help prevent future vaccine shortages, after having helped secure $100 million for flu prevention in the omnibus spending bill Saturday. In addition to approving the $100 million, Congress specifically approved language for the first time that will allow the government to purchase flu vaccines with the funds, in addition to using the money on research and development efforts. The change allows the government to follow one of the main components of the Flu Protection Act, which Bayh first introduced nearly one year ago to prevent future vaccine shortages. Both Bayh and Emanuel urged the administration to use the funding to establish if necessary a buy-back program by offering to purchase unused flu vaccines at the end of next year's flu season, which would remove the economic disincentive currently facing manufactures and help ensure an adequate supply of the vaccine. "The CDC should purchase flu vaccines in a way that will best prevent a future vaccine shortage and make the most of their funding dollars," Senator Bayh said. "By offering to purchase unused flu vaccines at the end of next year's flu season, the CDC will remove the economic disincentive currently facing manufacturers and encourage them to produce more vaccines in a fiscally responsible manner. The CDC must make the most of this opportunity to ensure that no American has to stand in line with a young child or older parent, hoping that they will be one of the few to receive a vaccine again." "The $100 million included in the Appropriations bill is an essential step forward to make sure another flu vaccine crisis doesn't happen next year," Congressman Emanuel said. "But we still have our work cut out for us. I urge the administration to move quickly to implement the provisions described in the Appropriations bill, and Senator Bayh and I will continue to work with our colleagues in Congress to pass all of the provisions of the Flu Protection Act next year." Bayh reached out to Senate leadership and Senate appropriators throughout the fall, urging them to support the recommendations outlined in the Flu Protection Act by either allowing action on the legislation or by setting aside the funding needed to implement some of its reforms. As a result of Bayh and other's efforts, congressional appropriators increased the amount of funding originally set aside for flu-related efforts from $75 million to $100 million and explicitly added language allowing for the purchase of flu vaccines, in addition to research and development, another component of the Flu Protection Act. Before this change, CDC officials said they had no authority to purchase vaccines for the general public. While this change represents a significant step forward, more remains to be done before Americans are truly protected against the kinds of vaccine shortages they have faced over the past two years. Today, Bayh and Emanuel wrote to the administration, urging them to follow the recommendations outlined in the Flu Protection Act and set up a buy-back program that would encourage greater production of flu vaccines while ensuring an adequate supply for the next flu season. Both have pledged to continue working with the CDC and Congress to implement other steps included in the legislation to prevent future shortages. To help prevent future vaccine shortages and increase the number of U.S. vaccine manufacturers, the Flu Protection Act calls for the CDC to develop a contingency plan in case of a future shortage, offers significant incentives to encourage vaccine production in the U.S., sets aside funds to encourage the creation of more vaccine companies with faster production times, demands greater cooperation between the government and vaccine manufacturers to provide a more accurate estimate on the number of vaccines needed each year, and calls for a public outreach program to educate the public on the importance of receiving a flu vaccine, especially if they are a member of a vulnerable population. During the recent recess, Senators Robert Byrd (D-WV), Thomas Carper (D-DE), Mark Dayton (D-MN), and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) joined eight other senators, including Aging Committee Chairman Larry Craig (R-ID), as co-sponsors of Bayh's legislation. The American Public Health Association, the American Lung Association, and the American Nurses Association joined the American Association of Retired People (AARP) to declare their support for the Flu Protection Act as well. There are 29 bipartisan co-sponsors of the House version of the Flu Protection Act.  