Bayh Secures Funding for Law Enforcement Training Academy in Fort Wayne Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh voted to secure $350,000 for the new Public Safety Academy of Northeast Indiana in Fort Wayne. Funding for the academy was appropriated in two separate bills, with $150,000 approved as part of the Senate Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations Bill, which passed in the Senate last week by a vote of 75-19; and $200,000 approved as part of the Labor, Health and Human Services (LHHS) Appropriations Bill, which passed the Senate today by a vote of 75-19. We cant underestimate the skill and expertise required of our law enforcement officers and first responders, especially when we consider that often theyre in situations where every second counts, Senator Bayh said. This academy will build on what are already strong training programs and create a national model that will not only help ensure the safety and wellbeing of Hoosiers, but our fellow citizens throughout the country. The academy will train first respondersin particular, law enforcementfrom around the country for fire, police, homeland security and emergency medical response. The city of Fort Wayne has worked with state and regional first responders, local educational institutions, state officials, the Indiana National Guard, and regional business partners to create the academy. This is an opportunity for high-performance first responder training for those on the front lines of ensuring our homeland security, said Mayor Graham Richard. Over 5,000 first responders will benefit when this regional public safety training facility opens this November. The academy will serve as a regional facility where public safety personnel and first responders will work with certified trainers from institutions, including five accredited four-year colleges and universities. In addition to providing certificate and degree programs, the institutions providing the trainers will work to create a new four-year degree in emergency response. This funding was included by the Senate Appropriations Committee in the CJS and LHHS appropriations bills at the request of Senator Bayh. The bills now head to a conference with the House of Representatives. The final legislation is voted on again by both congressional bodies. The bills then head to the President for his consideration.  