170 Student Volunteers Recognized at Third Annual Indiana Service Leaders Summit Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh spoke to more than 170 Hoosier student volunteers on Saturday as part of the third annual Indiana Service Leaders Summit that he co-hosts with Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) to recognize the outstanding service work performed each year by Indiana high school students. At the summit, Senator Bayh described the audience as one of our nation's most valuable resources and thanked them for carrying on the tradition of public service idealized by leaders such as Martin Luther King, Jr. and Bobby Kennedy. The event was designed to inspire students to continue volunteering throughout their lives and is part of Senator Bayh's broader efforts to promote national service across America.  The same potential that enabled King and Kennedy to inspire millions of other Americans lies within each of you, Senator Bayh said. Together, you have already made countless contributions throughout Indiana because of your service work, touching hundreds of lives and building stronger communities. High school students from across Indiana came together at the summit to meet with Senator Bayh and Indiana service leaders to talk about key components of successful service projects, such as inspiration and evaluation, and to learn more about volunteer opportunities they can organize at home with other students. Last year, 150 students attended the second annual Indiana Service Leaders Summit. Senator Bayh said he hopes to continue including more students each year, to encourage others to make service a part of their lives. The summit is held each year on national Make-A-Difference Day. After the summit, Senator Bayh joined the students in creating care packages for Hoosier troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Salvation Army organized the service event, so that students could work together with others from across the state to create hundreds of care packages, which should reach the troops just in time for the holiday season. After creating the care packages, the students broke for lunch and then split into groups to take part in a variety of service projects in the Indianapolis area, including work with the Hawthorn Community Garden Project, Keep Indianapolis Beautiful, Coats for Kids, Gleaners Food Bank, Indy Parks, and Joy's House. In addition to hosting the summit, Senator Bayh has also called attention to an underutilized $1,000 service award that will provide $500 from the Corporation for National and Community Service for a student involved with service work, which must be matched by funds from the community. Bayh hopes as many students as possible will take advantage of the scholarship.  