Senator Bayh Holds Six Job Fairs, Job Training and Small Business Summits Across Indiana Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh traveled across Indiana last week, co-hosting the third annual series of Job Fairs, Job Training and Small Business Summits as part of his efforts to help residents succeed in today's economy. Bayh, a member of the Senate Small Business Committee, organized the forums to provide Hoosiers with the tools and resources they need to find a job today and create the jobs of tomorrow. Job fairs were held in South Bend, Fort Wayne, Evansville, Indianapolis, Terre Haute and Marion. Co-sponsors for the Job Fairs, Job Training and Small Business Summits included WorkOne, JobWorks, Indiana University -Purdue University Fort Wayne, Department of Workforce Development, Northern Indiana Workforce Investment Board, Northeast Indiana Workforce Investment Board, Ivy Tech Fort Wayne, Indiana University South Bend, City of Evansville, Office of Mayor Jonathan Weinzapfel, Indianapolis Private Industry Council, City of Indianapolis, Office of Mayor Bart Peterson, Indiana State University, Ivy Tech Marion, and Marion Community Schools.  Together with Bayh, they brought together 300 companies seeking to fill more than 6,500 jobs statewide and invited representatives from local universities, trade programs, and not-profits to meet with Hoosiers interested in learning how to improve their work skills to apply for new, higher-paying jobs. Bayh also brought together small business experts to provide entrepreneurs with practical tools and advice to expand their businesses. At the Job Fairs, Job Training, and Small Business Summits, every single Hoosier has the opportunity to realize his or her goal - whether that's to find a job today or create the jobs of tomorrow, Senator Bayh said. Indiana's small businesses already employ a million Hoosiers, and I'm working hard to give them the tools they need to expand and hire even more in the future. With the resources provided in my new legislation, small businesses can become big successes, using cutting-edge equipment and improved RD to create new jobs and strengthen Indiana's economy. At the summits, Bayh announced that he will introduce legislation next month designed specifically to provide small businesses with the resources they need to compete and succeed in an increasingly fast-paced global economy. With the Small Business Future Growth Initiative, Bayh will take on the main challenges faced by Hoosier entrepreneurs in order to encourage the innovation, worker training, and high-tech developments needed to create the jobs of tomorrow. Among the steps called for in his Future Growth Initiative, Bayh outlined plans to:  Encourage worker training so employees have up-to-date skills for increasingly high-tech jobs   Extend a tax credit that helps small businesses invest in cutting-edge tools   Encourage greater research and development   Help small businesses with the start-up costs of pension plans Since joining the Senate Small Business Committee two years ago, Bayh has authored legislation to increase the amount of money small business manufacturers can borrow from $2 million to $4 million and has tripled the amount of new investments that small businesses can write off, providing entrepreneurs with the capital they need to stay competitive and successfully expand their businesses. According to Indiana's Certified Development Companies (CDC's), this legislation would help create 200 to 400 new jobs each year. Bayh has also introduced legislation to help small businesses with the rising cost of health care, which has been identified as the number-one problem facing entrepreneurs today.  