Bayh Declares September “Service for Seniors” Month Washington-- The efforts of one Evansville man have resulted in a nationwide celebration honoring America's seniors as U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that the month of September will be designated as Service for Seniors month. Bayh's resolution is designed to encourage Americans to volunteer with service organizations that offer companionship, visitation and assistance to local seniors at a time when a growing number of older Americans are homebound or living in nursing homes.  Caring for our families, including our seniors, is one of our greatest Hoosier values, Senator Bayh said. Indiana has an excellent record of caring for and visiting our seniors, but more can be done here and across the country. Making September 'Service for Seniors' Month will provide all Americans with another opportunity to give back to their community by spending time with seniors in their hometown, whether they volunteer with a service organization or simply make the effort on their own. Evansville resident Stewart Elliot, 87 years old, contacted Senator Bayh this spring about the importance of encouraging all Americans to visit seniors living alone. At the time, Elliot had already prompted the City of Evansville and the State of Indiana to set aside dates reminding residents to visit local seniors. Bayh, a member of the Senate Aging Committee, responded to Elliot's letter by passing a Senate resolution to set aside the month of September as a reminder for all Americans to reach out to area seniors who are living alone or in nursing homes. Stewart Elliot's work to create a national Service for Seniors Month is a wonderful reminder of the good that can come when Americans reach out to help others, Senator Bayh said. Seniors across the country will reap the benefits of his work, with greater attention, more visitors and even new friends. More than 1.5 million Americans currently live in nursing homes, yet in some places, as many as 60 percent of these seniors rarely receive visitors. Ten percent of seniors in nursing homes are not being visited at all. Hoosiers interested in taking part in Service for Seniors Month, or in visiting seniors any month of the year, can contact local service organizations including Faith in Action, which has offices in Fort Wayne, Gary, Kokomo, Jeffersonville, Richmond and other Indiana cities. The Service for Seniors resolution builds on Senator Bayh's efforts to encourage greater community involvement, in addition to his work on behalf of Indiana's seniors. Most recently, Bayh co-authored a bill that would allow other states to follow Indiana's lead in allowing seniors to purchase long-term care insurance, which saves the state millions of dollars each year in nursing home costs. To help Hoosiers who care for their loved ones at home, Senator Bayh introduced legislation to provide caregivers with a $3,000 tax credit to alleviate some of the financial burdens families face when caring for parents or grandparents in their own home. One of Bayh's earliest actions as senator was to cosponsor the Nursing Home Resident Protection Amendment in 1999, which prevents nursing homes from evicting the 68% of residents who need Medicaid to pay the cost of living in a nursing home.  