Bayh Introduces Legislation to Help Small Businesses With Rising Cost of Health Care Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today targeted the number-one problem confronting small business owners by introducing legislation to help small businesses with the soaring costs of providing health care for their employees. Bayh's bill would provide a health care tax credit to small businesses with up to 100 employees and would also allow companies to join purchasing pools so that they can negotiate lower rates with insurance companies.  Soaring premiums and high administrative costs have forced many small businesses to give up on providing health insurance, Senator Bayh said. At a time when small businesses are creating 60 to 80 percent of new jobs nationwide, we need to do everything possible to help them and their workers succeed. My legislation hits the health care problem head on, helping employers offer much-needed health coverage to hardworking, middle-class families while continuing to grow their companies. Providing health insurance is one of the largest problems currently facing small business owners. According to a study by the Kaiser Family Foundation, only 49 percent of companies with up to 100 employees offer health coverage, as compared to 98 percent of all large firms. Premiums have been increasing at historic rates for small businesses that currently provide health care. For example, premiums for companies with ten or fewer employees grew by 16.5 percent in 2001. Bayh's bill provides up to a 50% tax credit to small businesses that currently offer health benefits and includes additional provisions to encourage other small businesses to begin offering coverage. In addition to the tax credit, Bayh's legislation also encourages small businesses to join state-run purchasing pools to increase their bargaining power with health insurance companies. By joining a purchasing pool, small businesses could obtain lower rates and greater options, meaning better health coverage for employees. The legislation could help as many as 114,000 Hoosier small businesses. Evansville Welding Supply in Evansville, Indiana, is one of the thousands of Hoosier businesses that could benefit from Bayh's bill. Co-owner Shannon Long says his company's health care costs have increased by 19 percent in the past two years and are expected to rise by another 35 percent next year, making it increasingly difficult to provide health insurance for his six employees. Small businesses like Evansville Welding Supply shouldn't have to see their hardwork sacrificed to cover wildly increasing health care costs, Senator Bayh said. Relieving the stress of high health care costs is critical to ensuring that small businesses continue to create new opportunities for economic growth across Indiana and the nation.  