Bayh Introduces Amendment to Prevent Future Shortages of Armored Vehicles in Iraq Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today offered an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill to ensure that there is enough funding to meet future needs for armored vehicles, armored cargo trucks and armored fuel tanker trucks, in addition to up-armored Humvees, all of which have all been targeted in roadside attacks. Bayh has been a leader in the fight to provide more up-armored Humvees to troops serving overseas. With this amendment, Bayh is expanding his effort, by providing funding for a wider range of vehicles for our troops.  Every vehicle that is a potential target should be fully armored to protect the troops riding inside it, Senator Bayh said. My amendment will significantly increase funding for fully armored vehicles, in an effort to avoid future shortfalls that could jeopardize our soldiers' safety. It is our moral obligation to provide our men and women fighting overseas with the equipment they need in the field. Bayh's amendment calls for $390 million to purchase more than 2,300 armored vehicles, including 1,428 up-armored Humvees and more than 800 armored trucks. While up-armored Humvee shortages have presented the most pressing need, the increasing number of insurgent attacks have also reduced the number of available armored trucks. The 2,300 armored vehicles will restore Army stockpiles in the region, which have been depleted during the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. In addition, Bayh's amendment would provide funding to supply 881 armored vehicles for training and preparation purposes prior to deployment, so that troops are well-trained in the use of armored vehicles before they reach the battlefield. As we have seen over the course of this war, the Pentagon has continually underestimated the need for armored vehicles, leaving our troops vulnerable while the Pentagon struggles to secure more vehicles, Senator Bayh said. It's time to get out in front and end this cycle. For once, let us err on the side of doing more for our troops, rather than less. Senator Bayh has consistently led the way in the Senate to provide funding for protective equipment for our troops. He has been a vocal critic of the Pentagon's failure to accurately estimate the number of vehicles needed to keep troops safe in Iraq. Since May of 2003, the Army's requirements for additional up-armored Humvees has grown from only 235 vehicles to more than 10,000 today. Over the last five years, Senator Bayh has helped secure roughly $3 billion to produce almost 30,000 standard and up-armored Humvees for all of the Armed Services.  