Bipartisan Coalition Urges Senate to Take Action on Bayh-Brownback Energy Legislation Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today led a bipartisan group of colleagues in sending a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Energy Committee Chairman Pete Domenici (R-NM), calling on them to bring Bayh's energy plan to the Senate floor by including it in any upcoming legislative package to address America's oil dependency. The bipartisan Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act already has been co-sponsored by twenty-five senators from across the ideological and geographic spectrum.  Although there are immediate steps the Congress can take to ensure that consumers are not being taken advantage of at the pump, there is no magic wand the government can wave to make oil prices drop, the Senators wrote. The high gas prices we are facing today can only be addressed by a serious, long-term effort to reduce our dependence on oil. According to news reports, Frist and Domenici are working on legislation to address high oil prices. In their letter, Bayh and his colleagues announced their intention to offer their bill as an amendment if it is not included in their legislative package, emphasizing that the only long-term solution to high gas prices is to put America on the path to energy independence. Our bill sets aggressive, yet achievable, targets to reduce U.S. dependence on oil. Senate bill 2025 provides tools to meet these targets by improving the efficiency of vehicles and increasing the production and use of biofuels. It includes new approaches for manufacturers, the federal government, scientists and consumers, all designed to encourage greater energy security, the Senators continued. The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act would mandate 7 million barrels in oil-savings in 20 years by setting bold but realistic targets to increase America's independence from foreign oil. It would also encourage the mass-production of cars that can burn any combination of gasoline and alternative fuels or, alternatively, cars powered by efficient hybrid engines. Senator Bayh has been a leader in the efforts to reduce American dependence on foreign oil. Significant parts of his energy plan were included in this month's Enhanced Energy Security Act of 2006, which is currently being considered by the Energy Committee. Last May, a bipartisan amendment Bayh co-sponsored to provide a tax credit to encourage gasoline stations to install or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol passed the Senate. Bayh is also a co-sponsor of the Fuel Security Act, which dramatically increases the amount of ethanol used each year in an aggressive approach to move the country toward greater energy efficiency. In addition, Bayh has voted to support the renewable fuels standard several times in the Senate and has written many letters to the Energy Conference Committee in support of a renewable fuels standard.   