Bayh Secures Indy Jobs, Pledges Continued Support for Troops Indianapolis-- Delivering on his promise to send more armored vehicles to U.S. troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today visited Hoosier workers at Allison Transmission to thank them for their hard work and announce funding for new transmissions to replace those in battle-damaged tanks. A member of the Armed Services committee, Bayh secured committee approval of $37 million for Allison Transmission to produce tank transmissions and upgrade personnel carriers that will help keep troops safe as they continue fighting the war on terror. Bayh's work will also help secure the jobs of 200 Hoosiers who work at Allison Transmission's Plant 14.  The Hoosiers working at Allison Transmission are playing an essential role in providing our troops with the equipment they need in Iraq and Afghanistan, Senator Bayh said. They represent the power behind the tanks, producing transmissions that will keep our tanks moving and keep our troops safe. While they work hard to protect our troops in Iraq, I'll keep fighting in Washington to protect their jobs. Allison Transmission will use the funds to improve the operating capabilities of M1A1 Abrams Tank transmissions and to install new transmissions on older M113 Armored Personnel Carriers. This work will ensure that our troops have reliable, working armored equipment to keep them safe while serving their tour of duty. The funding comes in addition to a $67 million contract with the Army that Bayh secured in February for Allison to produce transmissions for the Abrams M1A2 Battle Tank and the M113 Armored Personnel Carrier. This is a win-win situation, Bayh said. The work done to improve the Abrams tanks and personnel carriers means greater job security for Hoosier workers and greater protection for our troops in Iraq. The people at the Pentagon should have asked for this support earlier, but with the help of workers here at Allison, we will make sure that our troops get the armored vehicles they need as soon as possible. Bayh has been a leader in the effort to provide more armored equipment for our troops, following a report in Newsweek suggesting that as many as one in four deaths in Iraq could have been prevented if soldiers had better access to armored vehicles. In addition to the funding for tank transmissions, Bayh successfully included an amendment in the Armed Services mark-up to provide $610 million for the Army to purchase additional up-armored Humvees and/or armor kits, which will allow the companies to speed production of the vehicles so that they reach our troops faster.  