Bayh Brings Home South Bend Jobs, Pledges Continued Support for Troops South Bend, IN-- Straight from delivering on his promise to provide more up-armored Humvees for U.S. troops, Senator Evan Bayh came home to Indiana today to share the good news with the Hoosiers at AM General and to thank them for their hard work keeping our troops safe. During his visit, Bayh announced the Armed Services committee approval of his amendment to provide an additional $610 million for the Army to purchase more up-armored Humvees and armor kits for our men and women in uniform. Bayh's work will also provide greater job security for the 2,200 Hoosiers working at AM General, where the Humvees are produced, and will create new jobs as the company ramps up production to meet the Army's increased demand. "Nothing makes me prouder than to stand here today at AM General, with the men and women who are playing such an essential role in keeping our troops safe," Senator Bayh, a member of the Armed Services Committee, said. "Our brave men and women fighting overseas should never have been without the equipment they need while they are out defending our national security. Together with these funds, we'll make sure that our troops get their vehicles even faster than the Army had planned, so that not one more soldier has to die because he didn't have access to armored equipment." Bayh visited the plant where the Humvees are made and personally sent a fresh batch of vehicles on their way to Ohio, where they will be fitted with armor before being sent to our troops, who are facing escalating violence in Iraq and Afghanistan. Soon, workers at AM General will be busier than ever, producing as many as 450 up-armored Humvees this fall to provide the troops with the equipment called for in Bayh's amendment. During a special Armed Services hearing earlier this month, Bayh pledged to do whatever it took to provide enough up-armored Humvees and armor kits after he learned of reports describing U.S. troops trying to protect themselves from attack by bolting plywood and scrap metal to the sides of standard Humvees. According to a report in Newsweek magazine, nearly one out of every four deaths in Iraq could have been prevented if our troops had more access to armored vehicles. Bayh worked with senators from both sides of the aisle to pass his amendment, which authorizes the Secretary of the Army to use the $610 million for purchasing additional up-armored Humvees and/or ballistic armor kits. In addition to his amendment, Senator Bayh also helped secure another $618 million, which will purchase more than 2,200 up-armored vehicles, and was approved by the Committee to address the Army's urgent request for more up-armored Humvees. According to the Associated Press, the up-armored Humvee "probably ranks No. 1 on the wish list for many soldiers in Iraq, since it can stop AK-47 bullets, anti-personnel RPGs and most roadside bombs and mines - weaponry that makes short work of the non-armored version." In the same AP article, one soldier who survived a roadside bomb in an up-armored Humvee recommended that "every vehicle that goes out on the road should be 'up-armored'." Roadside attacks represent one of the biggest threats to U.S. troops serving in Iraq. However, only 20 percent of the Humvees currently in Iraq are up-armored. Up-armored Humvees can protect against attacks from small arms and roadside bombs. "Providing the best equipment for our troops is the responsible thing to do," Senator Bayh said. "It's also a win-win situation, providing greater job security for the Hoosiers at AM General and ensuring greater safety for our troops serving overseas." Last fall, Bayh worked with Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) to secure $239.3 million in the Iraq War Supplemental to produce more than 1,300 up-armored Humvees, a $60 million increase over the amount requested by the administration.  