Bayh Hosts Second Annual Indiana Service Leaders Summit Washington-- Speaking to more than 150 Hoosier student volunteers, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh described the audience as one of our nation's most valuable resources and thanked them for carrying on the tradition of public service idealized by leaders such as Martin Luther King, Jr. and Bobby Kennedy. Bayh spoke to the students Saturday at the second annual Indiana Service Leaders Summit he hosted along with Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis. Bayh holds the summit to draw attention to the outstanding community service work performed by high school students across Indiana and to inspire them to continue volunteering throughout their lives. The event is part of Senator Bayh's broader efforts to promote national service across America by expanding volunteer opportunities.  The same potential that enabled King and Kennedy to inspire millions of other Americans lies within each of you, Senator Bayh said, following a media clip with remarks from Martin Luther King, Jr. and Bobby Kennedy. It is a potential that you have demonstrated already through the outstanding service work that brought you here today and I want to thank you for your work and the difference you have already made in our communities. High school students from across Indiana came together at this weekend's summit to meet with Senator Bayh and Indiana service leaders to talk about key components of successful service projects, such as inspiration and reflection, and learn more about volunteer opportunities they can organize at home with other students. Last year, 130 students attend the first annual Indiana Service Leaders Summit. Senator Bayh said he hopes to continue including more students each year, to encourage others to make service a part of their lives. After the summit, Senator Bayh joined the students in creating care packages for Hoosier troops serving in Iraq. Each student was asked to collect materials to be used in the care packages, along with additional materials donated by the Salvation Army and members of Senator Bayh's office. The care packages should reach the troops just in time for the holiday season. Just as we honor the community service of our high school students at this summit, they in turn are honoring the sacrifices and national service of our Hoosier troops who are serving in Iraq today, Senator Bayh said. We hope that these care packages are useful during their time in Iraq and that, most importantly, they serve as a reminder of home and the Hoosiers who are so proud of their efforts. After creating the care packages, the students broke for lunch and then traveled to the Fall Creek Greenway, where they planted 170 trees, cleared away garbage and spread mulch. In addition to hosting the summit, Senator Bayh has also called attention to an underutilized $1,000 service award that will provide $500 from the Corporation for National and Community Service for a student involved with service work, which must be matched by funds from the community. Bayh hopes as many students as possible will take advantage of the scholarship.  