Bayh Encourages Hoosier Students to Apply for Fourth Annual Indiana Service Leaders Summit Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today encouraged Hoosier students from across the state to apply to take part in the fourth annual Indiana Service Leaders Summit he is co-hosting with Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI). Each year, Senator Bayh co-hosts the summit in Indianapolis to recognize student volunteers for their work in their communities and thank them for carrying on the tradition of public service idealized by leaders such as Martin Luther King, Jr. and Bobby Kennedy. The event is designed to inspire students to continue volunteering throughout their lives and is part of Senator Bayh's broader efforts to promote national service across America.  Volunteers are one of America's great national resources, and I am always proud to see how many young Hoosiers donate their time and energy to improving their communities, Senator Bayh said. I am looking forward to taking part in our fourth annual Service Leaders Summit and meeting more outstanding Hoosier volunteers. This year I encourage all Hoosier high school students to apply to take part in the summit in the coming weeks. High school students selected for the summit will come together in Indianapolis to meet with Senator Bayh and Indiana service leaders to talk about key components of successful service projects, such as inspiration and evaluation, and to learn more about volunteer opportunities they can organize at home with other students. Last year, 170 students attended the third annual Indiana Service Leaders Summit. After the summit, Senator Bayh will join the students in creating care packages for Hoosier troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. After creating the care packages, the students will break for lunch and then split into groups to take part in a variety of service projects in the Indianapolis area, including work with Riley Children's Hospital, Gleaner's Food Bank and Habitat for Humanity. Each high school can nominate two outstanding student leaders to participate in the summit. Participants will be selected based on their demonstrated commitment to public service, as well as their leadership roles within their schools and communities. For more information about how to submit nominations or apply for the summit, students and schools should contact Brent Wake, Senator Bayh's regional director for Northeast Indiana, via phone at (260) 426-3151 or email at Brent_Wake@bayh.senate.gov. In addition to hosting the summit, Senator Bayh is also encouraging students to apply for a $1,000 service award that provides $500 from the Corporation for National and Community Service for a student involved with service work, which must be matched by funds from the community. Bayh hopes as many students as possible will take advantage of the scholarship.   