Lugar, Bayh Secure Funding for Fort Wayne Flood Control Washington-- U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh today voted to authorize funding for the Fort Wayne and Vicinity Flood Control project.  This new funding would provide flood control protection for an additional section of the St. Marys River and the Fairfield Ditch as part of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) Conference Report.  The bill now heads to the President for his signature.  Projects for flood damage reduction and mitigation are critically important to Hoosiers living near bodies of water and in flood plains.  This funding will assist with an important infrastructure improvement for the residents of Fort Wayne, said Lugar.  With the recent bridge collapse in Minneapolis, weve been tragically reminded that we must take proactive steps to secure our critical infrastructure, Bayh said. These flood control projects are essential to providing the infrastructure needed to protect Hoosier homes and businesses from potentially devastating floods in the future. Lugar and Bayh were successful in securing the authorization for this project in the Senate WRDA bill in May of 2007. In the past three years, the City of Fort Wayne has experienced two record flooding events that highlighted flood control deficiencies in the area known as the Fairfield Ditch and an adjacent section of the St. Marys River.  At the request of the city, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers conducted a reconnaissance study of the Fairfield Ditch and the flood prone section of the St. Marys River and determined the benefits and the critical need to undertake this project before another major wet weather event.  Mayor Graham Richard requested this project be authorized, and the City of Fort Wayne is prepared to match the federal investment at a cost share of 65 percent federal and 35 percent local.  Funds were provided through the Small Projects for Flood Damage Reduction program.  The legislation stipulates that this project provide a 100-year level of flood protection for Berry Thieme, Park-Thompson, Woodhurst, and Tillman sites along the St. Marys River.  