Senate Passes Kohl-Snowe-Bayh Amendment to Help Small Manufacturers Compete in the Global Economy Washington-- The Senate today adopted an amendment co-sponsored by Senator Evan Bayh to increase by $12 million funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, a federal program that helps small manufacturers compete by providing business consulting and other services. The amendment, introduced by Senators Herb Kohl (D-WI) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) as part of the America Competes Act is designed to expand the reach of the program and enable small companies to grow their businesses and hire more workers.  Small manufacturers play a critical role in Indiana's economy, and yet all too often they are forced to lay off workers or close their doors as a result of foreign competition, Senator Bayh said. By passing my amendment to increase funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program, the Senate today sent a clear signal that we stand behind America's small manufacturers as they work to grow their businesses and hire more workers.  Indiana's MEP program provides direct assistance to 300 small businesses each year, with an economic impact of $61 million each year. However, the President's 2008 budget proposal slashes funding for the program by more than 50 percent, which will force the MEP program to close offices across the country. If the Kohl-Snowe-Bayh amendment becomes law, Indiana's MEP program would receive funding needed to expand to five more Hoosier cities. Currently the program operates in eight cities in Indiana.  Senator Bayh has a strong record of working to support Indiana's small manufacturers. In February, Bayh introduced legislation to help strengthen enforcement of laws protecting American intellectual property from being stolen by overseas competitors and used to make counterfeit products and has called on China to stop artificially devaluing its currency, which gives Chinese companies a 20 to 40 percent advantage, making it harder for U.S. companies to compete.   