Bayh Marks World Intellectual Property Day by Calling on Congress to Strenthen IP Theft Enforcement Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today joined Senator George Voinovich (R-OH) in calling on Congress to celebrate World Intellectual Property Day by cosponsoring the Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act, which Bayh and Voinovich introduced in the Senate earlier this year. In a letter sent today, the senators urged their colleagues to sign on to the bill, an ambitious approach to defending U.S. companies and workers by strengthening laws that protect American intellectual property, which is often stolen by foreign companies and used to make counterfeit products. The Bayh-Voinovich legislation improves IP theft enforcement and increases penalties by creating one organized force to combat IP theft and elevates the government's response to IP theft offenses to the same level as money laundering and other black-market crimes. "The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement act is designed to expand upon and improve our existing IP enforcement strategy, offering a focused, aggressive coordination plan for our domestic and international efforts," the senators wrote in the letter. "World Intellectual Property Day presents an ideal opportunity to take this important step forward in protecting our best and last competitive advantage in the global economyAmerican ingenuity." According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, counterfeiting costs U.S. businesses as much as $250 billion annually and 750,000 American jobs have been lost due to counterfeit merchandise. IP theft also poses a threat to the health and safety of American citizens. Counterfeit drugs make up 10 percent of the pharmaceutical market, and $3 billion in phony auto parts are sold in the United States each year. The Department of Commerce estimates that the U.S. auto industry could hire over 200,000 more workers if we put a stop to the counterfeit auto parts trade. "World Intellectual Property Day offers an ideal time to reflect on the important role of ideas in the American economy and to discuss ways we can better protect American intellectual property," Senator Bayh said. "When foreign companies steal our ideas, they also steal our jobs. We owe it to U.S. workers to pass this bill and treat these crimes with the seriousness they deserve." Senator Bayh has been a leader in the effort to defend American companies and workers by fighing unfair trade. In addition to introducing the Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act earlier this year, Bayh and Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) reintroduced the Stopping Overseas Subsidies Act to crack down on foreign companies that use illegal trade practices that allow favored companies to sell their products for less than it costs to make them, undercutting companies in America and elsewhere that play by the rules.  