Bayh Urges Relief for Hoosier Families Struggling with Rising Energy Prices Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh called on President Bush to provide relief to low-income families struggling to pay their heating bills by releasing the remaining $200 million available in the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) emergency contingency fund. In a letter written by Senators Jack Reed (D-RI) and Susan Collins (R-ME), Bayh and his colleagues pointed out that the recent wave of arctic cold that hit the Midwest and Northeast put significant strain on the finances of working families, with more freezing weather still on the horizon. As a result of the recent cold snapwhich is responsible for at least nine deaths across five statesmany state LIHEAP programs are running out of funds or already have had to turn people away. "No family in our nation should be forced to choose between heating heir home and putting food on the table for their children," the Senators wrote in the letter to the President. "No senior citizen should have to decide between buying life-saving prescriptions and paying utility bills. We urge you to immediately release the remaining balance of funds in the LIHEAP contingency fund." This winter, Hoosier families continue to face record prices for gas and oil, which are straining state LIHEAP programs. Indiana is one of 16 states that has seen LIHEAP applications increase by more than 20 percent since 2002. As a result of the recent surge of cold weather, several states are already running out of heating assistance funds, leaving low-income families, the elderly and disabled without a safety net as temperatures continue to drop over the next several weeks. Bayh and his colleagues argued that these conditions warrant the release of LIHEAP's contingency funds to allow states to provide assistance to more families through the remaining winter months. "The bitterly cold temperatures that have swept across Indiana recently have pushed many working Hoosiers' budgets to the breaking point," Senator Bayh said. "With forecasts calling for temperatures to drop near record lows again, it is important that we do everything we can to help Hoosiers keep their families warm this winter." Senator Bayh has been a staunch supporter of the LIHEAP program to make sure that low-income families are able to pay their heating bills. Bayh has consistently pushed for the full funding of LIHEAP, including efforts to off-set the rapidly rising energy costs in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. He also has introduced legislation to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil and to promote energy efficiency.  