Bayh Calls on Pentagon to Consult with Congress Before Proposing Changes to National Guard Washington-- In the wake of news reports that the Pentagon plans to reduce the size of the National Guard force, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today co-sponsored a Senate resolution to request that the Pentagon consult with Congress and state officials before making any proposals to change the size or structure of the National Guard. The resolution, which was introduced by Senators Ben Nelson (D-NE) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC), also asks that any changes take into account the National Guard's indispensable role in responding to crises at home and fighting the war on terror abroad.  At a time when we are depending on the National Guard more than ever before, it makes no sense to cut their force size, Senator Bayh said. As a former governor, I know how much states depend on their National Guard forces. Our forces are stretched thin enough already with longer deployments abroad and continued responsibilities at home. We owe them our gratitude and support, not threats to cut their ranks. Recent media reports indicate that the Pentagon plans to ask Congress to cut the Army National Guard by almost 17,000 members and the Air National Guard by an unspecified number in the Department of Defense FY 2007 budget request. Given the essential role that the National Guard has played overseas and at home in responding to terrorist threats and natural disasters, the resolution requests that the Department of Defense consult with state executives and Congress before putting forth any proposals that would modify the National Guard force. This consultation would allow Congress and our nation's governors to play more of a role in developing a proposal with wide-ranging implications for our national security. In addition, the resolution honors the service of America's National Guard and asks that any changes take into account the Guard's critical role in homeland defense. In the first stages of the Iraq War, National Guard soldiers comprised nearly half of the United States combat forces in Iraq, and National Guard personnel are currently stationed in more than 40 countries around the world. National Guard members are also some of our most important first responders to natural disasters here at home; they made up almost 90 percent of the troops in Louisiana and Mississippi responding to Hurricane Katrina. Senator Bayh, a member of the National Guard Caucus, has made it one of his top priorities to provide all of our troops, including National Guard members, with the equipment and the support they need to succeed in the field. Bayh has championed legislation to end the Patriot Penalty, the pay cut many National Guard and Reserve members face when they are called to duty and lose their civilian salaries. He has also introduced legislation to protect military families who are facing foreclosure, eviction or loan default due to financial hardship caused by their military service, and has secured roughly $3 billion over the past five years to purchase almost 30,000 standard and up-armored Humvees.  