Bayh Meets with Mittal Steel CEO Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today met with Lou Schorsch, President and CEO of Mittal Steel, to discuss Mittal Steel's operations in Indiana and the key trade issues that impact the domestic steel industry. Mittal Steel employs nearly 11,000 Hoosiers. "Everyday, our steelworkers get up in the morning and already have one hand tied behind their backs because of illegal subsidies and other unfair trade practices," Senator Bayh said. "Our steelworkers have proved their willingness to work hard by restructuring their industry over the last few years and I valued the opportunity to discuss with Lou how to ensure that they are able to build on that success at home and compete on a level playing field abroad." In the meeting, Bayh applauded the steel industry's commitment to competitiveness. Over the last several years, the steel industry has adapted to changing economic pressures and a global economy. The industry met those challenges head-on and as a result, has seen recent surges in its business. Bayh and Schorsch discussed concerns about the potential impact China and its increasing steel production capacity could have on steelworkers and Indiana's economy. In November, Bayh urged President Bush to apply U.S. trade laws that would provide much-needed relief to U.S. steel workers struggling against a flood of imported steel from China. Bayh and Schorsch also discussed the importance of maintaining strong antidumping laws in the current round of World Trade Organization negotiations. Bayh is a co-sponsor of the bipartisan Craig-Rockefeller resolution that declares the Senate's longstanding support for preserving the ability of the United States to rigorously enforce its trade laws, including the antidumping, countervailing duty and safeguard laws. In 2003, Bayh authored legislation to strengthen U.S. trade laws against unfair rulings by the WTO. Bayh has been a strong supporter of the U.S. steel industry and the more than 30,000 Hoosiers who have worked to help their industry compete in the global economy. He has supported efforts to preserve trade remedy laws, and has introduced legislation to fight unfair trade practices by cracking down on illegal foreign subsidies. Bayh also actively petitioned both the Clinton and Bush administrations to open an International Trade Commission investigation into unfair trade practices, which led to the temporary tariffs that gave the steel companies time to restructure their operation.  