Bayh Co-Sponsors Bill to Reduce Pork Barrel Projects Washington-- As the Congressional Budget Office released new estimates forecasting a $337 billion deficit for this fiscal year, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today co-sponsored a bill designed to reduce the number of pork barrel projects added to the federal budget by requiring greater transparency in the federal budget process. The legislation, introduced by Senator Barack Obama (D-IL), seeks to limit wasteful spending by calling for a series of steps that would require voting on individual projects inserted into bills and would increase public scrutiny over the practice.  Our growing deficit threatens not only our economic interests, but also our national security. We can't afford to continue depending on foreign competitors like China to finance our debt, Senator Bayh said. As a former Governor, I understand the importance of real fiscal responsibility, a philosophy that is sorely needed in Washington today. The legislation I am co-sponsoring will help rein in wasteful spending, to help ensure that we don't pass on mountains of debt to our children. Currently, pork barrel projects are routinely added at the last minute and are buried in thousand-page appropriations bills. The pet projects, which have included such infamous earmarks as $223 million Bridge to Nowhere, are not subject to individual votes. The practice allows politicians to slip in funding for projects that otherwise might not receive support, and has been under scrutiny recently for the role such earmarks have played in the ongoing lobbyist scandal. The legislation would introduce a number of steps designed to make it more difficult to insert such earmarks, including provisions that:  Require new materials in conference reports to be clearly identified and, if possible, to include the name of the member proposing the provision;  Call for conference committee meetings to be televised or made open to the public, with adequate notice given to conference members regarding the time and place of meetings;  Require committee votes on all amendments and other propositions considered by the committee;  Require all legislation be made available to the public at least 72 hours before consideration; and  Prevent any appropriation bill from being considered unless a list of all earmarks are made available to members of Congress and the general public for at least 72 hours before consideration. What we really need is leadership in Washington that puts the interests of American families ahead of political and personal interests, Senator Bayh said. Americans aren't seeing the results they should from their government, and that needs to change. Citizens Against Government Waste, a fiscal watchdog group, estimates that earmarks last year cost taxpayers $27.3 billion, up from $10.1 billion in 1995. The recently enacted transportation bill had 6,371 earmarks in it alone. Senator Bayh has been a long-time leader in the Senate to restore fiscal responsibility and reduce the budget deficit. Most recently, Bayh was one of 15 senators to vote against the infamous Bridge to Nowhere, a $223 million project to connect a small Alaska town to an island that was one of 6,371 earmarks included in the Transportation bill. In his first term, Senator Bayh voted against 16 appropriation bills, totaling $920 billion in new spending.  