Bayh Urges Senate to Focus on Comprehensive Energy Bill in Upcoming Vote Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today offered his Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act as an amendment to the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act, which is scheduled for a vote next week, in an effort to force the Senate to vote on his plan before it adjourns for the August recess. With Americans facing sky-high gas prices with no relief in sight and significant bipartisan support already lined up for his bill, Bayh argued that it is past time for Congress to take action on reducing the nation's dependence on foreign oil. "If Congress is going to vote on any energy legislation this summer, it should vote on a comprehensive solution to reducing our nation's dependence on foreign oil," Senator Bayh said. "My energy plan is already supported by more than a quarter of the Senate and even endorsed by several governors -- Republican and Democrat alike. With support like that, there's no reason we shouldn't be able to vote on my plan and start making a real difference for American families." Bayh introduced his legislation, the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, in November 2005, along with an original bipartisan coalition of nine senators. Since then, 18 additional senators have signed on as co-sponsors of the legislation, which outlines steps to reduce our use of oil by 7 million barrels a day in 20 years. Those steps include increased ethanol production, tax credits to encourage the production of more hybrid vehicles and increased research and development into alternative fuels and hybrid technology. "Too many Americans are beginning to wonder if Washington really works for them anymore," Senator Bayh said. "Before we leave in August, we owe it to the American people to vote on meaningful, comprehensive legislation that addresses one of our generation's greatest challenges -- meeting our future energy needs." Since introducing his legislation in November, Bayh has continuously pushed for a vote on his energy plan. Bayh has attended meetings on energy at the White House, testified before the Senate Energy Committee and worked with his colleagues to continue attracting bipartisan support for the bill. Bayh has also reached out to leaders in business, national security and the environment to discuss the importance of addressing our energy needs and earn their support for his plan.  