Bayh Secures Ft. Wayne Jobs, Pledges Continued Support for Troops Fort Wayne, IN-- Delivering on his promise to send more armored vehicles and better equipment to U.S. troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today visited Hoosier workers at ITT Industries to thank them for their hard work and announce funding for new radios to help troops communicate better on the ground.  A member of the Armed Services committee, Bayh secured committee approval of $61 million for ITT Industries to produce nearly 800 radios and other needed hardware that will help keep troops safe as they continue fighting the war on terror. Bayh's work will also help provide greater job security for the 1,450 Hoosiers who work at ITT Industries and will mean renewed job opportunities for more than 100 Hoosiers who will be called back to work at ITT to meet the increased demand for radios. The Hoosiers working at ITT Industries play an essential role in providing our troops with the equipment they need in Iraq and Afghanistan, Senator Bayh said. They help make sure our troops can communicate with each other and pass along vital information in every kind of battle environment. While they work hard to protect our troops in Iraq, I'll keep fighting in Washington to protect their jobs. The radios and other equipment that ITT Industries produces will be sent to the Marine's 3rd Infantry Division, which is currently stationed in Iraq. This work means that our troops will have greater, more reliable equipment that they can depend on in the midst of battle. The SINCGARS radio communications systems are used by U.S. Military men and women on the ground in combat situations to provide secure voice and data communications capabilities. In fact, equipment made at ITT was used by members of the 4th Infantry Division to capture Saddam Hussein last December. This is a win-win situation, Bayh said. This funding means greater job security for Hoosier workers and greater protection for our troops in Iraq. The people at the Pentagon should have asked for this support earlier, but with the help of workers here at ITT, I will continue working to make sure that our troops get the radios they need as soon as possible. The Army has identified a shortfall of 285 radios in addition to the radios for the 3rd Infantry Division Bayh secured in the Armed Services mark-up. Bayh last visited ITT Industries in February of 2003 when he was first appointed to the Armed Services Committee. ITT Industries is a world leader in high-technology areas, including space systems and tactical wireless communications systems. ITT's instruments are on every GPS satellite system ever launched, and they produce SINCGARS radios, which provide secure voice and data capability in combat situations. Bayh has been a leader in the effort to provide more armored vehicles and equipment for our troops, following a report in Newsweek suggesting that as many as one in four deaths in Iraq could have been prevented if soldiers had better access to armored vehicles. In addition to the funding for radios, Bayh successfully included an amendment in the Armed Services mark-up to provide $610 million for the Army to purchase additional up-armored Humvees and/or armor kits, which will allow the companies to speed production of the vehicles so that they reach our troops faster.  