Bayh Announces Bill to Protect Military Families from Foreclosure Washington-- Building on his efforts to end the Patriot Penalty, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced plans to introduce legislation designed to protect military families who are facing foreclosure, eviction or loan default due to financial hardship because of military service. Many military families are losing their homes, in spite of an existing law protecting them from these situations, because the administration has failed to properly educate our soldiers about their rights and lenders are either unaware of or ignoring the law. Bayh's Servicemembers Home Protection Act of 2005 would levy fines against financial institutions that ignore this law and would educate families about their rights. An increasing number of military families are facing economic difficulties ranging from an inability to pay grocery bills to outright bankruptcy as active duty tours last longer than any in the past 50 years. "Even though it violates the law, soldiers are losing their homes while they are fighting on the front lines," Senator Bayh said. "This is unacceptable. My legislation will force the administration to educate our troops about their rights and will punish lenders who wrongfully take away our troops' homes." Many military families are unaware that they are currently protected by the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act from foreclosure and eviction, so they do not fight the notices they receive. At the same time, financial institutions are either ignoring the law or claiming they are unaware of its existence. Bayh's bill offers a direct solution to both problems, by taking the following three steps:  Requiring the Department of Defense to develop an educational outreach program for military families during the process of mobilization  Enacting a series of fines to be levied against financial institutions that violate the protection offered to military families. Financial services regulators would have the authority to levy these fines and would bring much-needed oversight to the issue  Including information on military families' rights on notices required during the foreclosure process to ensure that families are aware of their protected status if the process manages to reach that level Bayh's legislation also calls for a study on other ways to further decrease the financial burden on service members when they are called to active duty. Bayh plans to introduce his Servicemembers Home Protection Act after the Memorial Day recess as a stand-alone bill and as amendments to the Defense Authorization bill "Memorial Day should not be the only time we spend honoring the sacrifices of our service members," Senator Bayh said. "Our troops are doing right by us every day and it's time we do the same. I will continue fighting to provide the equipment our troops need in the field and the support their families deserve at home." In addition to the Servicemembers Home Protection Act, Bayh has also introduced legislation to end the Patriot Penalty. The Patriot Penalty Elimination Act would fully compensate 99 percent of the Guard or Reserve members who have suffered a pay cut while serving their country and help ensure that no one serving will face a pay cut in the future. According to a Pentagon study, more than 40 percent of all Reservists reported a loss in income when they were called up for active duty. Reservists whose families face financial hardship during their deployment may be less likely to re-enlist as a result of the Patriot Penalty.  