Bayh Visits Future Site of Gary National Guard, WMD Team Gary, IN-- Delivering on his promise to strengthen homeland security in Indiana and create new local jobs, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today visited the future site of the newest Indiana National Guard building to thank local guardsmen and women for their hard work and to announce approval of the final round of funding for the center. A member of the Armed Services committee, Bayh secured committee approval of $9.3 million for the construction of the final phase of the Armed Forces Reserve Center (AFRC), which will provide increased homeland security for all of Indiana. Bayh's work will also create more than 240 new area jobs.  The Indiana national guard members standing here today are serving on the front lines when it comes to keeping Hoosiers safe, Senator Bayh said. They represent our first and best line of defense against any danger from weapons of mass destruction and will provide Indiana with the ability to respond even faster to potential state emergencies. While they work hard to protect the people of Indiana, I'll keep fighting in Washington to make sure they have the tools and equipment necessary to do their job. Bayh's efforts represent the final round of funding for the reserve center, which will provide more updated equipment and space than the buildings where the three guard units are currently stationed. One of the units that will be stationed at the center is Indiana's new Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team (WMDCST). Until this spring, Indiana was one of 23 states without a federally-funded Civil Support Team that could respond to emergencies and terrorist threats within its state. In several letters to the Pentagon and Congressional leaders, Bayh, along with Senator Lugar and Governor Kernan, emphasized the importance of providing Indiana with its own 22-member support team, arguing that in the event of coordinated area attacks, Indiana would need its own team to respond to in-state attacks. This is a win-win situation, Bayh said. The new reserve center will create new jobs for local Hoosiers and provide greater protection against a possible terrorist attack for all of Indiana, all at no cost to Hoosier taxpayers. Two other guard units will be located at the reserve center, providing a heavily populated area with additional security that could have a great impact on homeland security if needed in an emergency. The stationing plan provides for a medical unit, an air evacuation unit, and a meteorological-type unit to be available immediately if necessary. The new facility will also provide proper classroom, storage, maintenance, shower/locker and administrative areas. Last year, Senator Bayh secured $15.5 million for the construction of first phase of the Indiana Army National Guard Project. The funding Senator Bayh secured this month will fund the second and final phase of the project.  