Bayh's Long-Term Care Partnership Plan Included in Budget Reconciliation Bill Washington-- The Senate Finance Committee included legislation offered by U.S. Senator Evan Bayh to increase long-term care options for Americans in its budget reconciliation bill, which sets Medicare and Medicaid spending policy. Bayh's long-term care partnership plan, which he introduced as part of a long-term care package in July with Senators Grassley (R-IA) and Clinton (D-NY), would provide more options for seniors in need of long-term care, while at the same time reducing costs to state and local governments that provide such care. In 2000, nearly 10 million Americans needed long-term care services and that number is expected to grow as the baby boomer population ages. "Through long-term care partnerships, Americans who work hard and are responsible with their money can protect themselves against the risk of one day losing it all to pay for long-term care," Senator Bayh said. "At the same time, the states are able to save Medicaid dollars, an important benefit as they continue to struggle with the rising costs of health care. It's a win-win situation that should be available to Americans everywhere." Bayh's legislation would allow Americans to purchase insurance that would protect a certain amount of their savings and possessions in the event that they exhausted their ability to pay for long-term care and needed Medicaid to pay for their services. The legislation was modeled off a successful Indiana program that Bayh initiated as governor of Indiana, allowing Hoosiers to purchase long-term care insurance. At least 16 other states have approved legislation that would allow them to mirror Indiana's success, but current federal legislation bars them from doing so. Bayh's legislation would allow other states to follow Indiana's lead, increasing the number of companies offering policies and providing more choices and benefits. In addition to providing greater long-term care options for seniors, Bayh's legislation offers savings to states because seniors with long-term care insurance are less likely to access Medicaid dollars to pay for their care. According to Indiana's Family and Social Services Administration, the state saves $35,000 per person for every year that person is able to delay using Medicaid to cover their long-term care costs. In Indiana, 31,042 partnerships policies have been sold, and only 13 individuals have needed to access the Medicaid program, representing millions of dollars in savings for the state. Bayh's legislation would also ensure that long-term care partnership plans meet certain consumer protection standards. In addition to his work expanding long-term care options, Bayh has authored legislation and fought to create a $3,000 tax credit to off-set the expenses incurred by family members who care for their loved ones at home. In 2020, it is estimated that one in every six Americans will be over the age of 65, yet currently, eight out of every ten people are not insured for nursing home care.  