Bayh Continues Fight to End Patriot Penalty Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today introduced an amendment to give more of our nation's soldiers relief from the Patriot Penalty, a pay cut many National Guard and Reserve members face when they are called to active duty and lose their civilian salaries. Bayh first authored legislation targeting the Patriot Penalty in January 2005, and Congress passed a modified version of his provision last winter, which offered relief to Guard and Reserve members who have served continuously for eighteen months. The amendment Bayh introduced today would allow Guard and Reservists to qualify for assistance after only six months, as was provided in his original bill.  Last year, Congress took an important stride toward doing right by National Guard and Reserve members who suffer a pay cut while putting their lives on the line for our country, Senator Bayh said. I am proud that we are already planning to help some Guard and Reserve families, but there are thousands more who deserve our assistance. No family should endure serious financial hardship because their loved one is serving our country overseas. Under Bayh's legislation, reservists who have been called up to active duty for more than six months and have suffered a cut in pay of at least $50 per month qualify for assistance. The amendment would provide up to $3,000 per month to eliminate the Patriot Penalty. According to the Congressional Budget Office, last year's legislation will allow approximately 1,700 Guard and Reservists to qualify for Patriot Penalty relief. Unfortunately, this only represents 11 percent of the Guard and Reservists that would have been helped by Bayh's original legislation. Bayh's amendment to the FY06 Iraq Supplemental would provide relief to thousands of additional families by reducing the eligibility requirement for assistance from 18 months to six months. Since the Korean War, National Guard and Reserve members have traditionally only been asked to serve abroad for six months. Today, they are frequently called abroad for much longer periods of time, making it impossible for families to have anticipated and prepared financially. The average income loss for Reservists on active duty for a year equals $4,416 per year. Reservists whose families face financial hardship during their deployment may be less likely to re-enlist as a result of the Patriot Penalty. Ending the Patriot Penalty also would help stem recent recruitment shortfalls by alleviating concerns over pay for those contemplating service to their country in the National Guard and Reserves. Senator Bayh has been a leader in repeated efforts to provide military families with the financial support they need while our troops are serving overseas. In addition to fighting to eliminate the Patriot Penalty, he is the author of the Service Members Home Protection Act, which helps protect military families who are facing foreclosure, eviction or loan default due to financial hardship because of military service.  