Bayh Acts to Protect Hoosier Troops and Vets from Identity Theft Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that he is co-sponsoring two pieces of legislation to provide greater identity theft protection for America's veterans and active duty personnel in light of last month's security breach that exposed millions of current and former U.S. troops to potential identity theft and fraud. The Veterans and Military Privacy Protection Act, offered by Sen. Jay Rockefeller, would provide veterans the financial services tools necessary to protect themselves against identity theft, while the Data Theft Prevention Act, offered by Sen. Daniel Akaka, would increase federal criminal penalties to deter future breaches.  Our veterans deserve better than a system that exposes their personal information to theft and puts their lifetime savings in jeopardy, Senator Bayh said. We owe it to our troops to take swift action to ensure the information stolen in May is not misused, while also fortifying our defenses against future information security threats. The bills I support do both. In May, the Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) announced that a data analyst had taken home a laptop that contained identifying information, such as names, social security numbers and dates of birth, for as many as 26.5 million service members,. More recently, the VA announced that the data on the laptop included information regarding 2.2 million active-duty troops. The employee's home was subsequently burglarized and the data was stolen. The VA recommends that veterans monitor their financial statements for any suspicious or unexpected activity. Current and former military personnel can learn more about the security breach and how to protect themselves by visiting http://www.firstgov.gov/veteransinfo, or by calling 1-800-333-4636. The Veterans and Military Privacy Protection Act calls for the Government Accountability Office to investigate the circumstances surrounding the VA security breach to ensure a similar situation doesn't occur again. The bill also contains a number of provisions aimed at aiding veterans whose personal information was stolen, including extended credit alert protection, tougher penalties for identity theft and the option of requesting a security freeze on personal credit information. Meanwhile, the Data Theft Prevention Act, would establish a deterrent against future breaches by increasing criminal penaltiesup to one year in federal prison or up to a $100,000 finefor anyone who views, uses, downloads or removes information in a federal database without authorization. It also establishes federal criminal penalties for anyone who uses such information to violate a federal or state criminal law. As a measure to make veterans and other federal employees' information less vulnerable to theft, the bill also would prohibit by law the storage of such information outside the federal database. Bayh has a strong track record of making the needs of America's veterans and active duty troops a priority, including securing $150 million for additional up-armored Humvees for troops serving in Iraq and sponsoring an amendment protecting military families who are facing foreclosure, eviction or loan default due to financial hardship because of military service.  