Bayh Makes Push to Help Workers Adjust to Global Economy Washington-- In an effort to help more workers and businesses compete successfully in the global economy, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh co-sponsored two pieces of legislation that will provide training for dislocated workers to rejoin the workforce and help manufacturing companies become more competitive. The two bills would expand the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program by making service workers eligible for job-training and relocation assistance and by helping protect a key support system which helps manufacturing companies improve their competitive advantage.  Globalization presents unparalleled opportunities for economic growth and job creation, Senator Bayh said. It also presents many challenges and we have an obligation to re-train workers who are dislocated because of globalization. We need to help them get back on the ladder towards being upwardly mobile, rather than simply leaving them in the scrapheap of history as the economy changes. These Trade Adjustment Assistance initiatives will make sure that with hard work, workers can get back on their feet, moving forward again. As it currently stands, the TAA program provides aid to manufacturing workers who have suffered from reduced hours or have lost their jobs because of increased imports. Recognizing that the services industry is also increasingly vulnerable to overseas competition and outsourcing, Senator Bayh's legislation would extend the benefits available through TAA to service workers. This would make service workers eligible for job training, relocation allowances, and income support to allow them to get back on their feet and adapt to the global economy. Senator Bayh is also co-sponsoring a bill to continue critical support for American manufacturers, looking to maintain or expand their competitive advantage. The Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance pays for half of the cost of outside consultants or manufacturing experts for projects that will improve a manufactuer's competitiveness. Bayh's legislation would move this Office to the Department of Commerce's International Trade Administration to protect it from potential budget cuts, ensuring that it remains to help American companies adjusting to global competition. Bayh has been a leader in the effort to define a positive strategy to grow the American economy and empower our workers with the skills to be competitive in the global market. By supporting programs like the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) and other initiatives, Bayh has also worked to ensure that businesses and workers have the tools and resources needed to succeed in the changing economy. In addition to helping workers adapt to the global economy, Bayh also has fought hard to level the playing field for Hoosier companies by introducing legislation that would crack down on unfair trade practices.  