Bayh Calls on Pentagon to Release Data Used for BRAC Recommendations Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today called on Secretary Rumsfeld to release all the data that was used to prepare the Department of Defense's Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) recommendations. The BRAC recommendations, which were released earlier in this month, contained good news for Indiana, providing the state with more than 2,000 new jobs. While Indiana will gain in its overall number of jobs, some bases were slated to lose jobs locally. In a letter to Secretary Rumsfeld, Senator Bayh and the other members of the Indiana delegation demanded that he provide them with the specific data on how individual bases were scored in order to properly assess and challenge the BRAC recommendations. "The data used to make the BRAC recommendations will help us understand the Commission's reasoning and allow us to make the best possible argument in favor of keeping as many jobs as possible here in Indiana," Senator Bayh said. "We should also be able to check for possible mistakes in the data that might have caused the Commission to recommend realignment as some bases. I will continue working with the other members of the Indiana delegation to fight for all the Hoosier jobs at our military bases." While the Pentagon has released the overall report and recommendations, it has not yet released the installation-specific data, which shows how the military derived the scores for each base. This information was the basis for the analysis done by the Department of Defense. The law requires transparency in the BRAC process and that the Secretary of Defense make "all information used by the Secretary to prepare the [BRAC] recommendations" available to Congress. In past BRAC rounds, all relevant data was provided to lawmakers. However, despite law, precedent and promises on two occasions, the Pentagon has yet to release installation-specific data for this round. The BRAC commission has scheduled a hearing to consider the closures and realignments in Indiana for June 7th. Without the installation-specific data, lawmakers, the communities impacted by BRAC, and the BRAC commissioners themselves, will be unable to adequately prepare for this hearing. The BRAC recommendations, released on May 13th, call for the expansion of Fort Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis and impact 11 installations overall, including Crane. The letter to Secretary Rumsfeld is a part of Senator Bayh's continuing work on behalf of the state's military bases and the jobs they provide for Hoosiers.  