Bayh, Craig Cite New Support for Flu Protection Act, Push for Vote Washington-- U.S. Senators Evan Bayh (D-Indiana) and Larry Craig (R-Idaho) today announced endorsements for the Flu Protection Act from several leading national health organizations and again called on Congress to approve the legislation during its lame duck session next month. As the after-effects of this year's flu vaccine shortage continue to be felt across the nation, the Flu Protection Act, which Bayh first introduced last January, has attracted more and more attention as the leading solution to prevent future shortages. Today, the American Public Health Association and the American Lung Association joined the Association of American Retired People (AARP) to declare their support for the Flu Protection Act. In its letter of endorsement, the American Lung Association writes: "[L]awmakers need to be more engaged to ensure that a flu vaccine shortage is not a routine occurrence. We call on Congress to act on The Flu Protection Act of 2004 during the lame duck session this year. It would provide a positive public health response to flu and ensure that we begin to avert this crisis in the future." Georges Benjamin, MD, FACP, the executive director of the American Public Health Association said, "The Flu Protection Act, with its requirement of a contingency plan in case of a flu vaccine shortage, presents a long-term solution to the vaccine distribution issues that we've seen appear repeatedly, this fall being the most recent case." He added that, "This year's shortage highlighted the fragility of our vaccine supply and distribution. We need provisions that will ensure that we are able to produce and distribute enough vaccine doses, particularly if a more virulent flu strain or the next pandemic develops. We have too many lives at stake not to act quickly on this bill." Today, Bayh and Craig wrote letters to both Senate leadership and the Senate Appropriations Committee outlining the growing support for their legislation and urging their colleagues to take up the Flu Protection Act when they return next month, in order to make the necessary reforms in time for next year's flu season. In the case that the entire Senate cannot vote on the Flu Protection Act, Bayh and Craig wrote to the Appropriations Committee in hopes that the committee would at least approve the funding needed to enact parts of the Flu Protection Act. Timing is critical. Vaccine manufacturers and health officials will begin making decisions and producing the vaccine for next year's flu season as early as February. "Last year, despite bipartisan support and the memory of one shortage fresh in the minds of parents and seniors across the country, Congress failed to approve the Flu Protection Act to help prevent a future vaccine shortage," Senator Bayh said. "We cannot allow this to happen again. The plan is ready, the support is growing - Congress needs only to act to protect the American people from another flu season nightmare." "The Bush administration has moved forward quickly on this issue, but Congress needs to address the underlying problems. This legislation does that in significant ways and I'm pleased that it's picking up support," said Senator Craig, who serves as Chairman of the U.S. Senate Special Committee on Aging. The number of co-sponsors on the bill has doubled since the Chiron Corporation, a flu vaccine maker, announced earlier this month that it would be unable to provide its supply of vaccines. With only two companies splitting production between them, the risk of a serious shortage resulting from one company's failure is high. In addition, only one of the two companies currently producing flu vaccines for the United States is based in the country. Chiron, the company responsible for the 50 million unusable doses affecting this year's supply, manufacturers its flu vaccines in the United Kingdom. To address this vaccine gamble, the Flu Protection Act calls for the CDC to develop a contingency plan in case of a future shortage, offers significant incentives to encourage vaccine production in the U.S., sets aside funds to encourage the creation of more vaccine companies with faster production times, demands greater cooperation between the government and vaccine manufacturers to provide a more accurate estimate on the number of vaccines needed each year, and calls for a public outreach program to educate the public on the importance of receiving a flu vaccine, especially if they are a member of a vulnerable population.  