Senate Passes Amendment to Increase Pandemic Flu Preparedness Washington-- The U.S. Senate today passed an amendment to the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill co-sponsored by U.S. Senator Evan Bayh that will provide $8 billion to help ensure that the nation is prepared in the event of an avian or pandemic flu outbreak. The Senate passed the entire appropriations bill later today, which will now go to conference committee to be reconciled with the House version of the bill. Bayh, a leader in the effort to increase vaccine production and distribution, was one of the first Senators to respond to the growing flu crisis when he introduced the Flu Protection Act in January of 2004.  The damage caused by the recent hurricanes have shown us the danger of failing to anticipate and prepare for a large-scale disaster, Senator Bayh said. We have the opportunity to learn from this lesson and begin preparing for a possible avian flu epidemic, if we act soon. This amendment will give us the flexibility to do that by providing funding to address every level of flu preparedness, from global tracking of the disease to the purchase of new antivirals. The legislation, which Bayh co-sponsored with Senators Harkin (D-IA), Reid (D-NV) and others, will provide $8 billion for the President to use in consultation with Congress to help prepare federal, state and local emergency officials for a possible flu pandemic. Among other activities, the funding can be used to:  Improve global surveillance, so that health officials can more quickly identify and contain any avian flu outbreaks around the world;  Speed research into and development of a pandemic vaccine;   Purchase vaccines and antivirals needed to treat and protect Americans from a potential outbreak; and   Strengthen public health infrastructure, so that state and local health officials have the resources to prepare for and respond to a future pandemic. Avian flu, also known as the bird flu, is a virus spread by chickens, ducks and other birds that has surfaced primarily in Southeast Asia. Humans infected with avian flu thus far have caught the disease from infected birds, however, experts predict that it is only a matter of time before the virus mutates and can be passed from human to human. Leading flu experts say the world is long overdue for a flu outbreak, and with no previous exposure to the disease, humans will be especially susceptible to avian flu. In a matter of weeks, an outbreak in Asia could trigger a world-wide pandemic spread by international travel and globalization, making it especially important that the United States begin planning for such an emergency today.  