Statement of Senator Bayh for ITC Steel Hearing Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today submitted the following testimony to the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) during its hearing on the five-year review of anti-dumping and countervailing duty laws on steel from six foreign countries. "I am grateful for this opportunity to submit my views to the International Trade Commission on the Five Year Review regarding Cut-to-Length Plate. I strongly support continuing the dumping and countervailing duty orders against plate product from six nations. More than 3,700 people are employed at the Mittal Steel USA plant in Burns Harbor, Indiana, 600 of whom work directly on producing plate. A positive outcome on this issue is vital to these workers, and to many more across this country. I am proud to represent Indiana in the U.S. Senate, a state that produces more steel than any other state in the United States of America. One-fifth of all American steel production comes from the Hoosier state, and more than 25,000 hardworking men and women in our state make their livelihoods in the steel industry. The steel that my state produces is vital to the U.S. industrial base, our national security and our global competitiveness. The people in the steel industry receive high wages and good benefits in these high-skill jobs. For several generations, steel production has been critical to the economic strength of Indiana's families and communities. Vigorous enforcement of our trade remedy laws is essential to assuring the survival and continued prosperity of America's steel industry and of the people of Indiana. Steel has changed a great deal in the past decade in America as our industry has consolidated and become more competitive for the long term. Yet the industry still faces significant challenges. I am for free trade, but I am opposed to unilateral disarmament. Americans can compete on a level playing field against anyone, but illegal subsidies and dumped products from abroad must be combated with aggressive use of our trade remedy laws. Our anti-dumping and countervailing duty laws keep vital jobs and production in the United States and help assure broad, long-term support for the WTO and other trade agreements and institutions in this country. The ITC has the ability to continue the dumping and subsidy orders in place against foreign Cut-To-Length Plate producers that have not complied with existing trade laws. The Commission can prevent six nations from illegally dumping steel plate in the U.S. at below the cost of production. The Commission can also make sure these governments do not illegally subsidize the production of plate. I urge the Commission to sanction a continuation of the orders against illegal dumping and illegal subsidies of plate producers in France, Italy, Japan, Korea, India, and Indonesia. Continuation of these orders is vital to the survival of many communities across our country, like Burns Harbor. They are vital to our national capacity to produce steel plate and they are vital to national security. Cut-to-Length Plate is a high-end, finished steel product. The plants that make Cut-To-Length Plate make a variety of plate products that are critically important to our national security. For example, the Mittal Steel facility in Burns Harbor has produced 100% of the steel plate used in the construction of U.S. Navy destroyers since 1998. They produce a lightweight, precise weight plate that is sold to Bath Ironworks in Maine and Ingalls Shipbuilding in Mississippi. The Burns Harbor plant also produces armored plates to reinforce Humvees during combat and to protect Coast Guard cutters. In fact, Mittal is the largest domestic producer of armor plate. Roughly one out of every three aircraft carrier projects use plate from Mittal's Burns Harbor plant. Keeping the orders under review in place allows this plant to remain competitive, in-business, and a viable contributor to our national industrial base. The orders being considered by the Commission have played a vital role in giving American plate producers breathing room to restructure and consolidate, and yet the industry continues to face long-term competitive disadvantages. In fact, many plate-producing facilities have been forced to shut their doors because of these market conditions, even with the current orders in effect. Gulf States Steel shut down in 2000, and Geneva Steel ceased operations in 2004. Overall since 2000, even with dumping and countervailing duties in place, five plate producers have declared bankruptcy and two of these have shut down, contributing to a loss of more than 2,300 jobs in the Cut-To-Length Plate industry from 2000 to early 2003 and more than 56,000 jobs in the steel industry overall since, and a significant erosion of industrial base. It is difficult to imagine what the job loss might have been without these orders in place. Some argue that the U.S. steel industry is enjoying record profits. While that may be true, it is not the central issue in this case. The issue is whether the industry is susceptible to a reoccurrence of material injury if the orders on plate are revoked. In particular, without the orders in place, would the U.S. industry be injured as exporters from the six nations in question divert exports from China to the United States? China should be commended for achieving one of the most rapid industrializations in history, but China's growth has not been driven by free-market principles. Considering China's government-led effort to massively ramp up Cut-to-Length Plate capacity, there is a high probability that the industry will be harmed if these orders are revoked. The Chinese have doubled their capacity to produce steel plate in just three years. In 2002, China produced 16 million tons of steel. In 2005, China produced 34 million tons. Consequently, Chinese imports are decreasing and soon the Chinese may be tempted to dump product on the world market at below the cost of production, thus forcing producers in the countries under review to find new export markets for their plate. It will likely be America's producers and workers who are susceptible to a reoccurrence of material injury as a result. According to China's National Development and Reform Commission, China will have a surplus of 43 million tons of steel by the end of 2005. China will surely be looking for a market to sell its excess capacity. Other countries continue defending their producers from global over-capacity and unfair trade practices in the plate sector: Together, Australia and the European Union currently have antidumping orders in place on plate from four of the six countries under review today. With China's growing export potential, increased capacity in other countries, and closed markets abroad, the U.S. market will become an even more attractive target for plate and many other forms of steel exports from around the world if these orders are revoked. The result will be more closed factories, more lost jobs, and a reduced ability to meet our national security needs here in the U.S. We all support free and fair trade. At a time of record trade deficits the ITC has an important responsibility to ensure that U.S. trade remedy laws are effectively enforced is more vital than ever. The ITC's enforcement role is critical for U.S. companies and workers. The Bush administration needs to make sure these laws remain viable for the ITC and other U.S. institutions and usable for U.S. industry, and that they are not eroded in any way in the current Doha Development Round negotiations at the WTO. I am a firm believer in free and fair trade. Consumers should have access to the highest quality goods and services at the lowest price. Producers need to be rewarded for their efficiencies. However, free trade means living within the framework of established rules. It means paying a penalty when dumped or subsidized products enter the U.S. market. A significant component of the U.S. industrial base, our high-wage, high-skill jobs, and indeed our national security are all at stake in this case. I urge the Commission to find in favor of U.S. industry and mandate a continuation of the orders against foreign producers of Cut-to-Length Plate. I appreciate having this opportunity to present my views on behalf of the great state of Indiana."  