United States Senate Youth Program to Select Two Hoosier Delegates Washington-- U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh were notified that the U.S. Senate Youth Program (USSYP) has begun its statewide process to select two outstanding Indiana high school students to spend a week in Washington observing the federal government in action.  The two Hoosier students will join 102 other delegates March 1-8, 2008, for the program's 46th Annual Washington Week.   Each of the 104 student delegates will receive a $5,000 undergraduate college scholarship, in addition to the all-expenses paid trip to the nation's capital.  The student delegates will visit Capitol Hill, the White House, the Pentagon, the State Department, the Supreme Court, and other highlights in Washington. They will meet with Senators, cabinet officers, government leaders, and policy-makers. The USSYP was established in 1962 by Senate Resolution 324.  Since then, more than 4,600 students have participated in this unique leadership program.  Each year, this program brings two students from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity to Washington to experience an intensive weeklong governmental study.  USSYP is fully funded by the William Randolph Hearst Foundation. Among the many distinguished former program delegates are Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the first program delegate elected to the Senate; Judge Robert Henry, U.S. Court of Appeals; former Ambassador to West Germany Richard Burt; Presidential Advisor Karl Rove and former Presidential Advisor Thomas Mack McLarty.   The delegate selection is administered by each state's chief school officer in cooperation with high school principals.  Delegates must be junior or senior elected student officers for the 2007-2008 academic year and reside in the state where they attend school.  Eligibility considerations may also be made for student representatives elected or selected (selected by a panel, commission or board) to district, regional or state-level civic or educational organizations. Each student must be a permanent resident of the United States and currently enrolled in a public or private secondary school located in the state (including for these purposes the District of Columbia) in which either one of his or her parents or guardians legally resides.  Exceptions to the residency rule are made for the Department of Defense Education Activity and for states with schools under Interstate Compacts. Names of students selected will be formally announced mid-December.  The Indiana selection deadline is October 15, 2007.  Interested students should contact their high school principal or the state-level selection administrator indicated below: A program brochure with detailed rules, selection process and the 2008 program annual yearbook may be accessed on the USSYP website www.ussenateyouth.org.  