Bayh Sponsors Bill to Reauthorize Funding for COPS Program Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today sponsored a bill to reauthorize the Department of Justice's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS). Since its inception, the COPS program has been recognized by the law enforcement community as an efficient and effective way to fight terrorism and prevent crime. Senator Bayh is an original co-sponsor of the bill, which strengthens local police departments through grants for police hiring, law enforcement technology, and community prosecutors. "The COPS program means more officers on the streets, a key factor in fighting crime and maintaining homeland security," Senator Bayh said. "It also helps relieve some of the pressure on local law enforcement during a time when budgets are already strained by recent cuts in federal assistance and additional duties protecting the homeland. In this post-9/11 world, our state and local law enforcement officers need more help, not less. COPS is one of the best ways we can give them the resources they need." The COPS Reauthorization Act of 2005 would authorize $1.15 billion per year for six years to continue and modernize the COPS program. The legislation calls for: In Indiana, nearly $120 million in COPS grants have been awarded to law enforcement agencies since 1994, resulting in safer streets for Hoosiers. These grants have directly benefitted 279 local and state enforcement agencies and funded 1,592 additional police officers and sheriffs deputies to engage in community policing activities. In Indiana and across the nation, COPS has also been an important tool in combating the spread of methamphetamine. Since 1998, COPS has invested more than $350 million nationwide towards that cause. In fiscal year 2004, COPS awarded nearly $54 million to fight the escalating methamphetamine problem. "Our success in the fight against terrorism will depend on the strength of local law enforcement agencies," Senator Bayh said. "The COPS program has a decade-long record of success; it's up to us to make sure that our local police forces don't lose this critical resource." Created in the 1994 Crime Bill, the COPS program has funded 118,000 community police officers in more than 12,900 law enforcement agencies across the country. Authorization for the COPS program expired in 2000, but with the support of Senator Bayh and others, COPS has continued to exist for the past five years through year-to-year funding authorizations.  