Bayh Takes Part in Roundtable to Discuss Reducing Energy Dependence Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today took part in a roundtable discussion with a bipartisan group of senators, as well as military and business leaders, focused on the impact our current energy needs have on the country's economic and national security. At the meeting, organized by Securing America's Future Energy (SAFE), Bayh and others discussed ways to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil, including Bayh's bipartisan energy plan that he introduced in November. "A concrete plan for reducing our dependence on foreign oil is a crucial part of a tough and smart national security policy," Senator Bayh said. "As the leaders in today's roundtable demonstrate, our energy needs impact us in ways that go far beyond oil prices, including our national security and economic stability. That's why my energy plan includes new approaches for manufacturers, the federal government, scientists and consumers, all designed to encourage greater energy security. It will take nothing less to meet this challenge." The energy roundtable was co-chaired by Frederick W. Smith (Chairman, President and CEO of FedEx Corp.), David A. Brandon (Chairman and CEO of Domino's Pizza), and Robert D. Hormats (Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs International). General P.X. Kelley, the 28th Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps and a former member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, moderated the discussion. In addition to Senator Bayh, Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Joseph I. Lieberman (D-CT), Richard G. Lugar (R-IN), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Barack Obama (D-IL), Ken Salazar (D-CO) and Jeff Sessions (R-AL) are expected to attend. Today's meeting follows a similar discussion Bayh attended on energy at the White House two weeks ago. At the White House meeting, Bayh urged President Bush to support his energy bill, based on the widespread bipartisan support it already enjoys. In November, Bayh, along with Senators Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Sam Brownback (R-KS), and seven other senators, introduced the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, which would reduce the amount of oil we use by 2.5 million barrels per day in ten years, the same amount we currently purchase from the Middle East. Bayh's energy plan would also:  Push for the development and mass marketing of hybrid technologies, including hybrids that give drivers the option to plug them in at night  Encourage the construction of more alternative fuel pumps at gas stations  Include, for the first time, fuel-efficiency standards for semi trucks  Offer standards to ensure fuel efficient replacement tires are offered for cars and trucks  Provide tax credits for manufacturers to retool facilities for advanced technology and alternative fuel cars and trucks Senator Bayh has been a leader in the efforts to reduce American dependence on foreign oil. This May, the Senate passed a bipartisan amendment Bayh co-sponsored to provide a tax credit to encourage gasoline stations to install or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol. Bayh is also a co-sponsor of the Fuel Security Act, which dramatically increases the amount of ethanol used each year in an aggressive approach to move the country toward greater energy efficiency. -- Editor's Note: Description of Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act Attached -- Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act Action Plan The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act aims to reduce American use of oil by 7 million barrels a day by 2026. It achieves this goal through a variety of initiatives, including those outlined below. New Vehicle Technology Mandate Sets targets for manufacturers to produce flexible fuel vehicles (FFV), alternative fueled vehicles, hybrids, plug-in hybrids, fuel cell vehicles or other qualified vehicles that meet a performance standard of 175 percent of average fleet fuel economy -- starting at 10 percent in 2012 and rising to 50 percent in 2016. After 2016 at least 10 percent of the 50 percent requirement must be met by hybrids, advanced diesels, plug-in hybrids and other non-FFV vehicles. Leading by Example Requires federal and state vehicle fleets to cut oil use by 30 percent by 2016. In 2016, the legislation also requires that 23 percent of the fleets be advanced diesels, hybrids or plug-in hybrids to further contribute to oil reduction. Fuel Efficient Vehicles for the 21st Century Provides tax credits for manufacturers and suppliers to retool their factories to produce advanced diesels and hybrids. Creates a tire efficiency program for tires used on light duty vehicles. Creates a fuel economy testing program and the implementation of efficiency standards for heavy duty vehicles (trucks, buses, etc). Lifts the per manufacturer cap on consumer tax credits for the purchase of hybrids and advanced diesels so more consumers receive tax incentives to purchase hybrids. Allows hybrids to qualify under the 2005 Energy Policy Act alternative fuels fleet requirements. Provides a tax credit for large private fleets for purchasing more efficient vehicles for their fleets. Creates an RD program for electric drive transportation and light-weight materials, to reduce a car's weight without sacrificing safety. Encourages local educational agencies to develop a policy to reduce the incidence of school bus idling. Closes the SUV tax loophole which adversely incentivizes small businesses to purchase SUVs over other vehicles. Fuel Choices for the 21st Century Increases the ethanol infrastructure tax credit to 50 percent to encourage the construction of more E-85 pumps at gas stations. Uses CAFE penalties to fund DOE ethanol infrastructure grants program. Changes the authorization for production incentives for cellulosic ethanol to $200 million for five years. Sets an additional near-term benchmark for the use of cellulosic ethanol as part of the renewable fuels standard included in the 2005 Energy Policy Act. Creates a grant program to encourage new mass transit facilities and to build commercial developments around them. National Media Campaign Authorizes a national media campaign for the purpose of decreasing oil consumption in the United States.  