Bayh Calls for Investigation into Potential Loss of Avian Flu Antiviral Drug Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today urged President Bush to investigate reports of China's inappropriate use of amantadine, a key human antiviral drug for avian flu, on livestock, which may have allowed avian flu strains to develop resistance to the drug, rendering it useless for use in humans. If recent reports are accurate, China's use of the antiviral drug on livestock violated international livestock guidelines and increased the dangers posed by avian flu while undermining our ability to handle a possible avian flu pandemic here at home. "The possibility of a flu pandemic is one of the most serious threats facing America today," Senator Bayh said. "Losing one of our antiviral drugs is a significant blow to our ability to respond to a flu pandemic. It is essential that we investigate how this happened and make sure that nothing similar occurs in the future." As the threat of an avian flu pandemic grows more serious by the day, it is especially critical that public health officials have every tool necessary at their disposal, including the ability to use antivirals. Unfortunately, an important tool, amantadine, may have been lost through the carelessness of Chinese health officials. The loss of the widely accessible and least expensive drug leaves only one approved antiviral drug that is considered effective and feasible for use in humans against avian flu. In his letter, Senator Bayh urged the President to take every step possible to protect our only remaining effective antiviral and work with China to make sure that their use of antivirals on livestock is stopped. Reports suggest that the avian flu virus in southeast Asia is rapidly evolving into a strain which could pose a serious threat to humans, especially without proper response mechanisms in place. Bayh emphasized the need for global leadership to address the threat of avian flu and pushed Bush to take an aggressive stance to ensure that other countries do not undermine global preparedness efforts. As a result of his concern over the flu shortages for the past two years, Senator Bayh has become one of the most vocal proponents of increased efforts to prepare for a possible flu pandemic and increase our vaccine capabilities. Most recently, he urged the administration to address problems causing a shortfall in the Children's Vaccine Stockpile and to implement the steps outlined in his Flu Protection Act. Bayh's Flu Protection Act is a comprehensive solution targeting the problems that have led to vaccine shortages for the past two years. The legislation will help ensure an adequate number of vaccines are produced each year by enacting a buy-back program and encouraging greater U.S. vaccine production, and by providing additional funding for research and development as well as offering tax credits to encourage greater U.S. vaccine production.  