Lugar-Bayh Nuclear Fuel Bank Bill Clears Committee Washington-- The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee passed The Lugar-Bayh Nuclear Safeguards and Supply Act, S. 1138. The bill, introduced by U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar (R-IN) and Evan Bayh (D-IN) now heads to the Senate floor.  The bill would make it U.S. policy to discourage the development of enrichment and reprocessing capabilities in additional countries, to encourage the creation of bilateral and multilateral assurances of nuclear fuel supply, and ensure that all supply mechanisms operate in strict accordance with the IAEA safeguards system and do not result in any additional unmet verification burdens for the system. The non-proliferation regime we've had in the nuclear age has been surpassed by the global availability of nuclear weapons technology, especially the technology and equipment for uranium enrichment and spent nuclear fuel reprocessing, which can produce fissile material for weapons, Lugar said. Now the road to nuclear weapons can be traveled by determined countries with only a minimal industrial base. While the number of recognized Nuclear Weapons States has not dramatically increased over the years, the dangers of proliferation have become all too apparent as demonstrated by the A.Q. Khan network, the Iranian, North Korean, and Libyan examples. The expansion of peaceful nuclear power does not require - either technically or economically - the construction of enrichment or reprocessing facilities in countries that do not currently have them.Senator Bayh and I believe the United States should adopt the basic non-proliferation principle that countries who give up their own enrichment and reprocessing programs have assurance of fuel supply from a nuclear fuel bank, Lugar said. We are in a new era and our legislation pushes us toward a new reality, Bayh said. We must ensure that the coming surge in demand for nuclear energy does not lead to a surge in nuclear proliferation. In this new reality, more nations will need to secure supplies of nuclear fuel. Our legislation would give these nations incentive to pursue nuclear energy in a way that is safe and reduces the proliferation threat. Current nuclear proliferation rules allow countries to come too close to becoming nuclear powers legally, making it easy to build weapons before anything can be done to stop them. Iran is using the pretense of a nuclear energy program to seek a nuclear weapons production capacity. This fuel bank would eliminate any plausible rationale that dangerous states like Iran have for enriching uranium for supposedly peaceful civilian purposes. The creation of the fuel bank would draw a clear line in the sand: Countries that refuse fuel bank services will come under immediate suspicion about their weapons intentions, Bayh continued. The Foreign Relations Committee also passed S. 392, a bill to ensure payment of United States assessments for United Nations peacekeeping operations for the 2005 through 2008 time period.  