Bayh Calls on Energy Secretary to Increase Ethanol Availability Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh has joined a bipartisan coalition of Senators in writing a letter urging Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman to direct additional funding to the development of alternative fueling infrastructure, including the ethanol-blend E-85. In the letter, the senators noted the success of the Clean Cities program in expanding the availability and use of alternative fuels, and called on Secretary Bodman to use part of the unspent funding in the Department's budget to continue this important work in the midwest. "For many reasons we believe that it is important for consumers around the country to have the opportunity to fuel their vehicles with alternative fuels and we are pleased that DOE has provided funding to parts of the country where these fuels are not widely available," the senators wrote in the letter. "It's also important that we support the continued development of alternative fueling infrastructure in regions where consumers have been filling their vehicles with alternative fuels for many years." While there are currently more than six million vehicles in the United States capable of using E-85 fuel, a shortage of E-85 pumps forces many drivers to use regular gasoline instead. Less than one percent of U.S. fueling stations, or about 1,100 stations, are equipped with E-85 pumps. In July, Senator Bayh called on Congress to address the shortage by securing funding for the E-85 Ethanol Vehicle Refueling Expansion Project, which includes the Clean Cities Program. Last year the Clean Cities initiative surpassed its commitment to developing 55 new E-85 stations by more than 500 percent, doubling the United States' E-85 refueling capacity. "Decreasing America's dependence on foreign oil will mean ensuring every American who wants to use renewable fuels is able to do so," Senator Bayh said. "It is encouraging to see the rapid development of home-grown fuels like ethanol and biodiesel, but the fact remains that in many parts of the country we still lack the infrastructure to put these innovations to use. It is also critical that we continue to support projects in areas like the midwest that are ahead of the curve on alternative energy but still would benefit from further development." Senator Bayh has been a leader in the efforts to reduce American dependence on foreign oil. Last November, Bayh introduced led a bipartisan group of cosponsors in introducing the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, which dramatically increases the amount of ethanol used each year and includes tax credits for more ethanol pumps. In May, Senator Bayh visited an E-85 equipped gas station in Terre Haute to highlight the role of ethanol in reducing Americans' fuel costs, and met with Clean Cities representatives in Gary to discuss the organization's efforts to promote renewable energy while providing Hoosiers with stable jobs. Last year, the Senate passed a bipartisan amendment Bayh co-sponsored to provide a tax credit to encourage gasoline stations to convert or install pumps that offer E-85 ethanol.  