Bayh Recognizes Student Volunteers at Fourth Annual Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today spoke before more than 100 Hoosier student volunteers, thanking them for the difference they have made in their communities and encouraging them to continue volunteering throughout their lives. Bayh spoke as part of the fourth annual Indiana Service Leaders Summit, which he co-hosts each year with Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) to recognize the outstanding service work performed each year by Indiana high school students. At the summit, Senator Bayh said that students today are carrying on the tradition of public service idealized by leaders such as Martin Luther King, Jr. and Bobby Kennedy. "Martin Luther King, Jr. and Bobby Kennedy believed that a brighter future was possible if we all worked together," Senator Bayh said. "Today, you and other students across the country are proving them right. Already, you have already made countless contributions throughout Indiana, and I hope you will continue your commitment to national service in the years to come." A recent study by the Corporation for National and Community Service shows that the number of college students who volunteer has increased by 20 percent between 2003 and 2005. The growth rate for college volunteers is more than double the rate for other age groups. By recognizing volunteers at a young age through events like today's summit, Bayh hopes to continue this trend by encouraging students to continue serving throughout their lives. High school students from across Indiana came together at the Summit to meet with Senator Bayh and Indiana service leaders to talk about what it takes to create successful service projects, such as inspiration and evaluation, and to learn more about volunteer opportunities they can organize at home with other students. The summit is held each year on national Make-A-Difference Day and is part of Bayh's broader efforts to promote national service across America. After the summit, the students created care packages for Hoosier troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Salvation Army organized the service event so that troops should receive the care packages just in time for the holiday season. After creating the care packages, the students broke for lunch and then split into groups to take part in a variety of service projects in the Indianapolis area, including helping track supplies at Habitat for Humanity, boxing goods for seniors at Gleaner's Food Bank, collecting donations at Riley's Children's Hospital and cleaning at the Christamore House.  