Bayh Evaluates Nation's Preparedness for Flu Season Washington-- Recalling news stories of parents being forced to choose which child would receive a flu shot during last year's epidemic, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today met with representatives from the Centers for Disease Control, leading flu vaccine manufacturers and with disease experts to review the progress made in the past year to prevent such shortages from happening again. At a hearing he requested along with Senator Larry Craig (R-ID) through the Aging Committee, Bayh pointed out progress represented by the 13 million additional flu shots that are being prepared this year, though he also emphasized the continuing need for earlier vaccine availability and greater flu shot education.  No Hoosier with children or older parents will forget the concern they felt last year as they waited in line for a vaccine to ensure the health and safety of their loved ones, Senator Bayh said. But memories of this vaccine shortage may not be enough to ensure that Hoosiers make plans to receive a flu shot this year. We must continue working to make flu education a priority along with vaccine production to effectively prepare ourselves against another epidemic. At the height of last year's flu season, Senator Bayh recommended a series of steps as part of a Flu Protection Act to help eliminate the potential for future shortages, including increased cooperation between the federal government and vaccine manufacturers. In response, the CDC acknowledged that the federal government should play a role in ensuring a sufficient supply of flu vaccines and worked with the manufacturers to set aside 4.5 million extra doses to be used this year in case of another shortage. This year, there will be 100 million doses of the flu vaccine available, 13 million more than last year. Indiana has purchased an additional 29,000 doses for the year and will be able to provide 85,000 vaccines to Hoosiers across the state. While recognizing the work between the CDC and vaccine manufacturers as an important step toward preventing a future shortage, Bayh urged the CDC to continue working with flu vaccine manufacturers to find a way to produce and distribute vaccines earlier in the flu season, when they are most needed and would be most effective in warding off a potential epidemic. This year, flu vaccines are expected to be available beginning the first week of October, though the full order for the year will be spread out between October and the end of December. During the hearing, Bayh also pointed to statistics that demonstrate the need to continue outreach efforts to educate Americans on the importance of receiving a vaccine. The CDC believes 185 million people should receive the flu vaccine because their health status makes them more susceptible to serious complications caused by the flu. Yet according to health officials, Indiana's compliance rates for the flu vaccine are particularly poor. Last year, 1,000 Hoosiers died from the flu. Nationwide, only 30 percent of children with asthma received a flu shot and only 4.4 percent of babies and toddlers received a vaccine. Children, seniors, pregnant women, and people with weakened immune systems are among our most vulnerable populations.  