Bayh Visits Purdue’s Discovery Park Lafayette, IN-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today visited Purdue's Discovery Park and the future site of the Center for Advanced Manufacturing to emphasize the importance of investing in Indiana's manufacturing future and to announce Senate approval of $3 million he fought for to fund the start-up costs of the center. Bayh's visit was part of a trip through towns across Indiana to highlight the crucial role Indiana's small manufacturers play in Indiana's economy.  The Center for Advanced Manufacturing will play a crucial role in helping Hoosier manufacturers use cutting-edge technology to compete and succeed in today's fast-paced, global marketplace, Senator Bayh said. During a time when manufacturing jobs are declining, the creation of these facilities will help spur the discovery of innovative ways to produce new goods and ensure the development of new job opportunities for future generations of Hoosier workers. Standing in front of a window overlooking the Birck Nanotechnology Center and Purdue's life sciences building, Bayh outlined the ways that the center would support local economic development. The funds to develop the center will address the research needs of new start-up companies, support existing companies' demand for applied research or process improvement plans, and bring emerging new technologies to the manufacturing industries. The Center for Advanced Manufacturing, like the Birck Nanotechnology Center and life sciences building, will provide Indiana's companies, including its small manufacturers, with an important edge through access to new technologies that will allow them to compete and succeed against foreign companies. During his visit, Bayh also announced that he has introduced legislation that will significantly increase funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program, a widely-popular manufacturing program that helps small manufacturers grow their businesses and hire more workers. As a senator, Bayh has worked hard to support Indiana's small manufacturers in a variety of ways. Bayh has introduced legislation to stop illegal trade practices that give Chinese companies unfair advantages. Bayh has also called for greater support for the MEP program and has invested in Indiana's manufacturing future by supporting Indiana's life sciences, nanotechnology and advanced manufacturing centers. Senator Bayh is a strong believer in helping enhance technology in Indiana to attract more high-tech businesses to the state. With the backing of $7 million previously secured by Senator Bayh, Purdue broke ground in September 2001 on the Birck Nanotechnology Center, which is scheduled to open this fall. These steps are vital to strengthening Indiana's economy and providing new jobs and better job security for Hoosiers. Indiana has 11,000 manufacturers, 98% of which are small manufacturers. These companies employ close to 300,000 Hoosiers across Indiana, providing greater economic opportunities for thousands of Hoosier families.  