Senate Passes Energy Bill Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that several amendments he offered to reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil were included in the final Energy bill approved by the Senate this afternoon. While recognizing the progress made in advancing the use of renewable fuels, Bayh cautioned that much more remains to be done before America's energy future is secured.  The progress made in today's energy bill is a start toward addressing our future energy needs, but it is only a start, Senator Bayh said. Much more must be done before we achieve real energy independence and no longer have to rely on Saudi Arabia, Russia and Venezuela for our energy needs. We need to fully pursue the positive changes begun in this bill if we are going to make a lasting difference in our dependence on oil. Bayh co-sponsored several amendments designed to reduce reliance on foreign oil that were accepted as part of the Energy bill. In what the New York Times called one of the most important steps for addressing our long-term energy needs, the Energy bill included Bayh's amendment increasing production incentives for biofuels. Bayh was an original sponsor of the Bioenergy Security Act, which provides funding for biomass research and development, and also encourages biofuel production. In addition, the Energy bill requires that the nation use 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol in 2012, coming close to the 8 billion gallons called for in the Lugar-Harkin bill that Bayh co-sponsored. We are just beginning to realize the potential that ethanol represents in reducing our dependence on oil, Senator Bayh said. The Bioenergy Security Act will allow us to tap the potential of other agriculture products, so that more of our energy needs are met in America's farm fields, instead of foreign oil fields. The Energy bill also included Bayh's Clean School Bus provision, which will provide schools with $55 million to help replace old, polluting school buses with cleaner, safer buses. Nearly one-fourth of Indiana's buses were built before 1991 and are not required to meet today's pollution or safety standards. Bayh's bill will not only provide cleaner, safer buses for Hoosier communities, but will also bring greater job security to Hoosiers who will build the new, environmentally-friendly bus engines at Cummins and Navistar. In addition, the Energy bill included another Bayh co-sponsored amendment encouraging gas stations to install or expand pumps that offer E-85, an ethanol-gasoline blend used by Flexible Fuel Vehicles. Today, many vehicles that can use E-85 have to run on regular gasoline because of a lack of available pumps. If every Flexible Fuel Vehicle today was able to run exclusively on E-85 fuel, they would cut U.S. gas consumption by more than four billion gallons each year. Bayh also supported a provision in the Energy bill that provided tax credits to build cleaner coal plants that reduce harmful emissions.  