Bayh Introduces Bill Improving Access to Long-Term Care Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today introduced legislation with Senators Charles Grassley (R-IA) and Hillary Clinton (D-NY) that will provide seniors and the disabled with greater options for their long-term care needs, while at the same time helping states that are struggling with the cost of providing for residents in need of such care. In 2000, nearly 10 million Americans needed long-term care services and that number is expected to grow as the baby boomer population ages. The Improving Long-Term Care Choices Act of 2005 would provide a way to meet the increasing need for long-term care services at a lower cost. The Improving Long-Term Care Choices Act would encourage more Americans to purchase long-term care insurance and increase federal standards to protect seniors. Without long-term care insurance, many Americans who require extended nursing home services often are forced to liquidate hard-earned savings and other personal items in order to qualify for Medicaid to cover their long-term care expenses. According to Indiana's Family and Social Services Administration, the state and the federal government save $35,000 per person for every year that person is able to delay depending on Medicaid for their long-term care costs. "This legislation is a win-win solution to the challenge of providing quality long-term care," Senator Bayh said. "It offers greater choices for Americans in need of care and helps hardworking people protect themselves against one day being forced to sell their belongings in order to receive long-term care. At the same time, it provides much-needed flexibility and financial relief for states already struggling with the high costs of health care." The proposed legislation would also allow states to use their Medicaid dollars to pay for at-home and community-based long-term care, options that are less expensive than complete nursing home care and that are often prefered by the patient. The bill also establishes a clearinghouse to provide Americans with more information regarding long-term care and to help them compare the cost and coverage of long-term care policies offered in each state. In 2020, it is estimated that one in every six Americans will be over the age of 65, yet currently, eight out of every ten people are not insured for nursing home care. Bayh's work to expand access to long-term care stems from his work as governor of Indiana, when he launched the Indiana Long-Term Care program, which allowed Hoosiers to purchase long-term care insurance that would protect their assets in case they needed extended nursing home care. In the Senate, Bayh has introduced legislation to expand long-term care partnerships to all fifty states and has introduced legislation to provide tax incentives for the purchase of long-term care services.  