Bayh Supports Crucial Resources for Growing Indiana's Small Manufacturers Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh sent a letter today urging the Senate Appropriations Committee to continue funding the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program, a widely successful manufacturing resource that helps small manufacturers grow their businesses and hire more workers. Senator Bayh and a bipartisan coalition of 62 colleagues asked that the Appropriations Committee include $106 million for the MEP program in recognition of the critical support that MEP provides small manufacturers in an increasingly competitive global economy.  Manufacturing is one of our country's greatest economic strengths and MEP is an invaluable program that helps manufactures improve productivity and compete in the global marketplace, Senator Bayh and his colleagues wrote. Without strong federal support, MEP will be unable to maintain its mission of serving America's small manufacturers. The MEP program helps small manufacturing companies access the same resources and support that large companies enjoy, allowing them to be more competitive on a global scale. Each year, Indiana's MEP program helps 1,000 small businesses and makes an economic impact of $80 million. With full funding, the program generates nearly $300 million each year for Indiana businesses, according to an estimate from the Indiana Business Modernization and Technology Corporation. Senator Bayh has consistently fought against MEP cuts, so that the MEP program can provide Indiana's small manufacturers with the technical and business assistance they need to remain globally competitive. In a global economy, many of Indiana's small manufacturers rely on the MEP program to be able to compete and maintain their competitive advantage, Senator Bayh said. This program has an outstanding record of creating high quality jobs and boosting productivity in our state and across the country. We should ensure that it is able to continue to do so. In 2004, Senator Bayh and his colleagues were successful in restoring $69.4 million in funding for the MEP program, enabling the MEP to continue providing crucial support for Hoosier manufacturers. He has also written numerous letters of support, emphasizing that the MEP program is vital to strengthening Indiana's economy and providing new jobs and better job security for Hoosiers. Indiana has 11,000 manufacturers, 98% of which are small manufacturers. These companies employ close to 300,000 Hoosiers across Indiana, providing greater economic opportunities for thousands of Hoosier families.   