Bayh Announces Release of 2006 Video and Computer Game Report Card Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced the release of the National Institute on Media and the Family's (NIMF) Annual MediaWise Video and Computer Game Report Card. Each year, the Institute conducts a survey of parents, retailers and the video game industry and issues ratings based on their efforts to limit or restrict children's exposure to violent and sexually explicit games. The report is designed to help parents monitor the video games available to kids and empower them to make smart decisions about which games are appropriate for their children.  As the holiday gift-giving season approaches, it is more critical than ever that parents have access to tools like this report card to help them make educated choices for their families, Senator Bayh said. With literally hundreds of new games released every year, it is often difficult for parents to discern which games are appropriate for their kids. By monitoring new games on the market and providing better enforcement of age limitations, we can lend a helping hand to parents trying to protect their children. According to this year's report, large retailers and video game creators have made significant improvements in restricting kids' access to Mature and Adults-Only games, while smaller stores and parents lag behind. NIMF applauded improvements in enforcing ratings levels and installing parental controls, giving both big retailers and console manufacturers an A grade in the report card. In spite of these advances, the researchers found that most parents still fail to adequately monitor the content of their children's video games. They also called on small specialty retailers, which received a failing grade, to follow the larger stores' lead and step up ratings enforcement. Some stores are making progress on observing the ratings guidelines for children, but more work remains to be done, Senator Bayh said. All stores should follow the ratings levels to make sure that children can't purchase violent games that aren't intended for kids their age. In the report card, the NIMF researchers published a 2006 buying guide for parents, which includes a list of recommended games for children and teens as well as a list of games to avoid. In September, the Senate unanimously approved legislation Senator Bayh cosponsored commissioning an in-depth study by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development into how electronic media affect children's physical and mental development, a step also recommended by the researchers. Senator Bayh has been a leader in the Senate's effort to help parents reduce children's exposure to violent and sexually explicit media. In December of 2005, Senator Bayh joined with Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) to introduce the Family Entertainment Protection Act, which would prohibit business from selling or renting Mature, Adults-Only, or Ratings Pending games to anyone younger than seventeen as intended by the rating levels and would authorize the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to monitor enforcement.  