Bayh Honors Indiana National Guard For Hurricane Relief Work Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today met with Major General R. Martin Umbarger, the Adjutant General of the Indiana National Guard, to thank him for the hard work performed by Indiana guard members rebuilding the Gulf Coast in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. In their meeting, Senator Bayh presented General Umbarger with a copy of his statement in the Congressional Record recognizing the heroic efforts of the Indiana National Guard in the hurricane recovery efforts. "Whether defending our freedom overseas or rebuilding in the face of natural disasters at home, the members of the Indiana National Guard represent the best of Indiana and America. They sacrifice time with loved ones and travel thousands of miles to shoulder some of the heaviest loads in the clean-up efforts," said Senator Bayh. "For leading the way and reminding us of our ability to recover from such storms, the Indiana National Guard, and all volunteers working in the Gulf today, deserve our thanks." Throughout Louisiana and Mississippi, more than two thousand Indiana guardsmen and women are helping in all aspects of the recovery efforts, by clearing neighborhoods, giving aid to evacuees and restoring order to the chaos left by Katrina. Despite long tours of duty overseas, these guard members have left behind their homes and loved ones to come to the aid of families in need on the Gulf Coast. In Indiana, hundreds of Hoosier families have also opened their homes to evacuees in need of shelter, and countless others have donated to the Red Cross and other non-profits. In their meeting, Senator Bayh and General Umbarger also discussed the General's strategic plan for the Indiana National Guard over the coming years. The Indiana Guard has proved itself a strong and versatile force at fighting overseas and reacting to disasters at home. In order to enhance the Guard's ability to respond to security threats, a key component to Umbarger's plan involves the transformation of the former mental health facility at Muscatatuck, which the Guard took control of in July, into the Muscatatuck Urban Training Center. As a former governor, Bayh is particularly supportive of the Indiana National Guard. He has played a key role in securing funding for the Guard's priority projects in recent years, including $25 million for the Armed Forces Reserve Center (AFRC) and Limited Army Aviation Support Facility at the Gary Chicago Airport.  