Bayh Challenges IMF Statement Denying Chinese Currency Manipulation Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today challenged recent statements by the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Rodrigo de Rato, that indicated that China is not manipulating its currency to create an unfair trade advantage. According to an article in yesterday's Washington Post, de Rato said there is "no evidence" of currency manipulation. Bayh, a leading voice to ensure fair trade for U.S. manufacturers, criticized the statement as being out of touch with the realities faced by American companies every day. "Every day, hardworking Americans wake up with one hand tied behind their back because of unfair cheating in the form of currency manipulation," Senator Bayh said. "I have seen the results of this cheating in every part of my state, as Hoosier manufacturers have lost contracts, laid off workers and even been forced to shut down entirely because they can't compete against Chinese companies benefiting from an unfair advantage. If the IMF can't find evidence of cheating on their own, I invite them to come home with me where they can see it firsthand." Economists estimated that China's currency may be undervalued from anywhere between 15 percent and 40 percent. If this proves true, it means that Chinese manufacturing companies effectively receive a 15 percent to 40 percent subsidy on their exports, creating a false subsidy that U.S. companies cannot match. The World Trade Organization and the International Monetary Fund prohibit currency manipulation for the purpose of gaining an export advantage. However, in a recent interview, Rodrigo de Rato, IMF Managing Director, said that the IMF did not see evidence that China was violating IMF rules against currency manipulation. Earlier this year, Bayh introduced legislation with Senators Charles Schumer (D-NY) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) that calls for a tariff increase for all products from China to negate the country's artificial currency advantage until its government agrees to value its currency at a more accurate level. The tariff would be applied to all products from China and would be applied on top of any current tariffs that are already in place, though President Bush would be able to remove the tariff once he believes that China has moved to a fair, market-based currency. In April, Bayh also joined a bipartisan group of senators and members of Congress in filing a petition with the U.S. Trade Representative seeking the elimination of the undervaluation of China's currency. The petition calls on the administration to file a case in the WTO to challenge and end China's currency manipulation practices. Bayh has been a leader in the fight to investigate and stop unfair trade practices to help level the playing field for Hoosier companies. As the author of the Stopping Overseas Subsidies (SOS) Act, which would allow the U.S. to enforce its anti-subsidy laws against China, Bayh has been especially aggressive about getting tough on illegal trade from foreign countries. Bayh, along with several senators from both sides of the aisle, has introduced legislation to create a special trade prosecutor to identify trade violators and also introduced legislation to counteract the advantage gained by foreign companies due to currency manipulation.  