Bayh Brings Home Help for Indiana’s Small Manufacturers Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today announced that as a result of an amendment he offered this summer, the Commerce Department has received approval from the Office of Management and Budget to restore $8.5 million in funding for a popular manufacturing program that helps small manufacturers grow their businesses and hire more workers. Without the funding, more regional Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) offices would have been forced to close, cutting off services that help Hoosier manufacturers. "At a time when Indiana's small manufacturers are working harder than ever to succeed, it is our job to make certain that they have the tools and resources necessary to continue creating more jobs and expanding their businesses," Senator Bayh said. "That's why I asked for the immediate restoration of funds this year and why I'm calling for significant new funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program in the future: to provide more hardworking Hoosiers with jobs." Indiana's MEP program helps 1,000 small businesses and makes an economic impact of $80 million each year. It has helped create or save more than 1,300 Hoosier jobs in the past two years. However, the administration slashed funding for the program by more than 60% this year from $106 million to $39 million, forcing the MEP program to close offices across the country, including three in Indiana (Richmond, Portage and New Albany). As a result of Bayh's amendment, which was included as part of the fiscal year 2005 Defense Appropriations Act, the Commerce Department reprogrammed $8.5 million to the MEP program budget this year. Last week, Senator Bayh, along with seven of his Senate colleagues from both sides of the aisle urged the Office of Management and Budget to allow the Commerce Department to immediately reprogram funds into this year's budget. The funding approved today will allow Indiana's MEP program to continue teaching small manufacturers more efficient production practices, how to select and use new computer systems, and how to improve financial management and implement strategic planning. In addition to providing immediate support for Indiana's small manufacturers, Senator Bayh has also introduced legislation to increase future funding for the MEP program to provide continued economic opportunities for Indiana's small manufacturers. Bayh's legislation proposes funding the MEP at $220 million per year. With this level of support, Indiana's MEP program could receive an additional $4 million each year to reopen its closed centers and help more small manufacturers with consulting, accounting, marketing, and certification needs, along with other services designed to help small manufacturers grow and succeed. These steps are vital to strengthening Indiana's economy and providing new jobs and better job security for Hoosiers. Indiana has 11,000 manufacturers, 98% of which are small manufacturers. These companies employ close to 300,000 Hoosiers across Indiana, providing greater economic opportunities for thousands of Hoosier families.  