Senate Gives Final Approval to Bayh Amendment Funding Predator Drones Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh announced that the U.S. Senate today approved an amendment he introduced to provide the U.S. Special Operations Command with much-needed Predator drones, intelligence-gathering unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), as part of the Department of Defense Appropriations bill conference report. The conference report will now be sent to President Bush to be signed into law.  Intelligence gathering is essential to America's ability to succeed in the war on terror and the Predator has been perhaps the most important tool in this effort, Senator Bayh said. Ensuring that U.S. Special Operations Forces has as many Predators as they need, as soon as possible, is a critical part of a tough and smart approach to winning the war on terror. My amendment will provide our troops with the resources needed to find and destroy the terrorist networks that threaten our nation. According to Defense News, the Predator was central to the detection and killing of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi in Iraq in June. Yet, at an Armed Services Committee hearing this spring, U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) Deputy Commander Eric T. Olson testified that his Command was lacking in intelligence gathering resources, including Predators. In response to questioning from Senator Bayh, Admiral Olson stated that USSOCOM is short one full squadron of Predator unmanned aerial vehicles and also in the number of Special Operations Forces that can be deployed around the globe. As a result of this testimony, Bayh wrote to the Committee Chairman and later introduced an amendment to restore funding for the Predators, which was unanimously accepted by the Senate. The inclusion of Bayh's amendment in the now-approved Defense Appropriations bill adds $64.5 million for the accelerated purchase of Predators and will make up the funding shortfall to ensure that USSOCOM has all the tools it needs to achieve its mission. Bayh's amendment fully funds USSOCOM's intelligence and sensor collection capabilities in the coming years, including a second squad of Predators that will now be fully operational by 2010. Senator Bayh, a member of the Armed Service and Intelligence Committees, has been an outspoken advocate for a tough and smart approach to national security in the 21st century, confronting terror threats abroad and protecting our homeland.  