Bayh Announces $2.2 Billion for Armored Humvees for Troops in Iraq Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh announced today that the Senate approved $2.2 billion for additional up-armored Humvees that he helped secure as part of the Fiscal Year 2007 Department of Defense Appropriations conference report. The funding will help provide more than 12,000 up-armored Humvees for troops fighting overseas and will safeguard more than 2,200 Hoosier jobs at AM General in South Bend. The conference report will now be sent to President Bush to be signed into law.  Every day our troops on the front lines are put in danger unnecessarily because they do not have the protective equipment they need, Senator Bayh said. The Pentagon has repeatedly failed to provide the number of up-armored Humvees necessary to keep our troops safe while they accomplish their missions oversees. This funding will help ensure that these brave men and women receive the support and equipment that they deserve. This funding will help the Army move toward its goal of up-armoring all Humvees that are used in Iraq, as well as to replace existing up-armored Humvees in Iraq that have been damaged or destroyed in battle. Over the last six years, Senator Bayh has helped secure roughly $5 billion to produce almost 40,000 standard and up-armored Humvees for all of the Armed Services. In addition to helping protect our troops, the funding will also mean continued economic opportunity for the South Bend area. AM General estimates that more than 2,200 Hoosier jobs will be maintained as a result of this funding. Senator Bayh has consistently led the way in the Senate to provide funding for more up-armored Humvees for our troops, in the face of repeated failures on the part of the Pentagon to ensure protective equipment for our military men and women. While the funding in the Defense Appropriations bill will help ensure our troops' safety, Bayh has said he will not stop fighting for more Humvee funding until our troops have all the equipment necessary to protect them selves while they defend our national security.  