Bayh Co-Sponsors Bill to Encourage Investment in Low-Income Communities Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh co-sponsored a bill to encourage investment in low-income communities by reauthorizing the New Market Tax Credit (NMTC) program, which is set to expire in 2007. The legislation, which was introduced by Senator Snowe (R-ME), would provide tax credits to qualifying private investors or businesses to help increase the amount of money invested in projects in economically distressed neighborhoods. Since the program's inception, the tax credits have generated nearly $81 million worth of investment in Indiana.  This funding will mean new job opportunities and a better quality of life for hardworking Hoosiers across Indiana, Senator Bayh said. These tax credits help grow our economy by providing struggling communities with the money needed to build new manufacturing facilities, charter schools, office space, and daycare centers. The New Market Tax Credit program works by providing credit to investors who make investments in Community Development Entities (CDEs). These CDEs then invest in a wide-range of projects in low-income communities, which might not otherwise receive financing. Typical projects include real-estate development, child care centers, health care facilities, charter schools, and manufacturing projects. Previous tax credits allocated by the NMTC program include $50 million for the Community Bankers Association of Indiana (CBAI) and $25 million for the Indiana Redevelopment Corporation (IRC). The CBAI used its funding to create and retain advanced manufacturing jobs in Indiana in low-income communities in Indiana by offering below-market rate loans and investment funds to struggling manufacturing businesses. The IRC used its $25 million to help finance real estate projects in Indianapolis, including the development of new community and day care centers. Senator Bayh was an original co-sponsor of the NMTC legislation in 2000 when the program was created. In May of 2004, Bayh urged the NMTC to significantly increase funding for Hoosier projects. Later in the month, he announced that Indiana would receive tax credits that could result in up to $75 million in investments through the NMTC program. In 2003, Senator Bayh worked to secure $6 million for Indiana through NMTC to help improve local economies and neighborhoods in New Albany, Versailles and Aurora.   