Bayh Visits Kokomo Small Manufacturer Kokomo, IN-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today visited Integrated Services Incorporated (ISI), a small manufacturer in Kokomo, Indiana, to spotlight its role in the local economy and emphasize the crucial role Indiana's small manufacturers play in Indiana's economy. During his visit, Bayh announced that he has introduced legislation that will significantly increase funding for a widely-popular manufacturing program that helps small manufacturers grow their businesses and hire more workers. "At a time when Indiana's small manufacturers are working harder than ever to succeed, it makes no sense to take away funding for an organization designed specifically to help them create more jobs and expand their business," Senator Bayh said. "That's why I'm calling for significant new funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program, to provide more hardworking Hoosiers with jobs and more small manufacturers like Integrated Services Incorporated with the tools they need to succeed in today's fast-paced, global marketplace." Indiana's MEP program helps 1,000 small businesses each year and makes an economic impact of $160 million each year. It has helped save or create more than 1,300 Hoosier jobs in the past two years. However, the administration slashed funding for the program by more than 60% this year, forcing the MEP program to close offices across the country. With the support outlined in Bayh's legislation, Indiana's MEP program could receive an addition $4 million each year to reopen its closed centers and help more small manufacturers grow their businesses and hire additional workers. Integrated Services Incorporated, a Kokomo small manufacturer that retrofits and stores large plastic bins used by local auto-makers, used Indiana's MEP program to successfully obtain important manufacturing certification that allows it to seek out contracts with larger clients who require internationally-recognized certification. As a result, ISI was able to obtain its certification for $15,000, saving the company $50,000 compared to the cost of private certification classes. As a senator, Bayh has worked hard to support Indiana's small manufacturers in a variety of ways. Bayh has introduced legislation to stop illegal trade practices that give Chinese companies unfair advantages. Bayh has also called for greater support for the MEP program and has invested in Indiana's manufacturing future by supporting Indiana's life sciences, nanotechnology and advanced manufacturing centers. These steps are vital to strengthening Indiana's economy and providing new jobs and better job security for Hoosiers. Indiana has 11,000 manufacturers, 98% of which are small manufacturers. These companies employ close to 300,000 Hoosiers across Indiana, providing greater economic opportunities for thousands of Hoosier families. Integrated Services Incorporated employs 65 area Hoosiers.  