Bayh Praises Banking Legislation Emphasizing National Security in Future Business Deals Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today praised legislation before the Senate Banking Committee as a much-needed solution to the current system that was responsible for approving the Dubai ports deal earlier this year. The Foreign Investment and National Security Act, which was being considered in the Banking Committee at the time of this release, includes nearly all of the reforms included in Bayh's Smart and Secure Foreign Investment Act introduced last month. "The Dubai ports deal was merely the latest in a long line of questionable takeovers highlighting the need to reform our current approval process," Senator Bayh, a member of the Banking Committee, said. "We need a process that's both tough and smart, one that emphasizes the importance of national security first, along with the importance of trading with the rest of the world. Today's legislation does exactly that." The Foreign Investment and National Security Act, offered by Senators Shelby (R-AL) and Sarbanes (D-MD), includes several key provisions included in legislation that Bayh introduced last month. Like Bayh's legislation, today's bill will make the Director of National Intelligence a part of the committee that oversees foreign takeovers and will require him to provide an assessment on any potential national security implications of business deals. Other reforms include requiring consideration of the country where the foreign business is located and its relationship with the United States and creating greater transparency through Congressional notification and reporting to the public. Today's legislation also includes language similar to Bayh's that expands on the current definition of what businesses constitute a national security interest. This key problem was first identified in a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study requested by Senators Bayh, Shelby and Sarbanes in 2003. The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) is responsible for reviewing the national security implications of foreign takeovers of domestic companies, but it has blocked only one purchase of a U.S. company since it was created. "I am pleased to see that most of the changes I called for in my Smart and Secure Foreign Investment Act have been included in the legislation we are considering today," Senator Bayh said. "Today's legislation will ensure that our homeland security concerns are addressed before business deals involving foreign countries are considered. In addition, it serves as an important reminder of the progress that can be made by senators working together toward a common goal, a rare occurrence in today's partisan environment." Bayh first became involved with CFIUS in 1995, when the Committee approved the sale of Magnequench, an Indiana-based company responsible for making 80 percent of the magnets used to guide U.S. smart bombs, to a Chinese-led consortium. As a result, Indiana lost 225 jobs and our smart bomb manufacturer now must rely on Chinese imports to produce a crucial weapons system.  