Bayh's Statement on Foreign Investment and National Security before the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee       I would like to extend my appreciation to the Chairman, Ranking Member, and their staffs for working with my office not just in the past few weeks, but over the past few years, on an issue of great importance to our nations security. In order to meet the challenges we face in todays post-9/11 world, we can no longer rely on approaches that are either tough or smart, but need a national security strategy that is both. Accepting anything less is simply not an option. With regards to foreign investment, we must ensure that our homeland security concerns are addressed before business deals involving foreign countries are considered. International trade can be a dynamic engine for economic growth and job creation, and the United   States rightfully maintains the most open trade and investment policies in the world. Several foreign companies have invested in my home state of Indiana, and are currently employing thousands of Hoosiers. However, up until now, the officials in the Department of Treasury and other agencies that approve foreign takeovers have placed enormous weight upon our countrys interest in free trade at the exclusion of everything else. Most recently, the Dubai ports deal sparked a great deal of surprise and concern among Republicans and Democrats alike when it looked as if the operations of six U.S. ports would be under the control of a company whose home country had ties to September 11th terrorists. While this deal has since been scuttled, it served an important purpose by drawing attention to the larger problems with the system responsible for approving foreign takeovers in the first place. For too long, the process has served as a rubberstamp, approving a long line of questionable takeovers while blocking only one acquisition since its creation. What we need is a process thats both tough and smart, one that emphasizes the importance of national security first, along with the importance of trading with the rest of the world. We experienced the consequences of the current system firsthand in Indiana. Not long ago, a company called Magnequench in Valparaiso produced more than 80 percent of the rare-earth magnets that guide our smart bombs. I speak in the past tense because Magnequench closed its Valparaiso facility in 2003 and moved its magnet production to China after the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) approved its acquisition by a Chinese-led consortium. Apparently CFIUS believed that outsourcing this vital technology would not impact our national security. But I dont think theres anything smart about a process that literally puts the success of our defense systems in the hands of another country. As a result of their decision, Indiana lost 225 good-paying jobs, and today our smart bomb manufacturer relies on Chinese imports to complete production of this vital weapon system. In 2003, Senators Shelby and Sarbanes joined me in asking the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study ways to improve the system responsible for overseeing foreign takeovers like Magnequench. As part of its report, the GAO found that CFIUS uses such a narrow definition of national security that it allows too many questionable takeovers without sufficient review. We cannot afford to rely on such a narrow definition any longer. To address these problems, I offered legislation to reform the CFIUS process to help ensure that transactions like the Dubai port deal and Magnequench sale are given closer scrutiny in the future. I am pleased to see that most of the changes I called for in my Smart and Secure Foreign Investment Act have been included in the legislation we are considering today. First, this legislation would codify CFIUS into law. Doing so will increase accountability of CFIUS agencies, and make the process more transparent. Secondly, incorporating the Director of National Intelligence is long overdue. One of the GAOs most disturbing discoveries was the narrow definition that CFIUS agencies apply to national security. Critical infrastructure including energy assets must be part of any discussion on national security. The experiences of our chief intelligence officer will better inform the committees decision making and ensure that national security concerns receive the weight and attention they need in this process. My legislation also called for consideration of a countrys relationship with the U.S. for any proposed foreign takeover, and under the Chairmans bill, consideration will be given to the policies of governments whose companies wish to invest in our country. Lastly, I am pleased this legislation reflects the importance of informing state-elected officials and the public. At a time of mounting skepticism over the inner-workings of government, this legislation takes an important step toward providing much-needed transparency. It is the type of tough and smart approach needed to update our current system to meet the challenges of todays world. Once again, I am grateful for the partnership that Senators Shelby, Sarbanes, and I have built over the past few years on this issue. Todays legislation illustrates the benefits that can come from Senators working together toward a common goal.  