Bayh Applauds Decision to Apply Anti-Subsidy Law to Chinese Company Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today applauded Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez's decision to help American companies fight unfair trade from overseas by applying U.S. antisubsidy laws to paper imports from several companies in China, which uses tactics such as tax breaks, debt forgiveness and low-cost loans to price their products at artificially low levels, affording them an unfair advantage in the global marketplace. In January, Senators Bayh and Susan Collins (R-ME) sent a letter to Secretary Gutierrez calling on Commerce to step up enforcement of antisubsidy laws and increase efforts to protect American companies from illegal practices by foreign competitors. "It is a great relief to me, and I'm sure to these companies' American competitors, to see that Secretary Gutierrez has finally heeded our recommendation to apply antisubsidy laws to these Chinese companies to offset the unfair advantage they gain using illegal subsides," Senator Bayh said. "I hope this is the beginning of a new approach by the Bush administration to the issue of illegal subsidies, and that we can start working together to make sure that no American company has to compete with foreign companies who continue to refuse to play by the rules." Senators Bayh and Collins recently reintroduced their Stopping Overseas Subsidies (SOS) Act to allow the United States to fully enforce its antisubsidy laws and greatly increase the ability of companies in Indiana and across the nation to fight unfair trade from overseas. Illegal subsidies, which often take the form of free rent and utilities and loans that are never meant to be repaid, allow foreign companies to price their products at artificially low levels, giving them an unfair advantage over American companies that play by the rules. The SOS Act was written as a solution to a federal court decision from 1986 that the Commerce Department says prevents it from applying laws prohibiting these unfair practices to nonmarket countries like China that benefit from this unfair trade advantage. Today's announcement that the Department of Commerce will apply antisubsidy laws to these companies marks the first time since 1991 that the United States has taken such action against a company operating in a nonmarket country like China. Currently, U.S. industries have no direct recourse to combat subsidies used by nonmarket economies. Because these illegal subsidies are indirectoften taking the form of free energy and materials, free or reduced rent or loans that will never be collectedaffected U.S. companies are left without recourse. If current anti-subsidy laws were applied to illegal Chinese subsidies, the U.S. government could take swift action, protecting American manufacturing and saving countless American jobs. Senator Bayh has been a leader in the effort to defend American companies and workers from unfair and illegal trade practices. Last month, Bayh introduced legislation to help strengthen enforcement of laws protecting U.S. intellectual property from being stolen by overseas competitors and used to make counterfeit products. Additionally, as a member of the Senate Banking Committee, Bayh has called on China to stop artificially devaluing its currency, which gives Chinese companies a 20 to 40 percent advantage, making it harder for U.S. companies to compete.  