Bayh Fights to Keep 9-11 Legislation Intact Washington-- With barely more than a week left until the Senate is scheduled to adjourn and no progress made on Congressional reform, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today introduced an amendment that would consolidate intelligence oversight and budget control into one committee, streamlining a process that the 9-11 Commission had singled out as key to improving national security and winning the war on terror. At press conferences across Indiana this month, Bayh promised Hoosiers that he would oversee the Senate's work on the 9-11 legislation and vowed to challenge any attempts to delay reforms. Today, he introduced the amendments in an effort to emphasize the importance of moving forward with these reforms before the Senate adjourns for the year. "This legislation includes reforms that are crucial to strengthening homeland security and to winning the war on terror," Senator Bayh said. "We cannot allow it to be weakened by attempts to protect political turf and maintain the status quo. Congress must reform itself as part of our efforts to strengthen the nation and my amendment will make sure it does so." Bayh has asked Senate Leadership not to adjourn for the year until the Senate has had time to take up all of the necessary reforms, including changes Congress must make within its own committees. Delivering on his pledge to challenge any footdragging on 9-11 legislative reforms, Bayh introduced amendments designed to spur Congressional reform, support the Commission's recommendations on intelligence reforms and strengthen the nation's efforts to win the global war on terror. One of the key recommendations from the 9-11 Commission involved streamlining Congressional oversight of the nation's intelligence agencies. Under the current structure, intelligence oversight and budget control is spread out over several committees, forcing high-ranking intelligence and military leaders to take crucial time away from their work to testify before a multitude of committees. Bayh's amendment would consolidate oversight into one committee, a move that would take power away from the Armed Services Committee on which Bayh serves. The new, permanent Committee on Intelligence Bayh proposed would include members from the Armed Services, Judiciary, Foreign Relations and Defense Appropriations committees and would have sole jurisdiction over the budget and oversight for the National Intelligence Program. In addition, Bayh has introduced an amendment with Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) outlining the important foreign policy goals recommended by the 9-11 Commission that call for the U.S. to set priorities for winning the war on terror. Among its 17 proposals, the amendment calls for greater focus on identifying terror-friendly nations and regions, for supporting Pakistan's anti-terror efforts, and for re-evaluating Saudi Arabia's mixed history as an ally in the war on terror. In addition, the amendment outlines ways to continue rooting out terror finance groups, an issue Bayh championed through his work to stop hawallas, international money lenders who don't keep records and are a favorite terrorist resource. Under Bayh's amendment, the administration would be required to report to Congress in 180 days outlining the progress it has made and identifying ways to move forward. "To win the war on terror, we must know who our friends are and where our enemies are hiding," Senator Bayh said. "We can't continue fighting terrorism using the same foreign policy blueprints that were in place before September 11th." Bayh also co-sponsored an amendment with Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) to provide the proposed National Intelligence Director with daily, operational control of the intelligence departments, as suggested in the 9-11 Commission Report. The change will help ensure that a National Intelligence Director has the authority to truly manage and direct the intelligence services. The White House recently announced that it supports the Senate's intelligence reforms and is awaiting legislation to begin enacting the necessary changes. Bayh, along with Senators McCain, Lieberman and Specter, first introduced comprehensive legislation outlining all of the 9-11 Commission recommendations when the Senate first returned from August recess. The intelligence reform legislation on the floor is based largely on their work.  