Bayh Urges Trade Commission to Keep Duties on Steel Imports, Protect American Jobs Washington-- Senator Evan Bayh today called on the International Trade Commission (ITC) to continue to protect American jobs and the U.S. steel industry from unfair trade practices of other countries by keeping in place duties on certain steel imports. Senator Bayh testified during the ITCs five-year review of the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders placed on imports of hot-rolled carbon flat steel products from 11 countries. The ITC placed duties on the imports five years ago to combat illegally subsidized and dumped steel products entering the U.S. market. Through this review, the ITC will determine whether or not to end the duty order. This discussion is about free trade and what recourse we must take when the United States embraces global competition but some of our trading partners do not, Senator Bayh said. Instead, they seek to give advantage to their own producers at the expense of American workers and producers. Issuing this order five years ago was the right thing to do then, and extending that order is the right thing to do today." Bayh noted that several countries, including China and India, have made it clear they are using government funds to build up their countrys steel producing capacities. These government subsidies make it possible for products from those countries to be sold at artificially low prices in foreign markets. Indiana is the largest steel producing state in the United States, and Indiana steel facilities have an annual hot-rolled steel capacity of more than 25 million tons. Bayh pointed out that steel producers have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in recent years in Indiana and are responsible for thousands of jobs. Failure to enforce existing trade laws allows other countries to create unfair barriers for those companies to earn a fair return and provide opportunities for American workers. Our workers get up in the morning, and before they even get dressed for work, they are behind in the global marketplace, Bayh said. Its not because of their work ethic, its not because theyre not smart enough, its not because their company didnt make the investment. Its solely because of the practices other countries pursue to gain an unfair advantage. As a result, our workers and our producers suffer through no fault of their own. In addition to China and India, the duty orders have been in effect on hot-rolled carbon steel flat products from Argentina, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, the Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand and Ukraine. The ITC review process continues through tomorrow with testimony from other public officials and steel industry representatives.  