Bayh Calls for Immediate Deployment of United Nations Peacekeepers to Darfur Washington-- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh today called for the further deployment of international peacekeepers to Darfur, cosponsoring a Senate resolution that lays out firm benchmarks for that mission. Senator Bayh is also supporting an amendment to strengthen oversight of U.S. Department of Defense activity in the region.  Bayh has cosponsored Senate Resolution 276, which backs a United Nations measure that specifically calls for the United States and the international community to assemble the forces and contribute the vehicles and equipment that will be needed to deploy an immediate peacekeeping mission to Darfur. Additionally, the resolution underscores the need for a sustained, high-level diplomatic effort to forge a comprehensive peace settlement. In the event that the Khartoum government does not abide by its commitments, the resolution calls for the imposition of meaningful measures including multilateral sanctions and a no-fly zone. The resolution also makes clear the responsibility of all partiesincluding the Khartoum government, its militia and rebel groupsto guarantee humanitarian groups have access to those in need and security. Bayh is also a cosponsor of an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill that requires an annual report by the Secretary of Defense on U.S. policy to improve the situation in Darfur and the affected region. The report would detail the Department of Defense contributions to NATO, the United Nations, and the African Union (AU) in support of the current AU Mission in Sudan. The ongoing humanitarian crisis in Darfur is a horrific atrocity, and the United States has a moral obligation to exercise global leadership to help stop the suffering in the Sudan, Senator Bayh said. Our role in Darfur must be deliberate and coordinated. These resolutions will help ensure that the American people have a clearer understanding of the role the United States must play to help stop this genocide. Despite several efforts to pacify the region, the Darfur conflict has continued to intensify. Senator Bayh has been a consistent supporter of congressional efforts to take stronger action in Darfur, where an estimated 450,000 people have been killed in genocide. He recently signed a letter to Chinas president urging him to influence Sudans President to withdraw Sudanese troops and to fulfill its prior agreement to accept a robust peacekeeping force. Senator Bayh was also an original co-sponsor of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2005, which became law in 2006. It called for the protection of civilians in Darfur and urged imposition of sanctions on the government of Sudan.  