Bayh Urges Full Funding to Protect Nation Against Flu Pandemic Washington-- In the wake of recent reports that the United States is still not prepared for a flu pandemic, U.S. Senator Evan Bayh, and ten of his colleagues, sent a letter today urging the Senate Appropriations Committee to provide sufficient funding to strengthen our vaccine supply and prepare for a possible flu pandemic. Just last week, experts told Congress that the United States remains woefully unprepared for an influenza pandemic, with no licensed vaccine to prevent avian flu and nowhere near enough drugs to treat the sick in case of an outbreak. "Our nation's leading health experts warn that we face the very real threat of a flu pandemic, and yet we remain dangerously unprepared," Senator Bayh said. "Congress must ensure that our public health agencies have the funds they need to protect our nation. We need to act now, before disaster strikes." In a letter to Senators Specter (R-PA) and Harkin (D-IA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bayh and his colleagues outlined the importance of funding measures that will help make certain our nation is prepared in the event of an influenza pandemic and prevent future flu vaccine shortages. In order to be appropriately prepared, the nation must have a strong manufacturing capacity in the U.S., improved vaccine technologies with shorter production times, adequate stockpiles of antivirals and vaccine, and a clear protocol for vaccine distribution and public health and safety procedures to be implemented in a pandemic situation. Public health experts warn that it is only a matter of time until a flu pandemic strikes. For two years in a row, the country has suffered severe vaccine shortages, last year when flu season hit early, and this year, when a contaminated batch of vaccines cut the supply in half. Recent media reports have highlighted the growing threat of avian flu, and yet the United States still has no licensed vaccine to prevent it. Senator Bayh has called this situation unacceptable, and today called on his colleagues to fully fund initiatives to address the problem. "The devastating economic and human consequences of a flu pandemic would far exceed the cost of these efforts," Bayh wrote. Bayh was joined on the letter by Larry Craig (R-ID), the lead Republican co-sponsor of Bayh's Flu Protection Act, and nine other senators, including Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Susan Collins (R-ME), Jon Corzine (D-NJ), Pete Domenici (R-NM), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Barack Obama (D-IL), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). Since December 2003, Bayh has been fighting to increase the nation's preparedness against the threat of the flu. In January of 2004, Bayh first introduced his Flu Protection Act, a comprehensive solution targeting the problems that have led to shortages for the past two years. The legislation would help ensure an adequate number of vaccines are produced each year by enacting a buy-back program and encouraging greater U.S. vaccine production, and by providing additional funding for research and development as well as offering tax credits to encourage greater U.S. vaccine production. Most recently, after reports that the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile has become "nearly empty," Senator Bayh called on the Securities and Exchange Commission to revise a previous SEC ruling that is believed to have prompted vaccine manufacturers to stop contributing to the stockpile.  