SEN. TALENT HOLDS MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG TOWN HALL MEETING IN SPRINGFIELD
  With two-thirds of Missouri seniors already enrolled in the Medicare prescription drug program, Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) held a town hall meeting today in Springfield to help seniors learn more about the new benefit. Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, provided information about the law and answered a range of questions from local seniors about how they can lower the cost of their prescription drugs. Sen. Talent has held dozens of town hall meetings with Missouri seniors to address any concerns they have and to help them get the information they need about the new benefit.  
   "For the first time in the history of the Medicare program, our seniors have access to a comprehensive, voluntary prescription drug benefit," said Sen. Talent, who helped pass the legislation in the Senate. "I'm holding these meetings for area seniors who are interested in learning more about the new Medicare law and to answer their questions. My office is doing everything it can to help seniors get the information they need to get prescription drug coverage." 
   The U.S. Senate passed a new Medicare Prescription Drug bill, now law. This year, for the first time, every Medicare beneficiary in Missouri will have access to a voluntary prescription drug benefit. 
   "The bipartisan plan meets the conditions I thought were important for a Medicare prescription drug bill," Sen. Talent said. "It has an immediate benefit, reasonable monthly premiums, strong catastrophic coverage, targeted help for low-income seniors, quality benefits for rural areas, protections for local pharmacies, choice and access to all medicine and participation is voluntary."
   Since the enrollment period began last November, more than 603,456 Missouri seniors are enrolled in the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. There are 917,102 seniors and disabled people eligible for the Medicare benefit in Missouri. As of March 18, 66 percent, or thirds, of those eligible are enrolled in the new voluntary prescription drug benefit. Seniors who have not yet signed up have until May 15, 2006, before the next enrollment period begins in November.
   Medicare beneficiaries can now enroll in a Medicare Prescription Drug Plan, or a Medicare Advantage Plan that offers drug coverage. Like other parts of Medicare, seniors will pay a small monthly premium and a portion of the cost of prescriptions.
   In addition to providing a prescription drug benefit, the new law also provides for a one-time initial wellness exam within six months of enrolling in Medicare. Screenings include early detection of breast cancer, prostate cancer, colon cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
   Medicare will be contacting seniors with instructions on how to enroll in the drug benefit. Additional information can be found on the Internet at medicare.gov and on Sen. Talent's Website at talent.senate.gov, or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227) or Sen. Talent's Springfield office at (417) 831-2735.
 
 