A STAIN ON AMERICA'S JUDICIAL RECORD
  I want to preface the story of Emmett Till by saying it has to shame every American. It is a hard story to write about as I'm sure it will be hard to read. Thankfully, it is a story from a very different time in this country, but unfortunately it is a story that has been unresolved for nearly 50 years. 
   In August 1955, Emmett Till, a 14-year-old African American was visiting family in Money, Mississippi, from Chicago and allegedly whistled at Carolyn Bryant, a white woman. 
   On August 28, Roy Bryant, Carolyn's husband, and his half brother, J.W. Milam, kidnapped Emmett from his uncle, Moses Wright's, home. They beat him, dragged him to the banks of the Tallahatchie River and shot him in the head. Bryant and Milam then fastened a large metal cotton ginning fan and dumped his body into the river. Three days later, Emmett's body was pulled from the river and returned to his mother, Mamie Till, in Chicago. 
   Mamie Till made a very courageous decision at that point. She decided to leave his casket open for four days to show the public what had happened to her son. 
   Tens of thousands of people paid their respects in person and the press published photos of Emmett's mutilated corpse around the world. In September 1955, Roy Bryant and J.W. Milam stood trial for Till's murder in Mississippi. An all white jury acquitted both men, reaching their verdict after only 67 minutes of deliberation. 
   Emmett's uncle Moses Wright, and another resident of the town, Willie Reed, both testified in court. As a result they were forced to flee to Chicago because their lives were in danger following their testimony. There was tremendous outrage worldwide at the murder and subsequent acquittal. In November, Wright and Reed returned to Mississippi and testified before a grand jury investigating the pending kidnapping charges against Bryant and Milam. But the grand jury refused to indict those men. 
   On January 24, 1956, Look magazine published an article in which both Bryant and Milam described the murder in detail. They received $4000 to tell their story. Look published a subsequent article, where Milam stated that he did not regret the killing. 
   Both Roy Bryant and J.W. Milam lived the rest of their lives as free men and died of natural causes; Milam died in 1980 and Bryant in 1990.
   Keith A. Beauchamp - a documentary film maker from Fort Greene, Brooklyn,
   recently found new evidence about the case, including never-before-heard eyewitness accounts, while making his documentary, "The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till." The witnesses claim that there were several other people involved in the murder plot and that some of these individuals are still alive. Tracy Allen, a reporter with the Kansas City Call, has also done extensive investigative reporting on this matter.
   In light of this, Senator Charles Schumer approached me last April to see if I would join him in filing a resolution calling for the Justice Department to reopen this case. I was very interested in doing that. We wanted to determine whether it was still possible to prosecute some of these other individuals who, according to Mr. Beachamp, were indeed involved in this crime. 
   Senator Schumer and I both contacted the Justice Department before we sponsored that resolution. I am pleased to say the Justice Department did reopen the case in May, and has been investigating ever since. 
   Congressman Bobby Rush, Congressman Charlie Rangel, Senator Schumer and I have now sponsored in the House and in the Senate a new resolution calling on the Justice Department to devote whatever resources are necessary to investigate this matter expeditiously, to report back to the Congress and to finally do justice after 50 years. 
   I am ashamed to say that Mamie Till tried over and over again for almost 50 years to get the federal government to do something, particularly in the 1950s when the evidence was fresh. But the federal government did nothing, and for that has to accept responsibility. 
   We do not know what an expeditious and complete investigation will reveal. It is possible either that other people were not involved or that a case cannot be made against them at this late date. What we do know is that any remaining witnesses, and people who might have been coconspirators in this terrible crime, are getting older. If a case is to be made, it must be made soon because witnesses may die and evidence may become even more stale and unusable. 
   It is owing to these individuals and to their courage that we do the right thing after all this time. I certainly intend to continue doing whatever I can to make certain the Justice Department is held accountable for taking action. This is a subject I intend to bring up with Alberto Gonzales, the President's nominee for Attorney General, as his confirmation process moves through the Senate. I want to make certain that he is personally aware of what happened to Emmett Till and is committed to devoting such resources as are necessary, as expeditiously as possible, to see that justice so long delayed is now done in this case.
   U.S. Senator Jim Talent, a Missouri Republican, sponsored Senate Concurrent Resolution 150 calling on the Justice Department to expedite its investigation into the Emmett Till murder case.
 
 