REMEMBERING RONALD REAGAN
  By U.S. Senator Jim Talent
   President Ronald Reagan was larger than life and a positive voice of change and vision for America. He was a hero of mine as he was to so many Americans and his passing is a tremendous loss for the country. 
   Much has been said in the last week about President Reagan's humor and amiability. That was a very important part of who he was. When I think of him, I visualize him smiling or offering some witticism or humor. President Reagan understood the importance of not taking yourself too serious - a quality often lacking in Washington, D.C.
   But we should remember President Reagan not only for his qualities and personality, but also for what he believed. He thought ideas were important, and he was right. President Reagan's friends and opponents have sometimes characterized his political philosophy as being anti-government. I believe that at best that is an oversimplistic view.
   President Reagan put his faith in the things the American people build on their own, in their families, small businesses, local schools, voluntary associations, churches, synagogues and temples. What he wanted was for the government to be vigorous in the areas it was supposed to operate, but to consistently respect the institutions of private life rather than trying to overthrow these institutions.
   Ronald Reagan once said in 1970: "It's not my intention to do away with government. It is rather to make it work - work with us, not over us; stand by our side, not ride on our back. Government can and must provide opportunity, not smother it; foster productivity, not stifle it."
   He believed in the great traditions of American culture. He knew that those traditions and the institutions that represent them grow and evolve organically over time, and that they represent the wisdom of many generations of people about how we ought to live in our society so that we can have the maximum amount of justice and freedom and opportunity for all of our people.
   In the 1990's when we were debating welfare reform, a key point in that debate was when Congress decided collectively that we were not going to discuss whether we should try to get rid of the welfare system. We were not going to retreat from the impulse of the 1960's that we should help people who were living in poverty. What we wanted was to change the welfare system in a way that respected and upheld the values that generations of American have relied on to move out of poverty.
   We wanted a system that, instead of punishing work, encouraged and required it. We wanted a system that, instead of providing incentives against marriage, encouraged marriage and talked about its importance. We wanted a system that did not uproot neighborhoods and neighborhood institutions, that didn't sweep them aside in the name of an all-powerful and prescriptive government, but rather a system that helped build up again the vital parts of neighborhoods.
   The reason welfare reform has been so successful is not because it represented a retreat by the government from its commitment to helping people achieve the American dream, but rather because it represented a conscious commitment by the government to work with the values of Americans, to respect those values and not to uproot them.
   The seeds of welfare reform were planted during President Reagan's administration, and it was his philosophy of government that won the debate that has helped move millions of people out of poverty and into productive lives.
   President Reagan understood, probably better than anyone, Victor Hugo's observation that "nothing else in the world, not all the armies, is so powerful as an idea whose time as come." That idea, according to Ronald Reagan, was that human nature compels not just Americans but all peoples toward freedom. He understood that the peoples of Eastern Europe aspired to enjoy the same freedoms with which we are blessed.
   He also understood that powerful ideas are at times insufficient when brutally suppressed by totalitarian regimes.
   His commitment to reverse the hollowing of our military forces underpinned his determination to confront the Soviet Union on his terms: peace through strength. His commitment to prosecute the Cold War on his terms with a succession of Communist overlords was the most profound demonstration of President Reagan's wisdom, and his knowledge, consistent with those of Abraham Lincoln, is that the United States of America is, and always will remain, the last best earthly hope of all mankind.
   Many have commented on President Reagan's optimism about America. He was optimistic because he not only believed in the primacy of private institutions, but because he knew that what we believed in was right, powerful and good. He was also not afraid to state his beliefs in those terms.
   An example of President Reagan's optimism is found in his second inaugural address in January of 1985:
   "Now we hear again the echoes of our past: A general falls to his knees in the hard snow of Valley Forge, a lonely President paces the darkened halls and ponders his struggle to preserve the Union, the men of the Alamo call out encouragement to each other, a settler pushes west and sings a song, and the song echoes out forever and fills the unknowing air.
   "It's the American sound. It's hopeful, big-hearted, idealistic, daring, decent, and fair. That's our heritage; that is our song. We sing it still. For all our problems, our differences, we are together as of old, as we raise our voices to the God who is the author of this most tender music. And may he continue to hold us close as we fill the world with our sound - sound in unity, affection, and love - one people under God, dedicated to the dream of freedom that he has placed in the human heart, called upon now to pass that dream on to a waiting and hopeful world."
   President Reagan's earthly journey has ended, but the song of his life - an American life - continues to inspire us as we remember him this week, as it will inspire generations to come.
   Senator Jim Talent (R-Mo.) was elected to serve Missouri in the U.S. Senate in November 2002. Previously he served in the U.S. House of Representatives (1993-2001) and the Missouri House (1985-1992).
 
 