SENATE APPROVES SEN. TALENT'S AMENDMENT TO PREVENT CORPORATE CRIMINALS FROM HIDING ASSETS
  The Senate today approved an amendment offered by Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) to prevent those attempting to defraud their creditors, including those who commit fraud in running a corporation, from hiding their assets in so-called "asset protection trusts." Sen. Talent's amendment passed 73-26 with strong bipartisan support. The U.S. House has expressed its support for the amendment which means the measure is expected to become law as part of the Bankruptcy Reform bill (S. 256). 
   "We should not allow wealthy people, including corporate criminals, to hide their assets and avoid paying their bills," said Sen. Talent. "Our amendment makes certain that dishonest people can't hide their assets, especially if they have caused others to lose their jobs, retirement pensions, health care benefits and, in some cases, their life savings."
   Five states, including Alaska, Delaware, Nevada, Rhode Island and Utah, currently allow what is commonly known as an "asset protection trust," which lets people shield property from their creditors. People do not need to live in these states to take advantage of the so-called "asset protection trusts." 
   Sen. Talent's amendment allows victims of a corporate crime to go after the personal resources of those responsible, even if those resources are sheltered in an "asset protection trust." 
   The amendment allows victims to go after any resource transferred into the trust by a corporate criminal over the previous ten years. Current law says that if a corporate executive is convicted of a crime, victims can only go after resources transferred into the trust over the last year. The Bankruptcy bill, without Sen. Talent's amendment, would have made it only two years.
   "This amendment means that dishonest people can not transfer money, mansions or fancy cars into trusts, go bankrupt after several years, and hide the assets from people they have defrauded," said Sen. Talent. "I expect the House will approve this amendment."
 
 