SEN. TALENT WILL HIGHLIGHT NEED TO PASS AHPs DURING COVER THE UNINSURED WEEK
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Republican Task Force on the Uninsured, today said he will highlight the need to pass Association Health Plans (AHPs) for the largest segment of uninsured Americans - our small business men and women - during Covered the Uninsured Week. Cover the Uninsured Week is May 10-16.  
   As a member of the Task Force on the Uninsured, Sen. Talent has been working to include the AHP legislation, the Small Business Health Fairness Act (S.545), as part of the Task Force recommendations.
   "Cover the Uninsured Week is a time to recognize that there are 43.6 million Americans without health insurance and to discuss real solutions to help them," said Sen. Talent. "Health insurance is the No. 1 problem facing small business people and their employees. Of the 43.6 million people who are uninsured in the country, 60 percent either own a small business, work for a small business or are dependent on someone who works for or owns a small business. And for the small business employees who do have health insurance, costs are rising on average more than 20 percent per year."
   Association Health Plans would allow small business people to join together through their trade associations to purchase quality, affordable health care for themselves, their families, and their employees and their families. 
   AHPs would operate the same way as health insurance plans in Fortune 500 companies. They allow small business people to join together, nationally, through their trade associations, such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Restaurant Association or the American Farm Bureau, to purchase the same high-quality health insurance offered by big companies, labor unions, Medicare, Medicaid and the federal employee benefit system. 
   According to CONSAD, a well-respected research firm, the legislation could, by conservative estimates, reduce the number of uninsured by 8.5 million. The plans would constitute powerful competition with the insurance companies who now monopolize the small group market, to hold down costs. 
   "I've talked personally with hundreds of people in small business who are desperate for affordable, high-quality health insurance," Talent said. "They believe AHPs would offer them participation in a big national pool, with reduced costs of regulation, where they would not have to pay the marketing costs or profit margins of insurance companies."
   Talent added, "AHPs would reduce costs of health insurance by 10-20 percent on average, and costs for very small businesses would drop much more. This would result in millions of people getting health insurance who currently don't have it, and millions of others getting better coverage at less cost - all at no cost to the taxpayer."
   Association Health Plans are strongly supported by President Bush, and the House has passed the legislation on numerous occasions with strong bipartisan support. The House is scheduled to consider the legislation again during Cover the Uninsured Week. 
   "I hope we dedicate Cover the Uninsured Week to a thoughtful discussion about how we can solve this problem instead of a rehash of the problem or finger pointing," Talent said. "We need to work together now, and beyond Cover the Uninsured Week, to pass a package of ideas that will make a real difference for people without health insurance and help lower the cost of health care for everybody."
 
 