SEN. TALENT INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO BOOST AGRICULTURE RESEARCH
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-MO) today introduced the National Food and Agriculture Act of 2006 which would keep America's farmers the most productive in the world by boosting investment in food and agriculture research. Sen. Talent's legislation, cosponsored by Sen. Kit Bond (R-Mo.), would implement recommendations from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Research, Education and Economics task force established in the 2002 farm bill.  
   "America has the safest, most abundant and least expensive food supply in the world," said Sen. Talent, Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "The heart of food production in the United States and the world is the American family farmer and rancher. Our plan will expand the development of research programs to improve human health, increase agricultural production and provide our producers with a competitive edge in the global marketplace."
   "The leading competitiveness of our U.S. producers is only as solid as our willingness to invest in forward-looking investments and build upon our historic successes. This legislation seeks to lay the foundation for tremendous advances in the future," said Senator Bond. "This is a tremendous opportunity to improve agriculture and its benefits to all our populations."
   "Knowledge is power," said Dr. William H. Danforth, Chancellor Emeritus of Washington University and Chairman of the Research, Education and Economics Task Force, USDA. "This legislation recognizes a knowledge gap in agriculture and seeks to close that gap so that the American farmer remains productive and competitive in the global marketplace. We do not yet fully know how to grow highly productive plants that require less water or less fertilizer, how to make plants maximally efficient in producing ethanol and bio-diesel fuels or how to immunize farm animals against dangerous diseases. With a national institute for agriculture, we will achieve that base of knowledge."
   The USDA Research, Education and Economics task force found that America's inadequate funding of agriculture research puts the nation's farmers at a disadvantage from foreign competitors. One key recommendation from the task force suggested establishing a National Institute for Food and Agriculture (NIFA) at the USDA which would supplement ongoing research conducted at the Department. 
   The legislation implements this recommendation by directing USDA to create a NIFA that provides agriculture researchers additional funds through a competitively awarded grant program.
   The amount of funding going into researching to improve profitability on farms, economic growth and jobs in rural America, consumer well-being, and conservation of natural resources has remained flat for roughly two decades. USDA's task force noted that the amount of funding designated for competitively awarded, peer-reviewed agriculture grants is outpaced 100 to 1 by the National Institutes of Health. The NIFA would increase funds available for food and agriculture research in addition to the current available resources at USDA's Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Services (CSREES).
 
 