SENATE APPROVES SENS. TALENT-LIEBERMAN AMENDMENT TO KEEP BOEING C-17 LINE OPEN IN ST. LOUIS
  The U.S. Senate today approved 89-8 a bipartisan amendment sponsored by Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.) which would keep the Boeing Company's C-17 line open in St. Louis. The Department of Defense recently briefed Congress on its draft plan to cease production of the C-17 transport which employs about 1,800 workers in Missouri and generates $776 million in economic activity in the state. The Talent-Lieberman amendment would authorize up to 42 new C-17s and create a new structure for the military to evaluate the need for additional "lift" aircraft. 
   "The C-17 is the finest military transport in the world," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee which oversees the C-17 program. "This amendment is crucial to ensure that the United States has the airlift we need to deploy and sustain our forces overseas. Our ongoing military operations require an aircraft that can quickly and reliably deliver troops and military cargo of all kinds to locations around the world. One of the reasons the C-17 is such an outstanding transport is because of the quality of work accomplished by Missouri workers."
   The draft version of the Defense Department's Mobility Capabilities Study, despite the clear need for additional airlift, recommends purchasing no C-17s beyond the 180 currently planned for. 
   Accordingly, the Talent-Lieberman amendment would accomplish three objectives to protect the lift capability needed to deploy and sustain forces overseas: First, it would authorize a multiyear contract for the purchase of up to 42 additional C-17 aircraft. 
   Second, this amendment urges the Secretary of the Air Force to keep production lines open by sustaining at least a minimum production of C-17s until further assessment of airlift needs are completed. 
   Third, it requires the Secretary of Defense to certify the need for additional C-17s by assessing the additional inter-theater airlift requirements generated by 7 factors not fully considered in the flawed mobility study, including: the Army's shift to brigade combat teams, its goal of deploying a brigade anywhere in the world in 4 to 7 days and a division anywhere in the world in ten, our increased involvement in international humanitarian relief missions and the deployment back to the U.S. of forces as part of the Global Posture Review.
   The C-17 is the primary inter-theater air transport used by the U.S. to deploy and sustain forces overseas. C-17s have recently been deployed in several key roles in the War on Terror, special operations missions and training, and humanitarian relief. The C-17 has delivered 70 percent of the cargo airlifted into Iraq. 
   Additionally, the C-17 played a key role in several recent humanitarian relief missions, including responses to the Gulf Coast hurricanes. Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Michael Mosely recently said the C-17 has proven its worth "in gold."
   The Talent-Lieberman amendment was added to the Defense Authorization bill which the Senate is expected to approve this week. The bill will then go to a Conference Committee with the House.
 
 