SEN. TALENT'S LIBERTY MEMORIAL LEGISLATION PASSES HOUSE-SENATE
  The Liberty Memorial will be recognized as America's World War I Museum under legislation authored by Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Sen. Talent's legislation was included in the Defense Authorization Bill, which passed the House and Senate. The legislation must now be signed by the President to become law.  
   "The Liberty Memorial is an institution in Kansas City and I believe it's an important memorial for the country," said Talent. "Our amendment would provide well-deserved recognition for Kansas City which is very proud to have one of the largest World War I collections in the country. I also want to work with people in Kansas City to make certain as many Americans as possible have the opportunity to experience the museum."
   The Liberty Memorial Museum is the only public museum in the nation dedicated exclusively to interpreting the experiences of the United States and its allies in the World War I years (1914-1918), both on the battlefield and on the home front. 
   "The designation as America's National World War I Museum will open many doors for us, both financially and educationally," said Steve Berkheiser, Executive Director of the Liberty Memorial Association. "We are very grateful that Senator Talent, as well as the rest of Missouri Congressional delegation, has recognized that the Liberty Memorial is truly a national treasure." 
   The Liberty Memorial Museum project began after the 1918 Armistice through the efforts of a large-scale, grass-roots civic and fundraising effort by the citizens and veterans of the greater Kansas City metropolitan area. After the conclusion of a national architectural design competition, ground was broken in 1921, construction began in 1923, and the Liberty Memorial Museum was opened to the public in 1926. 
   Today, the Liberty Memorial Museum seeks to educate all Americans through its comprehensive collection of historical materials, emphasizing eyewitness accounts of soldiers on the battlefield and Americans on the home front, and the impact of World War I on Americans, then and now. The Liberty Memorial Museum continues to actively acquire and preserve such materials.
   Sen. Talent successfully offered his legislation as an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill (S. 2400) in June when it was being debated by the U.S. Senate. Representatives Ike Skelton and Karen McCarthy sponsored similar language in the House of Representatives.
 
 