SEN. TALENT'S 'OPERATION HERO MILES' PASSES HOUSE-SENATE
  Military personnel and their families would be able to receive donated frequent flyer miles under legislation authored Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.). Sen. Talent's Operation Hero Miles amendment was included as part of the Defense Authorization Conference Report (HR. 4200). The amendment would allow Americans to donate their airline miles to our men and women in uniform and their families. The Defense Authorization  
   Conference Report, with Sen. Talent's legislation, passed the House and Senate. The legislation must be signed by the President to become law. 
   "Our amendment will allow the families of wounded service personnel to visit their loved one in a military hospital at no personal expense for the airfare," said Talent. "It will also permit soldiers who must return home from overseas while on emergency leave to do so at no cost by using donated frequent flyer miles. A service member who has to return home would face real financial hardship if they had to purchase commercial airfare on a moment's notice. This amendment will allow Americans to directly support and assist our service men and women and their families by donating frequent flyer miles."
   Sen. Talent's amendment makes Operation Hero Miles a permanent Department of Defense (DOD) program, giving DOD the authority to accept the donation of frequent traveler miles, credits and tickets by the general public in order to give free, unrestricted, last minute plane tickets to servicemen and women on leave to handle an urgent family situation, convalescent leave or other unexpected emergencies. 
   The legislation also gives DOD the authority to give free plane tickets to family members of wounded troops traveling to visit their injured loved ones at military hospitals around the world. Under special circumstances, the DOD is also authorized to allow a non-family member, such as clergy or a close mentor, use of the donated miles to reunite with a wounded or ill servicemember. The Department is to designate a single office to administer the Operation Hero Miles program, to establish rules and procedures for eligibility and disbursement of miles and to promote participation in the program and donation of miles by airlines, organizations and the public.
 
 