SEN. TALENT AWARDED ST. LOUIS AGRIBUSINESS LEADER OF THE YEAR
  The St. Louis AgriBusiness Club today honored Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, with their "2006 Leader of the Year" award. Sen. Jim Talent was chosen for the honor for his advocacy on behalf of Missouri agriculture and improving opportunities for farmers by making U.S. agriculture more competitive in the global marketplace.  
   "It is a tremendous honor to receive this award," said Sen. Talent, Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "America has the safest, most abundant and least expensive food supply in the world. The heart of food production in the United States is the American family farmer and rancher. I will continue to work on behalf of Missouri family farmers to provide them with a competitive edge in the global marketplace." 
   "Senator Talent has been an unwavering advocate for American agriculture during his time in Congress," said Bret Cude, St. Louis AgriBusiness Club President. "His efforts to promote renewable fuels and create value-added market opportunities have enabled farmers to capture more value of the crop they grow. We're honored to present this year's AgriBusiness Leader of the Year Award to Senator Jim Talent, a true agricultural champion." 
   Sen. Talent is a leader in promoting the use renewable fuels like biodiesel and ethanol. He was the architect of the Renewable Fuels Standard in the Energy bill which calls for an increase in domestic supply to 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2012. 
   As a member of the Senate Waterways Caucus, Sen. Talent fought to pass legislation that would make the necessary updates to our locks and dams and maintain our ability to efficiently move products and commodities on the Mississippi River while protecting the environment. The Upper Mississippi River and Illinois Waterway carry approximately 60 percent of the country's corn exports and 45 percent of our soybean exports.
 
 