SEN. TALENT ENCOURAGES ADDITIONAL MISSOURI SENIORS TO ENROLL IN NEW MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLANS
  With two-thirds of Missouri seniors already enrolled in the Medicare prescription drug program, Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) continues to encourage seniors to consider signing up for the new drug benefit. Sen. Talent, who helped pass the Medicare prescription drug bill in the Senate, will join President Bush today in Jefferson City to discuss how the new drug benefit is helping seniors pay less for their prescriptions. Sen. Talent has held dozens of town hall meetings across the state to help seniors get the information they need about the new drug benefit. 
   "One of my biggest concerns is the quality of life for our seniors and that's why I strongly supported the Medicare drug benefit," said Sen. Talent. "Each month, more and more seniors are signing up to pay less for their prescription drugs or to access a drug benefit for the first time. We've been working very hard together with our local Area Agencies on Aging to make certain Missouri seniors get the information they need about the new Medicare drug benefit. I've encouraged all those who are eligible, especially those without drug coverage, to take a look at the new plans and consider which one might be right for them."
   On average, Missouri seniors spend about $1,500 out-of-pocket every year for their medicine. Under the new Medicare law, many Missouri seniors are saving 50 percent or more on their prescription drugs. And seniors with very low incomes are saving even more money.
   There are 917,102 seniors and disabled people eligible for the Medicare drug benefit in Missouri. As of March 18, 66 percent, or two-thirds of those eligible, are enrolled in the new voluntary prescription drug benefit in Missouri. Nationally, an average of 380,000 seniors enroll for the benefit every week. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) reports that the enrolment rate is on course to achieve the goal of 28 to 30 million people receiving the drug benefit in the first year. Seniors who have not yet signed up have until May 15, 2006, before the next enrollment period begins in November. (Source: CMS, http://www.hhs.gov/news/press/2006pres/20060323.html)
 
 