CRACKING DOWN ON CORPORATE CRIMINALS
  No one, least of all those who have defrauded employees and investors in public corporations, should be able to hide their assets and then file for bankruptcy. That is why I introduced an amendment to the Bankruptcy Reform bill (S.256) which imposes strict limitations on so-called "asset protection trusts." I am pleased to report the amendment passed 73-26 with strong support from both Republicans and Democrats. The measure prevents wealthy people, including corporate criminals, from hiding their assets to avoid paying their bills.  
   Here's the problem: although the law allows people to create trusts for others, courts have historically refused to permit such trusts to be used as a device for avoiding creditors. 
   But starting in 1997, a few states, including Alaska, Delaware, Nevada, Rhode Island and Utah, decided to change their trust laws to allow wealthy residents and non-residents to create "asset protection trusts." My amendment prevents those attempting to defraud their creditors, including those who commit fraud in running a corporation, from hiding their assets in such trusts. The amendment says if you create one of these trusts to keep your assets away from creditors, the bankruptcy court will break open the trust and use the money and property to pay the people you owe.
   Moreover, the court can go back ten years to get money or other assets that were stashed away in such trusts.
   We've all heard about the abuses of high-paid corporate executives who break the law and still manage to live in luxury - beachfront mansions, antique sports cars, yachts, private jets and many other excessive "toys." With our amendment, criminals can no longer abuse the trust laws of certain states to hide their wealth. In effect, we take away their toys.
   Current federal law says: if a corporate executive is convicted of a crime, victims can only go after resources transferred into one of these trusts if the assets were put in within one year of creating the trust. Under my amendment, courts will be able to review every transaction to these trusts over a 10 year period and allow the employees, pensioners, investors and other creditors to go after these criminals who shelter their assets in these trusts. If the court finds that the transfer of assets was fraudulent, they will be voided and the assets will be returned to creditors. I am pleased that the amendment was approved by such a strong bipartisan vote and will likely become law within the next few weeks.
 
 