SEN. TALENT'S AHPs BILL INCLUDED IN SENATE TASK FORCE RECOMMENDATIONS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Task Force on the Uninsured, today helped announce the completion of the task force's work in developing solutions for America's uninsured. The task force recommendations include Association Health Plans (S. 545), a bill Sen. Talent has championed for years in the House and now in the Senate.  
   "The task force has worked very hard for this day and I want to congratulate Majority Leader Frist and Sen. Gregg for their leadership," said Sen. Talent. "What we've done is create a platform of solutions to help cover the uninsured addressing the issues of cost, coverage and care. I am especially pleased the task force has embraced small business health plans which will help cover the largest segment of America's uninsured at no cost to the taxpayer."
   According to the U.S. Census Bureau, there are 43.6 million uninsured Americans. Two-thirds of them either work for a small business, own a small business or are dependent on someone who works for or owns a small business. 
   Association Health Plans would allow national trade associations, such as the National Federation of Independent Business, the National Restaurant Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, to sponsor the same quality health insurance currently offered by Fortune 500 companies, labor unions and the federal government. Trade groups could then offer these national health care plans to their small business members, who could purchase health insurance for themselves and their employees.
   A study by the CONSAD Research Corporation estimated that up to 8.5 million, roughly 20 percent of America's uninsured, could gain health insurance coverage from AHPs. Association Health Plans are strongly supported by President Bush, and the House has passed this legislation on numerous occasions with strong bipartisan support. 
   Sen. Talent said the inclusion of Association Health Plans in the task force report is an encouraging step forward. He added that he would continue working with Senate leadership and his fellow task force members to help pass Association Health Plans and the task force platform in the Senate.
   Sen. Talent also highlighted elements of the plan that address the rising cost of health care.
   "Health care costs are going up everywhere particularly in the small business sector," said Talent. "We have proposed a number of solutions in this platform that target reform to specific needs to lower health care costs. Our plan would establish new architectures of technology, reform the medical liability system and reduce burdensome regulations all of which are driving up the cost of health care for everybody. We've developed some comprehensive solutions that I am hopeful the Senate will consider to help cover the uninsured."
 
 