SEN. TALENT'S SICKLE CELL DISEASE BILL TO BECOME LAW
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the House and Senate passed the FSC/ETI bill, which includes his Sickle Cell Treatment Act (S. 874) to help treat and expand services for patients with the blood disorder that primarily affects African-Americans. The FSC/ETI bill, with Sen. Talent's legislation, must be signed by the President to become law.  
   "This is great news for the tens of thousands of Americans with Sickle Cell Disease," said Sen. Talent. "This is comprehensive health care legislation that will increase funding for treatment and research efforts, expand awareness about the disease and provide additional services for sickle cell disease patients." 
   Sickle Cell Disease affects about one in 300 African-American newborns. It is an inherited defect in blood that causes normally round blood cells to take on a sickle shape. These sickle-shaped cells clog the bloodstream, creating obstructions that result in severe medical complications. The disease affects approximately 70,000 Americans; more than 2,500,000 Americans, mostly African-Americans, have the sickle cell trait. 
   "The Sickle Cell Treatment Act is the most significant piece of health care legislation for this community in 35 years. I'm grateful for Senator Talent's unyielding support and for working hard to include it in the FSC/ETI Conference Report," said Dr. Michael DeBaun, a pediatric hematologist with Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis Children's Hospital. "Passage of Talent's bill will offer hope to millions of children and their parents who deal with this disease everyday," DeBaun said.
   The Sickle Cell Treatment Act will increase health care access for patients by providing federal matching funds for Sickle Cell Disease-related services under Medicaid making it easier for doctors to treat patients with the disease and increasing state funding for physician and laboratory services.
   "I want to thank Senator Talent for working to include his sickle cell legislation in the Conference Report. This bill will help my son and our family live stronger lives and bring us closer to finding a cure. My 10-year-old son Isaac has Sickle Cell Disease, which affects our family's decisions everyday," said Everline Singleton, mother of 10-year old Isaac Singleton, who suffers from sickle cell disease. "Senator Talent's bill will help families like ours have the access to education and treatment that we need to stay healthy," said Mrs. Singleton.
   The legislation also enhances the number of services available to Sickle Cell Disease patients by allowing states to receive a federal 50-50 funding match for treatment expenses such as genetic counseling, community outreach and education. 
   Additionally, the bill creates 40 Sickle Cell Disease treatment centers across the country and establishes a National Sickle Cell Disease Research Headquarters through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. This National Coordinating Center will coordinate the research conducted by health professionals and universities to help educate patients with the goal of finding a comprehensive cure for Sickle Cell Disease.
   Sen. Talent's bipartisan, bicameral Sickle Cell Treatment Act (S. 874/H.R. 1736) has the support of the American Medical Association, the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), the NAACP, the Sickle Cell Disease Association of America and many other groups.
 
 