SEN. TALENT COMMENDS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE FOR HELPING SENIORS ENROLL IN NEW MEDICARE DRUG PLANS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today commended the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People for their efforts to help get seniors enrolled in the new Medicare prescription drug program. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the nation's oldest civil rights organization, is launching a media and grass-roots campaign to promote the new Medicare drug plans. In Missouri, as of March 18, two-thirds of the seniors eligible for the drug benefit are enrolled according to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).  
   "I applaud the NAACP for helping African Americans sign-up for the Medicare drug benefit so they can begin paying less for the prescriptions they need to stay healthy," said Sen. Talent, who helped pass the legislation in the Senate. "Every month more and more seniors are enrolling in the Medicare drug program and the NAACP's efforts, like AARP's and Missouri's Area Agencies on Aging, will help seniors save money on their prescriptions."
   The NAACP said it plans to partner with CMS to air public service announcements featuring prominent celebrities in predominantly African American media markets. The NAACP is also planning an "enrollment Sunday" where churches across the country will participate in enrollment events.
   Sen. Talent continues to visit personally with Missouri seniors in town hall forums to answer questions and help provide enrollment information. Sen. Talent has held 48 town hall meetings with Missouri seniors since the drug benefit legislation passed the Senate.
   "We've been working very hard to make certain that Missouri seniors get the information they need about the new Medicare drug benefit," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Aging Committee. "I've encouraged all those who are eligible, especially those without drug coverage, to take a look at the new plans and consider which one might be right for them."
   Additional information about the new Medicare drug law can be found on the Internet at 
  www.medicare.govand on Sen. Talent's Website at http://talent.senate.gov or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). Missourians can also contact one of Sen. Talent's offices in their area: Jefferson City (573) 636-1070; St. Louis (314) 432-5211; Springfield (417) 831-2735; Kansas City (816) 421-1639 and Cape Girardeau (573) 651-0964.
 
 