SEN. TALENT DISCUSES REDVELOPMENT WITH COMMUNITY LEADERS IN CARUTHERSVILE
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today hosted a redevelopment roundtable with Caruthersville City Mayor Diane Sayre and other community leaders to discuss the Caruthersville and Pemiscot County Community Long-Term Recovery Plan. Mayor Sayre outlined efforts the federal, state and local governments have coordinated for the long term recovery plan. Prior to the meeting, Sen. Jim Talent surveyed current reconstruction efforts to damaged areas in the community caused by tornadoes that hit the County earlier this spring.  
   "I continue to be encouraged by the efforts of citizens who are working diligently to rebuild their homes and community," said Sen. Talent. "Caruthersville sustained significant losses during the spring storms and we are going to continue working to deliver additional federal aid to assist the rebuilding effort. I applaud the efforts of Mayer Sayre and others who participating in implementing a multi-discipline task force plan to quickly provide a focused and comprehensive strategy for recovery."
   "We are pleased to have Senator Talent in Caruthersville," said Mayor Diane Sayre. "He has been very supportive of our community, especially since the tornado. We are pleased that he has taken time to visit again and discuss ways his office can continue to assist us during our recovery." 
   Sen. Talent visited Caruthersville earlier this year after much of the town was severely damaged by the violent storms that swept through March 29-April 2. Sen. Talent helped secure disaster assistance to assist those in Caruthersville and surrounding areas of Pemiscot County who were affected by the storms. Over 1000 area homes were damaged or destroyed by an F-3 tornado during the storms.
   In May, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced they were sending personnel to conduct operations in Pemiscot County. Sen. Talent said that FEMA has revised flood plain maps of the area. This new designation reduces the amount of land considered to be in a flood plain and will allow more homeowners to rebuild in these areas without facing additional tedious guidelines. In order for the maps to become final, the Army Corps of Engineers, as well as individual landowners, will have to review and approve the new designations.
 
 