REP. EMERSON, SENS. BOND, TALENT ANNOUNCE FIRE GRANTS
  Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) and Missouri Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent today announced that two Southern Missouri fire departments will receive funding from a Department of Homeland Security grant program. The funds, which were awarded to fire departments in Jackson and Alton, MO, will be used to fund fire operations and firefighter safety in Jackson and facilitate the purchase of a new firefighting vehicle in Alton.  
   "We are very excited to receive this funding," said Barry Pfister of the Alton Volunteer Fire Department. "We will be this grant to help purchase a new fire truck. The newest vehicle we current operate is nearly 30 years old and the others are nearly 40 years old. We appreciate the much need funds."
   "Our firefighters come from all walks of life and serve every segment of society. In fact, many of these brave men and women are volunteers who generously serve their community in another occupation and then volunteer to help keep us safe and out of harm's way." Emerson said, "However, many of those departments, especially those here in rural Missouri, operate on less than a shoe string budget and have needed new equipment and more training for a number of years. This much-needed funding will help fire departments meet these needs, ultimately helping to reduce deaths and injuries in our nation's fire service community."
   "These funds will help local fire departments in Missouri have the equipment necessary to protect the citizens they so admirably serve," Bond said. "It became even more clear after 9-11 that our first responders must have the resources they need to do their jobs safely."
   "I am encouraged by the progress we have made in the Senate this year, and believe we will do even more to protect the American people from the threat of terrorism," Talent said. "Missouri firefighters put their lives on the line to protect us. It is important that we provide our first responders with the training, equipment, and resources they need to do their jobs and protect our citizens. I appreciate the Administration for delivering this funding quickly to support first responders. I will continue working with Senator Bond and Representative Emerson to deliver even more funding for firefighters, law enforcement and emergency workers in Southeast Missouri."
   Department of Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge added, "One way the Department of Homeland Security is working to better protect the nation is by providing millions of dollars in direct support of the men and women who help protect our neighborhoods and communities." 
   Jackson Fire & Rescue: Jackson - $103,500 
   AltonVolunteer Fire Department: Alton - $126,000
 
 