SEN. TALENT AWARDED TOP HONOR BY JEFFERSON CITY NAACP
  The (NAACP) today awarded Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) the President's Award from the organization's Jefferson City branch. Sen. Talent was selected for the award for his sponsorship of the "Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act." 
   "It's a tremendous honor to be recognized by the Jefferson City NAACP," said Sen. Talent. "The idea of sponsoring a bill to bring the murders of Civil Rights era cold cases to justice, originated with the Emmitt Till Justice Campaign and conversation I had with their President, Alvin Sykes. I want to congratulate Nimrod Chapel, Alvin Sykes and everyone associated with this organization who is working hard to get this legislation enacted into law."
   "We are honoring Sen. Talent with this award for his hard work and tenacity in getting support for the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act," said Nimrod Chapel, NAACP President of the Jefferson City Chapter. "It takes a lot of courage for someone to do something of substance when it comes to civil rights. Sen. Talent is in the category with President Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower, who both were instrumental in championing integration issues. I want to thank Sen. Talent for his courage and leadership to unify America." 
   Sen. Talent has partnered with U.S. Sen. Chris Dodd (D-Conn.) to create a new office within the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute Civil Rights-era murders. The Talent-Dodd proposal, which was approved by the Senate in September, would create the Unsolved Crimes Section, an office within the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice to focus specifically on unsolved Civil Rights era murders. The bill would authorize up to $5 million annually for the new Section. Sen. Talent is continuing to work to get the bill approved by the House. 
   The NAACP Freedom Fund Dinner recognizes and shows appreciation to corporations, businesses, organizations and individuals for their support over the last year. The Jefferson City NAACP Chapter 4064 has approximately 150 to 200 members.
 
 