SEN. TALENT, MRS. BUSH HOST EVENT TO ILLUMINATE GATEWAY ARCH IN PINK LIGHTS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) tonight hosted a ceremony to illuminate the Gateway Arch in St. Louis in pink lighting to honor Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Sen. Jim Talent was joined by Mrs. Laura Bush and area leaders in the fight against breast cancer for the event in Downtown St. Louis. The ceremony and lighting was sponsored by Federated Department Stores, Inc., and the event was emceed by Sen. Jim Talent's wife, Mrs. Brenda Talent. This is the third year of the pink lighting ceremony and marks the twenty-second anniversary of Breast Cancer Awareness Month.  
   "Like many families, mine has been touched by this disease when I lost my mother, Marie, to breast cancer," said Sen. Talent. "This ceremony recognizes her and the millions of women battling the disease and those who lost their lives fighting breast cancer. I'm pleased Mrs. Bush joined us this evening for the lighting ceremony in hopes that soon we will be able to find a cure to this life-threaten disease that affects nearly two million women in the United States. Throughout the month, women are reminded in many ways that regular screening for breast cancer continues to be the most effective method of detection in its earliest stages and therefore save lives."
   Sen. Talent passed legislation in 2004, now law, allowing the Arch to be lit in pink lights for one night in October to help raise breast cancer awareness. Throughout his years in public life Sen. Talent has championed measures to defeat breast cancer which took the life of his mother, Marie Talent, in 1988. 
   "If programs such as the pink illumination of the Gateway Arch cause one woman to get a mammogram that saves her life, our efforts are worth it," said Terry L. Lundgren, Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Federated Department Stores, Inc., the parent company of Macy's. "The message is clear. Breast cancer awareness events such as this one or the hundreds of smaller-scale events happening this month in Macy's stores across the country will save lives."
   "On October 12, the Gateway Arch will stand as a stunning beacon of hope to remind women everywhere that early detection does save lives," said William P McNamara, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Macy's Midwest, headquartered in St. Louis. "Speaking for everyone in our organization coast to coast, we are extremely proud to raise awareness in an effort to help find a cure."
   The American Cancer Society estimates that a woman in the United States has a 1 in 8 chance of developing invasive breast cancer. Nearly 212,920 women in the United States will be found to have invasive breast cancer in 2006. Researchers have estimated that approximately 2 million women in the U.S. are living with the disease and have been treated for breast cancer.
 
 