SEN. TALENT URGES SENATE PASSAGE OF EMERGENCY DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR PRODUCERS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today joined a bipartisan group of Senators to urge passage of the Emergency Disaster Assistance Act. Sen. Jim Talent is a lead cosponsor of the disaster aid package introduced by Sen. Kent Conrad (D-N.D.), which will provide production loss and economic assistance to agricultural producers for losses incurred during the 2005 and 2006 production year.  
   "For years, Missouri's farmers and ranchers have had to cope with devastating drought conditions," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "A severe drought is a natural disaster that hurts our farmers, jobs and the health of our state's economy. For example, a reduction of one bushel per acre in soybean production reduces Missouri net farm income by about $25 million. A similar per-acre reduction in corn production results in a $5 million decrease. This assistance is vital to our farmers and ranchers and I'm optimistic the Senate will move quickly to approve this legislation."
   The disaster aid package combines legislation previously introduced to support ranchers and farmers impacted by drought in the 2005 growing season with emergency legislation to aid producers suffering from the 2006 drought. During the news conference, the Senators pointed out that this legislation is comprehensive and national in scope, covering hurricanes, drought, flood, disease and other weather related disasters. 
   Sen. Talent said this legislation is critical for drought-plagued states, like Missouri. Without sufficient rain in 2005 and 2006, the crop and livestock situation in Missouri is serious. Missouri producers also incurred additional livestock losses and production hardship, such as feed shortages. Over 62 percent of Missouri's pastures are rated poor to very poor. Fall pasture growth has been minimal, especially in Southwest Missouri and livestock water supplies are critically short for the second year in a row.
 
 