SEN. TALENT QUESTIONS BRITISH PETROLEUM EXECUTIVES DURING SENATE ENERGY HEARING
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today questioned British Petroleum executives on the events leading up to the shutdown of their Prudhoe Bay oilfield. Last month, Sen. Jim Talent sent a letter to Sen. Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), Chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, requesting that the Energy Committee hold a hearing on the impact and situation leading up to the partial shutdown of the largest oilfield in the United States.  
   "While we've seen some relief at the pump, Missourians have been extremely frustrated with the high price of both oil and gasoline, especially during the summer months," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "This shutdown could have been prevented and I am concerned about the high cost of gasoline on families in Missouri and across the country. Our economy relies on affordable and reliable energy supplies. Every time the cost of oil and gasoline increases, it puts pressure on the American economy. BP and other oil companies should take every possible measure to ensure that these shutdowns are avoided." 
   BP suspended production at its Prudhoe Bay oilfield due to a spill and corrosion of its pipelines in Alaska. The actions last month will cause temporary loss of as much as 400,000 barrels of oil per day, which is 8 percent of U.S. oil production and 2.6 percent of U.S. supply, including imports. 
   "I strongly support efforts to expand domestic production of oil and natural gas," said Sen. Talent. "However, I also expect the private sector to sharply step up its investment in its own critical infrastructure. The actions of BP have made it clear that we can not rely on the industry to self-regulate. They were given the opportunity, and failed miserably."
   The Department of Transportation is drafting proposed legislation to regulate low stress hazardous liquid lines - like the BP line in question. Earlier this year, BP announced that its second quarter earnings rose 30 percent to a record $7.32 billion, yet they did not make the needed investments into critical infrastructure. Sen. Talent said that the extensive corrosion to a pipeline of such importance to our economy is unacceptable and could easily been avoided if BP had taken even minimal steps to maintain the pipeline.
 
 