AN AGENDA FOR THE 109TH CONGRESS
  The 109th Congress convened on January 4, supplying new opportunities to pass a pro-growth, pro-jobs agenda. We have a lot of work to do to make up for the inertia that dominated the Congress last year in part due to Presidential election politics. The election is over. It's time to work in a bipartisan fashion to pass an agenda for which Missourians and all Americans can be proud. 
   We need a robust highway bill. Missouri's roads are the second worst in the country, and our state ranks fourth in the nation in the percentage of structurally deficient bridges. Last year, the Senate approved a $318 billion highway bill, but the House voted out a much smaller, $284 billion version, and a compromise was never reached. As a result, we are funding transportation infrastructure at an outdated level and Missouri is guaranteed only 90.5 cents for every $1 we contribute in transportation taxes.
   The Congress should pass a bigger highway bill, and it should supplement this bill by passing a transportation infrastructure bonding measure I've sponsored with U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) called Build America Bonds. Our initiative would provide billions in bonds for the nation's transportation needs in addition to funding in the highway bill. If we can pass Build America Bonds, it will mean about $1 billion more in transportation infrastructure for Missouri, an immediate creation of thousands of jobs in our state and it will save lives each year by improving transportation safety.
   We must address the factors responsible for the rising number of uninsured and the skyrocketing cost of health care. There are 45 million uninsured nationwide including 585,000 in Missouri. Health care costs are going up everywhere, but no sector has been hit harder than small business where costs are going up on average between 15 and 20 percent. In fact, the majority of the uninsured either works for a small business, own a small business or are dependent on someone who does.
   I am sponsoring legislation to create Association Health Plans (AHPs) that would allow small business people to join together through their trade associations to purchase quality, affordable health care for themselves, their families, and their employees and their families. The legislation would provide quality health insurance to millions of people who don't have it and would lower health care costs for everybody. Moreover, it wouldn't cost the taxpayer anything. AHPs are an idea whose time has come, and the Senate should pass the bill.
   We need to pass a pro growth energy bill that includes a strong renewable fuels package. Passing an energy bill will create tens of thousands of jobs in workforce sectors across the country including energy, transportation and manufacturing. Expanding the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel will create jobs in the agriculture sector, reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy and lower the price of gasoline. The renewable fuels package passed by an overwhelming vote in the last Congress, but the energy bill on which it was attached was filibustered. If we can bring the energy bill to the Senate floor for an up-or-down vote, now that the election is over, I am confident it will pass. America, and especially rural America, has been waiting too long for the Senate to do the right thing.
   Finally, we need a bill to help Missouri fight methamphetamines. During the past decade, while law enforcement officers continue to bust record numbers of clandestine labs, meth use in communities has increased by as much as 300%. In 2004, Missouri had more lab busts than any other state. I introduced a bill last year, which I plan to reintroduce in the new Congress, to provide new resources and tools to states, local law enforcement and prosecutors to combat the production and distribution of meth.
   There's been a lot of talk recently in Washington, D.C. about Social Security and reforming the tax code. These issues are important, but we have a lot of unfinished business to take care of first. Repairing our roads and bridges, improving health care, expanding ethanol and biodiesel and stopping the spread of methamphetamines should be at the top of the list.
 
 