SEN. TALENT OPPOSES USDA PLAN TO INCREASE USER FEES ON LOAN PROGRAMS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today in a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing opposed the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) plan to impose new and increased fees on guaranteed loans for our farmers and ranchers. Sen. Jim Talent said that the guaranteed loan programs are designed to serve farmers and ranchers, not drive up their costs. The proposed plan would force significant new and increased fees onto the barrowers for agriculture loans, including those farmers who have experienced drought or disaster and who can least afford to pay them.  
   "I'm very concerned the new fee proposal is going to have the effect of marginalizing the program, basically reducing access and defeating its purpose," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "The very fact that the current program's loss rate is so low reflects to me that it is working and accomplishing its objectives." 
   Earlier this year, Sen. Talent and a bipartisan group of senators sent a letter to USDA Secretary Johanns opposing the plan to impose new and increased user fees for Farm Service Agency (FSA) guaranteed loans. In the letter, the senators stated they were concerned the new fees would force dramatically higher costs on farmers and ranchers. They continued by saying the fees proposed by USDA could be more than four or five times the amount barrowers are paying today. 
   "The proposal to significantly increase the guaranteed loan fees for Farm Loan Programs ultimately hurts rural family farmers and ranchers," said Betsy Senter, former President of the National Association of Credit Specialists-Farm Service Agency and Chair of the USDA Conference of the Federal Managers Association, who testified in today's hearing. "With the leadership of Senator Talent and his steadfast support of family farmers and ranchers, we have confidence that the integrity of the program and the guaranteed fee structure will remain intact." 
   The FSA guaranteed loan program leverages a modest federal investment to support a large volume of loans. The program has experienced very low loan losses, just 0.2 percent, for guaranteed farm ownership loans and 0.8 percent for guaranteed farm operating loans in FY 2005. These figures compare favorably to non-guaranteed loans made by private sector lenders.
 
 