DEFENSE SPENDING MEANS JOBS FOR MISSOURIANS
  By Sen. Jim Talent
   Missouriis one of the nation's largest producers of military hardware. We make fighter jets, jet training aircraft, military transports, missiles, smart bombs, military batteries, support equipment and many other key defense components for all the services. Missouri's defense presence is underscored by our military installations which include the U.S. Army's Fort Leonard Wood and Whiteman Air Force Base in Knob Noster. 
   When the Congress spends more on defense, it means both security for our country and jobs for our workers. Conservative estimates show that for every $1 billion the country spends on defense, 20,000 jobs are created and sustained, both directly and indirectly.
   I serve on the Armed Services Committee which writes each year's defense spending bill. We determine weapons procurement, military personnel policy, pay and health care and readiness issues.
   The Senate recently passed its annual defense bill (S. 2400), which authorizes $447.2 billion for defense programs in fiscal year 2005. As Chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee, I had the opportunity to write that portion of the bill dealing with Navy and Marine surface fleet issues, attack submarines, strategic air and sealift and research and development relating to these specific weapons programs.
   This year's defense bill includes significant programs for Missouri's defense sector, which will help sustain and create jobs and generate long-term economic growth. We've had excellent economic news for a while now with more than 1.5 million jobs created nationally over the past ten months. The defense bill will give Missouri's economy yet another boost.
   Among the approved defense programs in the bill is authorization for Boeing's Missouri-built Super Hornet. We authorized nearly $3 billion for continued production of the F/A-18E/F Super Hornet strike fighter for the U.S. Navy. Also included is $357.5 million for system design and development of a radar-jamming variant of the Super Hornet, $432.5 million for F-18 modernization and $134.5 million for F-18 Hornet research and development.
   The Super Hornet program directly employs about 10,000 workers in Missouri. The Super Hornet remains the Defense Department's model acquisition program, both during its development phase and over the past several years in production. The aircraft continues to earn the wholehearted praise of Navy pilots for its outstanding performance. I've had numerous opportunities to visit with workers on the Super Hornet line. They have good reason to take great pride in their work: The Super Hornet is the finest Navy fighter in the world.
   Additionally, we authorized $2.5 billion to build fourteen C-17 transport aircraft. The C-17, manufactured in large part in Missouri, is the newest airlifter to enter the Air Force inventory. Its global and theater airlift capabilities allow it to deliver troops and all types of cargo to main installations or directly to forward bases operations.
   The bill authorizes $20.6 million for facility upgrades at Honeywell's Federal Manufacturing & Technologies facility, a Department of Energy plant in Kansas City. Honeywell builds sophisticated electronic components for U.S. defense systems (including all non-nuclear components for our nuclear warheads) and employs about 3,000 workers in the Kansas City area.
   We authorized $10 million to begin development of the X-43C Hypersonic demonstration aircraft. This aircraft will demonstrate the feasibility of flying at speeds up to Mach 10. This is one of the most transformational technologies under development. The X-43C program is a partnership between Boeing's Phantom Works in Missouri and ATK in Tennessee.
   We approved military construction projects for Whiteman Air Force Base, authorizing $37,087,000 to replace 160 family housing units. For Fort Leonard Wood, we provide $2.75 million to upgrade a training range, $15 million for a WMD Responder Training Facility and $10.4 million for Phase I of a Countermine Training Complex.
   Other Missouri-built programs in the bill include the additional procurement of T-45 Navy Jet Trainer, funding for F-15 modernization, $496 million for the Navy's Multi Mission Maritime Reconnaissance aircraft, continued procurement of the Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) and development funds for the Small Diameter Bomb, a 250-pound version of the JDAM, B-2 modernization, components for the Army and Marines' 155 mm towed howitzers, ESSI's Chem-Bio Protection shelter, research on advanced submarine battery design, Blast barrier development, Remote Sensing; Oral Anthrax Vaccine; Corrosion Inhibiting Coatings, Small Business integration into the DoD supplier chain and a proposed Lean Manufacturing initiative to improve the quality of America's defense products.
   These programs mean tens of thousands of jobs for Missourians and better security for America. The workers who produce this military hardware are fighting the war on terror in their own way by providing our men and women in uniform with the tools they need to win the war. 
   The Defense Authorization bill is currently in conference where Members will work out differences between the Senate and House versions of the legislation. I am optimistic we will pass a good bill out of the Congress on behalf of our troops as well as our workers.
 
 