SEN. TALENT PRAISES HOUSE PASSAGE OF ASSOCIATION HEALTH PLANS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured, today applauded House passage of the Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 4281), which would establish federal Association Health Plans (AHPs) and help cover the largest segment of America's uninsured.  
   The bill, which passed with a strong bipartisan vote of 252-162, would give small businesses access to the same quality health care currently offered by Fortune 500 companies, labor unions and the federal government. Sen. Talent, a sponsor of the legislation in the Senate (S. 545) with Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), is urging senators to follow the House's lead and support the small business health care legislation. 
   "I congratulate the House for, again, passing small business health plans with a strong bipartisan vote," said Sen. Talent. "President Bush and the House have demonstrated their strong support for the measure but, unfortunately, the Senate has not fully recognized the potential this bill has to lower health care costs and provide quality health insurance to millions of people who don't have it. We made good progress this week with the inclusion of the legislation in the report announced by the Senate Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured. Now we must continue building momentum and bring it to the Senate floor for a vote."
   On Tuesday, Sen. Talent and other members of the Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured announced recommendations to help lower the cost of health insurance and cover the uninsured. The recommendations include Association Health Plans.
   AHPs would allow national trade associations, such as the National Federation of Independent Business, the National Restaurant Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, to sponsor quality, affordable health insurance. Trade groups could then offer these national health care plans to their small business members, who could purchase health insurance for themselves, their employees and families.
   AHPs would be regulated by the U.S. Department of Labor, which regulates 275,000 health care plans which cover 72 million people, including those sponsored by large corporations, labor unions and the federal government.
   A study by the CONSAD Research Corporation estimated that up to 8.5 million, roughly 20 percent of America's uninsured, could gain health insurance coverage from AHPs. The legislation is supported by over 170 organizations representing 12 million employers and 80 million American workers.
   "The No. 1 problem facing small business in this country today is the rising cost of health insurance premiums," Talent said. "According to the Labor Department, two-thirds of America's 44 million uninsured either own a small business, work for a small business or are a dependent of someone who owns or works for a small business. Association Health Plans would help reduce the cost of health insurance to small businesses by 10 to 20 percent, they would help cover millions of uninsured Americans and they wouldn't cost the taxpayer a penny."
 
 