SEN. TALENT DISCUSSES HIGHWAY BONDING WITH LOCAL TRANSPORTATION LEADERS AT CARPENTERS HALL
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today held a roundtable discussion with business and civic leaders to discuss his Highway Infrastructure Bonds plan. Sen. Talent and Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) added $15 billion to the $286.4 billion Highway bill with their Highway Infrastructure Bonds initiative, which was signed into law this summer. Missouri is expected to receive at least an additional $300 million to fund transportation infrastructure projects.  
   "Getting this bill through the Senate represents a big victory for our nation's transportation infrastructure," said Sen. Talent. "The $15 billion we added to the Highway bill will create jobs now and protect our safety and prosperity in the future."
   Talent and Wyden's Highway Infrastructure Bonds plan will build roads and bridges through public-private partnerships. The tax-exempt bonds are commonly used by states and localities to finance a wide variety of public infrastructure needs such as airports and water facilities, but they have never been used for roads and bridges. The Talent-Wyden plan would allow $15 billion to be used in this way, for the first time, for roads, bridges and other transportation infrastructure.
   "Since joining the Senate, Senator Talent has shown tremendous leadership in finding creative ways to provide the needed investment to maintain our nation's transportation infrastructure," said Terry Nelson, Executive Secretary-Treasurer, Carpenters' District Council of Greater St. Louis and Vicinity. "There is no better example of this leadership than his determination to include the Highway Infrastructure Bonds in the new federal transportation law. This is just another example of Senator Talent's success as an effective advocate for meeting the critical needs of our nation's economy and for providing much-needed job opportunities for Missouri's skilled workforce." 
   "We appreciate Senator Talent's efforts to pass the Highway Infrastructure Bonds proposal in the interest of jobs and safer transportation infrastructure," said Ray Poupore, Executive Director -
   of the National Heavy and Highway Alliance. "This $15 billion proposal was a critical supplement to the Highway bill that will create tens of thousands of jobs for our workers while saving lives."
   "Senator Talent's efforts to expand highway funding using bonding authority was a bold strategy that added $15 billion in spending authority in SAFETEA-LU," said AGC CEO Stephen E. Sandherr. "Missouri and the nation will benefit from his ingenuity."
   The Senators pointed out that for every $1 billion invested in federal highway and transit infrastructure, an estimated 47,500 jobs are created. Every dollar invested in federal transportation infrastructure, an estimated $5.70 in economic activity is generated. 
   A diverse group of national and local leaders of business, labor and transportation infrastructure associations participated in the Highway Infrastructure Bonds roundtable discussions, including: Associated General Contractors of America (AGC); American Road and Transportation Builders Association (ARTBA); American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO); U.S. Chamber of Commerce; National Heavy & Highway Alliance, which includes Laborers' Union, Operating Engineers Union, Carpenters Union, Iron Workers Union, Plasterers' & Cement Masons Union, Teamsters Union, Bricklayers Union - and many others.
 
 