SENS. BOND, TALENT, REP. EMERSON ANNOUNCE $346,475 FOR MISSISSIPPI RIVER PORT SECURITY
  Missouri Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent and Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (Mo-08) today announced that the Department of Homeland Security has awarded a $346,475 grant for the Southeast Missouri Regional Port Authority. The funds will be used to purchase and install fencing and lighting along the three Mississippi River ports in Southeast Missouri.  
   "Our waterways are vital to Missouri's economy and these funds will help safeguard our ports in this new age of terrorism," said Sen. Kit Bond. "We must continue to provide the resources needed to keep our communities and critical infrastructure safe."
   "Making our ports more secure for river traffic and businesses is very important," said Sen. Talent. "The port authorities have been vital to the economy in Southeast Missouri and this funding will help our ports attract new businesses to our inland waterways. We will continue to do everything possible to protect the homeland and to safeguard vital transportation infrastructure in Missouri." 
   "Homeland security is important throughout the nation, and security at our inland ports is no different," Rep. Emerson said. "These essential improvements to our access points along the Mississippi River will protect the people and the commerce that travel the entire waterway. I am glad to announce these upgrades and thankful for the advocacy of this project by Senator Bond and Senator Talent." 
   "This is another great example of the strong commitment by Sen. Jim Talent, Senator Kit Bond and Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson to the needs of Southeast Missouri," said Port Director Dan Overbey. "We greatly appreciate their strong ongoing efforts on behalf of Missouri ports."
   The Southeast Missouri, New Madrid County and Pemiscot County Port Authorities are splitting funds. SEMO Port and its subsidiary, SEMO Port Railroad will share $118,180. The New Madrid County Port Authority will receive $168,180 and $60,000 will be given to the Pemiscot County Port Authority. The new lighting and fencing will increase safety and security at the three ports.
 
 