SEN. TALENT URGES EPA TO ACT QUICKLY TO IMPLEMENT NEW STANDARD FOR ETHANOL, BIODIESEL
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus, is asking the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to move quickly to implement the new national standard for renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel. In a letter to EPA Administrator Steve Johnson, Sen. Talent, together with Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), John Thune (R-S.D.) and Tim Johnson (D-S.D.), said time is of the essence, as the Renewable Fuels Standard will take effect next year. 
   "Given today's record oil and gasoline prices, the need to diversify our energy supplies by expanding the use of renewable fuels is clear," the senators wrote. "The Renewable Fuels Standard will provide for the use of 4 billion gallons of renewable fuel next year, growing to 7.5 billion gallons in 2012. The program is a necessary and important part of our nation's new energy policy."
   The comprehensive Energy bill signed into law last month implements the nation's first-ever Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS). Senators Talent, Dorgan and Johnson, all members of the Energy Committee, were the architects of the Renewable Fuels Standard, which they added to the Energy bill in committee on a bipartisan basis and the Congress approved.
   The renewable fuels provisions are scheduled to take effect at the beginning of next year and the EPA is responsible for establishing the regulations for the new standard. If the agency fails to promulgate those regulations by January, the law provides that 2.78 percent of the nation's fuel supply (more than 4 billion gallons) of renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel be used next year.
   "Time is of the essence for the Agency to promulgate the necessary rules for the program to begin on time," the senators wrote. "We stand ready to work with you and Agency staff during the implementation period to ensure a smooth transition for American motorists to a greater use of renewable fuels."
   *A copy of the senators' letter is attached.
   The Honorable Steve Johnson
   Administrator
   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
   Ariel Rios Building
  1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  Washington, DC 20460
   Dear Administrator Johnson:
   The Energy Policy Act of 2005 signed into law earlier this month by President Bush implements an historic renewable fuels standard (RFS) that fundamentally changes U.S. motor fuels policy by establishing a growing role for domestic, renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel. 
   Given today's record oil and gasoline prices, the need to diversify our energy supplies by expanding the use of renewable fuels is clear. The RFS will provide for the use of 4 billion gallons of renewable fuel next year, growing to 7.5 billion gallons in 2012. The program is a necessary and important part of our nation's new energy policy.
   As you know, the RFS provisions take effect at the beginning of next year. Should the Agency not succeed in promulgating the regulations by January, the law provides that 2.78% of the nation's fuel supply (more than 4 billion gallons) of renewable fuels supply be used in 2006.
   Therefore, time is of the essence for the Agency to promulgate the necessary rules for the program to begin on time. We stand ready to work with you and Agency staff during the implementation period to ensure a smooth transition for American motorists to a greater use of renewable fuels.
   Thank you for your prompt attention.
 
 