SEN. TALENT APPLAUDS OPENING OF FIRST BIODIESEL PUMP IN KANSAS CITY
  Sen. Talent (R-Mo.), Co-Chairman of the Senate Renewable Fuels Caucus, was on hand today for the kickoff of the first biodiesel pump in Kansas City. The Valero station is the first of its kind in the Kansas City area to sell B20, a blend of 20 percent biodiesel and 80 percent diesel. Sen. Talent joined the Kansas City Regional Clean Cities Coalition, area officials and the National Biodiesel Board (NBB) for the event. 
   "Renewable fuels such as biodiesel will assist our producers, increase our energy independence, create American jobs and, as an added benefit, they are good for the environment," said Sen. Talent. "I applaud the producers, the Kansas City Regional Clean Cities Coalition, and the local business community for their commitment to create Missouri's first major metropolitan-area biodiesel fueling station."
   "This pump opening shows an important trend," said Joe Jobe, NBB CEO. "Seeing biodiesel at retail locations will become more common, especially as truck drivers start using more biodiesel and automakers introduce diesel passenger cars. Senator Talent has been absolutely instrumental in helping biodiesel become more affordable and available to consumers. His work on biofuels is to the benefit of all Americans."
   As a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Sen. Talent championed renewable fuels such as biodiesel. Sen. Talent was an architect of the Renewable Fuels Standard included in the Energy bill. He helped write the provisions in the bill to add 7.5 billion gallons of biodiesel, ethanol and other renewables to the nation's fuel supply by 2012. 
   Sen. Talent has been instrumental in extending a federal tax incentive for biodiesel. He has also established legislation that will help agricultural biodiesel producers get their businesses off the ground. In the last Energy Bill, he led the charge to include an income tax credit for retail biodiesel refueling infrastructure. That effort will help more pumps like this one open in the future. 
   Biodiesel is made from renewable resources such as soybean oil and other fats and vegetable oils. It can be used in pure form or in a blend, and works in any diesel engine. More than 400 major fleets use biodiesel commercially nationwide. About 300 retail filling stations make biodiesel available to the public, and more than 1000 petroleum distributors carry it nationwide. The B20 fuel works in any diesel engine with few or no modifications.
 
 