SEN. TALENT, NATIONAL DRUG POLICY DIRECTOR UNVEIL NEW ANTI-METH AD CAMPAIGN
  Sen. Jim Talent and Office National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Director John Walters today unveiled a new national anti-meth campaign designed to help reduce meth use in Missouri and around the country by educating individuals about the dangers of methamphetamine. They made the announcement at the Greene County Drug Court, which helps individuals convicted of drug offenses with the assistance they need to fight their addiction and get their lives back. 
   "Methamphetamine is the worst drug I've encountered in my nearly 20 years in public life," said Senator Talent. "Missourians, especially our law enforcement officials, know too well how meth can destroy communities. We want to deliver an important message in Missouri and around the country about the dangers of meth. We especially want to reach young people who need to understand that giving into meth means giving up everything else. Our hope is that this effort will help save lives and protect our communities and our kids from this terrible drug."
   "The methamphetamine challenge has touched communities across this Nation differently, but its devastating consequences are borne by all Americans," said John Walters, Director of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). "By helping to educate our citizens about the misery and destruction meth causes, we can work to make this problem smaller. Together with our state and local partners, we are aggressively pushing back against the drug and are working to make America a safer place." 
   The ad campaign combines real-life stories of people impacted by methamphetamine with scenarios that depict the unique secondhand threat meth poses to communities at large. The campaign's two main themes, "So, Who Has the Drug Problem Now?" and "End Meth in Your Town" challenge individuals to learn more about the threats meth poses to both their families and their communities.
   Sen. Talent and Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) have introduced the Combat Meth Act which would restrict the sale of products containing the primary ingredient to cook methamphetamine. The Talent-Feinstein bill, which passed the Senate with strong bipartisan support, would limit purchases of cold medications containing pseudoephedrine, require a log book to track purchases nationally and enact stricter federal penalties to prosecute meth cooks. Sen. Talent is also the co-chair of a new, bipartisan Anti-Meth Caucus in the U.S. Senate.
   To view the new anti-meth ads go to the Partnership for a Drug-Free America's Website: www.drugfree.org/meth.
 
 