SEN. TALENT SECURES $1.5 MILLION FOR NEW HEALTH SCIENCES RESEARCH CENTER AT MIZZOU
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the Senate has approved his request for $1.5 million dollars for the Health Sciences Research and Education Facility at the University of Missouri-Columbia as part of the 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill.  
   "The University is already a world leader in health care research and we need to make certain it gets the resources it needs to remain at the top," said U.S. Senator Jim Talent. "The new Health Sciences Research Center will be a state-of-the-art facility that will help MU improve our health care system and save lives."
   "I commend Senator Talent for his support of the University of Missouri and the Health Sciences Research Center," said Dr. Elson Floyd, President of the University of Missouri System. "This facility is certain to be a center of excellence at MU. It will generate new discoveries and has the potential to attract significant new funding to support research." 
   "I am grateful to Senator Talent for his work on behalf of the University," said Brady Deaton, chancellor of the University of Missouri-Columbia. "The Health Sciences Research Center will help MU to sustain its status as a world leader in medical education, to enhance its potential for conducting groundbreaking research, and to fulfill its important mission of protecting and improving the health and lives of all Missourians."
   "We are most thankful to Senator Talent for securing the money we need to begin planning our health sciences research and education center, which will transform medical research at the University of Missouri-Columbia and beyond," said Dr. Bill Crist, Dean of the MU School of Medicine. "The center will allow MU to fully realize it's great potential for conducting lifesaving research, enhance MU's status as a world leader in medical education, and fulfill MU's mission of protecting and improving the lives of all Missourians. The center also will provide a strong central link in Missouri's biotechnology corridor that stretches from St. Louis to Kansas City. The jobs, research grant funding and commercial impact of the center will increase economic prosperity throughout the state."
   The appropriation will provide the initial money necessary to begin construction planning for the new 410,000 square foot state-of-the-art facility. With approval of the initial funding, students and faculty could in the next few years finally get the space and resources they need to conduct first-class health care research in diabetes, cardiovascular disease and other major health challenges.
   The bill was approved by the House last week and will now go to the President for his signature.
 
 