SENATE APPROVES AMENDMENT COSPONSORED BY SEN. TALENT TO RESTORE CRITICAL ANTI-METH FUNDING
  The U.S. Senate approved an amendment co-sponsored by Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) to restore anti-meth funding for Missouri and the nation's law enforcement. Sen. Talent, who has been critical of the Administration's proposal to eliminate a critical anti-meth program, co-sponsored Sen. Mark Dayton's (D-Minn.) amendment to restore funding by $275 million for Justice Assistance Grants which are distributed to local law enforcement to fight methamphetamine. The Senate passed the amendment by unanimous consent to the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill. 
   "This drug is destroying lives all over states like Missouri," said Sen. Talent. "We can do something about it by assisting local law enforcement and the efforts they tell us will work. One of the ways that we can help our sheriffs and local law enforcement is through multi-jurisdictional task forces, which are especially important in combating meth production and distribution in Missouri and communities across the country. We need to get ahead of the meth problem, which is why this funding is so important."
   "As the Eastern Director of the Missouri Narcotics Officers Association, which represents several hundred narcotics officers, we are pleased that Senator Talent has taken the lead in this very vital funding to help narcotics units throughout the United States and Missouri," said Jason Grellner, Commander of the Franklin County Drug Task Force and Eastern District Director for the Missouri Narcotics Officers Association. "Without this funding, narcotics funding would be crippled throughout the state." 
   The amendment, backed by Sen. Talent, provides an additional $275 million for the Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program, which administers the Edward Byrne Memorial 
   State and Local Law Enforcement Program, known as the Byrne grant program. This important program funds local drug education and drug law enforcement programs, including multi-jurisdictional task forces, which provide resources and manpower to help local law enforcement officials.
   After the Administration zeroed out the Byrne grant program, the Senate Appropriations Committee restored $625 million for JAG. Today's action by the Senate restores an additional $275 million for Byrne grants and other law enforcement programs administered by JAG. If the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill is approved by the Congress, the total funding for JAG will be $900 million.
   The Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill, on which the anti-meth funding amendment is attached, must now be approved by the full Senate before it goes to a Conference Committee between the House and the Senate.
 
 