SENATE PASSES SENS. TALENT, PRYOR MEASURE TO STRENGTHEN NATIONAL SECURITY
  The Senate today approved Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Mark Pryor's (D-Ark.) amendment to enhance security within the trucking industry and crack down on foreign truckers who violate U.S. trucking laws. 
   "This provision addresses some very serious threats to our national security," said Sen. Talent. "Everyday thousands of trucks travel our highways, but many of the drivers are not U.S. citizens and many have obtained their licenses fraudulently. We need to make certain that the people behind the wheel of trucks on our roadways are who they say they are and have gotten their commercial drivers licenses legally. Our legislation will also go a long way toward ensuring that our law enforcement officers have the authority and resources they need to help make roads and highways of our nation safer."  
   Talent and Pryor said their efforts to strengthen trucking security as part of our overall national security goals is now an important part of the port security legislation that passed the Senate today. First, their amendment directs the Department of Transportation (DOT) to carry out its 2004 recommendations to eliminate fraud surrounding Commercial Driver Licenses (CDL) and ensure applicants are legal citizens. 
   "We need to do more than identify existing gaps in our nation's security; we must also close them. This measure will light a fire under transportation officials to help ensure basic training and citizenship requirements are met before a driver is allowed to haul thousands of pounds of cargo throughout our nation's highways," Sen. Pryor said. 
   Currently, only truckers carrying Hazmat loads must demonstrate their citizenship when applying for a CDL, which makes up only 30 percent of commercial drivers. A February 2006 report estimates thousands of CDLs have been issued to drivers who obtained them though corrupt state or state-approved testing processes, including through bribes to help an unqualified applicant circumvent written exams, wait times to prepare and take a skills test, legal residency requirements and insufficient training to pass the skills test. 
   "The Talent-Pryor Amendment helps close some serious loopholes in our nation's security efforts," said Todd Spencer, Executive Vice President of The Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association. "The Senators' common sense approach to trucking security isn't about building bureaucracies, but about making our nation more secure. The more than 144,000 members of the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association value their efforts." 
   The Talent-Pryor amendment also addresses a national security threat identified by the 9/11 Commission where foreign trucking entities enter the U.S. and violate immigration and customs laws. Foreign truckers are allowed to deliver foreign loads to a point within 25 miles of the border, pick up from a point in the U.S. to return a load to their country of origin, or carry a load through the U.S. to another country. However, they are not allowed to provide point-to-point deliveries within the U.S. Their measure directs the DOT and Department of Homeland Security to provide uniform guidelines and procedures to state governments and law enforcement to help them enforce existing federal immigration and customs requirements as they apply to foreign trucks and drivers. 
   "Foreign drivers who violate our immigration and customs laws could present a national security threat, as well as an economic concern for U.S. truckers. Laying out clear guidelines so local law enforcement can better enforce the laws on the books is a sound step toward enhancing our overall security," Pryor said.
 
 