ENDING THE DEATH TAX
  Trying to repeal punitive taxes in the Congress is like fighting some monster in an old horror film. No matter how many times you kill it, it keeps coming back to life. 
   Take the estate tax, more commonly known as the "death tax." Before the Congress passed President Bush's tax relief package, Americans could spend an entire lifetime working and investing for their family or in their small business, only to have the government "confiscate" up to 55 percent upon their death. Because any tax bill lasting more than ten years could be filibustered, the Congress gradually phased out the death tax between now and 2010, but the same tax relief measure allows it to come back in 2011.  
   Under current law, if you die in 2010, you don't have to pay the death tax, but if you die in 2011, the government can take more than half of what you've left behind. Moreover, taxes on estates represent a form of double and sometimes triple taxation because everything taxed when you die has already been taxed at least once. 
   The impact of this tax on small, family-owned businesses and farms is staggering. We need to permanently repeal the death tax because no one should have to meet the undertaker and the IRS on the same day.
   To minimize the damage done by the death tax, more than half of all businesses waste valuable resources on legal fees, life insurance, and other economically useless financial instruments. Those resources could instead have gone into making their business grow, creating jobs and opportunities for themselves, their families and their employees.
   The death tax punishes the survivors of people who have spent a lifetime working and investing to provide for their families. It is a stupid and counterproductive idea. It is also something that no government that cared about families should do.
   Consider the example of the small businessman or woman who works hard throughout life to make it a success. Many small business owners already pay taxes at the highest individual rate. When the owner of a small business dies, the heirs may be forced to sell off the business to pay the applicable death tax. By penalizing profitability, the death tax creates disincentives for small businesses to expand and create new jobs.
   The death tax also unfairly penalizes family farmers. The American Farm Bureau reports that land accounts for 79 percent of the assets owned by farmers and ranchers. On average, farmers and ranchers hold onto their farmland for 30 years. Over that period of time land values may increase five to six fold. If the price of a family's farmland appreciates, upon the farmer's death his or her heirs may be forced to liquidate to pay the taxes owed on the land. A permanent repeal of the death tax in its entirety will allow family farmers to continue growing and managing their crops on their land instead of forcing its sale.
   For families, part of the American dream is the ability to pass something on to one's children and grandchildren in order that they might keep the family business or farm going, or enjoy a higher standard of living. The government should not be able to swoop in and take the fruits of another person's labor just because they're dead.
   The death tax is inherently anti-American, because it penalizes selflessness, hard work and thriftiness and it rewards people who spend on themselves and leave nothing for their families. 
   If the death tax is reinstated, it could result in the loss of a large number of jobs, as the heirs of small business owners and family farmers would be forced to liquidate their livelihoods.
   I'm an original co-sponsor of U.S. Senator Jon Kyl's (R-Ariz.) legislation to permanently repeal the death tax. We should end this tax on work, savings, job creation and the American dream, and end it forever.
 
 