SEN. TALENT PLEASED WITH SENATE ACTION ON PROTECTING U.S. FLAG
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the Senate Judiciary Committee approved a constitutional amendment to protect the flag of the United States. Sen. Jim Talent is an original cosponsor of the Flag Desecration Resolution (SJ Res 12), which would amend the U.S. Constitution to allow Congress the power to prohibit the physical desecration of the U.S. flag. The amendment passed the committee by a vote of 11-7 and the Senate is expected to debate the measure later this month.  
   "Freedom of speech is one of the pillars upon which this country was built and the freedom to express ourselves within the confines of society," said Sen. Talent. "But burning a flag is not speech; it is an act with expressive overtones, and that distinction is crucial for constitutional purposes." 
   The proposed amendment protects all actual speech and carves out only the narrowest range of conduct which may be regulated. It will not prevent anyone from saying or writing anything, however offensive, about America, the flag, politics, or anything else. The marketplace of ideas was strong and vital for the first two hundred years of our Republic, during which time States routinely passed such laws. 
   "We have a great interest in protecting the physical integrity of the flag," said Sen. Talent. "The flag is the unifying symbol of our Republic. It represents that common history and heritage which holds America together notwithstanding religious, cultural, or political differences. Physical and public desecration of the flag degrades those values and coarsens America far more than any speech or political dissent possibly could. It's time for the Senate to act on this amendment to protect one of America's most proud and treasured symbols."
   In 1968, Congress passed the first federal flag protection act in response to numerous public flag burnings in protest of the Vietnam conflict. For the next 20 years, the courts upheld the constitutionality of this statute and the Supreme Court declined to review these decisions. 
   However, in Texas v. Johnson (1989), the Supreme Court held in a 5-4 decision that the federal flag protection statute could not be applied to a flag burning that was part of a public demonstration. In response to this decision, Congress passed a second federal flag protection act. 
   This second federal flag protection law was also challenged in court and in another 5-4 decision the Supreme Court held in United States v. Eichman (1990) that the second law was not sufficiently distinct from the first flag protection law to be upheld. Congress, recognizing the courts had failed to uphold a flag anti-desecration statute subsequently considered in each Congress a constitutional amendment to empower them to protect the physical integrity of the flag. 
   In each of the last five Congresses, the House passed proposed constitutional amendments to protect the U.S flag. Sen. Talent had been a sponsor of the amendment when he was in the House of Representatives. The last time the Senate considered a flag protection amendment was on March 27, 2000, when it came four votes short, 63-37, of the necessary two-thirds for passage. The Senate did not vote on a flag protection amendment in the 107th or 108th Congresses, and has not voted on the amendment since.
 
 