SENATE PASSES SEN. TALENT'S LIBERTY MEMORIAL LEGISLATION
  The U.S. Senate today passed Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.) bill to designate the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City as America's World War I Museum. Sen. Talent successfully offered his legislation as an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill (S. 2400). 
   "The Liberty Memorial is an institution in Kansas City and I believe it's an important memorial for the country," said Talent. "Our amendment would provide well-deserved recognition for Kansas City which is very proud to have one of the largest World War I collections in the country. I also want to work with people in Kansas City to make certain as many Americans as possible have the opportunity to experience the museum."
   The Liberty Memorial Museum is the only public museum in the nation dedicated exclusively to interpreting the experiences of the United States and its allies in the World War I years (1914-1918), both on the battlefield and on the home front.
   "I'm very pleased that Liberty Memorial is receiving the recognition and status that it deserves," said General Steve Berkheiser, executive director of the Liberty Memorial Association. This magnificent memorial and museum complex is Kansas City's and Missouri's gift to this great nation."
   The Liberty Memorial Museum project began after the 1918 Armistice through the efforts of a large-scale, grass-roots civic and fundraising effort by the citizens and veterans of the greater Kansas City metropolitan area. After the conclusion of a national architectural design competition, ground was broken in 1921, construction began in 1923, and the Liberty Memorial Museum was opened to the public in 1926.
   Today, the Liberty Memorial Museum seeks to educate all Americans through its comprehensive collection of historical materials, emphasizing eyewitness accounts of soldiers on the battlefield and Americans on the home front, and the impact of World War I on Americans, then and now. The Liberty Memorial Museum continues to actively acquire and preserve such materials.
   A companion measure for the Liberty Memorial designation has passed the House. The full Senate must now pass the Defense Authorization bill, which includes Talent's amendment, at which point the differences between the House and Senate bills would be worked out by a conference committee.
 
 