SEN. TALENT BILL WOULD HELP PRESERVE CIVIL WAR BATTLEFIELD IN SOUTHWEST MISSOURI
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) is moving a bill through the Senate to help preserve a historic Civil War Battlefield near Springfield that stands at-risk in one of the fastest growing areas in the country. 
   Sen. Talent introduced legislation to expand the boundaries of Wilson's Creek Battlefield National Park to protect it from area development. As a member of the Energy Committee, which has jurisdiction over the legislation, Sen. Talent secured a hearing on the bill (S. 2432) held today by the Energy Subcommittee on National Parks.
   "The Springfield area is one of the fastest growing communities in the nation," Talent said at the hearing. "Wilson's Creek was the first major Civil War battle west of the Mississippi and represents a key moment in U.S. history. We have a responsibility to preserve the battleground and buildings of historic significance. However, if this piece of American history is going to be protected, we must act quickly. The full story of the battle should be preserved for generations to come, not buried under a new subdivision."
   Sen. Talent added that he is pleased the Bush Administration is supporting the legislation. A. Durand Jones, Deputy Director of the National Park Service at the U.S. Department of Interior submitted testimony at the hearing today in support of the bill. Sen. Talent is also working together with Majority Whip Roy Blunt (Mo.) who has introduced companion legislation in the House.
   The current acreage of the Wilson's Creek battlefield park is approximately 1,750 acres, but only 75 percent of the actual combat areas associated with the battle are within the park's boundaries. Talent's bill would provide permanent protection from development for significant resources that are integral to the historic events that the park was established to commemorate.
   It would add approximately 615 acres from six parcels of land that make up the remaining significant resources outside the park boundary that are directly related to the battle. This bill also authorizes the acquisition of the Sweeney Museum property and collections, one of the most complete private civil war artifacts collections in existence.
   The history of the battle of Wilson's Creek is well known. As states seceded from the Union in 1860-61, Missouri attempted to maintain neutrality. However, with a pro-southern governor and a pro-Union legislature, Missouri was destined to fight a civil war within the very state itself. All hope of neutrality ended in July 1861 when a peace conference between Governor Jackson and Union Brigadier General Nathaniel Lyon failed, with Lyon declaring that he would rather 'the blood of every man, woman and child within the limits of the State should flow, than she should defy the Federal Government. This means war!'
   Forming an army, General Lyon drove the pro-Confederate Missouri State Guard under Major General Sterling Price into the Southwest region of the state, where he prepared to finish them off. He was ultimately unsuccessful in his endeavor as the Confederate Army won the battle at Wilson's Creek and General Lyon was fatally wounded on the battlefield, but he made major strides in Missouri. This battle went on to set the stage for other major battles.
   The battle fought at Wilson's Creek on August 10, 1861, was the first major Civil War engagement west of the Mississippi River, involving about 5,400 Union troops and 12,000 Confederates. Although a Confederate victory, the Southerners failed to capitalize on their success. The battle led to greater federal military activity in Missouri. Additionally, the death of General Lyon marked the first Union general to be killed in combat.
   This engagement was one of the most fiercely-contested of the war. The Federals were outnumbered more than 2 to 1. They lost 1,235 (223 killed, 721 wounded, 291 missing) while inflicting on the Confederates a loss of 1,184 (257 killed, 900 wounded, 27 missing). They killed or wounded 214 Confederates for every 1,000 of their own troops engaged, whereas the Confederates inflicted only 81 casualties on the same basis.
   Currently, Wilson's Creek National Battlefield is ranked among the most pristine Civil War battlefields in the country. But that does not make it immune from Springfield's rapid growth. Recently, it was placed on the Civil War Preservation Trust's list of at-risk battlefields.
   Sen. Talent's bill must now be voted on by the full Senate Energy Committee. If approved, it will go before the Senate for a vote. Sen. Talent said today's hearing was a key step towards getting the bill passed and sent to the President, adding that he will continue working to move the bill through the Congress as quickly as possible.
 
 