SEN. TALENT- REP.GRAVES PUSH RUSH CREEK PROJECT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Rep. Sam Graves (MO-6) today announced Parkville's Rush Creek project is another step closer to construction. This week, both the House and the Senate passed the conference report on the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, which included a provision allowing the vital bank stabilization project to move forward.  
   "We have been facing a serious situation with Rush Creek in Parkville," said Congressman Graves. "I am pleased to see we are working together to cut through the red tape that's been holding up the solution." 
   "This project is vital in protecting the businesses and infrastructure of downtown area in Parkville," said U.S. Sen. Jim Talent. "Our actions today allow the bank stabilization project to move forward. I commend the community leaders who have been working very hard on this project from the beginning and supported our efforts in the Congress." 
   "I want to thank Senators Talent and Bond and Congressman Graves for all of their work in conveying the seriousness of the Rush Creek project," said Kathryn Dusenbery, Mayor of Parkville. "Without the support of the citizens of Parkville, in cooperation with our elected officials, we would not have been able to move this project forward." 
   Talent and Graves secured $776,000 in last year's Energy and Water Appropriations bill to assist the city of Parkville in repairing Rush Creek bank erosion in English Landing Park. Unfortunately, work on the project could not begin due to federal restrictions on new cost sharing agreements with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Senator Talent and Congressman Graves worked together to insert language into the bill passed today that makes a special exception for projects like Parkville's where funding is available to complete construction with current funds. 
   The bill is scheduled to be signed into law by the president within the next week.
 
 