SENATE APPROVES SEN. TALENT AMENDMENT ADDING $900 MILLION FOR ANTI-METH FUNDING
  Senate today approved an amendment cosponsored by Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) restoring $900 million in grant funding to help law enforcement fight methamphetamine. Sen. Talent co-sponsored the amendment with Sens. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) and Mark Dayton (D-Minn.). The amendment restores the funding that was eliminated in the President's budget for Justice Assistance Grants (JAG), formally known as the Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Program or Byrne grants. 
   "These grants have been essential for Missouri law enforcement to address violent crime and drugs in our state," said Sen. Talent, co-chair of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. "In particular, this funding has been enormously effective in helping law enforcement fight methamphetamine. I believe our success this week in securing funding for the Hot Spots program and the JAG funding is a sign that the Senate recognizes the importance of providing law enforcement with the resources they need to fight meth in our communities."
   JAG funds a number of local drug education and drug law enforcement programs. These include multi-jurisdictional task forces, which are especially important in combating the rising rates of methamphetamine production and distribution in communities across the country. Major law enforcement organizations, including the National Sheriffs Association, the National Police and Peace Officers and the National Narcotics Coalition have all endorsed the amendment.
   "One of the ways that we can help our sheriffs and local law enforcement is through multi-jurisdictional task forces, which are especially important in combating meth production and distribution in Missouri and communities across the country," Sen. Talent said. "We need to get ahead of the meth problem, which is why this funding is so important."
   Last week, President Bush signed the Combat Meth Act into law, which Sen. Talent sponsored with U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) to limit the sale of cold medications containing pseudoephedrine, the primary ingredient used to make meth. The bill also provides new resources to help law enforcement fight meth in Missouri's neighborhoods.
 
 