SEN. TALENT TESTIFIES AT HEARING IN OPPOSITION TO SPRING RISE ON MISSOURI RIVER
  Sen. Jim Talent today was on the other side of the Capitol to testify before a House Subcommittee where he took issue with the science behind "manmade" spring rises on the Missouri river. Sen. Talent joined Charlie Kruse, President of Missouri Farm Bureau for the hearing which was held by Congressman Sam Graves, Chairman of the House Small Business Subcommittee on Rural Enterprise, Agriculture and Technology.  
   "I have always opposed the spring rise," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "It's a dangerous plan that leaves our people vulnerable to government-imposed flooding and it threatens the livelihood of Missouri farmers and ranchers. I appreciate Congressman Graves for holding this important hearing which will help raise the visibility of our concerns with this flawed plan."
   "Today confirmed my thoughts on just how clueless the government is when it comes to the management of the Missouri River," said Congressman Graves. "It has become crystal clear that unproven science is driving a decision to place the welfare of an endangered fish over that of Missouri farmers."
   "Today, Missouri farmers are dealing with the impacts of drought conditions, rising input costs and weak commodity prices," said Charlie Kruse. "But even in a good year it makes absolutely no sense to add the uncertainty of a man-made spring rise. In our opinion, this farce should be called off and the focus should be directed towards making our inland waterway system more efficient and more competitive."
   The Army Corps of Engineers in October announced plans for two "manmade" spring rises, which they say will help save the pallid sturgeon fish. However, the plan has the potential to flood farms, communities and private property downstream. Following that announcement, U.S. Senators Talent and Kit Bond sent a letter to Michael Mac, the director of the Columbia Environmental Research Center of the U.S. Geological Survey, to address the lack of science behind the scheduled spring rises as it relates to the survival of the pallid sturgeon.
   Sen. Talent added, "The Risk Management Agency recently announced that landowners flooded under this proposed plan, won't be eligible for crop insurance benefits because it is a man-made disaster, rather than a 'naturally-occurring event.' It is outrageous that producers may not get the compensation they deserve. I will continue to work with Sen. Bond and the Missouri delegation, and stakeholder groups like the Missouri Farm Bureau to ensure that farmers who fall victim to spring rise flooding are compensated."
   Sen. Talent has been a leading advocate for a river plan that balances the needs of everyone who lives and works along the river including farmers and property owners.
 
 