HEARING HELD ON SEN. TALENT'S BILL TO DESIGNATE HISTORICAL AREA IN STE. GENEVIEVE
  The Senate Energy Subcommittee on National Parks today held a hearing on Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.) bill to give a special designation to an area in Missouri that holds the only original French Colonial Village left in the Sen. Talent's legislation calls for a study to examine the feasibility of designating the French Colonial Heritage Area in Ste. Genevieve County as a unit of the National Parks Service or a Heritage Area.  
   "This is a last-of-its-kind historical landmark and more Americans should have the opportunity to explore its treasures," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "My legislation calls for an examination of this truly remarkable area to determine what the federal government's role should be in partnering with state and local officials to protect and preserve it for generations to come." 
   Ste. Genevieve County is located on the west bank of the Mississippi River, about one hour south of St. Louis. The community contains many historic buildings and other resources that tell the story of the French culture and settlement of the United States.
   The homes and buildings, dating back to the late 1700's, are currently managed by the State Department of Natural Resources which has preserved the historic architecture of Ste. Genevieve and converted them to educational facilities devoted to the history of the early French experience in the New World.
   These remarkable historic resources are unique, but many people outside of Missouri haven't had the opportunity to visit the area. Sen. Talent's legislation, S. 323, would authorize the National Park Service to do a feasibility study to see if the area would qualify to become a unit of the Park Service, or a National Heritage Area. 
   If the feasibility study determines the area should become a unit of the Parks Service, it would be a candidate to become a National Park and would be eligible for federal funds. If the study determines it should become a Heritage Area, ownership would not change, but the area could receive federal funding.
 
 