SEN. TALENT PRAISES PROGRESS ON PLAN TO LOWER HEALTH CARE COSTS FOR MISSOURIANS
  Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.) plan to help lower health care costs for small business people and their workers was approved today by a key committee in the U.S. Senate. The Senate Health, Education, Labor & Pensions (HELP) Committee approved a health care package that includes Sens. Talent and Olympia Snowe's (R-Maine) legislation to establish Small Business Health Plans, which would allow small business to band together to purchase health insurance.  
   "This is an important milestone in our effort to help lower health care costs for small business men and women in Missouri," said Sen. Talent. "Two-thirds of America's nearly 46 million uninsured either own a small business, work for a small business or are a dependent of someone who does. Small Business Health Plans will help reduce the cost of health insurance to small businesses by 20 percent or more, they would help cover millions of uninsured Americans and they wouldn't cost the taxpayer a penny."
   Sen. Talent worked with HELP Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) on the Committee-passed health care package as a member of the Senate Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured.
   Sen. Talent's plan would allow national trade associations, such as the NFIB, the National Restaurant Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, to sponsor the same quality health insurance currently offered by Fortune 500 companies, labor unions and the federal government. Trade groups could then offer these national health care plans to their small business members, who could purchase health insurance for themselves and their employees.
   "I want to congratulate Chairman Enzi for his leadership on this important legislation," said Sen. Talent. "We are committed to bringing this bill to the Senate floor as soon as possible. And we will continue working with senators in both parties to help lower the cost of health insurance for our small business people.".
 
 