SEN. TALENT'S WELFARE REFORM COMPANION BILL DEBATED IN HOUSE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.) bill to reauthorize welfare reform is moving through the Congress as the House Ways and Means Committee today debated the companion bill. Sen. Talent's legislation would enhance the landmark 1996 Welfare Reform law by increasing the work requirements for able-bodied individuals and providing additional resources for marriage.  
   "I've always believed the two best anti-poverty programs are work and marriage," said Sen. Talent. "My legislation builds on the successful work requirements of the 1996 welfare reform law and provides funding for programs that encourage healthy, stable marriages. Passing this legislation will help more people realize the American dream through work, independence and opportunity."
   Sen. Talent introduced the Personal Responsibility, Work and Family Promotion Act, (S. 105), which would require able-bodied welfare recipients to participate in a 40 hour work week, which includes 24 hours of core work, and 16 hours of education, job training and other opportunities to help them become independent. Most Americans work 40 hours a week or more. The goal of the legislation is to help more welfare recipients move from welfare to independence by preparing them for a typical work week.
   A slimmed-down welfare reform reauthorization bill was approved last week by the Senate Finance Committee. That legislation would only require 24 hours of core work, and 10 hours of other activities. Sen. Talent said any welfare reform bill should help prepare able-bodied welfare recipients for a typical work week. He said he would continue working with the Senate leadership and other senators to strengthen welfare reform when the bill reaches the floor.
   Sen. Talent's legislation also makes available up to $300 million annually for programs that encourage healthy, stable marriages. These programs include pre-marital education and counseling, as well as research and technical assistance into promising approaches that work. Additionally, the bill protects children by increasing childcare funding and increasing states' flexibility in providing childcare for low-income working families. 
   "The goal of this bill is to continue the progress we began in the 1990's to help people achieve the dignity that comes with a job and to help strengthen families in disadvantaged communities," said Sen. Talent. "The old welfare system was hurting people by discouraging work and marriage. Welfare reform, and now this legislation, will build on the understanding that work and strong families are the foundation upon which we build our future."
   Sen. Talent has been a leader on welfare reform for more than a decade. As a freshman congressman, he introduced the Real Welfare Reform Act of 1994, a bill which subsequently became the basis for the historic bipartisan welfare reform bill, the Personal Responsibility Act of 1996.
 
 