SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES FIRST DAY TO ENROLL IN NEW MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) announced that beginning today, November 15, for the first time in history of the Medicare program, beneficiaries can enroll in a Medicare Prescription Drug Plan, or a Medicare Advantage Plan that offers drug coverage.  
   "Today is a landmark day for Missouri seniors," said Sen. Talent, who helped pass the legislation in the Senate. "For too long, Missouri seniors have had to choose between the necessities of life and the prescription drugs they need to stay healthy. Now, for the first time in the history of the Medicare program, seniors have an affordable option to get the medicine they need. I encourage seniors to learn more about the new Medicare prescription drug benefit and to sign up early." 
   Members of Sen. Talent's staff are hosting informational meetings this week to provide resources for seniors interested in learning more about the Medicare Prescription Drug Plan. Informational materials explaining Medicare Part D and contact information from participating agencies will be available. The meetings will be held in Bowling Green, Camdenton, Gallatin, Kennett, Lemay, Moberly, New Madrid, Ozark, Perryville, Poplar Bluff, Sikeston, Stanberry, Troy, Warrensburg and West Plains. 
   In addition, Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, is continuing to hold informational town hall meetings in communities across Missouri to provide information about the new benefit, and answering a range of questions from local seniors. 
   "The bipartisan plan meets the conditions I thought were important for a Medicare prescription drug bill," Sen. Talent said. "It has reasonable monthly premiums, strong catastrophic coverage, targeted help for low-income seniors, quality benefits for rural areas, protections for local pharmacies, choice and access to all medicine and participation is voluntary."
   In addition to providing a prescription drug benefit, the new law also provides for a one-time initial wellness exam within six months of enrolling in Medicare. Screenings include early detection of breast cancer, prostate cancer, colon cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
   Medicare is contacting seniors with instructions on how to enroll in the drug benefit. Additional information can be found on the Internet at medicare.gov and on Sen. Talent's Website at talent.senate.gov, or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). Interested participants can also contact Sen. Talent at any of his state offices: Cape Girardeau, (573) 651-0964; Springfield, (417) 831-2735; Jefferson City, (573) 636-1070; St. Louis, (314) 432-5211; Kansas City, (816) 421-1639.
 
 