SEN. TALENT, BUCK O'NEIL SEEK NATIONAL DESIGNATION FOR NEGRO LEAGUES BASEBALL MUSEUM IN KANSAS CITY
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Negro Leagues Baseball Legend John "Buck" O'Neil's efforts to enact legislation designating the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum (NLBM) in Kansas City, Missouri, as America's National Negro Leagues Baseball Museum will get a big boost today. A key Subcommittee is holding a hearing on the legislation today where NLBM Chairman Buck O'Neil will testify in support of the idea. 
   "For more than forty years Negro Leagues teams played the highest level of baseball in front of huge crowds around America," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "The Negro Leagues Baseball Museum in Kansas City is a national destination for baseball fans, historians and others seeking to enrich their understanding of this period in America's history. This national designation will enhance their ability to secure additional resources, both public and private, for the continued collection and preservation of the history of the Negro Leagues." 
   The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks will hold a hearing this afternoon on the Resolution, S. Con. Res. 60, which was introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senator Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and in the U.S. House by Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D-Mo.-5). Buck O'Neil will testify at the hearing.
   "For 15 years the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum has stood as a testament to the passion, courage and sacrifice of America's unsung baseball heroes," said John "Buck" O'Neil, NLBM Chairman. "Now, thanks to the efforts of Sen. Talent and Congressman Cleaver, we have an opportunity to have this great institution officially recognized as America's repository for Negro Leagues history." 
   The NLBM was founded in 1990 and is the only public museum in the nation that exists for exclusively portraying the players in the Negro Leagues from 1920 to 1970. Over 60,000 baseball fans from all over the country visit the museum in Kansas City each year. Currently, the NLBM houses a comprehensive collection of historical materials, important artifacts and oral histories of the participants in the Negro Leagues and the impact that segregation played in the lives of the ballplayers and their fans.
   "I very much appreciate Buck O'Neil coming to Washington today to testify in support of the legislation," Sen. Talent said. "Buck's illustrious baseball career spans seven decades and has helped make him a foremost authority and one of the game's greatest ambassadors. With his leadership and the leadership of Mark Bryant and the Museum's Board, I am confident we can enact this important Resolution."
 
 