SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES MORE THAN $1.7 MILLION FOR MISSOURI FARMERS AND RANCHERS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded more than $1.7 million in new Value-Added Agricultural Product Market Development Grants to help Missouri farmers and ranchers add value to their agriculture products. The USDA is sending the grants to help producers access the capital and expertise they need to get more from the products they produce. 
   "This is good news for Missouri's producers," said Sen. Talent, Chairman of the Agriculture Committee's Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "These grants will help create jobs and economic growth in Missouri's agriculture sector by helping our producers capture more of the consumer dollar by adding value to their commodities." 
   Previous value-added grants have resulted in several new businesses for the agriculture industry in Missouri. This year's grants will be awarded to the following recipients throughout the state to help bolster their value-added enterprises:
   Jefferson City - $300,000 for 1Soy, Inc., to be used as working capital for assistance with marketing and personnel for a specialty soy flour manufacturing facility.
   Nevada - $300,000 for Prairie Pride, Inc., for working capital to operate a soybean extraction and biodiesel facility in west-central Missouri.
   Liberal - $299,900 for Barton County Ethanol Producers, LLC, for working capital to operate an ethanol facility in the Southwest Missouri region.
   Osage Beach - $75,000 for Osage Catfisheries, Inc., to study markets for additional paddlefish based products and to investigate the viability of building a paddlefish processing facility.
   Jefferson City - $40,000 for Ozark Pride to purchase Morningland Dairy, an artisan cheese operation to process goat milk from its members dairy operations.
   Monticello - $300,000 for Grassland Beef, LLC, for working capital to market and sell grass-fed beef products and make facility upgrades for growth.
   Monticello - $100,000 for Missouri Wind Resources Steering Committee to be used for planning activities for the potential development of farm-based renewable wind energy in Missouri.
   Bell City - $300,000 for Bootheel Agri-Energy, LLC, to be used for working capital to operate an ethanol facility in Southeast Missouri.
 
 