SEN. TALENT URGES SENATE TO ACT ON PROTECT THE PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), the Senate sponsor of legislation to protect the Pledge of Allegiance, today applauded the House Judiciary Committee for passing Rep. Todd Akin's (R-Mo.) companion legislation in the House, the Pledge Protection Act (H.R. 2028). Talent and Akin's bill would regulate the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts, such as San Francisco's Ninth Circuit Court, to hear cases that challenge the constitutionality of the Pledge of Allegiance. 
   "I believe the Congress has a responsibility to protect the Pledge of Allegiance," said Sen. Talent, sponsor of the Protect the Pledge Act (S. 1297). "The Senate voted unanimously to support the use of 'under God' in the Pledge, but in my judgment we should do more. The Protect the Pledge Act preserves and protects individual rights to affirm their beliefs and pledge their allegiance to the flag while making certain that no person would ever be forced to say "under God" when reciting the Pledge. Congressman Akin deserves a lot of the credit for securing this hearing and for his leadership in passing the bill out of committee. Now the Senate should do its part to protect the Pledge." 
   "This hearing is a significant step toward the ultimate passage of the Pledge Protection Act," said Congressman Akin. "A vast majority of Americans realize the need to protect the freedom of speech from an activist judiciary that often seeks to silence the free exercise of religion. I am very encouraged by the support of the 225 of my colleagues who are cosponsoring this important legislation. I am confident of its passage in the House and am encouraged by Senator Talent's leadership in introducing similar legislation in the Senate."
   Talent and Akin's legislation removes the issue of the Pledge of Allegiance's constitutionality from the jurisdiction of federal district and appeals courts, while maintaining the jurisdiction of state courts and the U.S. Supreme Court over such cases. 
   Under Article III of the Constitution, Congress has the power to regulate the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts as a "check" in our government's system of checks and balances. In the past, 
   Congress has used this power to prevent or overrule judicial abuse in administration of the environmental, immigration, and labor laws. 
   On June 14, the Supreme Court at least temporarily preserved the phrase 'one nation, under God,' in the Pledge of Allegiance. However, the procedural ruling did not directly address whether the pledge is constitutional, leaving it open to future challenges.
   "This issue should not be left up to the federal courts again," said Talent. "The people deserve to decide this issue once and for all."
 
 