PREDATORY LENDERS ADMIT CHARGING 390 PERCENT INTEREST ON LOANS TO TROOPS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), today announced that during a Senate Banking Committee hearing this week leaders from the payday loan industry admitted to charging servicemembers triple-digit interest rates on short-term loans. When asked during the hearing what the average annual percentage rate would be for a payday loan, Mr. Hilary Miller, President of the Payday Loan Bar Association, responded that the average annual percentage rate is "390 percent." 
   "A president of a payday association admitted before a panel of Senators that they are charging astronomical interest rates on loans to servicemembers and their families and that is not acceptable," said Sen. Talent. "This testimony just reiterates the fact that we have to stop these predatory practices because the problem is impacting our operational readiness. We are very close to getting our anti-predatory lending provision through conference and I'm confident that soon these protections for our troops and their families will become law." 
   Sen. Talent cosponsored legislation with U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), which passed the Senate unanimously in June as an amendment to the Senate Defense Authorization bill. The measure calls for a 36 percent annual interest rate cap on loans to servicemembers and their families that is consistent with the recent recommendations by the Department of Defense. 
   "We agree that you need a broad set of legislative restrictions in order to deal successfully with this problem. That is why we like the Talent-Nelson amendment to the Senate Defense Authorization Bill. It accomplishes that purpose in our judgment," said the Honorable David S.C. Chu, Under Secretary for Personnel and Readiness, Department of Defense during the hearing who endorses Sen. Talent's 36 percent limit.
   "With my strong support, the Senate approved an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2007 defense authorization sponsored by Senator Jim Talent to enact a 36 percent annual interest rate cap on abusive loans to service members," said U.S. Senator Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, during the hearing. "Supporting our service members means more than providing the equipment and training necessary for fighting the War on Terror. We should also support their livelihood and their families, and predatory lending can seriously harm both."
   During his testimony at the hearing, Christopher L. Peterson, Assistant Professor of Law at Levin College of Law urged Congress to pass the Talent-Nelson amendment into law. Peterson said it would put a reasonable "cap on allowable interest rates charged to military personnel at a generous 36 percent per annum. These soldiers are going over to Iraq and they are bleeding out on the desert floor, and the Congress can't come up with a cap for the loans that they are being charged? It is time for us to do something about it."
   Currently, there is no federal law stopping predatory lenders from targeting active duty servicemembers who, in some cases, are now paying over 800 percent APR on a loan. A coalition of more than 80 military, civil rights, and consumer organizations support the Talent legislation to protect military families from predatory lenders. 
   The Talent measure is currently pending in the Senate-House Defense Authorization Conference, which is expected to be finished next week. Upon passage on the conference report in the House and Senate, it would be sent to the President for his signature to become law. 
   Additional information about the hearing can be found on the Senate Banking Committee website at: http://banking.senate.gov/index.cfm?Fuseaction=Hearings.Detail&HearingID=237.
 
 