SEN. TALENT INTRODUCES PLAN TO LOWER HEALTH CARE COSTS, HELP UNINSURED
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) have a plan to lower health care costs and reduce the number of uninsured all at no cost to the taxpayer. The Senators today reintroduced the Small Business Health Fairness Act (S.406) which would establish national Association Health Plans (AHPs) that would allow small business people to purchase health care for themselves and their employees through their trade associations. 
   "The No. 1 problem facing small business in this country today is the rising cost of health insurance," Sen. Talent said today in a speech on the Senate floor. "Two-thirds of America's 44 million uninsured either own a small business, work for a small business or are dependent on someone who does. Our legislation would help reduce the cost of health insurance for small businesses by 10 and 20 percent on average; it would provide health insurance to millions of people who don't have it and it wouldn't cost the taxpayer a dime."
   The Senators' plan got a big boost today with remarks issued by U.S. Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, who said he is committed to working with Sens. Talent and Snowe to "help resolve differences in the Senate on how to expand health insurance options."
   "As Chairman of the Senate HELP Committee, I hope to move legislation forward during this Congress that will help small businesses and self-employed individuals who are struggling to afford health insurance, whether they need new insurance or cannot afford to keep the coverage they already have," Enzi continued. 
   Sen. Enzi's committee has jurisdiction over Talent and Snowe's legislation.
   Of the 44 million people who are uninsured in the country, 60 percent either own a small business, work for a small business or are dependent on someone who does. Workers in the smallest businesses that do provide health insurance are paying on average 17 percent more for health benefits than workers employed by large companies and costs continue to rise.
   Anyone who wants to see how AHPs would operate can look at how health insurance works at Fortune 500 companies. AHPs would operate the same way. They simply allow small business people to join together, nationally, through their trade associations, such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Federation of Independent Business or the American Farm Bureau, to purchase the same high-quality health insurance offered by big companies, labor unions, Medicare, Medicaid and the federal employee benefit system. 
   According to CONSAD, a well-respected economic and public policy analysis firm, the legislation could, by conservative estimates, reduce the number of uninsured by 8.5 million. The plans would constitute powerful competition with the insurance companies who now monopolize the small group market, holding down costs. 
   President Bush has repeatedly called on the Congress to pass AHPs and he included the proposal in his State of the Union and his 2006 budget request. The plan is a centerpiece of his health care agenda to help reduce the number of uninsured Americans. The House has passed the legislation numerous times. Now the bill is gaining momentum in the Senate with the leadership of Talent and Snowe.
   Talent and Snowe's Association Health Plans legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Kit Bond (R-Mo.), Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.), Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Mel Martinez (R-Fla.) and David Vitter (R-La).
 
 