SENATE APPROVES SENS. TALENT, LOTT-LIEBERMAN AMENDMENT TO INCREASE DEFENSE SPENDING BY $3.7 BILLION
  The Senate tonight approved an amendment to the Budget sponsored by Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), Trent Lott (R-Miss.) and Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.) to increase national defense spending by $3.7 billion above the Administration's request. This is in addition to a $3 billion increase Senators Talent and Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.) passed in the Senate earlier in the week. With passage of both amendments, Sen. Talent led the effort to increase defense spending by a total of $6.7 billion. 
   "Investment in defense, like investment in infrastructure, is not an option," said Sen. Talent. "National defense is a primary responsibility of government and we should not underfund our armed forces, particularly in time of war. We need to adequately fund defense for the security of our homes, our families and our jobs. I'm very pleased the Senate agreed that we should increase defense spending beyond the President's request."
   Sen. Talent pointed out that these defense increases would help support the military's unfunded priorities including the C-17 transport, additional ship construction for the Navy, and all of our major Navy and Air Force fighter jet programs.
   Sen. Talent, a leading advocate in the Senate for a strong military, stated that defense represents only a small percentage of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The President's proposed $439.3 billion defense spending plan is about 3.2 percent of GDP. Historically, the U.S. has spent about 5 percent of GDP on the nation's defense.
   The Talent-Lieberman amendment, passed on Tuesday, restored a $3 billion defense cut made by the Budget Committee to match the President's request of $439.3. The Talent-Lott-Lieberman amendment, passed on Thursday night, added $3.7 billion on top of the President's request.
   Sen. Talent said the pressure to cut defense spending in general is coming from the Office of Management and Budget and not from within the Department of Defense. He has long been concerned that defense cuts would reduce funding for military modernization, research and development, and training.
   "There is no economy more false than depriving our military and our men and women of what they need to defend us," Sen. Talent said. "The men and women in America's military will always keep faith with us. The Congress should keep faith with them by providing them with the tools they need to do their jobs.".
 
 