SEN. TALENT'S BILL WILL WAIVE PENALTIES FOR SENIORS ENROLLING IN MEDICARE DRUG PLAN
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today was part of a bipartisan group of senators to introduce legislation to waive financial penalties for Medicare beneficiaries who sign up for the Medicare prescription drug benefit after yesterday's enrollment deadline. The bill, sponsored by Sens. Jim Talent, Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Mike DeWine (R-Ohio) and Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), would abolish the one percent premium increase for each month of delayed enrollment for beneficiaries who are eligible to enroll in the drug benefit, but did not sign up before May 15.  
   "More than 72 percent of Missouri seniors are enrolled in the new Medicare drug plans," said Sen. Talent. "However, the seniors who decided not to enroll by May 15 should not be penalized for delayed enrollment in the voluntary drug benefit. We've already extended the deadline and eliminated the penalty for low-income seniors, but I believe the Congress should take this extra step and eliminate the penalty for all Medicare beneficiaries."
   Last week, Senator Talent announced that over 72 percent of the 929,230 seniors and disabled people eligible for the Medicare benefit of Missouri are now enrolled in the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. From April 18 to May 7, 24,527 additional Missouri seniors signed up for the benefit bringing the total to 672,585. 
   Sen. Talent has held 56 Medicare prescription drug town hall meetings since the passage of the new law. 
   "I've spoken with dozens of Missouri seniors who have enrolled in the Medicare prescription drug benefit and are now saving hundreds of dollars each month on their prescriptions," said Sen. Talent. "With the new prescription drug benefit, many seniors have explained how they no longer have to choose between the high cost of prescription drugs and food or other necessities of life."
   The first six-month sign-up period for Part D ended yesterday. The next six-week sign-up period begins on November 15. The bipartisan bill announced today would allow Medicare beneficiaries to sign up during the next open enrollment period without a one-percent per month penalty.
 
 