AS BOEING-DESIGNED SCRAMJET BREAKS SPEED RECORD, SEN. TALENT CONTINUES PUSH FOR MACH 10 AIRCRAFT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today praised the performance of the Boeing-designed X-43A "scramjet" which broke the aircraft speed record this afternoon. Sen. Talent has been the leader in the Senate on the X-43 program. In the Senate Appropriations Committee, Sen. Talent secured $25 million for the X-43C variant which could propel an airplane from Washington, D.C. to San Francisco in about 20 minutes. 
   "The X-43 program is one of the most exciting programs before the Congress," said Sen. Talent. "Boeing's Phantom Works in St. Louis is on the cutting edge of technology that is not only breaking records, but also offers enormous potential for both our military and space communities."
   X-43 will develop hypersonic propulsion, or scramjet technology, providing our military with both manned and unmanned flight capable of reaching anywhere in the world in two hours from the continental United States, with enhanced ballistic missile defense capabilities and could lead to a future-generation single-stage-to-flight Space Shuttle that would take off for space like an airplane.
   The potential offered through continued hypersonic propulsion development is profound, as borne out by today's dramatic and successful near Mach 10 flight. Hypersonic propulsion will be to jet engines what jets were to propeller-driven aircraft in the 1940s. 
   Today's X-43A flight over the Pacific Ocean reached speeds of about Mach 10, or roughly 7,200 miles per hour, establishes a new speed record for airbreathing engines.
   "Today's historic flight of the X-43A demonstrates that scramjet technology works," said Sen. Talent. "We absolutely must pursue this program. I will continue working with Boeing's Phantom Works, NASA and everyone involved in this project to continue the X-43 program."
   The Senate Appropriations Committee approved Sen. Talent's request for $25 million in the NASA budget for the X-43 program. And, working with the Senate Majority Leader, placed language in the FY 2005 defense bill directing Secretary Rumsfeld to work with NASA to fund the X-43 program to develop this technology.
   "We must make the X-43 program a national priority," said Sen. Talent.
 
 