SEN. TALENT SECURES $50,000 FOR JAMES RIVER DRUG TREATMENT PROGRAM
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that he secured $50,000 for the James River Substance Abuse Treatment for Ex-Offenders in the FY 2006 Commerce Justice State Appropriations Bill, which was approval by the Senate today.  
   "I am pleased to announce these funds for the James River Charities," said Sen. Talent. "This funding will help them expand treatment services to assist drug offender's fight their addiction and move into productive lives. This is a great program that is making a difference not only for the people they serve, but for the community as a whole." 
   "James River Charities is pleased to note that Senator Talent has been able to secure these funds for us," said Kert G. Parsley, Director of Administration for James River Charities. "Many have seen the reports or had first-hand interaction with the devastating affect of meth-abuse. James River has a history of providing resources to the community for freedom from life-controlling addictions. This funding will be directly targeted to help release those who have meth addiction, and to provide a groundwork of support to their often-neglected families."
   The funds will be used to expand the James River's current "Living Free Program" for substance abusers by developing an inpatient treatment center for ex-offenders and at-risk persons so that beneficiaries can take advantage of its programs for up to 18 months. 
   Sen. Talent has been a leader in the Senate to help protect Missourians who are threatened by drugs, especially those who are threatened by methamphetamine. Sen. Talent, along with Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), has introduced the Combat Meth Act which would restrict the sale of products containing the primary ingredient to cook methamphetamine. The Talent-Feinstein bill, which passed the Senate with strong bipartisan support, would limit purchases of cold medications containing pseudoephedrine, require a log book to track purchases nationally and enact stricter federal penalties to prosecute meth cooks.
 
 