SEN. TALENT, KANSAS CITY LEADERS ANNOUNCE ARTIST FOR TRUMAN STATUE AT UNION STATION IN KANSAS CITY
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today joined The Native Sons and The Native Sons Scouts of Kansas City in announcing Bruce Wolfe as the artist chosen to create a 26-foot statue of Harry S. Truman at Union Station. Today's announcement is the official launch of the project, which would locate the statue on a pedestal in front of Union Station's center window. 
   "I am very pleased to be part of the project and to be present for this ceremony," said Sen. Talent, who serves Missouri in the state's Senate seat once held by President Truman. "This project was initiated by leaders in Kansas City to honor the President from Missouri. Now, we are one step closer to fulfilling that vision and I'm hopeful that someday this statue will be a landmark in Kansas City and a gathering point for tourists and area residents alike to enjoy our city. It is past time that we honored this great leader."
   The Native Sons Scouts embarked on this project in 2003. The group selected Truman as the subject in order to honor Truman's contribution and to preserve his memory, legacy and achievements for generations to come. A selection committee of various community members selected the artist from a group of more than 30.
   "The selection committee felt that Bruce captured the strength and warmth of Truman while being consistent with the sense of drama and history of Union Station," said Lori Hirons, chair of the project committee.
   Sen. Talent secured $50,000 for initial funding for the statue as part of Interior Appropriations legislation. The project is expected to raise $400,000 for the statue and future maintenance costs. 
   Sen. Talent also spoke before the Energy Committee's Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks in October of 2003 in support of the statue Union Station.
   In the original plans for Union Station, built in 1914, the central bay of the fa?ade was left with an empty, 20-ft high limestone pedestal. Architect Jarvis Hunt left it that way for city officials to install a statue. Despite several suggestions through the years, the pedestal has remained unoccupied for nearly a century. There are only a few statues of Truman in the world including Athens, Greece, where the Truman Doctrine was signed, however, there are none in Kansas City. 
   It is expected the statue would be mounted and officially dedicated on May 8, 2006, on President Truman's birthday.
 
 