SEN. TALENT JOINS KANSAS CITY CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS IN ANNOUNCING SENATE APPROVAL OF UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS CRIME ACT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today joined with Kansas City Civil Rights leader Alvin Sykes and Chiefs Hall of Famer Curtis McClinton, in announcing the Senate approval of legislation he co-sponsored with Chris Dodd (D-Conn.). The bill will to create a new office within the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute Civil Rights-era murders. The announcement was made at the W.E.B. Dubois Learning Center, where the Emmett Till Justin Campaign is headquartered.  
   "This is a significant step forward in the effort to achieve justice in these Civil Rights cold cases," said U.S. Senator Jim Talent. "It became clear in my conversations with Alvin Sykes, a Civil Rights leader in Kansas City and President of the Emmett Till Justice Campaign that we needed to create an office whose sole purpose would be the investigation of unsolved Civil Rights murders and the prosecution of those responsible, where possible. We want the murderers and their accomplices who are still living to know there's an entire section of the Department of Justice that is going after them. We need to unearth the truth and do justice because there can not be healing without the truth."
   "I am proud and honored to bear witness to the fact that Senators Jim Talent and Chris Dodd, with outstanding bipartisan energy, commitment and support from the United States Senate have taken a good idea and moved it toward becoming a great reality," said Alvin Sykes, President of the Emmett Till Justice Campaign.
   "The Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act is a reflection of this country's pursuit of justice," said Curtis McClinton. "I salute the leadership of Alvin Sykes, The Emmett Till Justice Campaign and their partners in the Senate, Senators Jim Talent and Chris Dodd to pass this important legislation. Sen. Talent is a bright and focused elected official who has shown a strong interest in the black community by pursuing justice and championing economic opportunity. The heinous lynching of Emmett Till goes back to 1955 in Money Mississippi was traumatic, but now I know there is hope for justice in America." 
   "I would like to commend Senator Talent for stepping forward to sponsor the legislation to investigate Civil Rights-era cold cases," said William Grace, Executive Director of the W.E.B. Dubois Learning Center. "I'm certain the victim's families would be glad to know these cases will be resolved and justice will be served."
   The Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill, on which the Talent-Dodd amendment is attached, will now go before a Conference Committee between the House and the Senate. The U.S. House passed the Appropriations bill without a similar amendment, so the amendment would have to be approved by House leaders before being sent to the President for his signature.
   The Talent-Dodd proposal would create the Unsolved Crimes Section, an office within the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice to focus specifically on unsolved Civil Rights era murders. The bill would authorize up to $5 million annually for the new Section.
   The Unsolved Crimes Section will be responsible for investigating and prosecuting pre-1970 cases that resulted in death and still remain unsolved in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials. The Section Chief would be responsible for prosecuting these cases and would be required to report to Congress and the American people on their actions.
   If a crime other than murder is discovered during the course of an investigation it will be referred to the appropriate law enforcement officials. The Section would report its findings to Congress annually on September 30, the end of the federal fiscal year.
   Key Components of the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act:
   NEW OFFICE FOCUSED ON UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS MURDERS - The Unsolved Crimes Section will specifically target "cold case" murders from the Civil Rights-era. The bill would authorize up to $5 million annually for the new office.
   SEEKING THE TRUTH - Through aggressive investigation, prosecution and reporting, the new Unsolved Crimes Section will shed light on the unsolved deaths from the civil rights era, allowing victims' families to rest easier knowing the truth. 
   PROSECUTE CRIMINALS - The mission of the Unsolved Crimes Section is to aggressively investigate and prosecute criminals in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials.
   REFERRAL OF OTHER UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATIONS - If during the course of an investigation a crime other than murder is discovered, it will be promptly referred to the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice.
   ACCOUNTABILITY TO CONGRESS - The Unsolved Crimes Section Chief will provide a report on its activities to Congress annually on September 30, the end of the federal fiscal year.
 
 