SEN. TALENT HONORS BLACK HISTORY MONTH WITH SENATE RESOLUTION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) this week honored Black History Month with his co-sponsorship of a Resolution paying tribute to the month-long celebration. The Resolution honors African-American leaders throughout history for their many contributions to our country. With Sen. Talent's strong support, the Resolution unanimously passed the U.S. Senate. 
   Sen. Talent issued the following statement on the passage of the Resolution:
   "During Black History Month, we honor the achievements and sacrifice of some of our country's greatest leaders. Leaders like Coretta Scott King who never stopped believing that we have an historic responsibility to move America forward and extend the American dream to all those who seek it, regardless of race.
   "As we celebrate this month, we must also remember there is still more to do. Just as Mrs. King bravely chose to continue her husband's work and his quest for racial equality, we have a responsibility as Americans to advance this cause.
   "No one understands this better than Alvin Sykes. Mr. Sykes is a Civil Rights leader in Kansas City and the President of the Emmett Till Justice Campaign. For years he advocated reopening the investigation into an unsolved Civil Rights crime that happened 50 years ago. The victim was 14-year-old Emmett Till who was murdered for allegedly whistling at a white woman. Mr. Sykes was ultimately successful in persuading the Department of Justice to reopen the investigation and we are currently awaiting the results.
   "We are now working on another idea Alvin Sykes has advocated, to create an office within the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute Civil Rights-era murders like the Emmett Till case. I believe we need to unearth the truth in these unsolved case and do justice because there can not be healing without the truth.
   "While the passage of the Black History Month Resolution is important, it is largely symbolic. Passage of the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act would be a substantial achievement for America. If we pass it this year, it will be an achievement we can celebrate next year during Black History Month.".
 
 