SENS. TALENT, WYDEN, CORZINE UNVEIL BUILD AMERICA BONDS PLAN FOR TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and John Corzine (D-N.J.) today unveiled their bipartisan plan to increase transportation funding using Build America Bonds, a $30 billion one-time bonding program designed to generate new transportation infrastructure. The Build America Bonds funding would be in addition to regular federal highway funding. Representatives of the nation's leading transportation groups have joined the senators in support of the Build America Bonds plan. 
   "We have a plan that will create jobs, save lives and make up for the transportation infrastructure deficit," said Sen. Talent. "Build America Bonds will empower every state to complete significant transportation construction projects by providing an immediate funding stream. Sen. Wyden and I also wanted this to be an investment for America, and by Americans. The bonds will be available for purchase at different denominations so individual Americans will have the opportunity to invest in America when they buy Build America Bonds for their kids and grandkids."
   "The Build America Bonds proposal looks beyond the bleak budget headlines and taps the big potential of bonds to create more than a million jobs and improve our country's transportation system at the same time," said Sen. Wyden. "It's time for the Federal government to do what businesses, states and local governments all do now, and use bonds to pay for critical infrastructure projects."
   "As senator of the most densely-populated US state, I understand the value of strategic investments in our highways and mass transit infrastructure," said Sen. Corzine. "But this bill is about more than highways, it's also about more jobs, safer roads and bridges, as well as a stronger local economy. This bill will make America stronger while making our roads better."
   KEY COMPONENTS OF BUILD AMERICA BONDS
   CREATE JOBS - for every $1 billion invested in federal highway and transit infrastructure, an estimated 47,500 jobs are created. Build America Bonds have the potential to create and sustain millions of quality, high paying jobs.
   GENERATE ECONOMIC GROWTH - for every dollar invested in federal transportation infrastructure, an estimated $5.70 in economic activity is generated. Build 
   America Bonds have the potential to generate more than $171 billion in economic activity.
   IMPROVE INFRASTRUCTURE - Build America Bonds will generate $30 billion in new transportation infrastructure funding in the United States. This one-time funding 
   opportunity will empower states and local governments to complete critical transportation infrastructure projects. 
   SAVE LIVES - more than 42,000 people lose their lives and nearly 3 million are injured each year in motor vehicle accidents, costing the country more than $231 billion annually. Infrastructure improvements made possible through Build America Bonds will enhance safety and have the potential to save 12,000 lives each year that are lost due to poor road conditions and deteriorating bridges, not to mention additional lives saved and accidents prevented due to enhancements across other modes of transportation.
   Here's how the Build America Bonds plan will work: The legislation will create a federally chartered non-profit corporation that will issue $39 billion in bonds with $30 billion to be used to fund transportation projects. The remaining $9 billion will be invested for the life of the bonds (30 years) which will generate more than enough to repay the entire $39 billion principal amount.
   Build America Bonds will significantly increase transportation funding and allow members to achieve equitable funding across all states. This will empower states and local governments to build significant road, public transportation and rail projects, including projects of national and regional significance, multistate corridors, border planning and capacity improvements, and intermodal connectors.
   In lieu of interest, bond holders will receive tax credits that can be applied against the holders' federal tax liability. The bonds will be available to corporate and individual investors for purchase at different denominations, providing all Americans with the opportunity to invest in upgrading America's transportation infrastructure.
   Sens. Talent, Wyden and Corzine's Build America Bonds legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Mark Dayton (D-Minn.), George Allen (R-Va), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and David Vitter (R-La).
   A diverse group of business, labor and transportation infrastructure associations are supporting the legislation, including: Associated General Contractors of America (AGC); American Road and Transportation Builders Association (ARTBA); American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO); U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Stone, Sand and Gravel Association; National Asphalt Pavement Association; American Highway Users Alliance; National Heavy & Highway Alliance - Laborers' Union, Operating Engineers Union, Carpenters Union, Iron Workers Union, Plasterers' & Cement Masons Union, Teamsters Union, Bricklayers Union - and many others.
 
 