SEN. TALENT OUTLINES ANTI-METH LEGISLATION TO STOP DEADLIEST DRUG IN MISSOURI
  Sen. Jim Talent today discussed his legislation to provide Missouri and other states with new resources to stop the production and distribution of the deadliest drug in the state. Sen. Talent's comprehensive Combat Meth Act, which he has sponsored with California Democrat Sen. Diane Feinstein, will also limit the sale of pseudoephedrine, the primary ingredient used to make methamphetamines.  
   "Missouri currently leads the country in meth production," said Sen. Talent. "With this legislation our local law enforcement will have the opportunity to lead the country in cracking down on meth dealers. Our bill says if you're addicted to meth and want help, we will help you. But if you cook or sell meth, we are giving law enforcement the tools to go after you."
   The Combat Meth Act provides $5 million in grant funding for Drug Endangered Children rapid response teams to promote collaboration among federal, state, and local agencies is critical to ensure the adequate care and protection of these children. This funding will allow law enforcement agencies at the state and federal levels and child protection agencies in every jurisdiction to establish protocols for documenting conditions of child endangerment when a meth lab is seized. Children are meth's youngest victims and this legislation will help identify dangerous situations related to a child's environment and methamphetamine abuse. 
   The legislation will curb methamphetamine production by moving pseudophedrine, the primary ingredient to make meth, behind the pharmacy counter requires that it be sold only by a pharmacist. Because pseudophedrine is found in many over the counter cold and sinus medicines such as Sudafed, meth cooks can purchase, or steal the ingredient in large quantities. 
   "This legislation is a dagger at the heart of meth manufacturing in America," said Sen. Talent. "If you can't get psuedophedrine, you can't make meth. Our bill limits access to psuedophedrine, while ensuring honest people can get the drugs they need when they get sick. We also provide additional resources to local law enforcement and prosecutors so they can crack down on meth dealers. This is the most comprehensive anti-meth bill ever considered by Congress."
   The Combat Meth Act will provide critical resources to local law enforcement, expand the ability of local prosecutors to bring methamphetamine distributors to justice and increase awareness and involvement of businesses that legally sell pseudoephedrine. The Combat Meth Act makes critical funding available to states for additional equipment, training for law enforcement agents and prosecutors to bring legal action against meth offenders and clean-up meth labs, and grants to provide treatment for those affected by this dangerous drug. 
   The measure will also authorize the creation of a Methamphetamine Research, Training and Technical Assistance Center which will research effective treatments for meth abuse and disseminate information and technical assistance to states and private entities on how to improve current treatment methods. Missouri leads the country in meth production. The National Clandestine Laboratory Database managed by the DEA said Missouri had the most lab seizures in 2003. 
   The Combat Meth Act could have a hearing in the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs as early as this month. Testimonies from local and federal law enforcement agents will be heard. Other participants expected to attend are representatives from the stakeholder groups including retailers, pharmaceutical manufactures and distributors. 
   There are currently thirty co-sponsors of Talent's Combat Meth Act including Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Evan Bayh (D-Ind.),Gordon Smith (R-Ore.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Mark Dayton (D-Minn.), Ken Salazar (D-Colo.), Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Ben Nelson (D-Neb.), Trent Lott (R-Miss.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Mark Pryor (D-Ark.), Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.), Herb Kohl (D-Wis.), Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), Pete V. Domenici (R-N.M.), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Max Baucus (D-Mont.) Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.), Tim Johnson (D-S.D.), John Rockefeller (D-W. Va.), Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), Kent Conrad (D-N.D.), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) and John Thune (R-S.D.).
 
 