SENATE PASSES SENS. TALENT, CLINTON MILITARY HEALTH READINESS BILL
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-MO) and Hillary Clinton (D-NY) announced today that the Senate passed legislation that addresses a major health care issue that arose from the first Gulf War. Talent and Clinton sponsored the Armed Forces Personnel Medical Readiness and Tracking Act of 2004 to establish a new tracking system that would make certain active duty military personnel and Reservists would receive regular health screenings. The senators offered their legislation as an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill (S. 2400) and it was approved unanimously by the U.S. Senate.
   "Our legislation addresses a major health care issue that arose from the first Gulf War, in which some of our servicemen and women returned home with symptoms of an illness commonly referred to as Gulf War illness," Senator Talent said. "The bill we passed today requires pre- and post-deployment blood samples, and a thorough post-deployment health assessment. The legislation will provide a before and after snapshot of the medical fitness of every service member deployed to a theater of war. The results can then be compared to help determine whether or not an individual, or their unit, was exposed to a dangerous substance or pathogen. We owe it to our troops who deploy to take the necessary steps to address possible medical problems." 
   "With American troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan and elsewhere, we need to make sure that our men and women in uniform get the best possible health care," said Senator Clinton. "The legislation we passed today provides a comprehensive approach to tracking the health of our soldiers before and after an overseas deployment so that we have adequate information if medical problems develop."
   * Medical Tracking
   The Armed Forces Personnel Medical Readiness and Tracking Act of 2004 would establish procedures to ensure that information about soldiers' health is systematically collected so that if a group of soldiers begins to exhibit symptoms consistent with exposure to some hazard, there will be adequate information to help identify the cause. The bill establishes a program for collecting baseline medical data for recruits and establishes an Advisory Working Group to improve the medical tracking system for members deployed overseas. It also requires a report on Department of Defense responses to concerns raised by members of the Armed Forces regarding exposure to environmental hazards. Current law requires that information about the health of soldiers returning from deployment be collected but it appears that these provisions are not being enforced. This legislation establishes audits of the blood serum collection program as well as the pre-deployment and post-deployment health assessment database that DOD maintains.
   * Medical Readiness of Guard and Reservists
   The Armed Forces Personnel Medical Readiness and Tracking Act of 2004 also focuses on another problem that came to light with the unprecedented demands being placed on our National Guard members and reservists. Many of the Guard and reserve units activated are not at full strength because of a lack of medical or Dental readiness. It requires a GAO study of health of reserve components ordered to active duty for Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. It also requires physical examinations for members of reserve components every 30 months instead of the current requirement of 60 months. For those Guard or Reserve members who are medically unqualified for their current position, it requires them to be retrained, reassigned or separated from service. Finally, the legislation would require DOD to prescribe a policy that specifies: (1) the circumstances under which treatment for medical conditions may be deferred to be provided in the theater of operations in order to prevent disruption to a deployment; and (2) the circumstances under which medical conditions are to be treated before deployment to the theater.
   * Armed Forces Personnel Medical Readiness and Tracking Act of 2004
   Summary of Provisions:
   Section 1301: Requires the establishment of a Joint Medical Readiness Oversight Committee: The Committee is to review medical readiness of service members, make recommendations on improvements to the medical readiness tracking and health surveillance policies, monitor compliance of medical readiness standards, and to advise the DOD on military health research. The Committee includes DOD officials, members of veteran health advocacy groups and civilian experts on military health treatment.
   Section 1302: Study of Health of Reserves Ordered to Active Duty for Operations Enduring and Iraqi Freedom: Requires GAO study of health of reserve components ordered to active duty for Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. Requires
   Reservists to receive a detailed health assessment at least every two years. DOD is required to prescribe a policy that specifies: (1) the circumstances under which treatment for medical conditions may be deferred to be provided in the theater of operations in order to prevent disruption to a deployment; and (2) the circumstances under which medical conditions are to be treated before deployment to the theater.
   Section 1303: Baseline Health Data Collection Program: Establishes a program for collecting baseline medical data for recruits. Requires blood samples to be taken not earlier than 60 days before deployment and not later than 30 days after return from deployment.
   Section 1304: Medical Care and Tracking and Health Surveillance in the Theater of Operations: Requires records of medical care provided to service members in theater to be maintained as part of the complete health record of the member. Requires a report on analysis and improvement recommendations on the medical tracking system and on recommendations for future research areas on health problems. Requires DOD to provide a plan on reporting the extent and types of medical services that were provided members of the U.S. military in facilities of U.S. allies during previous and current deployments. DOD shall prescribe policy on the collection and dissemination of in-theater personnel location data.
   Section 1305: Declassification of Information on Exposures to Environmental Hazards: DOD shall review and revise classification policies with a view to facilitating the declassification of data that is potentially useful for the monitoring and assessment of the health of members of the Armed Forces who have been exposed to environmental hazards during deployments overseas.
   Section 1306: Report on Training of Field Medical Personnel: Requires a report on the training of field medical personnel within a year. Report on Responses to Health Concerns of Members: Requires a report within 180 days on DOD responses to concerns raised by members of the Armed Forces regarding exposure to environmental hazards.
   Section 1307: Responsibilities of Installation Commanders: Requires commanders at installations where members of the Armed Forces are to be processed upon redeployment from an overseas deployment to identify and analyze the health care needs of returning members and report the needs to the Secretary
   Section 1308: Full Implementation of Force Health Protection and Readiness Program: Authorizes such actions as necessary to ensure that each of the Services fully implements at all levels the Force Health Protection and Readiness Program of the Department of Defense.
   Section 1309: Requires an audit of records of blood samples in DOD's serum repository and the health assessment records to determine the percentage of members of the armed forces in compliance with DOD and service policies regarding collection of blood samples and health assessments. Requires a report on the quality assurance of the medical readiness and tracking program. Accessibility of Health Assessment Information to Army Members on the Internet: makes information on DOD health assessment policies available on the internet.
   Section 1310: Use of Civilian Experts as Consultants: Authorizes DOD to procure outside services to meet requirements of the legislation.
 
 