SEN. TALENT HOSTS FARM BILL FIELD HEARING IN CAPE GIRARDEAU
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, and Sen. Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) today hosted a Farm bill field hearing at Southeast Missouri State University in Cape Girardeau. The Senators received testimony from regional producers and commodity groups representing four states during the hearing. The current Farm bill, passed in 2002, is scheduled to expire in 2007. 
   "America has the safest, most abundant, best tasting, and least expensive food supply not only in the world but in the history of the world," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, which is preparing to write the next Farm bill. "There are a lot of good people in the food and fiber production industry who deserve credit. But the heart of food production in the United States and the center of the rural communities that produce our food and fiber is none other than the American family farmer and rancher. I don't want Washington bureaucrats writing the next Farm bill. This legislation should be written with the input of our local farmers so we can effectively address their concerns in Washington."  
   "As Congress holds these hearings in preparation for the next Farm bill, the U.S. rice industry supports maintaining an effective farm safety net that includes a marketing loan program as well as income support payments and planting flexibility," said Paul T. Combs of Kennett, Chairman of the USA Rice Producers' Group. "We urge you to recognize how well the current Farm Act is working for U.S. agriculture, and to consider ways to maintain its structure as we begin the debate on the next Farm bill. Rice producers look forward to working with Congress and the Administration in the development, enactment, and implementation of a sound, equitable Farm bill and rice program." 
   "America's cattlemen are proud and independent, and we just want the opportunity to run our ranches the best we can to provide a high quality product to the American consumer, and even more importantly, provide for our families and preserve our way of life," said Mike John of Columbia, President of the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, during the hearing. "We are coming to you in an effort to work together to find ways to use the extremely limited funds available in the best way possible to conserve our resources, build our industry, and provide for individual opportunity at success. We ask for nothing more than Federal agriculture policy that helps build and improve the business climate for cattlemen. We look forward to working with you on the 2007 Farm bill." 
   Sen. Talent also discussed his legislation to extend the current Farm bill until the World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations are complete and global trading rules are in place. The legislation would allow the 2002 Farm bill to remain in effect while the Doha negotiations continue. The bill will also keep the current Farm bill in place for at least one crop year after Congress has approved legislation to implement any eventual Doha agreement. 
   "A Farm bill extension, pending a fair agreement at the WTO, sends a signal to our trading partners," said Sen. Talent, Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "We will not unilaterally disarm farmers and ranchers in Missouri without assurances that we will get real and meaningful reforms in return. We must maintain the current framework until we know the rules of the game." 
   Sen. Talent and members of the Senate Agriculture Committee received testimony from the following witnesses during the hearing: Ron Beetsma, National Grain Sorghum Producers; Neal Bredehoeft, American Soybean Association; Mike Briggs, National Turkey Federation; Paul T. Combs, USA Rice Federation; Jonathon Held, Wine America; Allen Helms, National Cotton Council; Terry Hilgedick, National Corn Growers Association; Jim Hinkle, National Wild Turkey Foundation; Mike John, National Cattlemen's Beef Association; Larry Purdum, Dairy Farmers of America; Ray Rogers, Arkansas Farm Bureau; Dean Sonnenberg, National Sunflower Association; and John Thaemert, National Association of Wheat Growers.
 
 