SEN. TALENT, REP. EMERSON ATTEND RIBBON CUTTING FOR MOBILE NURSING UNIT IN CAPE GIRARDEAU
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (MO-8) today joined faculty, students and officials from Southeast Missouri State University for a ribbon cutting ceremony that marked the opening of the Southeast Health on Wheels (S.H.O.W.) Mobile. Sen. Jim Talent and Rep. Jo Ann Emerson worked to secure funding for the mobile health unit, which will serve the Bootheel.  
   "Access to health care is absolutely critical to our state's rural communities," said Sen. Talent. "This initiative will provide these areas with access to quality health care by taking the care to them. I am strongly committed to improving the quality of health care in Southeast Missouri and will continue working with Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson to do even more to improve the quality of life in the region." 
   "When rural residents cannot travel to receive their health care, we have an innovative solution in Southern Missouri that enables the health care to travel to the patient," said U.S. Rep. Jo Ann Emerson. "This is an important initiative to improve access to quality care, and I am grateful to Senator Talent for his support for the S.H.O.W. Mobile in the U.S. Senate. I think we have a unique program that can serve as a template for other rural areas where Americans face the challenges of living significant distances from the nearest care facility." 
   "The S.H.O.W. Mobile is a direct result of our continuing desire to bring the resources of the University to bear on the problems that, historically, have had a negative impact on the region's economic and social development," said Dr. Kenneth W. Dobbins, President of Southeast Missouri State University. "We could not have begun this project without the help of our Congressional delegation and the efforts of Senator Jim Talent and Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson. Thanks to their hard work, funding for the unit and associated equipment was provided through a federal earmark. They have understood the great need for health care and health education in the Bootheel, and they have worked tirelessly to secure the federal funding that makes this pilot program possible." 
   The College of Health and Human Services at Southeast Missouri State University is overseeing the project. A team of faculty and students will travel to communities in the Bootheel to address health concerns through education and health assessments. The services include cholesterol screenings, blood pressure checks, nutritional/dietary assessments, screening for diabetes, and vision and hearing screenings. The mobile unit will work with local hospitals and home health agencies to improve existing health conditions of their patients. The unit will travel in the four Bootheel counties of Pemiscot, Dunklin, Mississippi and New Madrid.
 
 