SEN. TALENT SEEKS $20 MILLION FOR FAMILY-BASED METH TREATMENT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) is seeking $20 million for family-based treatment centers that help treat pregnant and parenting women offenders addicted to meth. Sen. Jim Talent and seventeen other Senators today sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies requesting the funds. Sen. Talent's funding request is part of the methamphetamine treatment provisions that were passed into law as part of the USA Patriot Act. 
   "Increasing meth treatment funding is critical to fighting the meth epidemic in our neighborhoods," said Sen. Talent. "Treating meth addiction is much more complex than other drug treatments. There is no methadone to help meth addicts. And in too many cases, our health workers are not only treating meth addicts, but the kids who were exposed to this deadly drug and the chemicals used to make it. We need to provide additional funding for family-based treatment to help those who want help and for the children who have been exposed to meth."
   Approximately 10,600 children in the U.S. were either present at lab seizures or lived where meth was being made between 2000 and 2003. During 2002 and 2003, close to 3,000 children were removed from their homes because of neglect or abuse by meth-addicted parents. In Missouri, 31 percent of children in the social services system are there because of a parents' drug offense.
   Family-based treatment programs have been enormously effective. Studies consistently show that programs have changed lives by increasing long-term sobriety and helping former addicts lead productive lives.
   Sen. Talent serves as Co-Chair of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. Earlier this year, the Senate approved Senators Talent and Dianne Feinstein's (D-Calif.) Combat Meth Act, the most comprehensive anti-meth legislation ever introduced in the Congress. The President signed Talent and Feinstein's Combat Meth legislation into law on March 9. Sen. Talent also worked with Republicans and Democrats to add more than $1 billion to the Budget to help law enforcement officials fight methamphetamine.
 
 