SENS. TALENT, STABENOW TO OFFER TRANSPORTATION FUNDING AMENDMENT TO BUDGET
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) plan to offer a bipartisan amendment to the Senate Budget Resolution (S. Con. Res. 18) to pave the way for the Senate to increase transportation funding. The amendment strikes an item in the budget that takes away the flexibility of the relevant Senate committees to consider a full range of transportation funding options. There amendment is expected to be voted on this afternoon. 
   "All options should be on the table when it comes to funding our transportation infrastructure," said Sen. Talent. "The House passed a highway bill that wasn't big enough. It's now up to the Senate to increase funding for our transportation infrastructure. Our amendment makes certain that when we debate the transportation bill, we can debate it with a full range of funding options. The amendment restores the flexibility to use revenue sources that we have approved in the past, and it gets us out of the box that the current budget traps us in which would make it harder to adequately fund our transportation needs."
   "The SAFE-TEA transportation bill isn't just critical for our nation's roads and transit systems - it's also an important jobs creation bill; for every billion dollars in highway investment, 47,000 good-paying American jobs can be created," Sen. Stabenow said. "This amendment is essential to ensure that Congress has the flexibility it needs in funding this transportation bill, so that Michigan and all other states can receive the maximum funding for our highway infrastructure needs, transit programs and other transportation projects." 
   As has been the case in past budget resolutions, the current resolution in the Reserve Fund section allows the Budget Chairman to make adjustments to the allocation for transportation. However, the resolution before the Senate currently restricts the transportation reauthorization funding options available to the Finance Committee.
   In the Fiscal 2004 budget resolution, the last one agreed to by both chambers, the Congress agreed to new transportation funding so long as it was offset by an increase in receipts to the Highway Trust Fund. 
   Without this amendment, the following funding options would be blocked: Interest on the Highway Trust Fund's unexpended balances, the motor fuels refund reform for over the road and lend-lease vehicles, draw down of the Highway Trust Fund's balances and other traditional funding options.
   The amendment is supported by all the major transportation groups, including AASHTO, Associated General Contractors, the Road Builders and their Transportation Construction Coalition, American Public Transportation Association, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Heavy Highway Alliance representing the major trade unions.
   The Talent-Stabenow amendment is cosponsored by Senators John Thune (R-S.D.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Carl Levin (D-Mich.), James Jeffords (I-Vt.) and Max Baucus (D-Mont.).
 
 