SENS. TALENT, BOND INTRODUCE BILL TO DOUBLE MARKET FOR RENEWABLE FUELS
  Sens. Jim Talent and Kit Bond today introduced legislation to establish the strongest Renewable Fuels Standard ever considered by Congress. The legislation would double the growth of renewable fuels in the U.S. by 2012, taking into account the enormous growth in the industry. 
   "Renewable fuels are at the crux of economic growth and jobs; at the crux of energy security; at the crux of consumer benefits; at the crux of environmental quality; and at the crux of value-added agriculture for our producers," said Senator Jim Talent, co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus. "Our legislation reflects the growth that has occurred in the industry over the last four years while the Energy bill stalled in Congress. It is time to pass an Energy bill, and a strong Renewable Fuels Standard should be part of it."
   "This legislation takes an important step in the right direction to help America become more energy self-sufficient," said Senator Kit Bond. "The renewable fuels industry - particularly ethanol production - is taking off. It is critical that we promote an energy industry that not only reduces our dependence on foreign sources of oil, but also offers a cleaner burning fuel that better protects the environment."
   Talent and Bond's plan creates a phase-in for renewable fuel volumes over 7 years, beginning with 4 billion gallons by 2006 and ending at 8 billion gallons in 2012.
   The bill contains an escalation clause that would allow the Administrator, in coordination with the Secretaries of Energy and Agriculture, to increase the renewable fuel requirement in 2013 and beyond after reviewing the success of the program. 
   Talent and Bond's legislation also provides that the renewable fuels requirement in 2013 and after will be no less than the percentage of 8 billion gallons of renewable fuel to the total number of gallons of gasoline in 2012.
   "This legislation reflects the growth of the industry," said John Eggleston, President of the Northeast Missouri Grain ethanol plant in Macon, Missouri. "Expanding the market for renewable fuels will give our producers the confidence they need to go ahead with their plans to create new ethanol plants which will create jobs and higher prices for our products. We are privileged in Missouri to have two senators who are leading the country on renewable fuels and we strongly support their legislation."
 
 