SENS. TALENT-THUNE ANNOUNCE LEGISLATION TO INCREASE AVAILABILITY OF E-85 AT FUELING STATIONS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced bipartisan legislation to provide incentives for gas station owners across the country to install alternative fuel tanks. Sen. Jim Talent is sponsoring the measure with Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.), Barack Obama (D-Ill.), and Ken Salazar (D-Colo.) to provide incentives for businesses that add one or more E-85 pumps or biodiesel pumps to their fueling stations. E-85 is a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent petroleum gasoline. 
   "This legislation is an investment in our energy infrastructure that will help increase the availability of alternative fuels like E-85, a less expensive alternative to petroleum gasoline," said Sen. Talent, co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus. "Missourians want to buy American fuel - grown by our farmers - but there are not enough fueling stations selling E-85 in the state to meet the demand. Our legislation provides incentives for businesses, large and small, to make E-85 more available to consumers."
   The Talent-Thune-Obama-Salazar legislation would provide gas station owners with a reimbursement for 30 percent of the costs, not to exceed $30,000, for the replacement of a petroleum tank or the addition of an alternative fuel tank. It would allow station owners to receive reimbursement for up to two tanks per facility. 
   This measure builds on Talent and Obama's legislation that provides a tax credit incentive of 30 percent through 2010 for switching one or more traditional petroleum pumps to E-85 fueling systems. The measure was included in the Energy bill, which passed last summer and has been enacted into law. 
   "One of our biggest challenges now is increasing the infrastructure to get renewable fuels to the consumers," Sen. Talent said. "We are constantly increasing the number of E-85 fueling stations, but we need to do more to support the millions of flexible fuel vehicles currently on the road. Our legislation is a great step in building on the provisions we passed as part of the Energy bill last summer."
   There are about 3.5 million E-85 vehicles on the road today. Ford, GMC, DaimlerChrysler and other manufacturers have produced vehicles that can run on E-85 or petroleum gasoline when E-85 is unavailable. Increased availability of E-85 would likely increase the demand for these vehicles, creating jobs and economic growth in America's auto manufacturing sector.
 
 