RICE, EXPORT MARKETS DISCUSSED AT SEN. TALENT'S AGRICULTURE ADVISORY COUNCIL MEETING IN DEXTER
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today met with his Agriculture Export Advisory Council in Dexter to discuss opening new export markets for Missouri rice. Sen. Talent brought with him Ambassador Allen Johnson, who serves as the Chief Agriculture Negotiator for the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, giving local producers the opportunity to discuss agriculture export issues with a top trade official. 
   "Missouri producers are leaders in agriculture exports," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "Our rice producers, and the related agriculture industries, rely on access to export markets to maintain the value of their products. We had a good discussion about how to expand these markets for Missouri-grown rice."
   Rice is produced in 10 Missouri counties. In 2001, the market value of the Missouri rice crop was about $48.4 million.
   "I am very pleased that Senator Talent and Ambassador Johnson have a serious interest in Missouri rice," said Sonny Martin, Chairman of the Rice Research and Merchandising Council. "It is so important that we keep a focus on rough rice exports to South America, because it is such an important product" 
   "We really appreciate what Senator Talent and Ambassador Johnson have done on behalf of the rice industry," said Ben Noble of the USA Rice Federation. "Over the past decade, rice production has nearly doubled in acreage in the region. Senator Talent's Council will help us find places to ship this additional product." 
   Sen. Talent established his Agriculture Export Advisory Council to create a dialogue between Missouri's producers, the Administration and representatives of foreign governments. 
   In July, Sen. Talent and his Council met in Kansas City with Foreign Agriculture Service Administrator Ellen Terpstra and foreign agriculture leaders representing Japan and China. Sen. Talent said the Council will continue holding meetings around the state on a variety of agriculture issues related to expanding export markets for our producers.
 
 