SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES $120,799 TO OPEN NEW MARKETS FOR MISSOURI SOYBEANS IN PHILIPPINES
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded $120,799 to the Missouri Soybean Association to help producers access a new market for their products in the Philippines. The funds were made available through USDA's Market Access Program (MAP).  
   "One of the most important responsibilities we have on the Senate Agriculture Committee is helping open up new markets for our producers," said Sen. Talent, who chairs the Agriculture Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "The Missouri Soybean Association will now have the resources they need to promote our state's products in the Philippines. When we promote our products abroad we help create and sustain jobs here at home. I want to thank Dale Ludwig and everyone at the Soybean Association for their leadership on behalf of Missouri agriculture."
   "We could not be more excited about this announcement," said Dale R. Ludwig, Executive Director/CEO of Missouri Soybean Association. "Senator Talent has once again proven himself as not only a leader in value-added agriculture, but a true champion of farmers and rural Missouri. We're extremely fortunate to be one of only a handful of state commodity associations to ever receive such funding; and the first as it pertains to Identity-Preserved Grains. Long-term, the synergies created between the federal government and the Missouri Soybean Association with international marketing programs in Southeast Asia are huge for Missouri farmers and value-added agriculture throughout the state."
   Of the total award, $51,799 is designated for the Emerging Market Program designed to support promotion and distribution of American agriculture products, trade missions and research on new markets. The Missouri Soybean Association will use the funds to assess market potential of identity-preserved (IP) soybeans in the Philippines food processing industry. The MSA also received $69,000 from the Quality Samples Program to export IP food-grade soybean samples to the Philippines. 
   The Market Access Program is administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service. The program is designed to assist producers, exporters, private companies, and other trade organizations finance promotional activities for U.S. agricultural products. Farmers and commodity groups can get assurance with consumer promotions, market research, technical assistance, and trade servicing. The program promotes exports of specific U.S. commodities or products in specific markets. Under MAP, program participants are reimbursed for their expenses in carrying out approved promotional activities.
 
 