SEN. TALENT RECEIVES MISSOURI CORN GROWERS APPRECIATION AWARD
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today received the Missouri Corn Growers Association's Appreciation Award. The award is given to agriculture leaders advocating on behalf of Missouri's corn farmers. This year marks the first time a non-member has received this distinction. Sen. Talent was chosen for his role in adding a 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuels Standard to the Energy bill, now law.  
   "This is a tremendous honor," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "It's been a privilege to work with the Missouri Corn Growers Association on renewable fuels legislation and value-added agriculture. I'm looking forward to seeing a boost in ethanol production in Missouri as the Renewable Fuels Standard goes into effect."
   "Perhaps no other individual deserves more credit for passing the Renewable Fuel Standard than Senator Talent, said Gary Marshall, Chief Executive Officer of Missouri Corn Growers Association. "Jim Talent led the effort to ensure a 7.5 billion gallon RFS by 2012, which will effectively double the amount of ethanol used over the next six years. That's leadership."
   "On behalf of all our state's corn farmers, I'd like to thank Senator Jim Talent for his leadership and tireless efforts to secure a robust Renewable Fuel Standard as a part of the energy bill," said B.J. Bailey, Missouri Corn Growers Association president and farmer from Oregon, Mo. "I'd also like to thank all our members who made phone calls to our congressional delegation to help secure this tremendous victory. Not only is it a win for corn farmers, but as consumers, we'll all benefit by reducing our dependence on foreign oil and seeing lower gas prices at the pump because of this legislation."
   Sen. Talent helped negotiate the Renewable Fuels Standard which would add 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol, biodiesel and other renewables to the nation's fuel supply by 2012. Sen. Talent also worked with Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) to add to the Energy bill a measure to increase the availability of fuels blended with 85 percent ethanol. 
   Sen. Talent also partnered with Sen. Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) successfully adding a measure to expand the ten-cent-per-gallon small ethanol producer tax credit to those who produce up to 60 million gallons annually. 
   The Missouri Corn Growers Association started in 1978 as a means for farmers to organize to increase profitability of corn production. MCGA also works on increasing the market for ethanol, a clean-burning fuel produced from corn. Missouri is ranked tenth in the nation in corn production, producing 300 million bushels of corn annually. With the start-up of Mid-Missouri Energy yesterday, Missouri's farmer-owned ethanol industry now have the capacity to produce nearly 120 million gallons of ethanol annually from Missouri corn, adding value to approximately 13 percent of Missouri's annual average corn production.
   Sen. Talent serves on the Senate Agriculture Committee, the Senate Energy Committee, and as co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus.
 
 