AT SEN. TALENT'S REQUEST SENATE ENERGY HEARING SET ON HALT OF BP OIL PRODUCTION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that at his request, the Senate Energy Committee has scheduled a hearing to address last week's partial shutdown of the largest oilfield in the United States. Last week, Sen. Jim Talent sent a letter to Sen. Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), Chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, requesting that the Energy Committee hold a hearing on the impact and situation leading up to the shutdown of BP's Prudhoe Bay oilfield. The hearing is currently scheduled to take place on September 12.  
   "Missourians are already spending too much to drive," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "Our farmers are about to harvest their crops and they need to get their products to market in an affordable way. Additionally, American businesses rely on affordable and reliable energy supplies so they can create jobs. Any additional increase in the cost of oil and gasoline hurts our economy which is otherwise growing by leaps and bounds."
   Last week, BP executives announced that they intend to suspend production at its Prudhoe Bay oilfield due to a spill and corrosion of its pipelines in Alaska. The Senate Committee on Commerce has jurisdiction over Alaskan pipeline infrastructure maintained; however Sen. Talent said that the Energy Committee should hold hearings on the impact on our overall energy situation in light of the shutdown. Sen. Talent said that the actions last week will cause temporary loss of as much as 400,000 barrels of oil per day, which is 8 percent of U.S. oil production and 2.6 percent of U.S. supply, including imports. 
   "I strongly support efforts to expand domestic production of oil and natural gas," said Sen. Talent in the letter to Chairman Domenici. "However, I also expect the private sector to sharply step up its investment in its own critical infrastructure. If as reported, delayed maintenance has lead to extensive corrosion to a pipeline of such importance to our economy, this is unacceptable. I urge the committee to investigate this situation and hold the appropriate hearings on the topic."
 
 