A CRITICAL STEP TOWARD GREATER ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  As prices continue to rise at the gas pump, and oil prices reach record highs, America desperately needs a comprehensive energy policy. The Senate supported a cornerstone of this policy when we voted for the first time to open up a sliver of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) for energy exploration. This vote represents a critical step toward greater energy independence and lower energy prices.  
   The measure would allow the development of a tiny, 2,000-acre portion of the 19 million acre arctic refuge. The area, roughly the size of Missouri's Lambert International Airport, represents America's single greatest onshore prospect for oil. The U.S. Geological Survey estimates that ANWR contains a mean expected value of 10.4 billion barrels of technically recoverable oil. At peak production, ANWR could produce more oil than any U.S. state, including Texas and Louisiana. 
   Even though ANWR is thousands of miles away, its development will have a significant impact on Missouri jobs and our state's economy. In fact, exploring for oil in the ANWR will create an estimated 14,000 new jobs in Missouri.
   Missouri has a large number of energy-related industries from transportation to petroleum. These industries employ tens of thousands of workers and some of them already network with Alaska's oil industry. The ANWR proposal will keep these jobs in our state and create thousands of new, good-paying jobs for Missourians.
   The potential jobs created by the proposal is the reason why the Carpenters District Council of Greater St. Louis and Vicinity, who represent over 22,000 members, and the Missouri Laborers, who represent more than 13,000 members, strongly support exploring for oil in the Arctic.
   The ANWR proposal will also result in lower prices for consumers. Whether you're paying energy bills at home or in your small business, higher prices hurt everyone's budget. These costs also result in Americans paying more for nearly everything, from gasoline, textiles, travel and food. Because everyone is an energy consumer, bolstering our domestic oil supply will reduce energy prices at home, enabling growth in every sector of our economy which means lower energy bills for everybody.
   In addition to these pro-growth features, the proposal will increase our national security by reducing our dependence on foreign sources of fuel. Oil makes up one-third of our trade deficit, and the U.S. is nearly 60 percent dependent on foreign oil, making us dependent on areas of the world that may be hostile to our interests. There is no reason we should be spending billions of dollars every year on oil from overseas when we can provide a domestic, secure and stable supply of energy here at home.
   Additionally, the proposal makes certain that exploring for oil in the ANWR has no significant adverse impact on the environment. We require the best environmental technology and American ingenuity available for exploration and development in the Arctic. Exploration will be limited to the winter months between November and May to protect wildlife. Ice roads and airstrips will protect the sensitive tundra. And strict rules will be mandated to protect streams, rivers, springs and wetlands. 
   As we consider the environmental factors surrounding ANWR, we should not overlook the fact that we rely on other countries for 57 percent of our oil - countries that are not as concerned as we are about the environment. We have the ability to explore for oil in an environmentally-sensitive way. 
   It's also important to remember that everything we want to do for the country whether it's protecting the environment, providing additional funding for education or providing health care for the needy depends on economic prosperity. Exploring for oil in the ANWR and pursuing other pro-growth policies will help generate the prosperity we need to do even more for these priorities and our people.
 
 