SENS. TALENT-BOND ASK PRESIDENT TO APPROVE DISASTER DECLARATION FOR ADDITIONAL COUNTIES
  Sens. Jim Talent and Kit Bond today asked the President to approve Gov. Matt Blunt's request for an additional disaster declaration for 23 counties in Missouri impacted by the recent storms and tornadoes. Earlier this week Sens. Talent and Bond helped secure approval of the Governor's initial request for a disaster declaration. 
   "We are grateful for your fast and positive response to Governor Blunt's prior disaster declaration request, and it is our hope that you will grant the Governor's most recent request promptly in order to help state and local governments recover from this disaster," Talent and Bond wrote. "Along with our fellow Missourians, we eagerly await your decision on this request for assistance."
   On March 11th and 12th, severe storms and tornados hit the state. As a result communities across Missouri experienced hail, high winds and flooding. These storms resulted in a tragic loss of life and extensive property damage in many Missouri communities. 
   The Governor's new request seeks to make assistance available for the following counties: Bates, Benton, Carroll, Cass, Chariton, Howard, Iron, Jefferson, Lawrence, Lincoln, Marion, Mississippi, Montgomery, Morgan, New Madrid, Putnam, St. Clair, Scott, Stone, Taney, Vernon, Webster and Wright counties.
   Earlier this week, Senators Talent and Bond helped make federal funding available to affected individuals in the counties of Christian, Hickory, Johnson, Monroe, Perry, Pettis, Randolph, Ste. Genevieve and Saline.
   Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
   Federal funding was also made available to State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis in the counties of Bates, Christian, Howard, Jefferson, Monroe, Montgomery and Washington for debris removal and emergency protective measures.
 
 