SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES $1.5 MILLION GRANT FOR HEALTHY START IN KANSAS CITY
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) has awarded the Maternal and Child Health Coalition of Greater Kansas City a $1.5 million grant. The funds will be used for improvements in birth and infant health and to decrease infant mortality. The grant will also help eliminate health disparities and improve the health of pregnant women and infants in the Kansas City metropolitan area.  
   "I am pleased to announce these funds for the Maternal and Child Health Coalition of Greater Kansas City," said Sen. Talent. "This is an exemplary program that brings the community together to improve children's health while at the same time providing savings to the taxpayer. I've worked very hard to increase funding for Healthy Start and I will continue working in the Senate to ensure mothers and their children have access to the resources they need to stay healthy."
   "The Maternal and Child Health Coalition of Greater Kansas City is very pleased to receive funding for the Kansas City Healthy Start Project," said Susan McLoughlin, Executive Director of Maternal and Child Health Coalition of Greater Kansas City.
   "We believe every child deserves a healthy start in life. It is the best gift a community gives its children and itself. Through this grant, the Maternal and Child Health Coalition will continue to work together with community partners to promote wellness and advocate excellence in health care for mothers and children. This grant will help eliminate health disparities, reduce infant mortality and improve the health of many women and young children in the Kansas City area." 
   Kansas City Healthy Start works with 350 families and over 1,600 community members through home visits and outreach such as health fairs and conferences to educate them and health professionals about the importance of healthy pregnancies and families. 
   Healthy Start staff members include trained social workers who go into the homes of at-risk women to discuss their prenatal care and mental health, and also work with their mothers and grandmothers to emphasize that prenatal care is imperative for a healthy baby and a healthy mom. Fathers are invited to all the training programs and are present in the home visits as Healthy Start emphasizes how important their support is for their family in dealing with social, mental and physical health issues.
 
 