SENS. TALENT, CLINTON INTRODUCE ARMED FORCES MEDICAL READINESS LEGISLATION
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-MO) and Hillary Clinton (D-NY) today announced the introduction of The Armed Forces Personnel Medical Readiness and Tracking Act of 2004. This legislation is designed to address two issues that are critically important to our men and women in uniform. First, it develops better policies and information in order to track the health of soldiers before and after a deployment overseas. Second, it takes steps to improve the medical and dental readiness of our National Guard members and Reservists.
   "Our legislation addresses a major health care issue that arose from the first Gulf War, in which some of our servicemen and women returned home with symptoms of an illness commonly referred to as Gulf War illness," said Senator Talent. "The bill requires pre- and post-deployment blood and tissue samples, and a thorough post-deployment physical. This will provide a before and after snapshot of the medical fitness of every service member deployed to a theater of war. The results can then be compared to help determine whether or not an individual, or their unit, was exposed to a dangerous substance or pathogen. We owe it to our troops who deploy to take the necessary steps to address possible medical problems." 
   "With American troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan and elsewhere, we need to make sure that our men and women in uniform get the best possible health care," said Senator Clinton. "This legislation provides a comprehensive approach to tracking the health of our soldiers before and after an overseas deployment so that we have adequate information if medical problems develop."
   * Medical Tracking
   The Armed Forces Personnel Medical Readiness and Tracking Act of 2004 would establish procedures to ensure that information about soldiers' health is systematically collected so that if a group of soldiers begins to exhibit symptoms consistent with exposure to some hazard, there will be adequate information to help identify the cause. The bill establishes a program for collecting baseline medical data for recruits and establishes an Advisory Working Group to improve the medical tracking system for members deployed overseas. It also requires a report on Department of Defense responses to concerns raised by members of the Armed Forces regarding exposure to environmental hazards. Current law requires that information about the health of soldiers returning from deployment be collected but it appears that these provisions are not being enforced. This legislation establishes audits of the blood serum collection program as well as the pre-deployment and post-deployment health assessment database that DOD maintains. 
   * Medical Readiness of Guard and Reservists
   The Armed Forces Personnel Medical Readiness and Tracking Act of 2004 also focuses on another problem that came to light with the unprecedented demands being placed on our National Guard members and reservists. Many of the Guard and reserve units activated are not at full strength because of a lack of medical or Dental readiness. It requires a GAO study of health of reserve components ordered to active duty for Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. It also requires physical examinations for members of reserve components every 30 months instead of the current requirement of 60 months. For those Guard or Reserve members who are medically unqualified for their current position, it requires them to be retrained, reassigned or separated from service. Finally, the legislation would require DOD to prescribe a policy that specifies: (1) the circumstances under which treatment for medical conditions may be deferred to be provided in the theater of operations in order to prevent disruption to a deployment; and (2) the circumstances under which medical conditions are to be treated before deployment to the theater.
   * Armed Forces Personnel Medical Readiness and Tracking Act of 2004
   Summary of Provisions
   Title I: Reserve Component Personnel
   Section 101: Study of Health of Reserves Ordered to Active Duty for Operations Enduring and Iraqi Freedom: Requires GAO study of health of reserve components ordered to active duty for Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. 
   Section 102: Physical Examinations: Requires physical examinations for members of reserve components every 30 months. Currently, the requirement is once every 60 months. 
   Section 103: Retraining or Separation of Medically Unfit Members: If a reserve component member is determined to be medically unqualified for the duties of the member's position, the member shall be reassigned to a position for which the member is qualified. If there is no position for which the member is medically qualified, the member shall be separated from service.
   Section 104: Policy on Deferral of Medical Treatment Deployment to Theaters of Operation: DOD is required to prescribe a policy that specifies: (1) the circumstances under which treatment for medical conditions may be deferred to be provided in the theater of operations in order to prevent disruption to a deployment; and (2) the circumstances under which medical conditions are to be treated before deployment to the theater.
   Title II: All Armed Forces Personnel 
   Subtitle A: Health Screening 
   Section 201: Recruit Assessment Program - establishes a program for collecting baseline medical data for recruits. 
   Section 202: Further Refinement of Medical Tracking System for Members Deployed Overseas - Establishes an Advisory Working Group to improve the medical tracking system for members deployed overseas. 
   Subtitle B: Medical Care in Theater of Operations
   Section 211: Medical Services Provided in Allied Health Facilities - Requires DOD to provide a report on the extent and types of medical services that were provided members of the U.S. military in facilities of U.S. allies during previous and current deployments. 
   Section 212: Development of Policy on Personnel Location Data - Requires DOD to create an Advisory Working Group to advise DOD on developing a policy on the collection and dissemination of in-theater individual personnel location data to facilitate health care research and to enhance the capabilities of the Armed Forces to meet the health care needs of military personnel returning home after deployment to a theater of operations. 
   Section 213: Report on Training of Field Medical Personnel - requires a report on the training of field medical personnel within a year.
   Subtitle B: Medical Care After Return from Deployment
   Section 221: Findings
   Section 222: Report on Responses to Health Concerns of Members: Requires a report within 180 days on DOD responses to concerns raised by members of the Armed Forces regarding exposure to environmental hazards.
   Section 223: Responsibilities of Installation Commanders: Requires commanders at installations where members of the Armed Forces are to be processed upon redeployment from an overseas deployment to identify and analyze the health care needs of returning members and report the needs to the Secretary 
   Title III - Policy Compliance Assurance
   Section 301 - Serum Repository Audits - Requires biennial audits of records of blood samples in DOD's serum repository to determine the percentage of members of the armed forces in compliance with DOD and service policies regarding collection of blood samples. 
   Section 302 - Deployment-Related Health Assessment Audits - Requires biennial audit of the pre-deployment and post-deployment health assessment database maintained by the Director of the Defense Medical Surveillance System. 
   Section 303 - Declassification of Information on Exposures to Environmental Hazards - DOD shall review and revise classification policies wit a view to facilitating the declassification of data that is potentially useful for the monitoring and assessment of the health of members of the Armed Forces who have been exposed to environmental hazards during deployments overseas. 
   Section 304 - Accessibility of Health Assessment Information to Army Members on the Internet - makes information on DOD health assessment policies available on the internet.
   Section 305 - Full Implementation of Force Health Protection and Readiness Program - Authorizes such actions as necessary to ensure that each of the Services fully implements at all levels the Force Health Protection and Readiness Program of the Department of Defense.
 
 