KEY SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES SENS. TALENT-WYDEN AMENDMENT TO CREATE BUILD AMERICA BONDS CORPORATION
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Ron Wyden's (D-Ore.) bipartisan plan to supplement the Senate highway bill using $30 billion in transportation bonds got a big boost today from a key Senate committee. The Senate Finance Committee passed the funding portion of the highway bill that included an amendment authored by Talent and Wyden to create the Build America Bonds Corporation for the purpose of issuing bonds to fund transportation infrastructure. Sens. Talent and Wyden will now work with the Finance Committee to approve the money to fund the issuance of the bonds. 
   "This is an important first step," said Talent. "I'm very pleased to have the support of Senators Grassley and Baucus to include Build America Bonds in the highway bill and I look forward to working with them to increase funding for transportation infrastructure. There is a strong consensus in the Senate that the proposed highway bill isn't big enough. We must have a highway bill that at least begins paying off the debt arising from past inaction. Build America Bonds are the answer, both to create jobs now and to protect our safety and prosperity in the future."
   "The Build America Bonds program can provide an additional source of funding for all types of critical transportation projects throughout rural and urban communities," said Wyden. "The Committee's endorsement of the program today ensures that bonding is a viable option for meeting America's 21st-century transportation needs."
   If the Congress approves Talent and Wyden's Build America Bonds' plan, the Build America Bonds Corporation would be the entity that issues the bonds to generate new transportation infrastructure. Now that the structure is in place, Sens. Talent and Wyden plan to continue pushing to approve the funds needed to pay for the bonds. The $30 billion plan would be in addition to regular federal highway funding.
   Senators Talent and Wyden's Build America Bonds legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Jon Corzine (D-N.J.), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Mark Dayton (D-Minn.), George Allen (R-Va), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and David Vitter (R-La).
   A diverse group of business, labor and transportation infrastructure associations are supporting the legislation, including: Associated General Contractors of America (AGC); American Road and Transportation Builders Association (ARTBA); American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO); U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Stone, Sand and Gravel Association; National Asphalt Pavement Association; American Council of Engineering Companies, American Highway Users Alliance; National Heavy & Highway Alliance - Laborers' Union, Operating Engineers Union, Carpenters Union, Iron Workers Union, Plasterers' & Cement Masons Union, Teamsters Union, Bricklayers Union - and many others.
 
 