SENS. BOND, TALENT OFFER LEGISLATION TO HONOR LOCAL WAR HEROES
  Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent today introduced legislation to honor two local Missouri war heroes.
   "It is important for future generations to recognize the patriotism and heroism that these soldiers represent. These bills will keep their memory alive," said Senator Kit Bond. "Private Wilson and General Pershing are true heroes, and it is an honor to recognize them for their service and sacrifice."  
   "These bills help preserve the memory and honor the service of General Pershing and Private Wilson," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Armed Services Committee. "General Pershing commanded the American Expeditionary Force in Europe during World War I, and was the man most responsible for the organizational structure of today's Army. Private Wilson made the ultimate sacrifice in the Korean War on behalf of his fellow soldiers. I congratulate Reps. Emerson and Graves for their leadership in passing these bills in the House, and I appreciate the opportunity to join Sen. Bond in honoring these men for their service and sacrifice."
   The two bills Bond and Talent introduced today will name U.S. Post Offices in Cape Girardeau and Laclede, Missouri after local war heroes. In Cape Girardeau, the U.S. Mail Processing and Distribution Facility will be named after Private First Class Richard Wilson, a Korean War hero from Cape Girardeau. Wilson was posthumously awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor in 1951. As a medic in the 187th Airborne Infantry Regiment, Wilson, 19, was killed in action when his unit came under attack. Wilson made the ultimate sacrifice when, unarmed and against orders, he returned to the field of battle to save the life of an injured soldier. 
   "So many in our community have been moved by P.F.C. Wilson's heroism over the years. The regard for his service was evident in the overwhelming response to the effort to name this facility for him. I would especially like to thank Missouri's Senators for supporting this bill in the U.S. Senate. The result will be a fitting tribute to P.F.C. Wilson in Cape Girardeau," Representative Jo Ann Emerson said, whose companion legislation in the House of Representatives passed in April. 
   In addition to recognizing the southeast Missouri soldier, Bond and Talent also introduced legislation to honor a Laclede war hero. The U.S. Post Office in Laclede will be named after General John Pershing, who had a long and illustrious career in the U.S. military. At one time, Pershing served as a Brigadier General, from which he was later appointed Commander of the American Expeditionary Forces after the U.S. declaration of war against Germany in 1917. Later Pershing became Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army. Pershing retired after more than forty years of service to his country. He was then awarded the title of "General of the Armies of the United States" by Congress, the same title George Washington was posthumously awarded. In addition to a military career, Pershing is also a Pulitizer Prize-winning author.
   Representative Sam Graves (MO-06) sponsored this legislation in the House of Representatives to recognize Pershing, the bill passed in late April.
 
 