SENS. BOND, TALENT, GOV. BLUNT: BRAC HEARING SET FOR JUNE 7 IN ST. LOUIS
  Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent and Missouri Gov. Matt Blunt today announced that the Base Realignment and Closure Commission has agreed to hold a public hearing in St. Louis on Tuesday, June 7th.  
   Bond, Talent and Blunt, along with the entire Missouri congressional delegation, requested the hearing last week in a letter to BRAC officials when they raised concerns about the negative impact the Pentagon's BRAC recommendations will have on jobs and safety in Missouri and the Midwest. In the letter, the officials said the removal of the 131st Fighter Wing would drastically weaken homeland security efforts throughout the region. 
   "I am pleased that Chairman Principi has responded so quickly," said Bond, who personally met with the BRAC Chairman late Monday in Washington to stress the importance of a hearing. 
   "These flawed recommendations will wreak havoc on our community and jeopardize regional homeland security," Bond continued. "It is a chance for the community to form a united front and make sure every member of the commission understands fully the impact of this disastrous plan. We are concerned about the loss of over 2000 jobs at the Army Human Resources office and jobs at other locations. In addition to job losses, this plan creates a dangerous 'vulnerability gap' that would severely diminish our ability to protect critical regional assets. This plan makes no sense at all and this hearing is our chance to show them why."
   "Working together in a bipartisan way, we were able to secure this hearing in less than a week after the recommendations were made public," said U.S. Senator Jim Talent. "I look forward to the opportunity to present to Commissioner Principi and the members of the BRAC commission our concerns with the recommendations, particularly where homeland security is concerned. I know that in most instances, these recommendations are not overturned, but that will not deter us from doing everything we can to help our workers and protect our people. In respect to the 131st, if we were to retain any one fighter unit across the heartland of the U.S. in a post-September 11th world, this would be the unit and this would be the location."
   "I am encouraged by the quick response from Chairman Principi on these very important matters," Gov. Matt Blunt said. "I am confident this hearing will provide us with the opportunity to show the commission how potentially dangerous these recommendations are to our national security and how harmful they will be to Missouri's economy. I look forward to the hearings and working with Sens. Bond and Talent and our entire congressional delegation on these critical issues."
 
 