SEN. TALENT HELPS REPORT CHILD NUTRITION BILL OUT OF SENATE AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today helped report a bill aimed at improving child nutrition out of the Senate Agriculture Committee. During the committee's debate on the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004, Sen. Talent applauded the National School Breakfast and Lunch Programs, advocating the need for strong child nutrition. The bill was favorably reported by unanimous voice vote. 
   "Everyday, more than 500,000 children across Missouri participate in school breakfast or lunch programs," said Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture and Nutrition Committee. "These programs are an investment in our nation's future. The school breakfast and lunch programs, as well as the summer program, provides a well balanced meal for children who otherwise would go hungry and may have to do without food."
   The bill aims to improve the integrity of child nutrition programs and ensure more effective and efficient use of federal resources targeted to providing nutritional services for children from low-income families.
   "These nutrition programs are the foundation for strong and healthy children," said Talent. "The program instills strong preventative measures for a healthy diet and ensures that they understand the importance of a balanced diet and nutrition program." 
   The bill improves access to free and reduced lunch for children whose parents are serve in the Armed Forces and live in privatized military housing and meet eligibility requirements. 
   In addition, the bill helps parents by allowing them to submit a single application for multiple children, reducing paperwork. The program also allows school lunch certifications to be valid for one full year, preventing situations in which schools are forced to repeatedly certify children within a single school year, reducing paperwork for school administrators and staff. 
   "Reducing paperwork and other requirements are common sense changes that will bring major benefits to parents and children as well as school administrators," said Talent. 
   The Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004 now must go before the full Senate.
 
 