SEN. TALENT PUSHES OIL EXPLORATION IN ARTIC FOR ENERGY INDEPENDENCE, JOBS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) is continuing to push oil exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) as an answer to help reduce our dependence on foreign sources of oil, lower energy prices over the long term and create jobs in Missouri. Today he voted in the Senate Energy Committee to approve a budget blueprint that would allow for oil exploration in the Arctic - a plan the Teamsters Union says has the potential to create 14,000 jobs in Missouri. The ANWR plan was approved 13-9 by the Committee. 
   "Exploring for oil in the Arctic is a pro-jobs, pro-growth plan that will reduce America's dependence on unreliable foreign sources of oil," said Sen. Talent. "We can explore for oil in the ANWR in an environmentally-sensitive way, using the highest technologies, while creating jobs and helping lower the cost of gasoline and home heating over the long term."
   The ANWR plan would open up a small portion of the Artic to oil exploration. No more than 2,000 acres out of the 19-million-acre refuge will be utilized for energy production. This sliver of Alaska's vast coastal plain is roughly the size of Lambert Airport in St. Louis. 
   On April 28, the Senate, for the first time, voted to support the oil exploration proposal, but the overall measure must still be approved by the full Congress.
   The ANWR is the single greatest prospect for onshore oil and gas development of anyplace in the U.S. The U.S. Geological Survey estimates that ANWR contains a mean expected value of 10.4 billion barrels of technically recoverable oil. At peak production, ANWR could produce more oil than any U.S. state, including Texas and Louisiana.
   The potential jobs created by exploring for oil in the ANWR is the reason why the Carpenters District Council of Greater St. Louis and Vicinity who represent over 22,000 members and the Missouri Laborers who represent more than 13,000 members, strongly support the measure.
   Sen. Talent pointed out that new technologies and appropriate oversight will allow the U.S. to explore for oil in the Arctic in an environmentally-sensitive way. He stressed that the countries we are dependent on for oil are more interested in their bottom line than they are the environment.
 
 