SEN. TALENT AWARDED PARTNERSHIP FOR DRUG-FREE AMERICA GUARDIAN AWARD
  The Partnership for a Drug-Free America today honored Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) with their "2006 Guardian Award." Stephen J. Pasierb, chief executive officer of the Partnership for a Drug Free America, presented Sen. Jim Talent with the award for his efforts in fighting methamphetamine. Earlier this year the President signed into law Sens. Jim Talent and Dianne Feinstein's (D-Calif.) Combat Meth Act, the most comprehensive anti-meth legislation ever introduced in the Congress.  
   "It is truly an honor to receive this award," said Sen. Talent, Co-Chair of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. "Methamphetamine is the worst drug I've encountered in my nearly 20 years in public life. Missourians, especially our law enforcement officials, know too well how meth can destroy communities. I applaud the efforts of the Partnership for a Drug-Free America for all the work they do to raise awareness of the dangers of substance abuse, and especially reaching out to young people who need to understand that giving into meth means giving up everything else." 
   "Though only in his freshman term in the United States Senate, Senator Talent is already known as a leader on methamphetamine prevention legislation," said Stephen J. Pasierb. "Together with Senator Feinstein, he introduced the Combat Meth Act to control access to methamphetamine precursor chemicals and provide critical funds for law enforcement. Because of his dogged determination, the legislation was enacted into law earlier this year. Sen. Talent has also been a valued ally working to secure additional funds for drug treatment and he continues to be a vital supporter of drug prevention programs including the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign." 
   The Partnership for a Drug-Free America exists to help reduce illicit drug use in America by encouraging people to live healthy, drug-free lives and by reaching out to those whose lives have been changed forever by drug abuse. The Partnership is a non-profit coalition of communications professionals from around the country who develop and deliver national drug education campaigns.
 
 