CLEARING THE WAY TO INCREASE TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
  The debate in the Senate over the size of the highway bill was almost finished before it began. Buried in the annual budget resolution, which serves as the blueprint for the resources and expenditures of the government, was an item that sought to limit the Senate's ability to increase transportation funding for Missouri and other states. The language prevented Senators from even considering a full range of options to fund transportation projects in the future, even those options that had been approved in the past. This was a bad idea.  
   In the past, Senators have had broad flexibility to use a variety of revenue sources to pay for the nation's transportation infrastructure such as collecting interest on the highway trust fund's unexpended balances, money that should be reinvested in roads and bridges. Limiting our ability to use these resources for road-building projects in effect would limit the Senate from considering a bigger highway bill.
   Those of us who want to increase transportation funding recognized the need to act. I introduced an amendment along with Sen. Debbie Stabenow, a Democrat from Michigan and John Thune a Republican from South Dakota, to strike the restrictive language from the budget. 
   The Senate approved the amendment, 81-19, with overwhelming bipartisan support. Our amendment restores the flexibility to use revenue sources that we have approved in the past, and it gets us out of the box the original language would have trapped us in. 
   Why is this amendment important? Last month, the House passed a federal highway bill that, even with its $284 billion price tag, is significantly less than what we need to fix our transportation infrastructure. Without our amendment, the Senate would have had little choice but to pass the less-than-adequate House bill. Its passage ensures we can debate the size of the highway bill with all funding options on the table, making it easier to adequately fund our transportation needs.
   Our amendment was supported by all the major transportation groups, including AASHTO, Associated General Contractors, the Road Builders and their Transportation Construction Coalition, American Public Transportation Association, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Heavy Highway Alliance representing the major trade unions.
   Now that we've restored the flexibility to increase transportation funding, it's time to do the heavy lifting. Sen. Kit Bond and I are committed to making certain Missouri gets a bigger return on the dollars it pays into the federal transportation system. Missouri currently receives 90.5 cents on the dollar under current law.
   I'm also sponsoring legislation with Sen. Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, to further increase transportation infrastructure funding. We've proposed Build America Bonds legislation to supplement the highway bill, whatever the final number is, with $30 billion in bonds to generate new transportation infrastructure. Under the proposal, 30-year bonds would be issued to build key transportation infrastructure projects now. 
   For every $1 billion invested in federal highway and transit infrastructure, an estimated 47,500 jobs are created and for every dollar invested in federal transportation infrastructure, an estimated $5.70 in economic activity is generated. Build America Bonds have the potential to create and millions of quality, high paying jobs and to generate more than $171 billion in economic activity.
   Missouri's roads are the second worst in the country, and our state ranks fourth in the nation in the percentage of structurally deficient bridges. We must approve transportation funding that at least begins paying off the debt arising from past inaction. A robust highway bill and Build America Bonds are the answer, both to create jobs now and to protect our safety and prosperity in the future.
 
 