SEN. TALENT OUTLINES ANTI-METH LEGISLATION TO STOP DEADLIEST DRUG IN MISSOURI
  Sen. Jim Talent today discusses his legislation to provide Missouri and other states with new resources to stop the production and distribution of the deadliest drug in the state. Sen. Talent's comprehensive Combat Meth Act, which he has sponsored with California Democrat Sen. Diane Feinstein, will also limit the sale of pseudoephedrine, the primary ingredient used to make methamphetamines.  
   "Missouri currently leads the country in meth production," said Sen. Talent. "With this legislation our local law enforcement will have the opportunity to lead the country in cracking down on meth dealers. Our bill says if you're addicted to meth and want help, we will help you. But if you cook or sell meth, we are giving law enforcement the tools to go after you."
   The legislation will curb methamphetamine production by moving pseudophedrine, the primary ingredient to make meth, behind the pharmacy counter and sold only by a pharmacist or pharmacy technician. Because pseudophedrine is found in many over the counter cold and sinus medicines such as Sudafed, meth cooks can purchase, or steal the ingredient in large quantities. 
   "This legislation is a dagger at the heart of meth manufacturing in America," said Sen. Talent. "If you can't get psuedophedrine, you can't make meth. Our bill limits access to psuedophedrine, while ensuring honest people can get the drugs they need when they get sick. We also provide additional resources to local law enforcement and prosecutors so they can crack down on meth dealers. This is the most comprehensive anti-meth bill ever considered by Congress."
   The Combat Meth Act will provide critical resources to local law enforcement, expand the ability of local prosecutors to bring methamphetamine distributors to justice and increase awareness and involvement of businesses that legally sell pseudoephedrine. The Combat Meth Act makes critical funding available to states for additional equipment, training for law enforcement agents and prosecutors to bring legal action against meth offenders and clean-up meth labs, and grants to provide treatment for those affected by this dangerous drug. 
   The measure will also authorizes the creation of a Methamphetamine Research, Training and Technical Assistance Center which will research effective treatments for meth abuse and disseminate information and technical assistance to states and private entities on how to improve current treatment methods.
   Missouri leads the country in meth production. The National Clandestine Laboratory Database managed by the DEA said Missouri had the most lab seizures in 2003.
 
 