SEN. TALENT APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF MEASURE TO INCREASE NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today applauded Senate passage of Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act (S. 3711). Sen. Jim Talent is a cosponsor of the legislation, which would open an oil and gas leasing program for Lease Area 181, an area rich in oil and natural gas located in the Gulf of Mexico. The measure passed 71-25.  
   "The best way to protect our energy security is to become more energy independent by accessing our domestic resources," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "High energy prices have forced our citizens, domestic manufacturing industry and farmers to pay too much for too long. An abundant supply of clean, reliable domestically-produced energy is the key to our economic prosperity and energy independence. This is a pro-growth, pro-jobs bill that will benefit energy consumers and increase our domestic energy supply." 
   The measure will bring 6 trillion cubic feet of natural gas to market in the near future, according to estimates by the Minerals Management Service. That is enough gas to heat and cool nearly six million homes for 15 years according to the American Gas Association. It is also estimated that there is nearly 1.26 billion barrels of oil in the proposed exploration area. 
   Sen. Talent said, "Our bill will help ease the energy situation for the employees of manufacturers in Missouri. It will help ease the price of fertilizer for our farmers. But above all else, it will help ease the energy crisis that our country is facing. We must take this opportunity to explore for the energy we have right offshore and that we can get in a way that fully protects the environment." 
   The bill opens an area of the Gulf of Mexico, but excludes development of any part of Lease Area 181 that is within 125 miles of the Florida coastline. The measure also places a moratorium on any leasing east of the Military Mission Line, which is a military training area. Leasing in that area can only proceed with the permission of the Secretary of Defense after he has reviewed proposed lease conditions to make certain the lease does not interfere with military activities in the area.
 
 