SEN. TALENT PAYS TRIBUTE TO CORETTA SCOTT KING
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) this week paid tribute to the life of Coretta Scott King, wife of civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Sen. Talent cosponsored a Resolution honoring the life of Mrs. King and expressing the condolences of the Senate on her passing. The Resolution was passed unanimously with Sen. Talent's strong support.  
   In a tribute to Mrs. King, Sen. Talent issued the following remarks into the Congressional Record:
   "Mr. President, it is with great sadness that I offer my condolences on the passing of Coretta Scott King, who passed away at the age of 78. Indeed, I offer these remarks on behalf of all Missourians who have been touched by her legacy and that of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. A tireless champion and partner in her husband's work, Mrs. King's life represents an American story from which we can all draw strength. She never stopped working toward the prize God called her to achieve.
   "Born in rural Alabama on April 27, 1927, Coretta Scott was the second child of Obadiah and Bernice Scott, hardworking parents who wanted more opportunities than they had for their children. An ambitious student, Mrs. King graduated first in her high school class and continued her studies at Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio. She had a passion for education and music and went on to the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, following her graduation from Antioch.
   "It was in 1952 in Boston where she met the man who would become her husband, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. They were married the next year and eventually settled in Atlanta, where they reared their four children, Yolanda, Martin, Dexter, and Bernice. Mrs. King was by no means a bystander in the groundbreaking changes her husband worked to achieve. She was a partner in her husband's historic work to make this country whole.
   "Following the murder of her husband in 1968, Mrs. King could have chosen to retreat into the privacy of her family. Indeed in the aftermath of that tragedy, she was a widow who had the sole responsibility of raising four young children. But instead, Mrs. King bravely chose to continue her husband's work and his quest for racial equality. She worked tirelessly to have her husband's birthday memorialized as a national holiday and to establish the King Center, a lasting memorial and research institution dedicated to the Dr. King's principles of justice, equality and peace.
   "Mr. President, Coretta Scott King continued her work to bring this country together until her final days. She never stopped believing that we have an historic responsibility to move America forward and extend the American dream to all those who seek it, regardless of race. Today, as a nation, we mourn Mrs. King's passing. We are thankful for her time here with us, the fruits of her labor and the profound impact she has left on a grateful country."
 
 