SEN. TALENT SECURES $15 MILLION FOR KANSAS CITY JOBS & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today delivered $15 million for Kansas City jobs and economic development as part of a major new initiative for the bi-state area to help prepare workers for high growth industries including health care, biotechnology and manufacturing. Sen. Talent worked with the U.S. Department of Labor on behalf of Kansas City leaders to deliver the funds for the new OneKC WIRED initiative.  
   "Kansas City is already a leader in economic development and I was pleased to work with area leaders to make the case for this grant," said Sen. Talent. "Now, for the first time, community leaders will have the resources they need to join forces for job creation and economic growth in the region. This initiative will help keep Kansas City's economy strong by preparing workers for success in areas where there's enormous potential for new jobs and growth."
   The OneKC WIRED (Workforce Innovation in Regional Economic Development) initiative represents a dynamic, entrepreneurial and innovative partnership strategically designed to drive significant economic and workforce development transformation within a bi-state region of 18 counties in the greater Kansas City area.
   The initiative will form a partnership with the U.S. Department of Labor and area civic organizations, academic institutions and business leaders that will focus on job creation and economic development in high growth, high demand industries of advanced manufacturing, health care and biotechnology.
   The bi-state Kansas City region has a total population of 1,904,908 with an average annual wage of $37,691 in 2004, but with 14 out of 18 counties having significantly lower than the statewide average of $34,834. While industry sectors such as office and administrative support of sales-related occupations are projected to remain flat or decline in the period from 2002-2012, there are promising increases in manufacturing, health care and biotechnology in the next decade.
   The Greater Kansas City area was one of only 13 regional economies to receive this funding. The U.S. Department of Labor is investing $195 million in the WIRED program. 
   The Kansas City region will receive $15 million to prepare workers for high growth industries. Missouri counties participating in the OneKC WIRED initiative include:
   Buchanan, Cass, Clay, Clinton, Platte, Lafayette, Livingston, Jackson, Johnson and Ray.
 
 