SEN. TALENT PUSHES BILL TO HELP FAMILIES INVEST IN HIGHER EDUCATION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced legislation that will make certain tax benefits permanent for individuals saving for college. The College 529 Invest Act of 2005 (S.1112) calls for Section 529 plans, also know as qualified state tuition plans, to provide tax incentives for Americans to save for higher education. Sen. Talent is an original cosponsor of the measure which was introduced by Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). 
   "This legislation will open a lot of doors for students and parents who are concerned about the cost of a college education," said Sen. Talent. "Our plan allows friends and families to invest in the future of a potential college student. The plans are affordable and will allow even more students to get the education they need to be successful in life."
   The purpose of the legislation is to make permanent the enhanced educational savings provisions for qualified tuition programs enacted as part of the "Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001." These tax benefits are set to expire on December 31, 2010, but this legislation would make them permanent.
   There are generally two types of categories: prepaid plans and savings plans. Prepaid Tuition Plans allow individuals to purchase tuition years in advance of attendance at a discounted present day price, which is presumably less expensive. Savings Plans offer market-based returns based upon the type of investment selected by the plan owner from those offered by the state-sponsored plans. 
   In both categories of plans, taxpayers contribute after-tax dollars, which are then allowed to grow on a tax-deferred basis. There are no income limits for those who contribute to the account and there are no limits on the annual amount that can be contributed. All 50 states and the District of Columbia provide 529 plans. The savings plans are administered through state plans or through institutions of higher education. Families of all income levels can participate in the plans. Currently, over 7 million young people are enrolled and more than $67 billion has been invested on behalf of potential college students.
 
 