SENATE PASSES SENS. TALENT- DURBIN RESOLUTION HONORING NEGRO LEAGUERS ELECTED TO NATIONAL BASEBALL HALL OF FAME
  The U.S. Senate tonight unanimously approved a Resolution (S. Res 386) sponsored by Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) honoring the 17 pre-Negro Leagues and Negro Leagues baseball players and executives elected this week to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York.  
   "For those who were selected, this honor is well-deserved and long overdue," said Sen. Talent. "These Negro Leagues legends were good as or better than their contemporaries in the Major Leagues, but the injustice of segregation denied them from competing on the same baseball diamonds."
   "I strongly support the Talent-Durbin Resolution honoring these baseball legends," said Buck O'Neil. "For many years I've been fighting to open the doors of Cooperstown to the Negro Leaguers who have long-deserved this honor. I was proud to play the game with many of these unsung American heroes who are finally getting the recognition they deserve."
   In a speech earlier today on the Senate floor, Sen. Talent expressed deep disappointment in the absence of Buck O'Neil from the list. Sen. Talent said he was encouraged to move ahead with the Resolution during a phone conversation with Buck O'Neil who said he strongly supported the idea despite the oversight.
   "The injustice of the selection committee's oversight is absolutely heartbreaking," Sen. Talent said. "Buck O'Neil is one of baseball's greatest ambassadors and I believe there is no one who meets the criteria for induction into the National Baseball Hall of Fame more than him. Without question, Buck O'Neil is in the American Hall of Fame for everything he has done in the United States to achieve freedom."
   The Negro Leaguers elected will receive professional baseball's highest honor when they are inducted into the Hall of Fame on July 30, 2006. They include Ray Brown, Willard Brown, Andy Cooper, Frank Grant, Pete Hill, Biz Mackey, Effa Manley, Jose Mendez, Alex Pompez, Cum Posey, Louis Santop, Mule Suttles, Ben Taylor, Cristobal Torriente, Sol White, J.L. Wilkinson and Jud Wilson. All will be honored posthumously.
   Sen. Talent pointed out that it was the leadership at the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum (NLBM) in Kansas City, including NLBM Chairman Buck O'Neil, Executive Director Don Motley, NLBM Director of Marketing/Assistant to the Executive Director Bob Kendrick and NLBM Board of Directors President Mark Bryant, who never stopped advocating that these ballplayers deserve to be in the Hall of Fame.
   "I want to congratulate everyone at the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum who have worked very hard and for years have looked forward to this day," said Sen. Talent. "Their tireless advocacy on behalf of these baseball legends is another reason why the Senate should pass legislation giving a national designation to the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum."
   Last year, Sen. Talent introduced legislation, S. Con. Res. 60, to designate the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum (NLBM) in Kansas City, as America's National Negro Leagues Baseball Museum. The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks held a hearing on the Resolution in November and the bill is currently awaiting action by the full Energy Committee.
 
 