TIGHT BUDGET SHOULDN'T SQUEEZE MISSOURI FARMERS
  President Bush has sent the Congress a very frugal budget. With the exception of defense and homeland security, the President is attempting to reduce spending across the board, including programs vital to Missouri farmers. While I agree with the need for fiscal responsibility, the cuts in the farm budget are a mistake. 
   Much of the current fiscal year deficit is the cost of prosecuting the War on Terror, and the cost of making up for sustained cuts in defense during the 1990s. We are spending $5.2 billion every month on the War on Terror, and the President's proposed supplemental spending bill includes an additional $75 billion for Iraq and Afghanistan. As a result, the war and defense spending in general significantly contributes to the deficit.
   Nevertheless, the economy is growing and with real fiscal restraint we can balance the budget and provide the funding necessary to win the War on Terror without sacrificing important programs for our people. Last year, for example, we held the line on spending; passing an appropriations package that included a .8 percent across the board reduction for all projects to help balance the budget. 
   As we control spending, we can also approve a fiscal 2006 budget in which the agriculture sector doesn't bear a disproportionate share of the budget cuts.
   With the 2002 Farm Bill the President initiated a contract with farmers across the nation. Missouri farmers made plans and business decisions based on that agreement. 
   Now, midway through the life of the farm bill, they are faced with a proposal that could force them to make wholesale changes. 
   I am committed to working with other Senators on the Agriculture Committee to make certain we don't rewrite the farm bill at the expense of our agriculture producers.
   First, the proposed agriculture budget fails to recognize that the farm bill is working. In fact, since its enactment, the bill has already contributed to deficit reduction, with the safety net alone achieving $16 billion in savings compared to the original cost estimate.
   Meanwhile, mandatory funding for environmental protection, rural development, trade promotion, as well as important nutrition, research, renewable energy and forestry initiatives provided under the Farm Bill have also sustained cuts, totaling more than $2 billion in the last two years alone. All of this while the Agriculture appropriations subcommittee worked to meet increasing needs in the face of declining discretionary resources. 
   Second, U.S. farm policy for commodities amounts to about one half of one percent of the total federal budget, while helping sustain an economic sector representing 17 percent of the nation's Gross Domestic Product, 25 million jobs, including hundreds of thousands of jobs in Missouri, and $3.5 trillion in economic activity across the country. We shouldn't try and balance the budget in the name of jobs and growth on the backs of farmers and ranchers who are creating jobs and economic growth.
   Third, besides being an economic engine for our country and helping to provide Americans with the safest, most abundant, most affordable food supply in the world, U.S. farm policy is also about U.S. global competitiveness at a time when foreign subsidies and tariffs are 5 to 6 times higher than our own. Unilaterally disarming U.S. farm policy would place our farmers in a vulnerable trade position against foreign markets if we make concessions now as negotiations to level the global playing field continue within the World Trade Organization.
   The budget process is far from over. I have sent a letter along with other senators who share my concerns to the Senate Budget Committee taking issue with the proposed agriculture cuts. 
   Ultimately, it is the responsibility of the Senate and House Agriculture Committees to determine what, if any, policy changes should be made to current farm programs in order to achieve the spending reductions dictated by the budget proposal. 
   The combination of 9/11, the War on Terror, corporate scandals and a recession has forced us to make some tough choices regarding the budget. Common sense tells us we need to make decisions that don't end up costing us more long term. We can protect the farm budget while continuing to show real fiscal restraint.
 
 