SEN. TALENT CHOSEN FOR TOP HONOR BY U.S. HISPANIC CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today was selected to receive the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce (USHCC) top honor, the Public Policy Leadership Award, during their annual Legislative Conference in Washington D.C. The award is given to a legislator that has championed issues important to Hispanic-owned small businesses. Sen. Talent received the award for his leadership on numerous small business initiatives including tax reform, health care affordability, access to capital for Hispanic business owners and procurement.  
   "It's a tremendous honor to be recognized by the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce," said Sen. Talent. "Small business is the backbone of our economy and job creation. What's good for small business really is good for the country. I continue to be committed to initiatives that provide tax relief, reduce unnecessary and burdensome regulations and provide quality, affordable health insurance for Hispanic business owners in Missouri and around the country."
   In the Senate, Talent has introduced legislation to allow small business owners and workers to form together to purchase health insurance, known as Association Health Plans. Talent also sponsored legislation, now law, which allows disadvantaged small businesses who qualify for the Small Business Administration's Section 8(a) program to compete in the American economy and access the federal procurement market. 
   "The United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce is pleased to recognize Senator Jim Talent for his dedication to the advancement of small and minority owned businesses," said Armando Ojeda, President and CEO of the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. "The Talent Amendment in particular is an important piece of legislation that streamlines the certification process for federal 8(a) contractors working locally on federally supported projects." 
   The U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce was formed as a means for the Hispanic business community to be represented in the public and private sectors. There are more than 140 local Hispanic Chambers of Commerce and Hispanic business organizations in the USHCC network, including five in Missouri.
   Before Missourians sent him to the Senate, Talent worked eight years on the House Small Business Committee and served as Chairman for two terms.
 
 