SEN. TALENT PUSHS HEALTH CARE PLAN FOR SMALL BUSINESSES
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today pushed his plan to allow small businesses to join together to sponsor health care plans for themselves and their employees. Sen. Talent joined Chairwoman Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and other members of the Senate Small Business Committee for a hearing on the legislation which would help lower health care costs and reduce the number of uninsured Americans.  
   "The No. 1 problem facing small business in this country today is the rising cost of health insurance," Sen. Talent said. "Two-thirds of America's 45 million uninsured either own a small business, work for a small business or are dependent on someone who does. Our legislation would help reduce the cost of health insurance for small businesses by 10 and 20 percent on average; it would provide health insurance to millions of people who don't have it and it wouldn't cost the taxpayer a dime."
   Senators Talent and Snowe are sponsoring the Small Business Health Fairness Act (S. 406), which would establish national Association Health Plans to allow small business people to purchase health care for themselves and their employees through their trade associations.
   Of the 45 million people who are uninsured in the country, 60 percent are small business owners and employees. Workers in the smallest businesses that do provide health insurance are paying on average 17 percent more for health benefits than workers employed by large companies and costs continue to rise.
   Anyone who wants to see how AHPs would operate can look at how health insurance works at Fortune 500 companies. AHPs would operate the same way. They simply allow small business people to join together, nationally, through their trade associations, such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Federation of Independent Business or the American Farm Bureau, to purchase the same high-quality health insurance offered by big companies, labor unions, Medicare, Medicaid and the federal employee benefit system. 
   According to CONSAD, a well-respected economic and public policy analysis firm, the legislation could, by conservative estimates, reduce the number of uninsured by 8.5 million. The plans would constitute powerful competition with the insurance companies who now monopolize the small group market, holding down costs. 
   President Bush has repeatedly called on the Congress to pass AHPs and he included the proposal in this year's State of the Union and in his 2006 budget request. The House has passed the legislation numerous times. Now the bill is gaining momentum in the Senate with the leadership of Senators Talent and Snowe.
   Tomorrow, the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Association Health Plans legislation, is scheduled to hold a hearing on the bill. 
   Talent and Snowe's Association Health Plans legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Kit Bond (R-Mo.), Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.), Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), David Vitter (R-La.), Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), John Thune (R-S.D.) and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.).
 
 