SEN. TALENT'S ANTI-CORPORATE FRAUD AMENDMENT SIGNED BY PRESIDENT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that President Bush has signed the Bankruptcy Reform bill that included his amendment to prevent those attempting to defraud their creditors, including "Enron-type" corporate offices who commit fraud in running a corporation, from hiding their assets in so-called "asset protection trusts."  
   "We should not allow wealthy people, including corporate criminals, to hide their assets and avoid paying their bills," said Sen. Talent. "Our amendment makes certain that dishonest people can't hide their assets, especially if they have caused others to lose their jobs, retirement pensions, health care benefits and, in some cases, their life savings."
   Five states, including Alaska, Delaware, Nevada, Rhode Island and Utah, currently allow what is commonly known as an "asset protection trust," which lets people shield property from their creditors. People do not need to live in these states to take advantage of the so-called "asset protection trusts." 
   Sen. Talent's amendment allows victims of a corporate crime to go after the personal resources of those responsible, even if those resources are sheltered in an "asset protection trust." 
   The amendment allows victims to go after any resource transferred into the trust by a corporate criminal over the previous ten years. Current law says that if a corporate executive is convicted of a crime, victims can only go after resources transferred into a trust over the last year. The Bankruptcy bill, without Sen. Talent's amendment, would have made it only a two year window.
   "This amendment means that dishonest people can not transfer money, mansions or fancy cars into trusts, go bankrupt after several years, and hide the assets from people they have defrauded," said Sen. Talent. "I applaud the House for moving quickly on this important legislation."
   On March 10, 2005, Sen. Talent's amendment passed the Senate 73-26. The measure passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support.
 
 