SEN. TALENT URGES PASSAGE OF ENHANCED WELFARE REFORM PROPOSALS ENCOURAGING WORK & HEALTHY MARRIAGES
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today delivered a speech on the Senate floor in support of proposals he has championed in the Congress to help more people move from poverty into self-sufficiency by enhancing welfare reform. The welfare reform reauthorization measure contains many of the work and healthy marriage provisions included in Sen. Talent's bill, the "Personal Responsibility, Work and Family Promotion Act of 2005." The welfare reform plan is currently attached to the Deficit Reduction Act which the Senate is debating this week.  
   "Welfare reform has been one of the most successful social policy reforms in the history of the Congress," Sen. Talent said. "We reformed the old system based on the understanding that the two best anti-poverty programs are work and marriage. This legislation strengthens welfare reform by requiring states to extend the benefits of work to able bodied people still on the rolls. It also includes important provisions encouraging healthy marriages which are essential to continuing the success of the original reform."
   The welfare reform reauthorization proposal seeks to increase work participation by requiring 50 percent of the current caseload to be engaged in work activities over the next four fiscal years. Because most states have met the targets of the 1996 law, they now have no incentive to extend the benefits of work to able bodied people who remain on the rolls. This enhancement would help more individuals achieve independence through work.
   The plan also provides $500 million for healthy marriage promotion over the next five years. These dollars will be used to fund community-based programs to counsel young women about the benefits of healthy marriage and help them and their children's father build relationship, parenting and communications skills. The healthy marriage program will also provide ongoing support for at-risk couples to help reduce the likelihood of divorce.
   As a freshman member of the U.S. House, then-Congressman Talent introduced the legislation that subsequently became the basis for the historic 1996 welfare reform law. Since 1996, welfare caseloads have fallen by more than 50 percent nationwide.
   "The old welfare system seduced millions of people into poverty by offering assistance on the condition that they didn't work or didn't get married, and had children anyway," Sen. Talent said. "It measured success by how many people it was able to get on welfare. The new system measures success by how many people achieve independence through work or never go on welfare in the first place because they are self-sufficient. I urge the Senate to support the welfare reform enhancements to provide more Americans with the resources they need to become independent."
 
 