SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES $650,000 FOR SOUTHEAST MISSOURI RURAL NURSING INITIATIVE
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced a $650,000 appropriation he secured in the fiscal 2005 spending packing for the Mobile Assessment and Education (M.A.E.) Health Fair on the campus of Southeast Missouri State University. The funds will be used to create and support the development of the mobile health unit to serve the Bootheel.     
   "Access to health care is absolutely critical to our state's rural communities, particularly in economically distressed neighborhoods," said Sen. Talent. "This initiative will provide these areas with access to quality health care by taking the care to them. I am strongly committed to improving the quality of health care in Southeast Missouri and will continue working with Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson to do even more to improve the quality of life in the region."
   The College of Health and Human Services at Southeast Missouri State University is overseeing the project. A team of faculty and students will travel to communities in the Bootheel to address health concerns through education and health assessments. The services include cholesterol screenings, blood pressure checks, nutritional/dietary assessments, screening for diabetes, and vision and hearing screenings. The mobile unit will work with local hospitals and home health agencies to improve existing health conditions of their patients.
   "The Bootheel is an isolated, rural area with critical health care needs, high levels of poverty and limited educational resources and services common in most communities," said Dr. Loretta Prater, Dean of the College of Health and Human Services. "The M.A.E. Health Fair will serve as a bridge to access health care because many rural residents do not have the transportation to travel to places to receive health services. It is because of the dedication of U.S. Sen. Jim Talent, U.S. Christopher "Kit" Bond and U.S. Rep. Jo Ann Emerson that residents in the Bootheel will receive these important disease prevention, wellness, and health maintenance services."
 
 