SEN. TALENT BILL WOULD GIVE SPECIAL DESIGNATION TO AREA SURROUNDING CONFLUENCE OF MISSOURI, MISSISSIPPI RIVERS
  The Confluence of the country's mightiest rivers, the Missouri and the Mississippi, in the heart of the St. Louis bi-state region would receive a special federal designation if legislation introduced by Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) becomes law. Sen. Talent met today with area leaders to announce legislation, (S. 2114), which would establish the 200-square mile meeting point as the Confluence National Heritage Corridor. 
   "This is an extraordinary natural landmark and this designation is long overdue," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "The legislation recognizes the historic significance of the area. Federal designations often open doors to new public and private resources and we believe this bill will not only help preserve the area for future generations, it will also help increase tourism and economic growth for the region."
   "Heritage Status will provide important resources for ongoing development of facilities, the creation of river-focused education programs and public events, and promoting national and international tourism," said John Bachmann, Chair of The Confluence Advisory Board.
   Sen. Talent's bill would designate the 200-square mile confluence that represents the center of the 3,740-mile transcontinental river as the Confluence National Heritage Corridor. The designation would not transfer ownership of the land to the federal government.
   This unique conservation, heritage and recreation corridor is emerging through the joint efforts of a nationally recognized partnership of non-profit organizations and public agencies in Missouri and Illinois.
   The legislation has been referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on which Sen. Talent serves. Sen. Talent said he will be pushing for a hearing on the bill in the coming weeks.
   Sen. Talent's legislation is strongly supported by Missouri civic groups and cooperating agencies and organizations including the St. Louis Regional Chamber and Growth Association (RCGA), St. Louis Civic Progress and The Confluence Project.
 
 