SEN. TALENT HOLDS MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG TOWN HALL MEETING IN FARMINGTON
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) visited Farmington today for a town hall meeting to discuss how the new Medicare Prescription Drug law will benefit Missouri seniors. Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, provided information about the law and answered a range of questions from local seniors about how they can lower the cost of their prescription drugs. This was Sen. Talent's twenty-fifth town hall meeting on the new drug benefit since the enrollment period.  
   "For the first time in the history of the Medicare program, our seniors have access to a comprehensive, voluntary prescription drug benefit," said Sen. Talent, who helped pass the legislation in the Senate. "I'm holding these meetings for area seniors who are interested in learning more about the new Medicare law and to answer their questions. Now that the enrollment period has begun, my office is doing everything it can to help seniors get the information they need to get prescription drug coverage." 
   The U.S. Senate passed a new Medicare Prescription Drug bill, now law. This year, for the first time, every Medicare beneficiary in Missouri will have access to a voluntary prescription drug benefit.
   "The bipartisan plan meets the conditions I thought were important for a Medicare prescription drug bill," Sen. Talent said. "It has an immediate benefit, reasonable monthly premiums, strong catastrophic coverage, targeted help for low-income seniors, quality benefits for rural areas, protections for local pharmacies, choice and access to all medicine and participation is voluntary."
   Sen. Talent has been holding similar Medicare town hall meetings in cities across the state to help seniors better understand the new law including: Albany, Arnold, Bethany, Branson, Chillicothe, Cape Girardeau, Gallatin, Hannibal, Jefferson City, Joplin, Kansas City, Kirksville, Lebanon, Maysville, Maryville, Monroe City, New London, Princeton, Rolla, St. Joseph, Sheridan, Springfield and Union. Sen. Talent's staff is also hosting informational meetings around Missouri to help beneficiaries get more information about the new Medicare drug benefit. 
   Medicare beneficiaries can now enroll in a Medicare Prescription Drug Plan, or a Medicare Advantage Plan that offers drug coverage. Like other parts of Medicare, seniors will pay a small monthly premium and a portion of the cost of prescriptions.
   In addition to providing a prescription drug benefit, the new law also provides for a one-time initial wellness exam within six months of enrolling in Medicare. Screenings include early detection of breast cancer, prostate cancer, colon cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
   Medicare will be contacting seniors with instructions on how to enroll in the drug benefit. Additional information can be found on the Internet at medicare.gov and on Sen. Talent's Website at talent.senate.gov, or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227) or Sen. Talent's Cape Girardeau office at (573) 651-0964.
 
 