SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES 500,000 MISSOURI SENIORS ARE ENROLLED IN NEW MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that nearly half a million Missouri seniors are enrolled so far in the new Medicare prescription drug plans. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released the Missouri data today. Since the enrollment period began last November, Sen. Talent, who helped pass the Medicare prescription drug bill out of the Senate, has hosted dozens of town hall meetings across Missouri to help seniors enroll and better understand the new benefit.     
   "I am very pleased so many Missourians will be paying less for their prescription drugs by enrolling in the new Medicare drug program," said Sen. Talent. "My office has been working very hard to make certain Missouri seniors get the information they need about the new Medicare drug benefit and to address any questions or concerns they may have about the enrollment process. I've encouraged all those who are eligible, especially those without drug coverage, to take a look at the new plans and consider which one might be right for them. For more information, contact my office or call 1-800-MEDICARE."
   More than 24 million seniors across the county started receiving Medicare prescription drug assistance on January 1 of this year. Like other parts of Medicare, seniors pay a small monthly premium and a portion of the cost of prescriptions. The new law also provides for a one-time initial wellness exam within six months of enrolling in Medicare. Screenings include early detection of breast cancer, prostate cancer, colon cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
   "This new Medicare plan meets the conditions I thought were important for Missouri seniors," Sen. Talent said. "It has an immediate benefit, reasonable monthly premiums, strong catastrophic coverage, targeted help for low-income seniors, quality benefits for rural areas, protections for local pharmacies, choice and access to all medicine and participation is voluntary."
   Sen. Talent has held Medicare town hall meetings in cities across the state to help seniors better understand the new law including: Albany, Arnold, Bethany, Branson, Chillicothe, Cape Girardeau, Farmington, Gallatin, Hannibal, Jefferson City, Joplin, Kansas City, Kirksville, Lebanon, Maysville, Maryville, Monroe City, New London, Poplar Bluff, Princeton, Rolla, St. Joseph, Sheridan, Springfield, West Plains and Union. Sen. Talent's staff is also hosting informational meetings around Missouri to help beneficiaries get more information about the new Medicare drug benefit. 
   Additional information about the new Medicare drug law can be found on the Internet at www.medicare.govand on Sen. Talent's Website at http://talent.senate.gov.
 
 