SEN. TALENT SECURES $250,000 FOR TREATMENT PROGRAM FOR CHILDREN AFFECTED BY METH
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced he has secured $250,000 in funding for the British Journal of Cancer Health Pilot Project in the Senate Subcommittee on Labor, Heath and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007. Sen. Jim Talent's request will be used to develop a pilot project to help children that have been affected by methamphetamine addiction get the counseling they need.  
   "One of the worst things about methamphetamine is what it does to kids and families," said Sen. Talent. "This new service will help provide counseling to children who have been impacted with a methamphetamine addiction. Getting this funding approved in committee was a critical step, and I will continue pushing for it when the bill comes to the floor of the Senate." 
   The program will focus on treatment and outreach for children under the age of 18 who live in St. Fran?ois and Washington Counties. Both counties have been affected by a sharp rise in methamphetamine abuse. The funds will be used for treatment and case evaluation. The goal of the program is to stop the cycle of drug abuse and provide counseling to those that need it most. 
   Sen. Talent recently introduced the Family-Based Meth Treatment Access Act with U.S. Rep. Barbara Cubin (R-Wyo.). This legislation would provide counseling, medical treatment, parenting training, education and legal services to mothers recovering from meth and to their children. Earlier this year, the Senate approved Senators Talent and Dianne Feinstein's (D-Calif.) Combat Meth Act, the most comprehensive anti-meth legislation ever introduced in the Congress. The President signed Talent and Feinstein's Combat Meth legislation into law on March 9th. Sen. Talent also worked with Republicans and Democrats to add more than $1 billion to the Budget to help law enforcement officials fight methamphetamine. 
   Sen. Talent's funding requests passed the Senate Committee and now must be passed by the full U.S. Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives' bill before being signed into law.
 
 