SENS. BOND, TALENT SECURE $3 MILLION FOR PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION FUNDS FOR STATEWIDE TRANSPORTATION AND ACCESS FOR RURAL, SENIOR AND DISABLED
  Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent today announced they secured $3 million in federal funds for Missouri public transportation services in the Senate Transportation-Treasury- Housing and Urban Development spending bill. In addition to statewide public transportation needs, these funds will provide senior citizens, the disabled and residents in rural Missouri critical access to transportation.  
   "For Missourians who cannot afford cars or prefer to leave them at home these funds will provide public transportation to get to work, go shopping, eat out, or visit the doctor," said Senator Kit Bond, chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee. "Also, public transportation is not just critical for our nation's metropolitan areas. These funds will provide senior, the disabled and Missourians in rural communities increased access to transportation services." 
   "I am pleased to announce this funding to improve Missouri's mass transit systems," said Senator Talent. "Transportation infrastructure funding is vital across Missouri whether it's roads, bridges or mass transit. These dollars will help relieve pressure on our highway system which improves safety, increases productivity and gets products to market faster." 
   Bond and Talent secured the $3 million in federal funds in the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations fiscal year 2007 spending bill. The spending bill passed the subcommittee earlier this week and is expected to pass the full committee this afternoon. Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.
   The Missouri Department of Transportation will receive $2 million for statewide bus and bus facilities. Also, the Older Adults Transportation Service (OATS) will receive $1 million in federal funds for statewide bus and bus facilities. OATS is a non-profit service that provides better transportation services to senior citizens, the disabled and other rural residents. 
   "Senators Bond and Talent continue to assure the well-being of Missouri's seniors, people with disabilities, and the rural general public by bringing our tax money back to the state to make transportation available to these transportation-disadvantaged folks," said Linda Yaeger, OATS Executive Director.
 
 