PASSING A PRO-GROWTH, PRO-JOBS HIGHWAY BILL
  We have a problem with transportation infrastructure. The problem is getting to be so big that awareness of it has penetrated even in Washington. Everybody I talk to in Missouri already knows about it, and has known about it for a long time. I said on the Senate floor that they know about it because they have to drive on the roads. For them, it is not an abstract question of public policy. It is a question of getting where they need to go, to do what they need to do, safely and on time.  
   In Missouri, it's getting harder and harder to get to work, to pick the kids up from school and to get our products to market because our roads and bridges are literally falling apart. Finally, Washington is beginning to understand the problem.
   The U.S. Senate has passed a $295 billion Highway bill for roads and bridges, including $5.2 billion for Missouri, to be distributed over six years. There's also an additional $300 million for Missouri included as part of a $15 billion transportation bonding package that I added with Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). The overall bill is $11 billion bigger than the legislation passed by the House. This is a good start. The Senate Highway bill would at least begin paying off our country's transportation infrastructure deficit.
   For every $1 billion invested in federal highway and transit infrastructure, an estimated 47,500 jobs are created. And for every dollar invested in federal transportation infrastructure, an estimated $5.70 in economic activity is generated. That means our $15 billion bonding amendment alone has the potential to create and sustain more than 700,000 jobs and $85.5 billion in economic activity.
   Most importantly, investing in our transportation infrastructure will save lives. Nearly 43,000 Americans lose their lives each year on America's highways. The infrastructure improvements we want to make have the potential to save thousands of lives each year.
   Now the Highway bill will go before a conference committee where the differences between the Senate and House versions will be ironed out. I'm urging the conference committee to do everything possible to hold the Senate number and, if possible, find some way to inject more money into transportation infrastructure this year. One option could be an additional $30 billion in Build America Bonds which I've also been pushing with Sen. Wyden.
   In addition to our bonding amendment, I was very pleased we were able to pass some additional amendments for transportation safety, hybrid vehicles, renewable fuels and small business.
   First, I added an amendment addressing the increasing number of accidents involving first responder vehicles. It instructs the Secretary of Transportation to develop model legislation to promote compliance with laws that govern how motorists pass and yield to these vehicles. The amendment will help strengthen the laws to protect our first responders and save lives.
   Second, the Senate approved my amendment to open up High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes, located in nineteen states, to hybrid vehicles including the Ford Escape Hybrid which is built in Kansas City. The amendment would allow vehicles that achieve at least a 50 percent increase in fuel efficiency in the city and a 25 percent increase in fuel efficiency in combined city-highway miles over the non-hybrid model to use the car pool lanes. The amendment would provide another incentive for customers to purchase fuel-efficient vehicles like the Ford Escape Hybrid. 
   Third, I worked with Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) to include an amendment providing a tax credit incentive of 50 percent, up to $30,000, for investment in E-85 fuel dispensing infrastructure. The amendment provides incentives for businesses to update their fueling infrastructure to add pumps that can dispense E-85. E-85 is a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. There are only about 100 fueling stations around the country offering this fuel, seven of which are located in Missouri.
   Fourth, the Senate adopted my amendment to prevent motorcycle fatalities by directing the Secretary of Transportation to work with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to provide states with model language to be included in their drivers training materials. Accidents involving motorcycles and other vehicles are especially likely to result in fatalities since individuals on motorcycles have virtually no protection against a car. The amendment will help states find the most effective way to help prevent accidents involving motorcycles.
   Fifth, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-Conn.) and I added an amendment to make it easier for minority-owned small business owners to compete for federal highway projects and other federal contracts. The amendment would make it the responsibility of the Department of Transportation to let minority-owned small businesses know they no longer have to go through the time consuming and expensive process of recertifying as minority contractors at the state and local levels if they want to compete for federal road-building projects.
   I believe in our people. I believe that when we empower them by providing the resources they need, they will create jobs and grow the economy. Missourians can do a lot on their own in their families, communities, local schools and small businesses. But one thing they can not do is build roads and bridges. That is a job the government has to do. We need to fulfill that responsibility by passing a pro-growth, pro-jobs highway bill for our people.
 
 