SEN. TALENT ENCOURAGES LIFE-SAVING SCREENINGS DURING BREAST CANCER AWARENESS MONTH
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a longtime advocate for breast cancer awareness, is encouraging women in Missouri to consider getting a mammogram this month. Sen. Talent is a cosponsor of Senate Resolution 154, which designates tomorrow, October 21, 2005, as National Mammography Day. Sen. Talent said he wants to help make everyone aware of the importance of early detection. This October marks the twenty-first anniversary of Breast Caner Awareness Month. 
   "Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death among women in the United States," said U.S. Senator Jim Talent, who lost his mother to the disease. "Like nearly every American family, my family has been affected by breast cancer. I want to encourage women in Missouri to consider annual mammograms, to help detect the life threatening disease that affects nearly three million women in the United States." 
   This past June, Sen. Talent was honored by the National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) with their "Annual Advocacy Conference Congressional Award" for his leadership in the fight against breast cancer.
   For the past two years, Sen. Talent has authorized the St. Louis Gateway Arch, one of America's most prominent and recognized landmarks, to be illuminated in pink lights to recognize the millions of women battling breast cancer and those who lost their lives fighting this disease.
   Sen. Talent also introduced the bipartisan Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act of 2005 (S. 757). The legislation authorizes the Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (in NIH) to make grants available for the development and operation of research centers regarding environmental factors that may be related to the etiology of breast cancer. The grants will be used to set up eight state of the art research centers across the country. 
   Sen. Talent has also sent letters to the Department of Defense (DoD) requesting research funds for breast cancer, specifically, $150 million for the DoD peer-reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program for 2006.
   According to the American Cancer Society, in 2005, 212,930 women will be diagnosed with breast cancer, but mammograms can provide safe screening and early detection in many women. Mammograms are an excellent method for early detection of localized breast cancer, and The National Cancer Institute and the American Cancer Society continues to recommend periodic mammograms.
 
 