SEN. TALENT TO HOST EVENT TO ILLUMINATE GATEWAY ARCH IN PINK ON OCT. 25
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that he will be hosting a ceremony on Monday, October 25 at 7:45 p.m. to illuminate the Gateway Arch in St. Louis with pink lighting to honor Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Sen. Talent said illuminating the Arch would heighten awareness about the risk of breast cancer and help promote early testing. This year marks the twentieth anniversary of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. 
   "Lighting the Arch, one of Missouri's most prominent and recognized landmarks, in pink will recognize the millions of women battling breast cancer and those who lost their lives fighting this disease," Talent said. "We hope to raise awareness about the importance of early detection and prevention. It will also send a message that we are searching for a cure."
   Sen. Talent introduced the legislation in the Senate earlier this month and was signed into law by President Bush. Sen. Talent's legislation was cosponsored in the Senate by Sen. Kit Bond (R-Mo.). Companion legislation was sponsored in the House by Congressman Jerry Costello (D-Ill.). 
   Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death for women in the United States. The American Cancer Society estimates that a woman in the United States has a 1 in 7 chance of developing invasive breast cancer. Researchers have estimated that approximately 3 million women in the U.S. are living with the disease: 2 million who have been diagnosed and an estimated 1 million who do not yet know they have the disease.
   Sen. Talent was approached by Estee Lauder and the May Company to assist them in getting the proper authority from the Department of Interior. The gateway Arch is one of dozens of landmarks across the country that will have been illuminated in pink lighting to advocate breast cancer awareness. Throughout his years in public life Sen. Talent has championed measures to defeat breast cancer which took the life of his mother, Marie Talent, in 1988.
 
 