KEY COMMITTEE APPROVES SENS. TALENT-BOND MEASURE TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM ONLINE PREDATORS
  The Senate Judiciary Committee today unanimously approved a measure sponsored by Sens. Jim Talent and Kit Bond (R-Mo.) to protect children from online predators. The Talent-Bond provision clarifies that existing law allows law enforcement officials to patrol the Internet posing as a minors to protect children from online predators. The measure was approved as part of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (S. 1086). 
   "We are now one step closer to making certain that everyone understands that current law allows law enforcement to pose as minors on the Internet to protect children," said Senator Jim Talent. "Predators routinely represent themselves as someone else on the Internet to entice kids and our law enforcement should be allowed to represent themselves as someone else to protect kids."
   "Today's action is good news in our efforts to protect our children from predators. I am pleased that my colleagues recognize a good, common-sense Missouri idea when they see one," said Senator Kit Bond. "Sexual predators shouldn't be allowed to roam our streets and stalk our children in cyberspace. We need to give law enforcement every tool we can to lock these people up and this legislation is a good step."
   Talent and Bond introduced the measure after a federal judge overturned the conviction of a child predator in Missouri on the basis that the law enforcement agent had posed as a minor.
   In August, a Missouri lawyer was convicted of enticing a teenager on the Internet. After the verdict was read, a federal judge threw out the conviction, ruling that for conviction, the law requires that a minor actually be enticed, not an undercover law enforcement official, as in this case. The Talent-Bond measure makes clear that the judge's interpretation of the law was incorrect.
   The measure will now go before the full Senate where Senators Talent and Bond will continue working to make certain it remains in the final bill.
 
 