SEN. TALENT: CONGRESS SHOULD PROTECT PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
  The Senate routinely passes Resolutions, typically on a bipartisan basis, to honor an individual for their service, to condemn an injustice or to show support for those experiencing a tragedy as we did recently on behalf of the victims of Hurricane Katrina. Recently, however, the Senate has been compelled too often to pass Resolutions defending the Pledge of Allegiance because of the actions of a federal court. 
   The Pledge of Allegiance is a record of American values, our history and the convictions of our people. For more than 50 years, the Pledge has been an affirmation that our country was established as a union "under God," and that we are dedicated to securing "liberty and justice for all." However, some of our courts have either no respect for or understanding of these American traditions. 
   On September 14, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California ruled that the Pledge of Allegiance is unconstitutional because it uses the phrase "one nation, under God." The decision comes three years after the infamous case in which the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco ruled that the Pledge was illegal under the Constitution.
   In response, the Senate unanimously passed a Resolution I sponsored condemning the California District Court's decision and reaffirming the Senate's unwavering resolve that the Pledge of Allegiance is a fully constitutional expression of patriotism. This is an important Resolution, but we need to do more. I believe it is the responsibility of Congress to protect the Constitution and the Pledge. 
   In the Senate, I'm an original co-sponsor of the Protect the Pledge Act of 2005 (S. 1046) along with U.S. Senator Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.). The legislation defends the core principles of America's founding, and preserves our historic understanding of the proper relationship between church and state. The legislation removes the issue of the Pledge's constitutionality from the jurisdiction of federal district and appeals courts. The state courts and the U.S. Supreme Court would maintain their jurisdiction over such cases. The effect would be to overrule any federal court's decision that the Pledge is unconstitutional.
   Under Article III of the Constitution, Congress has the power to regulate the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts. In the past, Congress has used this power to prevent or overrule judicial abuse in administration of the environmental, immigration, and labor laws. We should use the same power now to protect our Pledge. 
   The Protect the Pledge Act would not violate anyone's rights. No person would ever be forced to say "under God" when reciting the Pledge. That is as it should be. We are a nation of many faiths and beliefs. Tolerance for dissent is one of our great American values. But so is our common conviction that America is a nation that seeks the will and enjoys the protection of Divine Providence. The fact that some might disagree with that conviction is not a reason to deprive the rest of us of our right to affirm it in the Pledge.
   We are one nation under God, and we should stand up, without malice but without hesitation either, for our right to say so when we pledge allegiance to the flag.
 
 