SENATE APPROVES SENS. TALENT-COCHRAN REQUEST FOR $2.2 MILLION TO FUND SICKLE CELL TREATMENT LAW
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) have won approval for a $2.2 million appropriation to help patients with Sickle Cell Disease. 
   The funding, which passed tonight as part of the Labor, HHS, Education Appropriations Act, will go to a new grant program created by Senators Talent and Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) in the Sickle Cell Disease Treatment Act (Public Law 108-357). 
   "The first step was enacting a comprehensive bill to help patients with Sickle Cell Disease, now we are focused on funding the centers of excellence that we approved in the legislation," said Sen. Talent. "I can't emphasize enough how much this funding means to the community of people affected by Sickle Cell Disease - not just the 70,000 Americans that have it, not just the 2.5 million Americans who have the trait, but their families and friends who struggle every day with this disease. I've had the opportunity to meet with many of these patients and their families. I've been inspired by their stories as well as their optimism that we will one day find a cure." 
   "I was pleased to work with Sen. Talent to include funding in the Labor, HHS, Education appropriations bill for medical centers with programs dedicated to treating and preventing Sickle Cell Anemia," said Sen. Cochran. "This funding will help in efforts to improve medical treatments for this serious blood disorder."
   The Sickle Cell Treatment grants will be administered by the Department of Health and Human Services which will award the funding to Centers of Excellence around the country that specialize in Sickle Cell Disease treatment and research. The funding will be used for medical treatment, education and other health care services for sickle cell patients.
   Sickle Cell Disease affects approximately 70,000 Americans; more than 2,500,000 Americans, mostly African-Americans, have the Sickle Cell trait. Sickle Cell Disease affects about one in 300 African-American newborns. 
   The Senate first approved the Talent-Cochran request in October as an amendment to the Labor, HHS, Education Appropriations Act. With final passage today, the request will soon be signed into law by the President.
   Last year, Sen. Talent secured nearly $200,000 in initial funding for the Sickle Cell Treatment grant program. With tonight's action, $2.2 million will now be appropriated to help those struggling with Sickle Cell Disease.
 
 