SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES BILL URGING JAPAN TO REOPEN ITS MARKET TO AMERICAN BEEF
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today announced he is cosponsoring bipartisan legislation that urges Japan to reopen its domestic market to American beef. The bill would require the Treasury Secretary to impose tariffs on Japanese exports if Japan does not reopen its domestic market to U.S.-produced beef by August 31, 2006. Sen. Jim Talent, representing Missouri, which ranks second in the nation in beef production, cosponsored the bill with Sens. Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and Kent Conrad (D-N.D.).  
   "The agreement announced yesterday is an important first step toward the resumption of beef trade with Japan, however we will continue to push until U.S. beef is once again accepted into the Japanese market," said Sen. Talent, Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "We've been patient working with Japan for far too long and their prohibition of American beef is unfounded. It is time for Japan to lift their unwarranted embargoes on our beef. The American consumer knows U.S. beef is safe, and the inspectors will reach the same conclusion."
   Last month, Sen. Talent, along with 31 senators, sent a letter to the Prime Minister of Japan urging them to reopen their markets to safe U.S. beef, before the Prime Minister visits in June, or the U.S. would be forced to impose retaliatory tariffs. Prime Minister Koizumi is scheduled to meet with President Bush on June 29, in Washington, D.C.
   Prior to a single cow testing positive for BSE in Washington State, Japan was the number one importer of U.S. beef. Japan immediately closed the borders and trade negotiations have been delicate since. In December of 2005, Japan reopened imports of U.S. beef but soon closed trade. 
   U.S. beef represents the single largest segment of American agriculture, accounting for roughly 20 cents of every agriculture dollar, and generating $3 billion-a-year in export business. In Missouri, agribusiness represents the second largest sector of the Missouri's economy and ranks second in the nation in beef production with 2.07 million head of beef cows.
 
 