SENS. TALENT, BOND ANNOUNCE $1.2 MILLION IN AID TO HELP LAID-OFF AIRLINE WORKERS IN KANSAS CITY
  Sens. Jim Talent and Kit Bond (R-Mo.) today announced a National Emergency Grant (NEG) of $1,210,971 for hundreds of former-TWA and American workers in the Kansas City area who lost their jobs due to the downsizing of American Airlines. The grant, administered by the Department of Labor, will be awarded to the Missouri Division of Workforce Development. 
   "I've talked personally with many of the former-TWA pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and other employees who have lost their jobs," said Sen. Jim Talent. "This assistance is critical for them and for their families. Sen. Bond and I have been advocating for additional help for these workers and I appreciate the Administration's response to our request."
   "Missouri has been hit hard by airline lay-offs. For former TWA and American employees, this federal assistance is crucial. Today's announcement will provide additional and much needed relief for these workers and their families," said Senator Kit Bond. "I am pleased that the Administration recognizes the plight of the former pilots, flight attendants and mechanics who are working to get back on their feet."
   The grant will provide assistance to approximately 210 workers in the Kansas City area who were affected by the downsizing of American Airlines at Kansas City International Airport. 
   Since March 2003, Missouri has received a total of $10.3 million in NEG funds to serve over 3,600 airline workers dislocated airline workers. In that time, Missouri Senators Talent and Bond have worked closely with the Labor Department to help the dislocated airline workers.
   This grant will fund employment-related programs including individual counseling, career planning, employment development and occupational skills training. National Emergency Grants are part of the Secretary's discretionary fund and are awarded based on a state's ability to meet specific guidelines.
 
 