SEN. TALENT KEEPS C-17 LINE OPEN, SECURES TEN ADDITIONAL PLANES IN DEFENSE BILL
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today announced that he has secured funding for 10 additional C-17s, totaling $2.1 billion, extending the production line of the aircraft. Sen. Jim Talent's request, in addition to the eight planes requested by the President, is included in the Senate-House Defense Appropriations Conference Report for FY2007. Sen. Jim Talent said that the bill will bring the Air Force inventory to 191, and foreign sales will bring total production to nearly 205. The new C-17s will be bought as "attrition" aircraft to replace older transports that have been over flown. 
   "This is a huge victory for our military, our nation and Missouri," said Sen. Talent, Chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee, which oversees the C-17 program. "There are few systems more important to our armed forces than this aircraft. The C-17 is the transport of choice, able to carry troops, vehicles and supplies to any point on the globe making its reliability and versatility unmatched. The purchase of these additional C-17s provides needed aircraft to our military and will keep the line open for our highly skilled workers in Missouri."
   "I want to thank Senator Jim Talent for his strong leadership on moving the C-17 Globemaster III program forward," said Jim Albaugh, President and CEO of Integrated Defense Systems of Boeing Company. "Jim pulled together a broad bipartisan coalition in the Senate to make this happen. As a result of the Senator's leadership, Congress will authorize funding for 10 additional C-17s which will extend the production of this remarkable aircraft. The several thousand workers in Missouri, and the 30,000 highly skilled workers across the country, who build the C-17 every day, owe Senator Talent their thanks."
   "On behalf of California, I want to thank Senator Talent for his strong leadership in pulling together a broad bipartisan coalition of his colleagues in Washington, D.C. to save this incredible aircraft," said Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. "I have been a long supporter of the C-17 aircraft and I have visited the production plant in Long Beach. Today I am pleased to learn that our Congressional leaders also see the importance of this vital resource for our armed services as they continue their fight against the enemies of democracy."
   Earlier this year, Sen. Talent secured $227.5 million for the purchase of an additional C-17 aircraft in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act. In addition, Sen. Talent also worked on a bipartisan basis with U.S. Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.) to authorize 42 new C-17s and assess the need for additional lift aircraft.
 
 