SENATE ENERGY SUBCOMMITTEE HOLDS HEARING ON SEN. TALENT BILL TO EXPAND TRUMAN FARM HOME BOUNDARY
  Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.) bill to nearly double size of the Harry S. Truman Farm Home in Grandview received an important hearing today before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks. Sen. Talent's Truman Farm Home Expansion Act (S. 2499) would provide the acreage necessary to build a new visitors center and preserve the historic integrity of the farm by preventing additional commercial encroachment. 
   "The Truman Farm home is a national treasure and a tremendous source of pride for the people of Grandview and Kansas City," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "It is here that Harry S. Truman's mother said he got his common sense. This bill will permit the National Park Service to ensure the protection of the Farm Home and the historic grounds for generations to come. I am hopeful the full committee will act quickly and pass the bill so we can pass it out of the Senate before we adjourn this year."
   Currently the Truman Farm is located on a 5.2 acre area. Sen. Talent's legislation would nearly double the size of the Harry S. Truman Historic Site by giving the government the authority to purchase approximately 5-acres of land on the south side of the property. This area is basically undeveloped except for a small retail paint store located at the west end and fronting on Blue Ridge Boulevard. The proposed 5-acre strip is the only undeveloped land that remains of the original 600-acre Truman Farm.
   The use of the existing paint store as a visitor contact center will permit the park to eliminate the administrative use of the Truman Farm Home's screened-in side porch as a visitor welcome point and sales area. This will restore the historic integrity to the home, while removing the impact of the wear and tear on the historic structure.
   Since the existing portion of the Truman Farm is so small, there isn't adequate space to plant vegetation that would have the potential of screening existing commercial development. Sen. Talent's bill would give the park space to provide for those plantings without encroaching on the home. Eliminating views of commercial development, which surrounds the farm site, would help visitors better understand and appreciate the rural nature of the farm.
 
 