SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES $750,000 GRANT FOR MISSOURI SOYBEAN ASSOCIATION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a $750,000 grant to the Missouri Soybean Association. The funds will be used for the Missouri Biodiesel Mass Transit Demonstration, which will facilitate biodiesel use by urban transit primary in St. Louis and Kansas City, Missouri.  
   "I am encouraged by the increased use of renewable fuels," said U.S. Sen. Jim Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus. "Biodiesel is a more affordable and cleaner burning alternative than standard diesel fuel. Renewable fuels mean jobs, cleaner air and water and energy independence. I applaud the Missouri Soybean Association for their leadership in this important effort."
   Environmental and energy security concerns have prompted many U.S. transits to investigate or implement alternative fuel programs, primarily due to either regulatory requirements or regional consumer pressure. The fact is biodiesel is a clean-burning fuel for diesel engines produced from soybean oil. It can be produced domestically, reducing America's dependence on imported oil. 
   The economic benefits that could be realized in Missouri biodiesel industry created by increased biodiesel demand would include value added to agricultural products, and increased number of jobs, an increased tax base from investments in a biodiesel plant as well as plant operations. The Missouri Soybean Association (MSA) developed the "Missouri Biodiesel Mass Transit Demonstration" as a means to promote the benefits of biodiesel and the ability to reduce pollution by using it. 
   Sen. Talent is currently sponsoring two bills in the Senate as part of a renewable fuels package. The first bill, S.650, calls for the implementation of a Renewable Fuels Standard, which will phase in renewable fuels over 7 years, beginning with 4 billion gallons by 2006 and ending at 8 billion gallons in 2012. The second bill, S. 610, provides a ten-cent-per-gallon tax credit for small biodiesel producers who make up to 60 million gallons of biodiesel per year. This tax credit would be an incentive for farmers who invest in small ethanol production facilities and producers who want to expand ethanol or biodiesel plants.
 
 