SENS. TALENT-BOND-HULSHOF WIN APPROVAL TO KEEP DAILY AIR SERVICE IN KIRKSVILLE
  Sens. Jim Talent and Kit Bond and Rep. Kenny Hulshof (MO-9) today announced that the Department of Transportation (DOT) has granted continuation of Essential Air Service (EAS) eligibility for Kirksville Regional Airport. Sens. Jim Talent and Kit Bond and Hulshof sent a letter to the Department of Transportation last month urging that the Department reverse a tentative order to terminate Essential Air Service services to the airport which provides critical air service to thousands of passengers each year. 
   "I am pleased that we were able to sustain vital passenger air service for Kirksville," said Senator Jim Talent. "Thousands of visitors and residents in the Kirksville area depend on the Kirksville Regional Airport for safe and affordable transportation to and from Kansas City and St. Louis. Sen. Bond, Congressman Hulshof and I will continue to partner with local governments to make the transportation infrastructure in Northern Missouri a top priority to continue to generate economic growth and create jobs in the area."
   "This is great news for the Kirksville community and for those who depend on the Kirksville Regional Airport for transportation," said Senator Kit Bond, Chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee. "Missouri airports are crucial to our state's future economic success. In addition, smaller airports are critical to providing effective intra-state and regional air service."
   "Air service is critical for Kirksville's economic development," said Congressman Hulshof. "Area businesses, colleges and hospitals depend upon this service. Commercial air service to Kirksville is truly a lifeline to the economic health of area communities."
   The Department selected Air Midwest, Inc., to provide EAS at Kirksville Regional Airport. The carrier selection will become effective for the two-year period beginning when Air Midwest replaces RegionsAir, Inc. Air Midwest, Inc. will provide Kirksville with 12 nonstop round trips per week to Kansas City using 19-seat Beech 1900D turboprop aircraft.
 
 