SENATE PASSES SEN. TALENT'S MEASURE TO PROTECT VETERANS CORPORATION
  The Senate today approved legislation spearheaded by Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) to protect the National Veterans Business Development Corporation which assists veterans who want to start their own small business. The bill will ensure the organization remains an independent Congressionally-charted corporation operated by veterans, for veterans. 
   By preserving this status, The Veterans Corporation will continue serving veteran entrepreneurs as part of public-private partnership at no cost to the taxpayer.
   "Veterans Business Centers, such as the one just opened in St. Louis, will make it possible for millions of veterans nationwide and more than a half-million Missouri veterans to access small business loans, training, resources and other assistance to help them realize their dream of owning and operating a small business," said Talent. "The bill we passed makes certain that these offices continue to be operated by veterans, for veterans as part of a public-private partnership."
   While serving as Chairman of the Small Business Committee in the U.S. House, then-Congressman Jim Talent authored the legislation (Public Law 106-50) to establish a network of Business Centers for Veteran entrepreneurs and Service-Disabled Veterans who want to start their own business or grow their existing small business. The Vietnam Veterans of America testified that the law has the potential to be the most significant Veterans legislation enacted since the original GI Bill was signed into law in 1944.
   On June 7, the nation's first veterans' business center opened in Missouri. The St. Louis Veterans Business Resource Center, operated by the Veterans Corporation is helping Missouri veterans get the expertise and resources they need to realize their dream of owning their own small business.
   The Veterans Corporation provides Veterans and Service-Disabled Veterans with the tools they need to start and expand successful businesses, including access to training, access to markets and access to capital and services. No other public or private organization provides this specific assistance to the 24-million-strong Veteran community. All of the services provided by The Veterans Corporation may be accessed via their website, www.veteranscorp.org.
 
 