SEN. TALENT, REP. GRAVES INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO ENOURAGE USE OF HYBRID VEHICLES
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Rep. Sam Graves (R-Mo.-6) today introduced the Hybrid HOV Access Act, which will end the current discrimination against larger hybrid vehicles such as the Ford Escape, which is built at Ford's Kansas City Assembly Plant in Claycomo, Mo. The facility employs approximately 5000 workers to build the Ford Escape Hybrid, the Ford Escape, the Ford F-150 and the Mazda Tribute. 
   The legislation provides people an incentive to buy hybrid electric vehicles, or HEVs, by allowing more HEV owners to have access to high-occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes on federal highways. These vehicles help save their owners money on fuel while also helping the environment. "This bill represents a step forward towards cleaning up our air, lessening our dependence on foreign oil and encouraging the use of renewable energy," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   The current language in the highway bills passed by the House and the Senate allows hybrid vehicles that achieve a 45 mile-per-gallon highway fuel economy rating to use HOV lanes, which privileges smaller vehicles over larger vehicles that provide much greater improvements in fuel economy compared to their non-hybrid counterparts. For example, the 2005 Honda Civic HEV gets just over 45 miles-per-gallon, which represents less than a 40% improvement over the comparable internal combustion model. The Ford Escape HEV, which started production in Claycomo in August and is the first hybrid SUV, gets between 35 and 40 miles-per-gallon. This is a 75% improvement over the internal combustion model, and in addition, the Escape HEV emits 3-4 tons fewer greenhouse gases every year than the non-hybrid.
   Talent's and Graves's legislation gives states the discretion to open up their HOV lanes to hybrid vehicles that achieve a substantial increase in fuel economy relative to comparable gasoline vehicles, or achieve a substantial increase in lifetime fuel savings relative to comparable gasoline vehicles. It creates a minimum standard of improvement necessary for hybrids, but gives states the option of increasing the requirements. 
   "I am very pleased to introduce this legislation to support these hybrid vehicles, which are truly engineering marvels," said Talent. "The people who drive hybrids are doing their part to help clean up the air and increase energy conservation, and I strongly believe in providing people an incentive to buy these vehicles by giving them access to HOV lanes."
   "This is a great opportunity for Ford, as a leader in the hybrid market, to develop more efficient vehicles," said Graves. "I am pleased that Senator Talent and I can work together to assist American auto manufacturers in gaining a competitive edge in the hybrid vehicle market."
   "Ford Motor Company commends Senator Talent and Representative Graves for introducing federal legislation today that encourages the purchase and use of hybrid electric vehicles," said Dan Brouillette, Ford Motor Company Vice President of Washington Affairs. "Advanced technology hybrid electric vehicles, such as the Missouri-built Ford Escape Hybrid, offer significant improvements in fuel economy and emissions. The federal incentives authorized in this legislation are critical in accelerating public acceptance of advanced technologies that offer breakthrough fuel economy and improved emissions performance. We applaud the Congressmen for their environmental leadership and look forward to working with them to advance this important legislation in the Congress."
 
 