SEN. TALENT, REP. EMERSON ANNOUNCE $7 MILLION IN USDA RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS FOR HOSPITAL IN IRON COUNTY
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Rep. Emerson (Mo-R) today announced that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Rural Development, has approved a $7,000,000 Community Facility Direct Loan for Iron County to construct a new critical access hospital in Pilot Knob.  
   "Having access to quality health care is so critical to our rural communities," said Sen. Talent. "The residents of Pilot Knob and surrounding areas will now be able to see doctors and nurses locally without having to travel to larger communities. Additionally, they will have an emergency medical treatment service for critical care situations. I appreciate USDA Rural Development for making this health care investment in Iron County." 
   "I am very proud of this major step to bring a new hospital to Iron County. Access to health care is a major priority throughout rural Missouri," said Congresswoman Emerson. "Thanks to hard work at the local level and in Congress, residents of Iron County will no longer have to travel 25 miles to the nearest hospital or even farther to St. Louis for the care of a specialist. The new hospital will save lives, create jobs, and provide convenient health care services in Iron County."
   "This is wonderful news for Iron County," said Terry Nichols, Iron County Presiding Commissioner. "The funding from the USDA allows us to move another step closer to taking care of ourselves both in healthcare and economically. On behalf of the county delegation, I appreciate the work USDA Rural Development has done to bring healthcare back to Iron County. We look forward to the partnership and opportunity this funding will allow all our citizens in the years to come." 
   The new health care facility in Pilot Knob will provide residents of Iron County with access to medical services. Currently, Iron County is without a hospital as theirs was shut down several years ago. The new 13,000 square foot hospital will provide inpatient and outpatient services and an emergency room. 
   Additional information about the Community Facility Direct Loan Program is available at: http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rhs/.
 
 