SEN. TALENT HELPS HONOR TWO SOLDIERS WOUNDED IN IRAQ, PRESENTS MOBILITY DEVICES
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today joined Disability Rights Advocates for Technology (DRAFT) in honoring United States Army Staff Sergeant Hilbert Caesar and United States Marine Corps Lance Corporal Keith Davis for their service to our country in Iraq. Sen. Talent presented both men with a Segway HT, a personal transportation device.  
   \"I want to thank Army Staff Sergeant Hilbert Caesar and Marine Lance Corporal Keith Davis for their service to our country,\" said Sen. Jim Talent. \"It is an honor to be able to present these men with the Segway mobility device to give them the freedom to resume many of the activities they could do before their injuries. Sergeant Caesar and Corporal Davis are heroes and should be honored for their service and sacrifice.\" 
   DRAFT, headquartered in Missouri, was founded as a guardian of the rights of people with disabilities. The organization is committed to advocacy programs on behalf of people with disabilities. Additionally, DRAFT is dedicated to promoting the use of the principles of Universal Design and new technology. Products and environments created using these principles allow people with disabilities and senior citizens to live lives with greater independence, productivity and inclusion into the community and workforce.
   The Segway is a two wheeled, gyroscopically stabilized, battery powered personal transportation device. Individuals with disabilities may use a Segway as a personal mobility aid, in lieu of more traditional devices like a wheelchair or scooter. The Segway has for the first time provided an option for people who can stand but have difficulty walking. Because the Segway is used by marathoners and amputees alike, its use does not draw attention to one's disability. Today in the United States, the Segway is used by people with multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, amputations, spinal cord injuries, scoliosis, spina bifida, COPD and other conditions.
 
 