SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES $3.5 MILLION FOR ST. PATRICK CENTER
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the St. Patrick Center has been awarded a U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant of $3.5 million. The funding will be used to renovate and remodel the fourth and fifth floors of the Center which will be used as a business incubator and trade training facility.  
   "The St. Patrick Center is a model for serving our urban communities," said Sen. Talent. "They help provide opportunities for self-sufficiency and dignity for people in need, with an emphasis on those who experience mental illness or chemical dependence and are living below the poverty level. This funding will allow the Center to continue to expand its facility and programs to empower people in the St. Louis region to become financially self-sufficient." 
   "This is the culmination of a great partnership between government, faith-based and community organizations coming together on a meaningful job training and small business initiative," said Dan Buck, Chief Executive Officer of St. Patrick Center. "The impact of this grant will be long lasting and life changing for thousands of low-income residents in the St. Louis region. This grant completes a vision started more than eight years ago of having a one-stop caring center for homeless and those at risk of becoming homeless. It is a great day for those in need." 
   "President Bush and I are committed to partnering with communities to promote innovation and competitiveness," said Carlos M. Gutierrez, U.S. Secretary of Commerce. "Through economic development grants like these, the Commerce Department will continue to encourage investments in local areas, grow the economy and create jobs."
   In 2005, Sen. Talent secured $250,000 to help complete the St. Patrick Center Partnership Center, which offers one-stop health care and other services to homeless and near homeless people in the St. Louis area. The business incubator is projected to create 387 new jobs and place 1,800 graduates into employment. 
   Additional information on the EDA program can be found at: http://www.eda.gov.
 
 