SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES APPROVAL OF OVER $98,000 FOR METH TASK FORCE IN SOUTHWEST MISSOURI
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the Combined Ozark Multi-Jurisdictional Enforcement Team (COMET) has received $98,664 for the COPS methamphetamine imitative. Sen. Talent secured the funds in the 2005 Appropriations package and the money arrived this week.  
   \"This task force has been in existence over a decade and provides highly trained staff to seize, dismantle and safely dispose of hazardous waste associated with methamphetamine labs,\" said Sen. Talent. \"Meth is a serious problem in our state and we need to get serious about fighting it. With these funds, COMET will be able to work with local law enforcement to detect and seize drug labs in rural Southwest Missouri to keep our neighborhoods safe.\" 
   \"These funds will allow the Task Force to more aggressively investigate and seek prosecution of drug violations occurring within the Task Force geographic area, focusing upon methamphetamine production and distribution,\" said Deputy Joy L. Jones COMET Intelligence Analyst/Fiscal Officer. \"A significant amount of the funding budget will provide overtime compensation for the investigators, which in turn reduces compensatory time off and provides for a more aggressive focus on methamphetamine production and distribution. Additionally, the funding provides for equipment, cleanup supplies, and officer training. I want to extend thanks again to Senator Talent for making this funding happen.\"
   Sen. Talent has worked in the Senate to secure these funds for Southwest Missouri. The COMET jurisdiction area includes the counties of Dade, Dallas, Cedar, Christian, Greene, Polk, Stone, Taney and Webster. The majority of the area is rural and is the fastest growing area in population in Missouri. 
   Earlier this month, the Senate passed a sweeping anti-meth legislation sponsored by Senators Talent and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) to limit access to cold medicines containing pseudoephedrine, the primary ingredient used to make meth. The Senate approved the Talent-Feinstein legislation as an amendment to the 2006 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill.
 
 