SENS. BOND, TALENT ANNOUNCE $10 MILLION WATER QUALITY PROJECT FOR SW MISSOURI
  Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent today kicked off a major water quality initiative for Southwest Missouri following a meeting with regional water quality stakeholders. 
   "Our health and that of the environment and economy depends on clean water," said Senator Kit Bond, a long-time advocate for a common-sense approach to conserving land and safeguarding the environment for our families and communities. "We must do everything we can to protect this precious natural resource and this project is an important part in our efforts."
   "Water quality in the Southwest region is the No. 1 environmental issue facing Missouri and this project is a tremendous accomplishment," said Sen. Talent. "Sen. Bond and I have been working together with these groups for a long time. Thanks to their hard work we now for the first time have a long term strategy for improving the region's water quality, and one that is supported by each of the stakeholders. I've said in many different settings that our environment and economy are interdependent. We can't have a strong economy without a strong environment, and we can't have a strong environment without a strong economy. This project represents a balanced approach to protect our water resources while strengthening economic development for the region."
   Bond and Talent announced a $10 million federal water quality project for the region. As the Chairman of the Senate VA-HUD appropriations subcommittee, which funds the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Bond will include $10 million for the Water Quality Improvement project (WQIP) over the next five years in the VA-HUD appropriations bill.
   The WQIP in Southwest Missouri is a collaborative partnership to gain knowledge, monitor waters, collect data, work with stakeholders to test solutions, and implement results to clean the region's water.
   The Senators, who recognizes the importance of federal funds to help local communities clean up the environment, stressed the importance a strong partnership between citizens, farmers, farm groups, businesses, manufacturers and government.
 
 