SENATE PASSES DEFENSE BILL WITH SEN. TALENT'S AMENDMENTS FOR TROOP HEALTH, LIBERTY MEMORIAL, HERO MILES
  The U.S. Senate tonight passed the Defense Authorization bill (S. 2400) which includes three amendments sponsored by Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) that would improve military health preparedness, designate the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City as the National World War I Museum and make it more affordable for troops to get home on emergency leave. 
   The defense bill authorizes weapons procurement, military personnel policy, health care, military pay and combat readiness issues. Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, championed significant programs for Missouri defense-related industries. As Chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee, he wrote a large portion of the bill related to Navy and Marine surface fleet issues, attack submarines, strategic air and sealift and all research and development relating to specific weapons programs.
   "I'm very pleased the Senate passed this important legislation to support America's military and everyone who serves in our armed forces," said Talent. "The bill we passed includes legislation that wouldprovide the military with a before and after snapshot of the medical fitness of every service member deployed to a theater of war. It also includes a very important measure for Kansas City that would designate Liberty Memorial as the nation's World War I Museum. We also approved an amendment to make Operation Hero Miles a permanent defense program allowing Americans to donate their frequent flyer miles to our troops and their families."
   MILITARY HEALTH READINESS AMENDMENT
   Sens. Talent and Hillary Clinton (D-NY) on June 17 passed an amendment to the defense bill that addresses a major health care issue that arose from the first Gulf War. Talent and Clinton
   sponsored the Armed Forces Personnel Medical Readiness and Tracking Act of 2004 to establish a new tracking system that would make certain active duty military personnel and
   Reservists would receive detailed pre- and post-deployment health screenings, including blood sampling. The amendment was approved unanimously by the U.S. Senate.
   LIBERTYMEMORIAL AMENDMENT
   Sen. Talent's successfully added an amendment to the defense bill to designate the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City as America's World War I Museum. Sen. Talent's amendment was approved by the U.S. Senate on June 15.
   The Liberty Memorial Museum is the only public museum in the nation dedicated exclusively to interpreting the experiences of the United States and its allies in the World War I years (1914-1918), both on the battlefield and on the home front.
   OPERATION HERO MILES AMENDMENT
   Sens. Talent and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) on June 3 passed an amendment to (S. 2400) to allow Americans to directly support and assist our service men and women and their families by donating frequent flyer miles. The amendment permanently authorizes Operation Hero Miles, currently a temporary Department of Defense program.
   The Senators legislation would allow the families of wounded service personnel to visit their loved one in a military hospital at no personal expense for the airfare. It will also permit soldiers who must return home from overseas while on emergency leave to do so at no cost by using donated frequent flyer miles.
   The defense bill (S. 2400), which includes Sen. Talent's amendments, will now be debated in a conference committee where differences between the House and Senate bills will be worked out. Additional details on each of Sen. Talent's amendments is available at http://talent.senate.gov.
 
 