SEN. TALENT ASKS COMMERCE SECRETARY TO PROTECT MAJOR EXPORT MARKET FOR OUR SOYBEAN PRODUCERS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, is asking Department of Commerce Secretary Don Evans to carefully consider the impact that the Thailand anti-dumping investigation could have on Missouri soybean producers. 
   The Department of Commerce is investigating whether shrimp raisers in Thailand have been dumping their shrimp in the American market. One consequence of the investigation could include an anti-dumping tariff on shrimp imported from Thailand. Sen. Talent warned that because Thailand is a major importer of American soybeans, the trade dispute could result in the loss of $200 million in export sales for our soybean producers.
   "Missouri is one of the leading states in soybean production and nearly half of the soybean acres planted in Missouri are bound for international markets," Sen. Talent said in a letter to Secretary Evans. "As the Department of Commerce is investigating a shrimp anti-dumping case, I urge to you consider the serious damage this trade dispute could cause the soybean producers of the United States."
   In FY 2002, Thailand imported $160 million of soybeans and $46 million of soybean meal from the U.S. However, once rumors of the case started in August 2003, our producers saw a significant drop in soybean meal exports to Thailand, down to $20 million in FY 2003. Only $390,000 in U.S. soybean meal has been purchased in the first half of FY 2004 (October 2003 through May 2004). Soybean exports have also dropped by 10 percent. In FY 2003, and in FY 2004 only half of the typical annual purchase was made by May 2004.
   In January 2004, the nine soybean and soybean meal importing associations of Thailand issued a joint statement threatening to stop imports of U.S. soybeans and soybean meal if the United States imposes restrictive anti-dumping tariffs on imports of Thai shrimp. Sen. Talent pointed out that if this trade dispute is not handled appropriately, Thailand could purchase soybeans and soybean meal from U.S. competitors such as Brazil, India or Argentina.
   "I am sympathetic to the concerns of the U.S. shrimp industry, but soybean producers in Missouri should not be punished," Talent said. "I encourage you to carefully review this case and consider the consequences for farmers in Missouri and across the nation before imposing duties on Thai shrimp imports."
   Sen. Talent is Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion and a member of President Bush's Export Council.
 
 