SEN. TALENT TAKES TO SENATE FLOOR TO FIGHT FOR MISSOURI AUTO WORKERS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) led the fight in the Senate Energy Committee to defeat a reckless proposal that would have jeopardized 221,000 auto-related jobs in Missouri by forcing auto manufacturers to make unreasonable changes in fuel economy standards. Tonight, he took to the Senate floor to support an amendment he co-sponsored to keep the proposal off the Energy bill (H.R. 6).  
   The bipartisan amendment, sponsored by U.S. Senators Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Carl Levin (D-Mich.), addresses fuel economy, while preventing any irrational expansion of the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standard. The amendment was overwhelmingly adopted by a 64-31 vote.
   "Unreasonably higher CAFE standards would be a dagger at the heart of our auto manufacturing sector," said Sen. Talent. "It will have a negative effect on our economy and jobs in Missouri where we have six assembly plants producing 1.2 million cars and light trucks every year. Everything we want to do for the environment depends on economic prosperity. If we kill manufacturing jobs in America we'll have fewer resources for the environment. Moreover, foreign auto makers that produce vehicles in dirty environments will reap the benefits."
   There have attempts by some in the Congress to boost CAFE standards arbitrarily, a move that would force U.S. automakers to meet unrealistic numbers forcing them to cut back significantly on the manufacturing of minivans, light trucks, pickups and SUVs.
   The Bond-Levin amendment establishes a science-based system within the National Highway Safety Administration to determine new CAFE standards. It provides for an enhanced research and development effort between the government and the auto industry to improve fuel efficiency standards. And it extends incentives for vehicles that run on alternative fuels.
   When enacted, CAFE established a 14.6-mile per gallon (mpg) level for combined car and light truck fuel economy. That level increased to 17.5 mpg in 1982 and to 20.7 mpg in 1996. Some have proposed increasing CAFE to as high as 40 mpg. The Administration is expected to begin rulemaking for the 2008 model year this summer.
   Since the early 1970s, new vehicles have continued to become more fuel-efficient. According to the EPA data, efficiency has increased steadily at nearly 2 percent per year on average from 1975 to 2001 for both cars and trucks.
   "I've talked to the auto manufacturers and the working men and women in the unions who build the cars and trucks that Americans want," said Sen. Talent. "A significantly higher CAFE standard creates a real possibility of costing thousands of Americans their jobs, including many of the 221,000 auto sector workers in Missouri."
   Sen. Talent pointed out that the F-150 pickup truck is manufactured in Kansas City. The plant estimates that an increase in CAFE standards to the 34 mpg that has been suggested would raise the sticker price of the truck by $3,000, which would hurt sales and kill jobs. Additionally, foreign auto manufacturers would not face the same challenges, allowing them to sell SUVs and other vehicles that don't achieve better fuel efficiency at a lower sticker price.
   "Nothing is gained for the environment if someone buys an imported SUV instead of an American-made SUV with better fuel efficiency if the American SUV is parked on the sales lot and the foreign SUV is out on the road," said Sen. Talent. "Nothing is gained for the air, but a lot of American jobs are lost."
 
 