SENS. TALENT, WYDEN URGE TRANSPORTATION CONFEREES TO RETAIN $15 BILLION BONDING PACKAGE IN HIGHWAY BILL
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Jon Corzine (D-N.J.), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.) and John Thune (R-S.D.) are urging the Transportation Conferees to keep a $15 billion Highway Infrastructure Bonds package in the final Highway bill. The senators wrote the conferees asking them to retain the bonding package in the Highway bill. The bonds would provide additional funding for states to build roads, bridges and other transportation infrastructure. 
   "We are urging the conferees to produce a pro-growth, pro-jobs Highway bill that includes our bonding package," said Sen. Talent. "We believe that by supplementing the Highway bill, we will finally start addressing the country's transportation infrastructure deficit. An additional $15 billion for transportation will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, generate economic growth and, most importantly, it will help save lives. The conference committee should do everything possible to maintain this proposal in the bill." 
   "The Senate approved a common-sense $15 billion bonding measure to make much-needed fixes to America's highways, and I join Senator Talent in urging the conference committee to keep this plan in the final version of the highway bill," said Sen. Wyden. "This measure will ensure that we get a good deal for American taxpayers while improving the economy and creating jobs."
   The proposal, sponsored by Talent and Wyden, will provide additional funding to build roads and bridges and will encourage public-private partnerships. 
   The senators point out in the letter that currently, tax-exempt bonds are commonly used by states and localities across America to finance a wide variety of public infrastructure needs. However, they have never been eligible to improve road and bridge infrastructure. 
   The plan would allow $15 billion to be used in this way for roads, bridges and other transportation infrastructure.
   "As you are aware, because our nation's transportation needs far outweigh available federal funding sources, we believe that Highway Infrastructure Bonds should be used as a supplemental funding stream to encourage public-private partnerships for road and bridge projects," the senators wrote.
   The Administration has expressed its support for the idea, stating that the supplemental funding "has the potential to stimulate significant private sector investment and innovation in surface transportation infrastructure."
   The bonding proposal has the support of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), American Road and Transportation Builders Association, National Heavy and Highway Alliance, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Associated General Contractors.
   The U.S. Senate last month added the bonding proposal as an amendment to the $295 billion Highway bill. The Transportation Conferees are currently working out the differences between the Senate and House Highway bills.
   The letter was sent individually to every member of the Transportation Conference Committee including: Senators James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), James Jeffords (I-Vt.), Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Representatives Don Young (R-Alaska), James Oberstar (D-Minn.), Bill Thomas (R-Calif.), Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.), Thomas Petri (R-Wis.) and Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.).
 
 