PROGRESS REPORT: A PRO-GROWTH AND PRO-JOBS AGENDA FOR THE 109TH CONGRESS
  At the beginning of the 109th Congress, I discussed some of the things that I am working on in the Senate that are important to Missouri: a robust highway bill, a pro-growth energy bill with a strong renewable fuels package, health care reform, and legislation to help fight meth. Here is a progress report on these important issues:  
  Senate Passes Talent-Stabenow Transportation Funding Amendment 
   On March 17th, the Senate approved a bipartisan amendment which paves the way for the Senate to increase transportation funding. The amendment to the Senate Budget Resolution, which passed 81-19, strikes an item in the budget that takes away the flexibility of the relevant Senate committees to consider a full range of future transportation funding options. 
   All options should be on the table when it comes to funding our transportation infrastructure. The House passed a highway bill that wasn't big enough. It's now up to the Senate to increase funding for our transportation infrastructure. Our amendment makes certain that when we debate the transportation bill, we can debate it with a full range of funding options. The amendment restores the flexibility to use revenue sources that we have approved in the past, and it gets us out of the box that the current budget traps us in which would make it harder to adequately fund our transportation needs. For more information, log on to: http://senator.email-lists.senate.gov:8080/trk/click?ref=zosufsh6w_2-137x328ax.
   Talent Introduces Bill to Double Market for Renewable Fuels
   Last week I introduced legislation to establish the strongest Renewable Fuels Standard ever considered by Congress. The legislation would double the growth of renewable fuels in the U.S. by 2012, taking into account the enormous growth in the industry. 
   Renewable fuels are at the crux of economic growth and jobs; at the crux of energy security; at the crux of consumer benefits; at the crux of environmental quality; and at the crux of value-added agriculture for our producers. Our legislation reflects the growth that has occurred in the industry over the last four years while the Energy bill stalled in Congress. It is time to pass an Energy bill, and a strong Renewable Fuels Standard should be part of it. For more information, log on to: http://senator.email-lists.senate.gov:8080/trk/click?ref=zosufsh6w_2-137x328ax.
   Talent-Lincoln Amendment to Increase Funding to Fight Meth Passes Senate
   On March 17th, the Senate approved a bipartisan amendment to provide $160 million to combat methamphetamines. The amendment was approved as part of the Senate Budget Resolution which would have reduced by 62 percent, funding for the COPS Methamphetamine Enforcement and Clean-Up Program. This amendment restores funding for the COPS Methamphetamine Enforcement and Clean-Up Program to the current level over the next five years. 
  Law enforcement agents, some with as many as 30 years experience, have told me that methamphetamine is the worst threat they have confronted in their careers. It is by far the worst drug I have seen in all my years in public life. Our amendment provides the resources necessary to ensure that meth labs are thoroughly decontaminated, protecting victims and children from the toxic chemicals used to produce this dangerous drug. For more information, log on to: http://senator.email-lists.senate.gov:8080/trk/click?ref=zosufsh6w_2-137x328cx.
   Senate Passes Talent Amendment to Stop Corporate Criminals from Hiding Assets 
   On March 10th, the Senate approved an amendment to prevent those attempting to defraud their creditors, including those who commit fraud in running a corporation, from hiding their assets in so-called asset protection trusts. The amendment to the Bankruptcy bill passed 73-26 with strong bipartisan support. 
   We should not allow wealthy people, including corporate criminals, to hide their assets and avoid paying their bills. Our amendment makes certain that dishonest people can't hide their assets, especially if they have caused others to lose their jobs, retirement pensions, health care benefits and, in some cases, their life savings. The amendment allows victims to go after any resource transferred into the trust by a corporate criminal over the previous ten years. For more information, go to: http://senator.email-lists.senate.gov:8080/trk/click?ref=zosufsh6w_2-137x328dx.
   Talent and IndyCar Series Officials Announce Indy Racing League's Switch to Ethanol
   As co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus, I joined IndyCar Series officials and driver Paul Dana, to announce that starting in 2006 ethanol will be used to power the IndyCar Series, including the Indianapolis 500. For nearly two years I have encouraged the Indy Racing League (IRL) to switch to ethanol and I want to praise the IRL for their leadership and commitment to renewable fuels. 
   The great American race will soon run on a great American fuel. This announcement demonstrates that the Indy Racing League is a leader in reducing our dependence on foreign oil and they are committed to cleaner air through reduced emissions. The switch to ethanol is a win for our energy security, our environment and producers in Missouri and around the country that grow ethanol. For more information, go to: http://senator.email-lists.senate.gov:8080/trk/click?ref=zosufsh6w_2-137x328ex.
 
 