SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES ADDITIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL BUSINESSES IN MISSOURI
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) will offer assistance to small business owners who endured damages to their businesses caused by the storms that swept through the state on March 11 and 12. The funds will be made available through the SBA's Economic Injury Disaster Loans program.  
   "I am pleased we are moving quickly to help the small business men and women who were hurt by the tornadoes and storms," said Sen. Talent. "Small businesses are the engine of Missouri's economy and this funding will help those who suffered loses to recover as quickly as possible."
   Small businesses that have suffered substantial economic injury resulting from a physical disaster can qualify for up to $1.5 million in disaster assistance per business based on financial needs. The funds can be used to pay for physical damage repairs and operating expenses. Thirty-one of Missouri's 114 counties qualify for the assistance. 
   The Missouri counties that qualify for the small business assistance include: Audrain, Benton, Bollinger, Boone, Camden, Cape Girardeau, Carroll, Cass, Chariton, Cooper, Dallas, Douglas, Greene, Henry, Howard, Jackson, Jefferson, Lafayette, Lawrence, Macon, Madison, Marion, Morgan, Polk, Ralls, Shelby, St. Clair, St. Fran?ois, Stone, Taney and Webster. 
   Last week, Senators Talent and Kit Bond announced the President approved the Governor's request to provide federal assistance including grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
   Sen. Talent is encouraging anyone who believes hey may qualify for assistance to call the U.S. Small Business Administration Disaster Assistance Customer Service Center at (800) 659-2955. For more information about Economic Injury Disaster Loans, visit: http://www.sba.gov/disaster_recov/loaninfo/ecoinjury.html.
 
 