SEN. TALENT LAUDS HOUSE PASSAGE OF PROTECT PLEDGE BILL
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), the Senate sponsor of legislation to protect the Pledge of Allegiance, today applauded the House for passing similar legislation sponsored by Rep. Todd Akin's (R-Mo.). The Pledge Protection Act (H.R. 2028) passed with bipartisan support 247-173. 
   "This is a great for day for those of us who have worked in the Congress to protect the Pledge of Allegiance and for Americans who believe the words 'under God' should not be removed by federal courts like the 9th Circuit," said Sen. Talent, sponsor of the Protect the Pledge Act (S. 1297). "Our bill preserves and protects the people's rights to affirm their beliefs and pledge their allegiance to the flag while making certain that no person would ever be forced to say 'under God' when reciting the Pledge. I want to congratulate my friend Congressman Akin who has worked very hard for this day. Now the Senate should do its part to protect the Pledge." 
   Talent and Akin's bills would regulate the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts, such as San Francisco's Ninth Circuit Court, to hear cases that challenge the constitutionality of the Pledge of Allegiance. 
   Neither bill would not allow any court to deviate from the Supreme Court decision which makes clear no person should ever be forced to say "under God" when reciting the Pledge. Sen. Talent said that is as it should be. 
   Under Article III of the Constitution, Congress has the power to regulate the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts as a "check" in our government's system of checks and balances. In the past, 
   Congress has used this power to prevent or overrule judicial abuse in administration of the environmental, immigration, and labor laws. 
   On June 14, the Supreme Court at least temporarily preserved the phrase 'one nation, under God,' in the Pledge of Allegiance. However, the procedural ruling did not directly address whether the pledge is constitutional, leaving it open to future challenges.
   "This issue should not be left up to the federal courts again," said Talent. "Sen. Orrin Hatch and I will continue working to get our bill passed in the Senate. The people deserve to decide this issue once and for all."
 
 