SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES FEDERAL APPROVAL OF MISSOURI DISASTER DESIGNATION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has declared most of Missouri a disaster area due to the severe drought. Sen. Talent and USDA Undersecretary Bill Hawks will make a formal announcement tomorrow morning following a roundtable discussion with producer leaders in St. Louis. The disaster designation, requested by Missouri Gov. Matt Blunt, will make all qualified farm operators eligible for low-interest emergency (EM) loans from USDA's Farm Service Agency (FSA).  
   "We are doing everything we can to help Missouri farmers and ranchers cope with one of the driest growing seasons in recent memory," said Sen. Talent, who worked with USDA officials to expedite the approval of the Governor's request. "With this declaration, Missouri producers who need help will become eligible for assistance."
   The disaster declaration request covers 112 of Missouri's 114 counties. All Missouri counties were designated as primary disaster areas, except Atchison and Holt Counties and the city of St. Louis. Also eligible because they are contiguous are Atchison County, Holt County and the city of St. Louis.
   Despite recent rainfall, the drought threatens to do considerable damage to our state's economy. A significant percentage of the corn and soybeans in Missouri are rated as poor to very poor and farmers will see lower yields which will hurt their bottom line. Additionally, 75 percent of the pastures in the state are in poor or very poor condition. Livestock producers have been devastated, and some are being forced to sell their animals.
   On August 10, Sen. Talent announced that USDA is sending $1,078,500 in Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) funds to Missouri to help farmers and ranchers cope with the drought. This federal assistance will help farmers by providing financial assistance that can be used for things like water for livestock. 
   The disaster declaration will make agricultural producers eligible for significant assistance including low-interest loans, federal grants, tax relief and other programs to help farmers.
   Interested farmers may contact their local USDA Service Centers for further information on eligibility requirements and application procedures for these and other programs. Additional information is also available online at: http://disaster.fsa.usda.gov.
 
 