SEN. TALENT CONGRATULATES WESTPHALIA STUDENT FOR U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today congratulated Samuel Michael Bexten on his admission to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. He is the son of Alvin and Sandra Bexten of Westphalia. Bexten was nominated to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy by Sen. Talent.  
   "I was very pleased to inform Samuel of his acceptance to the U.S. Air Force Academy," said Sen. Jim Talent, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "His academic achievements, his character, athletic ability and his leadership skills are the attributes of a successful cadet and an outstanding Air Force officer. I am continuously impressed by the high caliber of the young people I meet around the state, and Samuel is no exception. He joins a long line of young Americans who attended the U.S. Air Force Academy and went on to distinguished careers. I have every confidence Samuel will excel at the Academy." 
   Bexten, a senior at Osage County R-III-Fatima High School, is a member of the National Honor Society, Letterman's Club, FBLA, Spanish Club and Students Against Destructive Decisions. He is also the Spirit Coordinator for the Varsity Marching Band, Business Manager of the Year Book Staff and Vice President of the Catholic Youth Organization. Bexten has earned the Eagle Scout Award, the highest achievement for Boy Scouts. During his athletics career, he has served as Co-Capitan of both the varsity soccer and wrestling teams. Bexten is currently taking private pilot lessons. 
   The Academy provides its students with a choice of 32 different academic majors. Students complete a four-year program that educates them both inside and outside of the classroom. They learn through real-world experience and guidance from their professors and it is their vision to be recognized worldwide as the premier developer of aerospace officers.
   "I encourage all students interested in learning more about the Academy nomination process to download an information packet from my Website or contact my Jefferson City office at (573) 636-1070 to request an application," said Talent. 
   For more information about Sen. Talent's military academy nominations, visit http://talent.senate.gov.
 
 