SEN. TALENT, REP. EMERSON HOLD EARTHQUAKE PREPAREDNESS HEARING IN ST. LOUIS
  Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) and Sen. Jim Talent (R-MO) today emphasized the importance of disaster preparedness during a field hearing conducted by the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure in St. Louis. Rep. Emerson was part of the congressional panel, and Sen. Talent testified on earthquake preparedness all along the New Madrid Fault.  
   "I am glad to be part of this panel and to give a serious review to a serious situation, and I appreciate the willingness of so many experts to testify before the committee," Emerson said. "Senator Talent and I are going to keep up the pressure on emergency planning officials to address the gaps in earthquake preparedness in the New Madrid Seismic Zone. There is a lot of work to be done, starting with a top-to-bottom assessment of our emergency responders, their supplies, and our critical infrastructure." 
   "Even though Missouri is not on a coastline we are still very susceptible to one of Mother Nature's most devastating events," said Sen. Talent. "The damage from Katrina, and the need for extensive coordinated assistance, will pale in comparison to the destruction of a large earthquake on the New Madrid fault. Congresswoman Emerson and I have called for preparedness exercises that will identify strengths and weaknesses of the systems already in place, and then correct those shortfalls."
   The purpose of the hearing is to gather input from state and local governments to improve coordination of the federal government's readiness and response capabilities in the event of a disaster. Other witnesses on the panel include officials from the Central United States Earthquake Consortium, U.S. Geological Survey, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Missouri State Emergency Management Agency and Illinois Emergency Management Agency.
   "Whenever multiple agencies at all levels of government are responsible for a quick, coordinated reaction to a natural disaster, there is the possibility for confusion and miscommunication. By running through the scenario now, we significantly enhance the probability that we will be ready for a major seismic event in the future. Someday we are going to need the information we are missing today, and we will look back and judge ourselves on the effort we put forward to get it. It would be inexcusable if history records a New Madrid earthquake in the same breath as Hurricane Katrina," Emerson said.
   "Local and federal organizations must periodically conduct combined emergency preparedness exercises and continuously train their personnel," said Sen. Talent. "Through these exercises we will identify shortfalls in our capabilities and then we fix those problems. Resources spent wisely over the short term will pay enormous dividends, in terms of alleviating human suffering and limiting the loss of life, in the event of a major earthquake in our state."
   After Hurricane Katrina, Emerson and Talent asked Michael Chertoff, Director of the Department of Homeland Security, to coordinate emergency response exercises in areas that could be affected by an earthquake along the New Madrid Fault Zone. The New Madrid fault system includes portions of Missouri, Illinois, Tennessee, Kentucky, Arkansas and Mississippi, and it has produced the largest earthquakes in North America.
 
 