SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES NATIONAL DESIGNATION OF NEGRO LEAGUES BASEBALL MUSEUM IN KANSAS CITY
  The United States House of Representatives today approved Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.) legislation to designate the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum (NLBM) in Kansas City as America's National Negro Leagues Baseball Museum. Sen. Jim Talent is the chief sponsor of the Resolution, S. Con. Res. 60, which unanimously passed the Senate in April. Now that the measure has passed the Senate and House, the designation is official. 
   "This is a great day for everyone at the National Negro Leagues Baseball Museum in Kansas City," said Sen. Talent. "The museum is a national destination for anyone seeking to enrich their understanding of this period in America's history. Whether you are a baseball fan or not, you will be moved by what you see there. You will be encouraged and inspired in every way by seeing how those players confronted the injustices of their times, and the great spirit, energy and joy with which they overcame those obstacles. This day would not have been possible if it were not for the support and leadership of John 'Buck' O'Neil, one of the game's greatest ambassadors, Mark Bryant and the Museum's Board for their efforts in getting this designation for the Museum." 
   Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. House by Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D-Mo.-5). Congressman Sam Graves (MO-6) was also a cosponsor of the legislation in the House. 
   "I am very pleased to say that Missouri's Fifth District is now officially home of America's National Negro Leagues Baseball Museum," said Congressman Cleaver, House sponsor of the bill. "The passage of this bill represents national recognition of the role our community played in the history of the Negro Leagues. We should all be very proud of the work Buck O'Neil and others have done to commemorate baseball played on segregated fields. I would like to thank the Senate sponsor, Jim Talent, for his hard work to move this bill. It was a pleasure to reach across the aisle, and the rotunda, and find a willing partner to work on this national designation for the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum." 
   "Those of us familiar with the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum already think of it as America's museum, but the passage of this resolution makes that distinction official," said Congressman Sam Graves. "It is fitting the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum is in Kansas City, Missouri, since the Negro Leagues were formally organized in Kansas City in 1920. Kansas City was also the home of the Negro Leagues' longest-running franchise - the Kansas City Monarchs - which sent more players to Major League Baseball than any other Negro Leagues franchise." 
   "Of course we are deeply honored, and grateful to Sen. Talent for his work to obtain this national designation," said John "Buck" O'Neil, NLBM Chairman. "As America's only public museum dedicated to the history of the Negro Leagues, we are thrilled with this important recognition." 
   "The Museum will forever strive to fulfill this national designation," said Mark Bryant, NLBM Board Chairman. "It has been a thrill to work with Sen. Talent on this important piece of legislation." 
   "Senator Talent's tireless effort on our behalf is much appreciated," said Don Motley, Executive Director of the NLBM. "He made our dream a reality." 
   "For the 2,600 Negro Leagues players, their legacy is forever etched in the national history of baseball," said Bob Kendrick, Deputy Director of the NLBM. "It's a great story that should be told and retold." 
   Sen. Talent's resolution designating the NLBM as America's National Negro Leagues Baseball Museum will help it in its efforts to preserve the history of the Negro Leagues and the impact of segregation on our nation. The national designation will also assist the museum in efforts to continue the collection, preservation and interpretation of historical artifacts. 
   The NLBM was founded in 1990 and is the only public museum in the nation that exists for exclusively portraying the players in the Negro Leagues from 1920 thru the 1960s. 
   More than 60,000 baseball fans throughout the country visit the museum in Kansas City each year. Currently, the NLBM houses a comprehensive collection of historical materials, important artifacts and oral histories of the participants of the Negro Leagues and the impact that segregation played in the lives of the ballplayers and their fans.
 
 