SEN. TALENT PRAISES SENATE CONFIRMATION OF SEN. DANFORTH
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today praised the Senate's confirmation of former Missouri Sen. John Danforth to be the United States Ambassador to the United Nations. Sen. Danforth's nomination was approved today by a voice vote in the Senate. 
   Sen. Talent made the following remarks today on the Senate floor in support of Sen. Danforth's nomination:
   "I certainly want to associate myself with the remarks made on this floor on behalf of Senator Danforth. I know they have been uniformly, without exception, complimentary to him - not in a typical way we as matter of gesture may compliment public figures, but these were remarks by people who knew and who have known and who have worked with Jack Danforth for years and know him to be a tremendous public servant of deep integrity, thoughtfulness, and courage. 
   "I am proud to say that he hails from the great State of Missouri. President Bush has simply selected a great man for this post. When he called me and told me about it, I told him I was thrilled. I could not think of a more qualified person to represent the United States at the United Nations. 
   "Like most of us who have been around politics and government, I have known Senator Danforth and his wife Sally for many years. He served his country and the people of Missouri with dignity and distinction. It is appropriate to take a moment to place on the record again his background and his credentials. 
   "He served two terms as the attorney general of Missouri; three terms in the U.S. Senate; handled the difficult and delicate task of investigating the tragedy that occurred at Waco and emerged from that job, which could very easily have led to censure and disapproval from Washington because it was a very controversial investigation, but instead he merged from it with plaudits from everyone who recognized the thoroughness, the effectiveness and the fairness of that investigation. He handled the difficult task of trying to bring peace to the Sudan,
   "He knows the importance of bipartisanship. We have seen that from the comments on this floor today. Most recently the nation appreciated his eloquence and his thoughtfulness as he said goodbye to President Reagan during his memorial service. 
   "He is, in short, a considerate man with character, diligence, and whose abilities qualify him to represent our Nation. I wish him well. He certainly has my support. I know the Senate will support him unanimously as well."
 
 