SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES OVER 600,000 MISSOURI SENIORS NOW HAVE DRUG COVERAGE UNDER NEW MEDICARE LAW
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that more than 603,456 Missouri seniors have enrolled in the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. Since last month, over 42,000 more seniors signed up for the benefit in Missouri. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) released the new numbers this week.  
   "Each month, more and more seniors are signing up to pay less for their prescription drugs or to access a drug benefit for the first time," said Sen. Talent, who helped pass the Medicare prescription drug bill in the Senate. "My office has been working very hard to make certain Missouri seniors get the information they need about the new Medicare drug benefit. I've encouraged all those who are eligible, especially those without drug coverage, to take a look at the new plans and consider which one might be right for them."
   There are 917,102 seniors and disabled people eligible for the Medicare benefit in Missouri. As of March 18, 66 percent of those eligible are enrolled in the new voluntary prescription drug benefit. Nationally, an average of 380,000 seniors enroll for the benefit every week. CMS reports that the enrolment rate is on course to achieve the goal of 28 to 30 million people receiving the drug benefit in the first year. Seniors who have not yet signed up have until May 15, 2006, before the next enrollment period begins in November.
   Sen. Talent has held 44 Medicare prescription drug town hall meetings since the passage of the new law. Sen. Talent and his office continue to reach out to seniors who might still have questions about the new drug plans to help address their concerns and provide them with the information they need.
   Sen. Talent has held informational Medicare town hall meetings in cities across the state to help seniors better understand the new law including: Albany, Arnold, Bethany, Branson, Chillicothe, Cape Girardeau, Farmington, Gallatin, Hannibal, Jefferson City, Joplin, Kansas City, Kirksville, Lebanon, Maysville, Maryville, Monroe City, New London, Poplar Bluff, Princeton, Rolla, St. Joseph, Sheridan, Springfield, West Plains and Union. Sen. Talent's staff is also hosting informational meetings around Missouri to help beneficiaries get more information about the new Medicare drug benefit. 
   Additional information about the new Medicare drug law can be found on the Internet at www.medicare.govand on Sen. Talent's Website at http://talent.senate.gov.
 
 