SEN. TALENT DELIVERS FLOOR SPEECH OPPOSING SENATE AMNESTY PROPOSAL
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today took to the Senate floor opposing legislation to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants who are living in the United States. Sen. Jim Talent strongly opposes provisions in the bill to provide a pathway to citizenship for those who unlawfully entered the United States and those which provide citizenship for 70 to 90 million new immigrants over the next 20 years. The bill is estimated to cost taxpayers 54 billion dollars over the next 10 years and would imperil programs that many of our legal citizens depend on such as Medicare and Medicaid. 
   "I oppose the bill because it grants a broad based amnesty to millions of people who have violated our laws and puts American jobs and wages at risk" said Sen. Talent. "The proposal before the Senate would give the benefits of citizenship to those who have entered the country unlawfully; and it's especially unfair to put them at the front of the line ahead of those who have waited patiently for years to enter the country lawfully. I can't see how we can ask the American tax payer to cover the 54 billion dollar price tag for a proposal to pay for foreign workers whom our economy may not even need and put at risk programs that Missourians rely upon like Medicare and Medicaid."
   Sen. Talent is critical of the proposal because it focuses heavily on immigration and not enough on provisions to secure our borders. Senators Talent, Pete Domenici (R-N.M.) and Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.) recently sponsored the bipartisan Border Security and Modernization Act in order to help secure America's borders with additional manpower, new barriers and high-tech surveillance equipment. Talent's bill authorizes new funds for the acquisition of new technology to assist our Border Patrol, construct roads, fences and barriers along the border, and purchase air assets like helicopters. In addition, the plan would increase resources for border detention centers and will enact stricter criminal penalties for human smuggling, falsifying work/entry documents and drug trafficking.
 
 