SENS. TALENT, REP. EMERSON ATTEND GROUNDBREAKING FOR HOLCIM IN STE. GENEVIEVE COUNTY
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) participated in the groundbreaking ceremony marking the first phase of construction to begin on Holcim (US) Inc. in Ste. Genevieve County. Local elected officials and representatives from the community were on hand for the event, where Sen. Talent and Rep. Emerson announced that hundreds of high skilled jobs will be created as a result of the new plant. 
   "This project will provide job opportunities for hundreds of Missourians while generating new economic growth for the state," said Sen. Talent. "It also demonstrates everyone's commitment to using the highest technologies to protect the environment and our natural resources. This is a great example of what we can accomplish when people work together for Missouri jobs, our economy and our environment."
   "I am happy to welcome a new employer to Southeast Missouri in Holcim," said Rep. Emerson. "Our dedicated workforce, skilled employees and wonderful quality of life will be a great asset to Holcim. I look forward to a strong partnership between the company and the citizens of our region, and I want to thank all of the community leaders who have worked very hard to make this groundbreaking possible." 
   "We want to thank Sen. Talent and Congresswoman Emerson for their work and support for helping us cross the finish line," said Patrick Dolberg, Holcim (US) Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer. "We selected this site in southern Missouri because of its highly skilled work force and strong community support in Ste. Genevieve County." 
   The new Holcim plant is located in Bloomsdale, along the border of Ste. Genevieve and Jefferson counties. Holcim (US) Inc. is one of the nation's leading manufacturers and suppliers of cement and mineral components. The new state-of-the-art plant is expected to create up to 1,000 jobs in the construction sector, as well as 200 permanent jobs when the plant is fully operational. In addition, the plant is expected to produce between 400 and 500 indirect jobs throughout the state.
 
 