GOV. KINDER- SENS. TALENT, BOND, REP. EMERSON ANNOUNCE APPROVAL OF FEDERAL DISASTER DECLARATION FOR MISSOURI
  Acting Missouri Gov. Peter Kinder, Sens. Jim Talent and Kit Bond and Rep. Jo Ann Emerson today announced that President Bush has approved Gov. Blunt's request for an additional federal disaster declaration for 27 Missouri counties affected by the severe storms and tornadoes that swept through the state March 11-13. Sens. Talent, Bond and Rep. Emerson worked this week with the White House to advocate for quick approval of the request. 
   "We are doing everything we can for the people who were affected by the storms and tornadoes," said Acting Governor Kinder. "This is an example of state and federal officials working together to provide assistance for Missourians who need it the most."
   "I'm pleased the Administration has been quick to respond to our request for help for individuals who were impacted by the storms," said Senator Talent. "The delegation has stood shoulder to shoulder with the Governor's office, local law enforcement and FEMA to help make certain the victims can recover as quickly as possible from this disaster."
   "For Missouri communities that have experienced the tragic loss of life and extensive property damage, the President's approval of this disaster assistance is welcome news," said Senator Kit Bond. "It will give communities and individuals the resources they need to start rebuilding their homes and their lives in the wake of these devastating storms."
   "We are very pleased that additional assistance is now available for Missourians who were hurt by this disaster," said Congresswoman Emerson. "Working together with state and local officials, we will continue doing everything we can at the federal level on behalf of the victims."
   Today's action makes federal funding available to affected individuals in the counties of Bates, Benton, Boone, Carroll, Cass, Cedar, Cooper, Greene, Henry, Howard, Iron, Jefferson, Lawrence, Lincoln, Mississippi, Montgomery, Morgan, New Madrid, Newton, Phelps, Putnam, St. Clair, Scott, Taney, Vernon, Webster and Wright.
   Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
   Disaster victims should call 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) for more information about how to access this assistance.
 
 