SENATE PASSES SEN. TALENT'S LEGISLATION TO END INJUSTICE FOR MINORITY-OWNED SMALL BUSINESSES
  Minority small business owners who have often been on the losing side when it comes to competing for federal government contracts will finally get some relief due to legislation sponsored by Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.). Sen. Talent's legislation passed the Senate on Saturday as part of the fiscal 2005 spending package, lifting a very significant paperwork burden off of minority contractors who wish to do business with the government. The legislation provides that once a disadvantaged small business is certified at the federal level it does not have to go through recertification at the state and local levels.  
   "Recertification is a time consuming and expensive process," Sen. Talent said in a speech on the Senate floor. "This legislation will save minority small business people thousands of dollars and in many cases make it possible for them to do business with the government in cases where because of the paperwork burden they have been at a disadvantage."
   "It is without doubt, from a minority business perspective, that Senator Jim Talent was the Most Valuable Player for the 108th Congress," said Harry C. Alford, President/CEO, of the National Black Chamber of Commerce. "This is landmark legislation that will level the playing field for African-American small businesses and others who qualify for the 8(a) program."
   Sen. Talent's legislation applies to disadvantaged small businesses who qualify for the Small Business Administration's Section 8(a) program, a business development program created to help small disadvantaged businesses compete in the American economy and access the federal procurement market. Small business people who qualify for 8(a) certification are mostly African-Americans, Hispanics, women and veterans.
   State and local governments have similar certifications for contracting as a minority contractor with those governments. The recertification process has presented a serious problem for minority small businesses seeking to do business with the government because they have to get recertified today after having been certified under the federal government. 
   Sen. Talent's legislation makes certain that once a minority small business gets federally certified, they are automatically certified as a minority contractor in state or local programs which receive federal funds. 
   Sen. Talent's legislation was supported by the National Black Chamber of Commerce, the National Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Greater Kansas City, the Minority Business Council of St. Louis and the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan St. Louis.
 
 