SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES EFFORT TO GIVE NATIONAL DESIGNATION TO NEGRO LEAGUES BASEBALL MUSEUM
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced he will introduce legislation this week with Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-Mo.) to officially designate the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum (NLBM) in Kansas City, Missouri, as America's National Negro Leagues Baseball Museum. Sen. Talent was joined by Mark Bryant, President of the NLBM Board, for the announcement at the museum located in the historic 18th and Vine District. 
   "Fans of the game from all over the world come to Kansas City to visit the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum," said Sen. Talent. "The museum is also a tremendous source of pride for the people of Kansas City. We should recognize nationally that this museum is the official home of the history of the Negro Leagues. I want to commend Buck O'Neil, Mark Bryant and everyone on the Board for their enormous contributions to the history of the game and to the Kansas City community. I am confident that with their leadership we can pass this measure in the Congress and give this museum the designation it deserves."
   "For 15 years the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum has stood as a testament to the passion, courage and sacrifice of America's unsung baseball heroes," said John "Buck" O'Neil, NLBM Chairman. "Now, thanks to the efforts of Sen. Talent and Congressman Cleaver, we have an opportunity to have this great institution officially recognized as America's repository for Negro Leagues history." 
   "The national designation of the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum in Kansas City, is very important to the future success of the museum as the national repository for the preservation of Negro Leagues history and artifacts," said Mark Bryant, President, NLBM Board of Directors. "The national designation will validate Kansas City as the official home of the Negro Leagues. It will also enhance the museum's ability to collect artifacts, license team logos, expand museum facilities and create additional exhibits. Senator Talent should be commended for his vision and foresight in introducing this important legislation."
   The NLBM was founded in 1990 and is the only public museum in that nation that exists for exclusively portraying the players in the Negro Leagues from 1920 to 1970. Over 60,000 baseball fans from all over the country visit the museum in Kansas City each year. Currently, the NLBM houses a comprehensive collection of historical materials, important artifacts and oral histories of the participants in the Negro Leagues and the impact that segregation played in the lives of the ballplayers and their fans.
 
 