SENS. BOND-TALENT ANNOUNCE $1.5 MILLION FOR TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH AT UNIVERSITY OF MO-ROLLA
  Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent today announced $1.5 million in federal funds for transportation research at the University of Missouri-Rolla. 
   "This is great news for Rolla. These dollars will help the University of Missouri-Rolla continue to be a magnet for top-notch students," said Bond, chairman of the Senate Appropriations subcommittee that funds the Department of Transportation. "A modern transportation system is critical to the future of Missouri's economy. With programs like the one at the University of Missouri-Rolla we can move our roads into the 21st century."
   "Missouri's economy is dependent in part on the quality of our state's transportation infrastructure," said U.S. Sen. Jim Talent. "With this research grant, the University of Missouri-Rolla will be a partner in our efforts to improve our roads now and for the future. Sen. Bond and I worked hard to pass a pro-jobs, pro-growth Highway bill for Missouri that included this designation for Rolla. We will continue working together to meet the transportation needs of Missouri for jobs, economic growth and safety."
   "By training our next generation of transportation innovators and performing vital research, our university centers are critical partners in keeping Missouri and the entire nation moving safely and efficiently," said U.S. Secretary of Transportation Norman Y. Mineta.
   The U.S. Department of Transportation's Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA) will send the University of Missouri-Rolla $1,560,000 in federal funds for transportation research and technology innovation at the University's newly-designated National University Transportation Center (UTC). 
   The University of Missouri-Rolla is one of ten universities to receive a designated National UTC in last year's federal highway bill, which Bond authored as Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Work's Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee.
   Advancing national transportation needs, in particular, the safe and secure movement of hazardous materials to industry and consumers via all modes of transportation is one of the main goals of UTC programs, like the one at Rolla. 
   The UTC program was created in 1988 to meet the nation's need for the safe, efficient and environmentally sound movement of people and goods through research, education and technology transfer. Participating universities are involved in a variety of advanced and applied research ranging from intelligent transportation systems and fuel-efficient vehicle deployment to innovations that will improve passenger safety and reduce traffic and freight congestion. National UTCs are expected to provide national leadership in advancing research and technology solutions to America's transportation challenges. 
   Additional background information about the UTC program can be found online at http://utc.dot.gov.
 
 