SEN. TALENT MEETS WITH MISSOURI FAMILY THAT IS CONQUERING METH ADDICTION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today met with a Missouri family that is overcoming enormous odds to beat the fierce addiction of methamphetamine. Aaronette and Darren Noble, their daughter Summer, and Joey Binckley, Aaronette's son, today appeared before the Senate Finance Committee to discuss how family treatment has helped save their lives and keep their family together.
   "The Nobels are very courageous," said Sen. Talent, who serves as Co-Chair of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. "Aaronette and Darren recognized, before it was too late, that they needed help to save themselves and their family from meth. Thankfully they discovered family-based treatment which has been enormously effective in helping treat meth addicts. One of the worst things about meth is what it does to kids and what it does to families. Even if we stop meth completely - and we are trying - we will be left with thousands of lives that have been shattered by this deadly drug. We need to provide additional funding for family-based treatment to help those who want help and for the children who have been exposed to meth." 
   After numerous attempts at achieving control over their addictions, Aaronette and Darren entered Bridgeway, a family treatment center in St. Charles. Family-based treatment centers combine substance abuse recovery with mental health counseling, medical treatment, parenting training and legal services. Most importantly, these programs serve the needs of the entire family, rather than just the parent. 
   Aaronette and Darren were able to live at Bridgeway for the critical phases of their treatment and attended joint therapy as a couple and with their children. This allowed them to reconnect and rebuild relationships as a family and also to prepare them for life after meth. Perhaps most important, they were able to be reunited with their daughter, Summer, who was under the care of Division of Family Services. 
   "Aaronette and Darren are proof that there are meth addicts who want desperately to get off the drug," Sen. Talent said. "Unfortunately, treating methamphetamine addiction poses challenges unseen in other drug addictions. I am pleased that treatment providers are beginning to address these challenges."
   The Nobel's are supporting Senator Talent's bipartisan effort to provide a $15 million increase for family-based treatment centers that help treat meth addicts. Senators Talent and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) have requested the money. They hope to boost funding from $10 million to $25 million through family-based treatment programs administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA).
   Approximately 10,600 children in the U.S. were either present at lab seizures or lived where meth was being made between 2000 and 2003. During 2002 and 2003, close to 3,000 children were removed from their homes because of neglect or abuse by meth-addicted parents. In Missouri, 31 percent of children in the social services system are there because of a parents' drug offense.
   Family-based treatment programs, established through SAMHSA's Residential Women and Children and Post-Partum Program Initiative have been enormously effective. Studies consistently show that these programs have changed lives by increasing long-term sobriety and helping former addicts lead productive lives.
   Sen. Talent pointed out that most of the 50 centers providing family-based treatments in the country are operating at full capacity and waiting lists are common.
   Earlier this year, the Senate approved Senators Talent and Dianne Feinstein's (D-Calif.) Combat Meth Act, the most comprehensive anti-meth legislation ever introduced in the Congress. The President signed the legislation into law on March 9. Sen. Talent also worked with Republicans and Democrats to add more than $1 billion to the Budget to help law enforcement officials fight methamphetamine.
 
 