SEN. TALENT DISCUSSES PLAN TO HELP LOWER HEALTH CARE COSTS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) this week visited four Missouri small businesses to discuss his plan to help lower health care costs and reduce the number of uninsured Missourians. Missouri's senator outlined his health care plan at small businesses in Cape Girardeau, Kennett, St. Joseph and Columbia. Sen. Talent is a chief sponsor of Association Health Plans (AHPs) legislation in the Senate (S. 406) which would allow small businesses to join together nationally to purchase health care for themselves and their employees at no cost to the taxpayer. Lowering health care costs and helping more people get access to health insurance is one of Sen. Talent's top priorities this year. 
   "The No. 1 problem facing small business in this country today is the rising cost of health insurance premiums," said Sen. Talent. "Two-thirds of America's nearly 46 million uninsured either own a small business, work for a small business or are a dependent of someone who owns or works for a small business. Association Health Plans would help reduce the cost of health insurance to small businesses by 20 percent or more, they would help cover millions of uninsured Americans and they wouldn't cost the taxpayer a penny."
   AHPs would allow national trade associations, such as the National Federation of Independent Business, the National Restaurant Association, Farm Bureau and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to sponsor the same quality health insurance offered by Fortune 500 companies, labor unions and the federal government. Trade groups could then offer these national health care plans to their small business members, who could then purchase health insurance for themselves, their employees and their families.
   Insurance premiums rose more than 9 percent last year and have increased by 73 percent since 2000. AHPs will bring competition, and ultimately lower costs to markets dominated by just a few large insurance companies. The plan would be regulated by the U.S. Department of Labor, which is responsible for regulating hundreds of thousands of health care plans including those sponsored by large corporations, labor unions and the federal government.
   "Missourians deserve access to more affordable health insurance," Sen. Talent said. "This is an idea whose time has come. Small businesses support AHPs, the House supports AHPs, President Bush supports AHPs and its time the Senate passes legislation for the millions of Americans who don't have health care."
   In the Senate, Association Health Plans have been the subject of Senate hearings in the Small Business Committee and the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, which has jurisdiction over the bill. HELP Committee Chairman Senator Mike Enzi (R-Wy.) has agreed to move a bill through his committee that addresses small business health insurance needs.
 
 