SEN. TALENT, REP. CUBIN ANNOUNCE FAMILY-BASED METH TREATMENT LEGISLATION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Rep. Barbara Cubin (R-Wyo.) today announced their plan to provide funding for comprehensive family-based treatment for methamphetamine addicts. Sen. Jim Talent and Rep. Barbara Cubin introduced the Family-Based Meth Treatment Access Act which would provide counseling, medical treatment, parenting training, education and legal services to mothers recovering from meth and their children. 
   "One of the worst things about methamphetamine is what it does to kids and families," said Sen. Talent. "Family based treatment centers, like Bridgeway Counseling Service in St. Charles, Missouri, offer programs that help addicted moms and their kids as a unit, and it works. Treating meth addiction is much more complex than other drug treatments. In too many cases health workers and counselors are helping the kids who were exposed to this deadly drug and the chemicals used to make it. Our proposal will help provide additional funding for family-based treatment to help those who want help and for the children who have been exposed to meth." 
   "Methamphetamine use is skyrocketing across the nation, and my home state of Wyoming is no exception," said Rep. Cubin. "This problem will not just go away on its own. Tougher laws and enforcement are part of the solution, but treatment is just as critical. Family-based treatment is a cost-effective treatment option that recognizes the devastating impacts addiction has on families. I am very pleased Senator Talent has joined me to introduce this important legislation, which will make funding for family-based treatment available to rural and other underserved areas hardest hit by meth."
   The Talent-Cubin legislation addresses a serious component of the meth epidemic. At least 70 percent of the child welfare cases in the U.S., including social services, family courts, foster care and adoption agencies, involve a substance abusing parent. Approximately 10,600 children in the U.S. were either present at lab seizures or lived where the labs were seized between 2000 and 2003.
   Substance abuse is a problem that affects not only the user, but the entire family. Addressing the meth crisis through a comprehensive family-treatment approach yields consistently positive outcomes in child well-being, family stability, and lower recidivism rates. 
   Sen. Talent serves as Co-Chair of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. Rep. Cubin also serves on the House Meth Caucus. Earlier this year, the Senate approved Senators Talent and Dianne Feinstein's (D-Calif.) Combat Meth Act, the most comprehensive anti-meth legislation ever introduced in the Congress. The President signed Talent and Feinstein's Combat Meth legislation into law on March 9. Sen. Talent also worked with Republicans and Democrats to add more than $1 billion to the Budget to help law enforcement officials fight methamphetamine.
   Key Provisions of the Family-Based Meth Treatment Access Act
   * SUPPLIES CRITICAL RESOURCES TO FAMILY TREATMENT PROVIDERS - Provides $70 million each year between 2007-2011 for the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT) to award funding for programs that provide comprehensive, family-based substance abuse treatment for pregnant and parenting women. 
   * PRIORITIZES AWARDS FOR TREATMENT PROVIDERS OPERATING IN UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES - Requires the Director to give priority to programs serving rural and mental health professional shortage areas affected by high rates of meth addiction 
   * PROVIDES ESSENTIAL ASSISTANCE TO PREGNANT AND PARENTING WOMEN TO OVERCOME DRUG ADDICTION - Provides $40 million for each of the fiscal years from 2007 through 2009 and $50 million for fiscal years 2010 and 2011 in Health and Human Services grant funding to provide comprehensive, family-based substance abuse treatment services to pregnant and parenting non-violent offenders as an alternative to incarceration.
 
 