SEN. TALENT CALLS FOR END TO EMBARGO ON U.S. BEEF
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today sent a letter to the Ambassador of Korea and sent a letter to the Prime Minister of Japan urging them to reopen their markets to safe U.S. beef. Sen. Jim Talent, along with thirty-one senators, urged Japan to resume trade of American beef before the Prime Minister visits in June. The senators signed a similar letter requesting Korea to open their market before they begin negotiations on a Free Trade Agreement with the United States. 
   "We've been patient working with Japan and Korea for years and their prohibition of American beef is unfounded," said Sen. Talent, Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "It is time for these countries to lift their unwanted embargoes on our beef. We must continue to be vigilant and aggressive in trade negotiations on behalf of U.S. producers."
   "The cattle industry is extremely frustrated with the ongoing ban on safe beef from the United States into Japan and Korea," said Brent Bryant, Missouri Cattlemen's Association Executive Vice President. "These two countries were some of our best customers prior to this unwarranted ban. We thank Sen. Talent and his colleagues for continuing to provide the appropriate pressure on Japanese and Korean officials."
   In the letters, the senators also pointed out that many American cattle producers and processors have urged Congress to consider trade retaliations if the embargos are not lifted. Prior to a single cow testing positive for BSE in Washington State, Japan was the number one importer of U.S. beef and Korea was third. 
   Japan and Korea immediately closed the borders and trade negotiations have been delicate since. In December of 2005, Japan reopened imports of U.S. beef but soon closed trade. Korea has offered to accept boneless beef but the U.S. continues to push for full market access for all U.S. beef products. 
   U.S. beef represents the single largest segment of American agriculture, accounting for roughly 20 cents of every agriculture dollar, and generating $3 billion-a-year in export business. In Missouri, agribusiness represents the second largest sector of the Missouri's economy and ranks second in the nation in beef production with 2.07 million head of beef cows.
 
 