SENS. TALENT, JOHNSON ADD RENEWABLE FUELS STANDARD TO ENERGY BILL
  In a major breakthrough for producers of ethanol and biodiesel, Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Tim Johnson (D-S.D.) have successfully added an amendment to the Energy bill to establish an 8 billion gallon Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS). Talent and Johnson, both members of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, offered the renewable fuels amendment during a committee meeting on the Energy bill. The amendment would establish the strongest Renewable Fuels Standard ever considered by Congress. 
   "We have been debating a Renewable Fuels Standard for too long," said Sen. Talent, co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus. "This amendment reflects the growth that has occurred in the industry over the last four years while the Energy bill stalled in Congress. Renewable fuels are at the crux of economic growth and jobs; at the crux of energy security; at the crux of consumer benefits; at the crux of environmental quality; and at the crux of value-added agriculture for our producers."
   "Encouraging investment in alternative forms of clean-burning energy, like ethanol and biodiesel, is good for the environment, good for national security and energy independence, and good for job creation in rural America," Sen. Johnson said. "One of every three rows of corn planted in South Dakota is dedicated to ethanol production. Renewable fuels need to be part of our national energy policy. I would like to thank Senator Talent for this strong, bipartisan effort."
   "Senator Talent spearheaded a great victory for the ethanol and biodiesel industries," said Renewable Fuels Association President Bob Dinneen. "Securing an 8 billion gallon renewable fuels standard (RFS) in the Senate energy bill provides great leverage to get a robust RFS to President Bush's desk. This is a great victory for national energy security. But Senator Talent's efforts will also pay huge dividends for farmers and biofuel producers in Missouri. A robust RFS will help Missouri's ethanol and biodiesel industries to grow - thereby creating jobs, increasing farm prices and spurring economic development throughout the state. Senator Talent has earned the thanks and appreciation of everyone working to promote American biofuel production and use."
   The Talent-Johnson amendment creates a phase-in for renewable fuel volumes over 7 years, beginning with 4 billion gallons by 2006 and ending at 8 billion gallons in 2012. The amendment also provides that the renewable fuels requirement in 2013 and after will be no less than the percentage of 8 billion gallons of renewable fuel to the total number of gallons of gasoline in 2012.
   It is estimated that the Renewable Fuels Standard will help create more than 230,000 new jobs in every sector of the economy. 
   The RFS will also help lower prices at the pump over the long term. As Business Week recently reported, "...since the start of the year, the wholesale price of ethanol has fallen more than 20 percent, to around $1.20 a gallon, while black gold is soaring to record highs." Currently, one gallon of ethanol is less expensive than one gallon of petroleum gasoline. When ethanol and biodiesel are blended with petroleum gasoline, they add volume to imported fuels which will make us less dependent on foreign oil.
 
 