SEN. TALENT HOSTS EVENTS TO ILLUMINATE GATEWAY ARCH IN PINK TO HONOR BREAST CANCER AWARENESS MONTH
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today hosted a ceremony to illuminate the Gateway Arch in St. Louis in pink lighting to honor Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Sen. Talent was joined by Evelyn H. Lauder of The Estee Lauder Companies, Gene Kahn of the May Department Stores Company, and Karen Ellis of the American Cancer Society. The ceremony and lighting was sponsored by The May Department Stores Company. This year marks the twentieth anniversary of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. 
   "Lighting the Arch, one of Missouri's most prominent and recognized landmarks, in pink will recognize the millions of women battling breast cancer and those who lost their lives fighting this disease," said Sen. Jim Talent. "We hope to raise awareness about the importance of early detection and prevention. It will also send a message that we are searching for a cure."
   "Breast cancer is a devastating disease, and I am pleased to support efforts to further educate people about its treatment and prevention," said Congressman Jerry Costello. "Most people have either had a family member with the disease or know someone else who has been affected by it. National Breast Cancer Awareness Month is meant to focus our attention on this disease and finding a cure, and the Arch will be a shining testament to this effort."
   Sen. Talent introduced the legislation in the Senate earlier this month and was signed into law by President Bush. Sen. Talent's legislation was cosponsored in the Senate by U.S. Sen. Kit Bond (R-Mo.). Companion legislation was sponsored in the House by Congressman Jerry Costello (D-Ill.). 
   "The idea behind our Global Landmarks Illumination Initiative that bathes famous sites around the world in pink light, is to draw attention to the fact that early detection saves lives and that a cure and prevention are close at hand. It is thrilling to have St. Louis' Gateway Arch join the ranks of such world-famous monuments as The Empire State Building in New York; Niagara Falls in Canada; Tokyo Tower in Japan; the Harbor Bridge in Australia; the Angel of Peace in Germany and dozens of others around the globe. We will continue to light monuments around the world until a cure is found," said Evelyn H. Lauder, Senior Corporate Vice President of The Est?e Lauder Companies and Founder and Chairman of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation. "I want to thank Senator Talent and The May Department Stores Company for leading the way in encouraging other cities across the country to join the fight to spread awareness."
   "Making the Gateway Arch a beacon for Breast Cancer Awareness Month will draw the St. Louis community's attention to the importance of early detection and finding a cure for this disease," said Gene S. Kahn, chairman and chief executive officer of The May Department Stores Company. "We would like to express our congratulations and appreciation to Sen. Talent for his efforts to make this happen and to Evelyn Lauder and The Estee Lauder Companies for raising awareness across the globe through their innovative Global Landmarks Illumination Initiative."
   "Lighting the St. Louis Arch in pink creates a beacon of hope that will illuminate a future when our mothers, daughters, sisters, neighbors and friends will not suffer or die from breast cancer," said Andrew C. von Eschenbach, M.D., Director, National Cancer Institute. "National Breast Cancer Awareness Month is a time to honor the courageous survivors and to spread the word about the importance of prevention and early detection."
   "By shining pink lights on the Gateway Arch, we are also shining a light that honors all those Missourians who are leading the fight against the disease as well as remembering those we have lost to it," said Karen Ellis, Regional Director, Health Initiatives at the American Cancer Society. "Senator Talent's leadership on this initiative and his effort to bring attention to this important issue during Breast Cancer Awareness Month are greatly appreciated."
   "The National Park Service supports the President and Congress, and will follow the intent of the law authorizing the illumination of the Gateway Arch in honor of Breast Cancer Awareness month," said National Park Service Director Fran Mainella. "The Arch, located within the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial, St. Louis, Missouri, will be illuminated in pink for one night only on October 25th at 8:00 p.m. The illumination will follow a brief ceremony sponsored by the May Department Stores Company, the organization that acquired a permit for the event."
   Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death for women in the United States. The American Cancer Society estimates that a woman in the United States has a 1 in 7 chance of developing invasive breast cancer. Researchers have estimated that approximately 3 million women in the U.S. are living with the disease: 2 million who have been diagnosed and an estimated 1 million who do not yet know they have the disease.
   Sen. Talent was approached by Estee Lauder and the May Company to assist them in getting the proper authority from the Department of Interior. The gateway Arch is one of dozens of landmarks across the country that will have been illuminated in pink lighting to advocate breast cancer awareness. Throughout his years in public life Sen. Talent has championed measures to defeat breast cancer which took the life of his mother, Marie Talent, in 1988.
 
 