SEN. TALENT TOUTS LOWER COST OF E-85 AT FUELING STATIONS IN MISSOURI
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today discussed how renewable fuels like ethanol and biodiesel represent a long term solution to helping lower gasoline prices and reducing America's dependence on foreign oil. At an Agriculture Committee hearing today, Sen. Talent pointed out that in Missouri fuel blended with 85 percent ethanol (E-85) is selling at some stations for around 50 cents less than regular unleaded gasoline according to the Missouri Corn Growers.  
   "Renewable fuels are already moderating the price of gasoline as more ethanol and biodiesel plants come online," said Sen. Talent, Co-Chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus. "We are seeing this in Missouri where E-85 is selling for 50 cents less than regular unleaded gasoline. The Energy bill we passed last year was a watershed that ushered in a new era of renewable fuels with the Renewable Fuels Standard. We've taken a big step and now we need continued investment in the infrastructure and distribution of renewable fuels."
   Today, at three MFA Oil stations in Columbia, regular unleaded gasoline is selling at $2.79 per gallon and E-85 is selling at $2.24 per gallon.
   Sen. Talent has promoted renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel infrastructure as low cost alternatives to traditional petroleum gasoline. Last year's Energy bill included the following renewable fuels initiatives sponsored by Sen. Talent:
   7.5 Billion Gallon Renewable Fuels Standard
   Sen. Talent was an architect of the Renewable Fuels Standard included in the Energy bill. Working with Senate Energy Committee Chairman Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), Sen. Talent helped negotiate the Renewable Fuels Standard which would add 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol, biodiesel and other renewables to the nation's fuel supply by 2012. Sen. Talent championed the Renewable Fuels Standard in the Energy Committee, during the floor debate and while the bill was before the Senate and House Conference Committee.
   Talent-Obama E-85 Tax Credit
   Senators Talent and Barack Obama (D-Ill.) added to the Energy bill their bipartisan legislation to increase the availability of fuels blended with 85 percent ethanol. Talent and Obama's legislation provides a tax credit incentive of 30 percent through 2010 for switching one or more traditional petroleum pumps to E-85 fueling systems. E-85 is a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent petroleum gasoline.
   Talent-Lincoln Biodiesel Tax Credit Extension
   Senators Talent and Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) successfully added a measure extending through 2008 the $1.00 per gallon biodiesel tax credit designed to make soybean-based biodiesel fuels cost competitive with conventional diesel fuel. Sen. Talent also worked on this initiative with Congressman Kenny Hulshof (R-Mo.) who was the chief sponsor of the companion legislation in the U.S. House. 
   Talent-Lincoln Small Producer Tax Credit
   Senators Talent and Lincoln also attached to the bill a provision expanding the ten-cent-per-gallon small ethanol producer tax credit to those who produce up to 60 million gallons annually and establishes the tax credit for small biodiesel producers that make up to 60 million gallons of biodiesel per year.
 
 