SEN.TALENT-REP. BLUNT SUPPORT NATIONAL ANIMAL IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM TO TRACK ANIMAL DISEASES
  Missouri Sen. Jim Talent and Southwest Missouri Rep. Roy Blunt support an animal identification program that is restricted to use for tracing and preventing disease in cattle. Friday, August 27, at 2:00 p.m. in the Joplin Regional Stockyards, the USDA will convene a listening post to obtain opinions and views on how a uniform animal identification system should be structured in Missouri. Talent and Blunt requested the listening post for Missouri and are urging livestock producers to take an active part in the discussion. 
   Talent and Blunt agree: "We must have a secure, voluntary, traceability system that can follow the origin of a disease and the path it takes after it is discovered. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), to ensure confidence in the American meat supply, must be in a position to track every animal and premise that comes into contact with a contagious animal within 48 hours. That is only attainable if we have a dependable identification system that USDA can use to track each animal from farm to feed lot and sale barn to processing plant." 
   In July, Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman announced that Missouri was one of 29 states to receive a total of $11.64 million to advance the national animal identification initiative. Missouri's share is $433,064 to cooperate with the development of a National Animal Identification System (NAIS). Each livestock operation would have an individual own identification number.
   "We have the opportunity to build an animal ID network that works for producers, consumers as well as our trading partners," said Talent, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion, which has jurisdiction over food safety and animal health. "This is the cattleman's chance to influence the structure of the new system and ensure the program is a success."
   Congressman Blunt said, "The USDA session recognizes the national prominence of Southwest Missouri's livestock industry that has more cow-calf herds than any comparable region in America. Concerns of cost, confidentiality and liability must be addressed to protect producers from unreasonable regulations."
   After gathering producers comments, Animal, Plant, Heath Inspection Service will work to conduct field trials or research in order to test and fine-tune ID technologies and collect animal movement data that that comply with NAIS data standards. 
   Plans include collecting intra- and interstate animal movement records electronically; integrating data collection technologies at livestock marketing facilities and processing plants; tracking livestock imported from other countries; and electronically collecting animal movement data as livestock are loaded on and off trucks and trailers at their ship-from and ship-to locations.
 
 