SENS. TALENT, BOND REQUEST FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY TO BEGIN DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS IN STORM AFFECTED AREAS
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Kit Bond (R-Mo.) today asked Richard Hainje, Director of Federal Emergency Management Agency Region VII, to quickly act on Gov. Matt Blunt's request that Federal Emergency Management Agency begin preliminary damage assessments (PDA) for Individual and Family Assistance. The Senators ask that the request be expedited for individuals and families that need federal assistance to recover from this devastating storm that struck the St. Louis region last week.  
   "The relief effort in the region has been tremendous as local, state and federal officials have worked together to help those impacted by the storm," said Senator Jim Talent. "The President approved our disaster assistance request within 24 hours which meant federal resources became available quickly for those impacted by the storm. I've had the opportunity to see first-hand the relief efforts in St. Louis and Washington County and to thank our National Guard, first responders and volunteers together with Governor Blunt, St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay and St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley earlier this week. Senator Bond and I want to make certain that FEMA begins the assessment process as soon as possible so individuals and families can have access to additional federal aid to help them recover from the storm."
   "I was pleased that the President acted swiftly on our request for a disaster declaration and I hope today's request will receive the same response," said Senator Kit Bond. "St. Louis families need relief now and federal assistance would be a good start."
   The Senators said in the letter that individuals and families are suffering from the heat and large numbers of people have visited the hospitals with heat-related illnesses. The temperature, coupled with the loss of power to almost half a million residence and businesses, has created a significant health and safety problem within the State of Missouri. 
   Last week, the President approved Governor Blunt's request for assistance, with the support of Senators Talent and Bond, for St. Louis City and Dent, Iron, Jefferson, St. Charles, St. Louis and Washington Counties, all of which are included in the President's emergency declaration.
 
 