SEN. TALENT, REP. GRAVES ASK DOT TO EXAMINE CALIFORNIA'S HIGH OCCUPANCY VEHICLE RULE
  Sen. Jim Talent and Rep. Sam Graves have asked the Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta to examine a new California rule that is not consistent with the recently passed Highway bill. At issue is the standard used to determine which low emission, energy efficient vehicles can use the High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes when the vehicle only has a single occupant. Congress rejected language that would have mandated a specific miles per gallon mark, instead favoring a percentage increase in fuel economy. 
   "It appears the California Air Resources Board tried to pull a fast one in authorizing their fast lane standards before the EPA issued its regulations," said Sen. Talent. "The Congress rejected the miles-per-gallon standard and approved our legislation which would allow the drivers of hybrid vehicles, including larger vehicles like the Ford Escape Hybrid, to use the nation's carpool lanes. The new law empowers governors to regulate their carpool lanes consistent with the regulations established by the EPA. We are asking the Department of Transportation to investigate California's actions as quickly as possible and to report back."
   The Department of Transportation and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) have 180 days after the law is issued to provide regulations for new laws. Since neither Department has finished their regulations it appears that California has acted prematurely in announcing its new rules.
   "The California standard gives an advantage to small hybrid vehicles," said Graves. "The Ford Escape represents tremendous improvements in fuel efficiency for its size of vehicle. We should reward those efforts and not discriminate against them."
   Talent and Graves successfully added an amendment to the Highway bill allowing states to open their HOV lanes to larger vehicles, such as the Kansas City-built Ford Escape Hybrid.
   The Ford Escape HEV is the first hybrid SUV and gets 35 to 40 miles per gallon. That constitutes a 75% improvement over the internal combustion model, making it the most fuel efficient SUV on the road. The Escape is produced at the Claycomo plant in Clay County which employs over 5,000 Missourians.
 
 