SEN. TALENT, REP. LEWIS ANNOUNCE UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS CRIME ACT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.) today announced their bipartisan plan to create two offices to investigate and prosecute unsolved Civil Rights-era murders like the Emmett Till case. Sens. Talent and Chris Dodd (D-Conn.) and Reps. Lewis and Kenny Hulshof (R-Mo.) will introduce the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act this week, which would establish a special section within the Department of Justice and a new FBI office to investigate these cases to bring the guilty to justice.
   "The blatant failure for decades to bring Emmett Till's murderers to justice was and is a national disgrace," said U.S. Senator Jim Talent. "The idea for this legislation grew out of the Emmett Till case and discussions I had with Alvin Sykes, a Civil Rights leader in Kansas City and President of the Emmett Till Justice Campaign. It became clear that we needed to create federal offices to investigate and prosecute unsolved murders that occurred in the era before there was vigorous enforcement of federal law. It's America's obligation to unearth the truth and do justice because there can not be healing without the truth." 
   "There are unsolved cases like the Till case in many states in America." said Rep. Lewis. "If we allow these crimes to go unanswered, we cannot candidly declare we are a nation that believes in justice. By using the resources of the federal government to resolve these crimes, we are saying that historical context is no excuse for brutality in America. And we are reclaiming our integrity as a nation by doing what we can to right these wrongs today."
   "Our nation stands for the principle of equal justice for all. Yet for far too long, many Americans have been denied equal justice - and many despicable criminals have not been held accountable," said U.S. Senator Chris Dodd. "I'm hopeful this measure will help bring to justice people who perpetrated heinous crimes sometimes because of racial hatred. It cannot bring back and make whole those who suffered and died by a racist's criminal hand. But it can at least reaffirm our nation's commitment to seek the truth and make equal justice a reality."
   "Justice needs to be served, regardless of the time that has passed," stated Rep. Hulshof. "As a former prosecutor, I understand that time is of the essence as witnesses become more elderly. It's time to give law enforcement the necessary tools to aggressively seek those who have committed these crimes and focus on these cases that may have otherwise been overlooked without the proper resources."
   "We have a solemn responsibility and special duty to move our governments and communities together in a united credible search and investigation of every unsolved civil rights-era murder," said Alvin Sykes, President of the Emmett Till Justice Campaign, Inc. "Under the bipartisan leadership of Senator Jim Talent and Congressman John Lewis, backed by Senator Chris Dodd, Congressman Hulshof and others, The Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act (Till Bill) creates the best justice-seeking vehicle available to transform this good idea into a great reality." 
   "Thank God we have reached maturity in America today to seek justice after all of these years," said Dick Gregory, a nationally recognized Civil Rights activist. "The Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act will help bring closure. It won't bring our lost loved ones back, but it will start to wipe off a blood stain on American history." 
   The Talent-Dodd-Lewis-Hulshof proposal would create the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office, a new FBI office headed by a Chief Investigator, to focus specifically on investigating unsolved Civil Rights-era murders in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials. 
   The Unsolved Crimes Section, a new office within the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice, will focus on prosecuting pre-1970 cases that resulted in death and still remain unsolved in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials. The Section Chief would be responsible for prosecuting these cases and would be required to report to Congress and the American people on their actions.
   If a crime other than murder is discovered during the course of an investigation it will be referred to the appropriate law enforcement officials. The Section would report its findings to Congress annually on September 30th, the end of the federal fiscal year.
   Key Components of the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act:
   NEW OFFICES FOCUSED ON UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS MURDERS - The Unsolved Crimes Section and the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office will specifically target murders from the Civil Rights era. 
   SEEKING THE TRUTH - Through aggressive investigation, prosecution and reporting, the new Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office and the Unsolved Crimes Section will shed light on the unsolved murders from the Civil Rights-era, allowing victims' families to rest easier knowing the truth.
   INVESTIGATE UNSOLVED MURDERS - The mission of the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office is to aggressively investigate unsolved murders in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials.
   PROSECUTE CRIMINALS - The mission of the Unsolved Crimes Section is to aggressively prosecute criminals in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials.
   REFERRAL OF OTHER UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATIONS - If during the course of an investigation a crime other than murder is discovered, it will be promptly referred to the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice.
   ACCOUNTABILITY TO CONGRESS - The Unsolved Crimes Section Chief will provide a report on its activities to Congress annually on September 30th, the end of the federal fiscal year.
   COMMUNITY RELATIONS SERVICE - The Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act includes an additional $1.5 million per year for the Community Relations Service of the Department of Justice to partner with local communities.
 
 