SENATE PASSES SEN. TALENT'S 'PASS WITH CARE' AMENDMENT
  The U.S. Senate today passed Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.) amendment to address the increasing number of accidents involving parked police vehicles. Sen. Talent's amendment would require the Secretary of Transportation to develop and implement a comprehensive program to promote compliance with state and local "Pass with Care" laws that govern how motorists pass and yield to first responder vehicles. The amendment was added to the Highway bill (H.R. 3). 
   "This amendment will help strengthen the laws to protect our first responders and prevent highway fatalities," said Sen. Talent. "Dozens of police officers and fire fighters have lost their lives in accidents that should have been avoidable. Our legislation instructs the Department of Transportation to develop model legislation to help save lives."
   In a speech on the Senate floor, Senator Talent shared the story of one Missouri law enforcement officer who tragically lost his life.
   State Trooper Michael Newton stopped a vehicle for a traffic violation on May 22, 2003, and as he and the other driver sat in the patrol car, they were both struck by a pickup truck carrying a flat bed trailer. Trooper Newton died at the scene and the person he stopped suffered serious burns. Michael Newton was only 25 years old, and he left behind a wife, two young sons, many loving relatives and a community that was grateful for his service. Sen. Talent's amendment is designed to prevent tragedies like this one.
   In 2003, 193 other people lost their lives in crashes involving emergency vehicles, including 141 lives lost in crashes involving police vehicles, 29 lives lost in those involving ambulances and 24 lives lost in crashes involving fire trucks. 
   According to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund, vehicle-related incidents are the number one cause of police officer injuries and the second-leading cause of deaths. In 2004, 73 out of 153 police deaths were vehicle-related. 
   Sen. Talent's amendment instructs the Secretary to compile a list of best practices to promote compliance with such laws, conduct an analysis of the various State and local laws that deal with the safety of first responder vehicles and from that analysis, develop model legislation. 
   Unfortunately, only 27 states currently have Pass with Care or move-over laws, so this amendment helps give guidance to those remaining states on drafting laws that will help save lives. The Secretary would also be authorized to enter into partnerships with safety organizations and to engage in public outreach to improve first responder safety.
   Sen. Talent's amendment is now part of the Highway bill which the Senate is debating this week.
 
 