SEN. TALENT ENCOURAGED BY FORECAST INDICATING AGRICULTURE EXPORTS ARE EXPECTED TO REACH RECORD $62 BILLION
 Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today said he was encouraged by the United States Department of Agriculture's final export forecast for fiscal year 2004 which indicates sales are expected to reach $62 billion, $5.8 billion more than last year. The increase represents the highest sales ever, eclipsing the old record of $59.8 billion set in fiscal year 1996. 
   "This is very encouraging news," said Talent, a member of the President's Export Council. "It's also a good sign that our work on the Senate Agriculture Committee is having an impact as we promote efforts to open new export markets for our producers. President Bush understands the importance of the agriculture economy in states like Missouri where the value of agriculture exports in 2002 alone totaled $1.18 billion. The Administration continues to partner with us to promote policies that help our producers and create jobs in the agriculture sector."
   Canadaremains the No. 1 market for U.S. agricultural products with exports estimated at $9.6 billion, followed by Japan at $8.9 billion and Mexico at $8.6 billion.
   In fiscal year 2004, Asia is projected to be the United States' largest regional market, with sales there expected to reach $24.5 billion. This compares to $23.3 billion forecast to be shipped to markets in the Western Hemisphere. Exports to China are expected to reach $6 billion, up from $3.5 billion last year. China now is the leading importer of U.S. cotton and soybeans, and also imports large quantities of U.S. wheat and hides and skins.
   Sen. Talent said the Congress must do more to stimulate economic growth in the agriculture sector. Recently he announced his Agriculture Export Advisory Council to establish a dialogue between Missouri's producers, the Administration and representatives of foreign governments.
   "This good news should make us even more vigilant to look for opportunities to open new markets for our producers," said Sen. Talent, who serves as Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "Our producers, and the related agriculture industries, rely on access to export markets to maintain the value of their products. The advisory council will be a sounding board for ideas and initiatives to help expand these markets."
   USDA's Economic Research Service, Foreign Agricultural Service and World Agricultural Outlook Board release agricultural trade forecasts quarterly. The summary and full report of USDA's "Outlook for U.S. Agricultural Exports" may be accessed from the ERS Web site at http://www.ers.usda.gov or the FAS Web site at http://www.fas.usda.gov.
 
 