SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION SUPPORT FOR FARM BILL EXTENSION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today announced that the American Farm Bureau Federation has stated their support to extend the current Farm bill in light of suspension of Doha Round negotiations. The American Farm Bureau Federation, representing producers from across the nation, said that American agriculture should focus on the need to extend the farm program for at least one year. Sen. Jim Talent and. Sen. Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) introduced legislation to extend the current Farm bill until the World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations are complete. The current Farm bill, passed in 2002, is scheduled to expire in 2007.  
   "A Farm bill extension, pending a fair agreement at the WTO, sends a signal to our trading partners," said Sen. Talent, Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "We will not unilaterally disarm farmers and ranchers in Missouri without assurances that we will get real and meaningful reforms from them in return. We must maintain the current framework until we know the rules of the game. I am pleased that Missouri's largest agriculture organization joined with other commodity groups to support an extension." 
   "Given the rising cost of energy, these are especially precarious times for U.S. farmers and ranchers," said Charlie Kruse, President of Missouri Farm Bureau. "With the suspension of the Doha Round, many of our competitors, most notably the Europeans, are hoping the U.S. Congress will move ahead and dismantle our nation's farm programs. An extension of the current Farm bill will not only provide greater certainty to our farmers and ranchers but also expose our competitors' 'hide in the grass' strategy. Extending the Farm bill is the right move and I commend Senator Talent for his leadership." 
   The Talent-Lincoln legislation is cosponsored by Senators Kit Bond (R-Mo.), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), Mary Landrieu (D-La.), Mark Pryor (D-Ark.) and David Vitter (R-La.). The bill will keep the current Farm bill in place for at least one crop year after Congress has approved legislation to implement any eventual Doha agreement.
 
 