SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES GROWING SUPPORT FOR MEASURE TO STOP PREDATORY LENDERS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that more than 70 veterans, civil rights, and consumer organizations are now part of a coalition supporting his bipartisan amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill to stop predatory lending practices targeted at our servicemembers and their families. Sen. Jim Talent's amendment, cosponsored by Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), would limit the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) that predatory lenders can charge soldiers and their spouses for a loan. Some payday lenders have targeted active duty servicemembers who, in some cases, are now paying over 800 percent Annual Percentage Rate on a loan.  
   "Predatory lending has been a staggering problem in Missouri and around the country in areas where our servicemen and woman are stationed," said Sen. Jim Talent, Chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee. "These businesses prey on young military personnel and charge upwards of 800 percent APR on small loans. The Department of Defense has even said that servicemember debt resulting from predatory practices directly impacts troop readiness. We have to step in and stop these predatory lenders from making a quick buck at the expense of the livelihood and future of those defending our freedom." 
   Today more than 70 veterans, civil rights, and consumer organizations called on Congress to enact the Talent-Nelson amendment to protect military families from predatory lenders, who trap servicemembers in a cycle of debt with interest rates that average around 400 percent a year. 
   The letter of support from the coalition stated, "Predatory lending harms military readiness, placing a severe strain on military families - including enlisted personnel, reservists and the National Guard - and unnecessarily distracts officers and non-commissioned officers who should be focusing on their military mission. The Talent-Nelson amendment would improve military readiness and protect all military personnel from rate gouging." 
   In a second letter, The Military Coalition, "?believes this amendment will have a positive impact on readiness. Unregulated predatory lenders represent a serious danger to national security because a servicemember experiencing debt-related stresses may be less focused on the mission - potentially compromising not only his or her safety, but also that of the entire unit." 
   Missouri has the unfortunate distinction of having a relatively large number and high density of payday lenders around its largest military base, Fort Leonard Wood in Pulaski County. St. Robert, a small gateway town near the base, only has 5,200 residents, but eight payday lenders. According to a study conducted by professors at the University of Florida and California State University, examples like St. Robert provide "irrefutable geographic evidence demonstrating payday lenders are actively and aggressively targeting U.S. military personnel." 
   To view the letters of support, click on the following links: http://www.talent.senate.gov/SA4331_Consumer_Support.pdf and http://www.talent.senate.gov/SA4331_Military_Support.pdf.
 
 