SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES OPENING OF JAPANESE MARKET TO AMERICAN BEEF
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today announced that Japan has agreed to reopen its domestic market to American beef.  
   "I am very pleased our producers can once again sell American beef products to Japanese consumers, and it's about time," said Sen. Talent, representing Missouri, which ranks second in the nation in beef production. "The Japanese should have made this decision at least a year ago. That is why I was part of a bipartisan group of senators who recently introduced legislation calling for retaliatory tariffs if the border wasn't opened by the end of August. It's unfortunate that such a step was necessary but I don't believe the Japanese would have acted if farm state senators had not made clear that our patience had run out. Its no surprise the inspectors concluded that U.S. beef is safe. We must continue to be vigilant and aggressive in trade negotiations on behalf of our producers so we can maintain current markets and open new ones for our agricultural products." 
   "Missouri's cattle producers are happy that Japanese consumers can once again enjoy the best tasting and safest beef in the world, U.S. beef," said Brent Bryant, Missouri Cattlemen's Association Executive Vice President. "The Missouri Cattlemen's Association thanks U.S. trade officials, the Administration and our Missouri Congressional delegation for the leadership they have shown. Senator Talent has been very active and vocal in his support our Missouri cattle producers and we thank him for his leadership on this issue." 
   Last month, Sen. Talent introduced bipartisan legislation that would require the Treasury Secretary to impose retaliatory tariffs on Japanese exports if Japan does not reopen its domestic market to U.S.-produced beef by August 31, 2006. 
   U.S. beef represents the single largest segment of American agriculture, accounting for roughly 20 cents of every agriculture dollar, and generating $3 billion-a-year in export business. In Missouri, agribusiness represents the second largest sector of the Missouri's economy and ranks second in the nation in beef production with 2.07 million head of beef cows.
 
 