SEN. TALENT SPEAKS AT CERAMONY UNVEILING NEW SICKLE CELL DISEASE POSTAGE STAMP
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today helped unveil a new Sickle Cell Disease postage stamp that seeks to raise public awareness about the debilitating blood condition. Sen. Talent, a champion for Sickle Cell Disease Treatment legislation in the Senate, was joined by members of the Sickle Cell Disease Association of America and representatives from the U.S. Postal Service to unveil the commemorative stamp.  
   "Raising awareness about Sickle Cell Disease is a big part of our effort to help people get the treatment they need," said Sen. Talent. "The best way to care for patients with Sickle Cell Disease is early intervention for preventable problems. This stamp is another way we are helping encourage early testing for children and supporting treatment for patients with the disease."
   The U.S. Postal Service is continuing its tradition of raising public awareness of health issues. The Sickle Cell Disease stamp will focus on raising awareness, encouraging early testing, treatment and finding a cure. Sen. Talent and Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY) have passed legislation out of the Senate to provide resources to achieve these goals. 
   The Senate approved Talent and Schumer's legislation, the Sickle Cell Treatment Act (S. 874), on May 11. The bill would increase health care access for patients by providing federal matching funds for Sickle Cell Disease-related services under Medicaid making it easier for doctors to treat patients with the disease and increasing state funding for physician and laboratory services.
   Their legislation also enhances the number of services available to Sickle Cell Disease patients by allowing states to receive a federal 50-50 funding match for treatment expenses such as genetic counseling, community outreach and education. 
   Additionally, the bill creates 40 Sickle Cell Disease Treatment centers across the country and establishes a National Sickle Cell Disease Research Headquarters through the U.S. 
   Department of Health and Human Services. This National Coordinating Center will 
   coordinate the research conducted by health professionals and universities to help educate patients with the goal of finding a comprehensive cure for Sickle Cell Disease.
   "This is comprehensive health care legislation that will increase funding for treatment and research efforts, expand awareness about the disease and provide additional services for sickle cell disease patients," said Sen. Talent.
   Sickle Cell Disease affects about one in 300 African-American newborns. It is an inherited defect in blood that causes normally round blood cells to take on a sickle shape. These sickle-shaped cells clog the bloodstream, creating obstructions that result in severe medical complications. The disease affects approximately 70,000 Americans; more than 2,500,000 Americans, mostly African-Americans, have the sickle cell trait.
 
 