SENS. TALENT-ALLEN ANNOUNCE INTRODUCTION OF CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and George Allen (R-Va.) today introduced a constitutional amendment that would empower the President to use the line item veto to either eliminate or reduce appropriations in any bill passed by the Congress.  
   \"The line item veto is a time-tested, time-honored tool,\" said Sen. Jim Talent. \"Our amendment will strengthen the hand of the executive by giving the President the discretion to remove items from appropriations bills that may have been logrolled in by the Congress but are considered wasteful on a national perspective.\"
   \"One of the ways to help curb superfluous spending by Congress is by implementing, on a federal level the power I had as Governor of Virginia to line-item veto wasteful pork barrel projects, said Sen. George Allen. \"Given the challenges we face today in the War on Terror and the long tradition of Congress to lard appropriations with non-essential spending it's important that the President finally have the ability and responsibility to eliminate some of the waste that Congress is so efficient in producing.\"
   The Line Item Veto Act was signed into law on April 9, 1996 and became effective January 1, 1997. President Clinton first invoked the new authority on August 11, 1997, and used the line item veto a total of 82 times before it was ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court on June 25, 1998.
   The Talent-Allen amendment would allow the President to reduce appropriations, a tool that was not included in the 1996 Line Item Veto Act and has not been included in previous line item veto proposals in Congress. 
   Eleven of the 43 states that have line item vetoes allow their governor a similar reduction veto. Studies of those states have shown that a reduction veto is more effective at reducing state spending than the item veto, as the reduction veto prevents legislatures from circumventing spending cuts through so-called \"lump-sum\" appropriating. 
   Senators Talent and Allen said the line item veto is an effective tool to reduce federal spending because it gives Presidents a greater role in the appropriations process, allowing them to be held accountable for the budget, particularly for wasteful spending.
 
 