SEN. TALENT ASKS NASCAR OFFICIALS TO SWITCH TO ETHANOL
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus, today sent a letter to NASCAR CEO Brian France urging him to switch from leaded fuel to unleaded gasoline blended with ethanol for the NEXTEL Cup Series. Sen. Talent sent the letter with fellow co-chairs of the Biofuels Caucus: Sens. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.) and Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.). 
   "The benefits of ethanol use to NASCAR include: enhanced engine performance with reduced vehicle emissions; replaces lead, a known neurotoxin; demonstrates NASCAR's commitment to America; and it's available to consumers nationwide," the senators wrote.
   Sen. Talent's request comes on the heels of last month's announcement that starting in 2006 ethanol will be used to power the IndyCar Series, including the Indianapolis 500. Sen. Talent and others encouraged the Indy Racing League (IRL) for two years to switch from methanol to ethanol. 
   The National Hot Rod Association and the International Hot Rod Association sanction the use of ethanol. Sen. Talent said he is hopeful NASCAR will move quickly to make the switch.
   "The sport of racing has been a leader in automotive and fuel development for decades," the senators wrote. "NASCAR would continue to demonstrate its leadership by moving to an ethanol blended unleaded fuel. This move would send a strong and positive message to racing fans across the country about NASCAR's leadership and commitment to America's energy security, environment and economy."
   Sen. Talent has been a leader in the Senate on renewable fuels initiatives. This week he and Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) introduced legislation to provide incentives for more service stations to dispense E-85. E-85 is a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline.
   Sen. Talent is also co-sponsoring legislation calling for the implementation of a Renewable Fuels Standard, which will phase in renewable fuels over 7 years, beginning with 4 billion gallons by 2006 and ending at 8 billion gallons in 2012. And he is sponsoring tax credit legislation to provide incentives for farmers who invest in small ethanol production facilities and producers who want to expand ethanol or biodiesel plants.
   Sen. Talent is a member of the Senate Energy Committee, the Senate Agriculture Committee and Co-Chair of the Biofuels Caucus.
 
 