SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO ENSURE PASSAGE OF EMMETT TILL BILL
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) in tribute to Emmett Till, whose unsolved murder occurred 51 years ago today, announced his continued commitment to passage of the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act. Sens. Jim Talent and Chris Dodd (D-Conn.) and Reps. John Lewis (D-Ga.) and Kenny Hulshof (R-Mo.) introduced the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act in April, also known as the Emmett Till bill, which would establish a special unit within the Department of Justice and a new Federal Bureau of Investigation office to investigate these cases to bring the guilty to justice. 
   "Some have asked me, 'Why do you want to dredge up the atrocities of the past?' and I've said that I believe every time we go through this process we move closer to uncovering the truth of our past and bringing restoration through justice," said Sen. Talent. "The blatant failure for decades to bring Emmett Till's murderers to justice was and is a national disgrace. It is America's obligation to unearth the truth and do justice because there cannot be healing without the truth. I plan to do everything I can to see this legislation is passed by Congress and signed into law." 
   The Talent proposal would create the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office at the Justice Department and a new FBI office headed by a Deputy Investigator to focus specifically on investigating and prosecuting pre-1970 cases. Cases that resulted in death and remain unsolved will be investigated in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials. If a crime other than murder is discovered during the course of an investigation, it will be referred to the appropriate law enforcement officials.
   "The idea for this legislation grew out of discussions I had with Alvin Sykes, a civil rights leader in Kansas City and President of the Emmett Till Justice Campaign, which led to the introduction of the Emmett Till bill," said Sen. Talent. "It became clear that we needed to create federal offices to investigate and prosecute unsolved murders that occurred in the era before there was vigorous enforcement of federal law."
 
 