SEN. TALENT CONGRATULATES COLUMBIA STUDENT BOUND FOR U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today congratulated Natalie Ann Kirchhoff on her admission to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. She is the daughter of Marc and Ardith Kirchhoff of Columbia. Kirchhoff was nominated to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy by Sen. Talent.  
   "I was very pleased to inform Natalie of her acceptance to the U.S. Air Force Academy," said Sen. Jim Talent, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "Her academic achievements, her character, athletic ability and her leadership skills are the attributes of a successful cadet and an outstanding Air Force officer. I am continuously impressed by the high caliber of the young people I meet around the state, and Natalie is no exception. She joins a long line of young Americans who attended the U.S. Air Force Academy and went on to distinguished careers. I have every confidence Natalie will excel at the Academy." 
   Kirchhoff, a senior at Columbia Independent School, is a member of the National Honor Society and Fellowship of Christian Athletes. She is also involved with Mock Trial competitions and serves as the Co-editor of the Columbia Independent School yearbook, The Pride. Kirchhoff has been awarded many distinctions for her academic and leadership achievements, including the Carol Smith Award for Leadership, Team Spirit, and Swimming Accomplishments. During her athletics career, she has been a member of the Columbia Swim Club, Mid-Missouri Aquatic Club and the Regional VIII Sectional Team. 
   The Academy provides its students with a choice of 32 different academic majors. Students complete a four-year program that educates them both inside and outside of the classroom. They learn through real-world experience and guidance from their professors and it is their vision to be recognized worldwide as the premier developer of aerospace officers.
   "I encourage all students interested in learning more about the Academy nomination process to download an information packet from my Website or contact my Jefferson City office at (573) 636-1070 to request an application," said Talent. 
   For more information about Sen. Talent's military academy nominations, visit http://talent.senate.gov.
 
 