METH COOKS DON'T SUPPORT OUR BILL
  By Sen. Jim Talent
   Meth cooks in Missouri could not have been pleased about legislation recently introduced in the Congress. They now know we have a comprehensive plan to cripple their ability to produce meth and give law enforcement more tools to bring them to justice. 
   I've held 16 roundtable meetings around the state to discuss Missouri's meth problem. Law enforcement agents of all stripes, some with as many as 30 years experience, have told me this drug is the worst threat they have confronted in their careers. It is by far the worst drug I have seen in my nearly 20 years in public life. 
   Meth is highly addictive, highly destructive and highly toxic, which makes it more dangerous than other drugs because the meth cooks make it in our neighborhoods. During the past decade, while law enforcement officers continue to bust record numbers of clandestine labs, meth use in communities has increased by as much as 300 percent. Unfortunately, meth is cheap, potent, and available everywhere. 
   Incorporating the needs of our law enforcement community, I've introduced the Combat Meth Act (S. 103) with Sen. Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat from California. Sen. Feinstein and I have the dubious distinction of representing the states that unfortunately lead the country in methamphetamine production.
   One of the most important features of our bill would move pseudoephedrine, the primary ingredient to make meth, behind the pharmacy counter. Because pseudoephedrine is found in many over the counter cold and sinus medicines such as Sudafed, meth cooks can purchase, or steal the ingredient in large quantities. Our bill says pseudoephedrine must be kept behind a pharmacy counter and sold only by a pharmacist or pharmacy technician. 
   Buyers can purchase up to 9 grams of products containing pseudoephedrine over a 30 day period. Consumers would be required to present proof of identification and sign for the medicine upon purchase. This is without doubt a small burden for consumers, but law enforcement agents have told me it is the only way we can stop the meth cooks from poisoning our communities with this deadly drug. Many Missourians know someone who has been hurt as a result of the meth epidemic. Keeping drugs with the ingredient to make meth behind the counter will keep it out of our schools and neighborhoods.
   Our bill is based on an Oklahoma law passed last year limiting the sale of products containing pseudoephedrine. Since the law's inception, meth lab seizures in Oklahoma have declined by about 80 percent. Missouri's Governor Matt Blunt is also pushing legislation in the state legislature that is based on the Oklahoma law.
   In order to ensure that rural communities without pharmacy access are not negatively impacted, our legislation provides for the Director of the Federal Drug Enforcement Administration to authorize others to sell the medicines so long as they follow the same procedure.
   The Combat Meth Act also provides critical resources to local law enforcement including an additional $15,000,000 under the COPS program to train state and local law enforcement to investigate and lock-up methamphetamine offenders. It also expands the methamphetamine "hot spots" program to include personnel and equipment for enforcement, prosecution and environmental clean-up. 
   We also enhance the ability of local prosecutors to bring meth distributors to justice by providing $5,000,000 to hire additional federal prosecutors and to train local prosecutors in state and federal meth laws. The bill cross-designates local prosecutors who undergo this training as Special Assistant U.S. Attorneys, allowing them to bring legal action against cooks and traffickers in federal courts under tougher guidelines.
   The legislation provides $5,000,000 in grant funding to help children affected by the spread of meth. The funding would go to Drug Endangered Children rapid response teams to promote collaboration among federal, state and local agencies to assist and educate children who have been affected by the production of methamphetamine. 
   To help meth addicts who want help, our bill authorizes the creation of a Methamphetamine Research, Training and Technical Assistance Center which will research treatments for meth abuse and provide information and technical assistance to states and private entities on new treatment options.
   Within days of its introduction, 17 senators co-sponsored the bill and Congressman Roy Blunt of Missouri introduced companion legislation in the U.S. House.
   The expansion of methamphetamine production continues to put a severe strain on federal and local entities. Fighting meth requires a comprehensive approach. The Combat Meth Act is the most comprehensive anti-meth bill ever considered by Congress.
 
 