SEN. TALENT HONORED WITH 'COMMUNITY HEALTH SUPERHERO AWARD'
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) was honored today by the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC) and the Missouri Primary Care Association with the "2006 Distinguished Community Health Superhero Award" for his leadership in helping expand health care access to millions of uninsured and medically underserved Americans. The award is given each year to Members of Congress who have spearheaded efforts to improve health care access.  
   "Senator Talent has been an important voice on behalf of health centers in our state and indeed across the country," said Joe Pierle of the Missouri Primary Care Association. "He understands that health centers are part of the solution to America's increasingly fragmented health care system. With over 45 million people who are uninsured, and 36 million who have no access to basic health care, there are not enough health centers in America for the people who need them. Senator Talent is working hard to ensure that affordable health care is available for all, and not just a few."
   "This is a tremendous honor," said Sen. Talent. "Community Health Centers provide quality care for individuals living in the urban core and other areas that have been historically underserved in health care. I have been pleased to partner with health centers in Missouri and I am optimistic we can build on these accomplishments and do even more to help provide access to health care for the people who need it the most."
   The Community Health Centers program was established to help low-income and medically underserved Americans gain access to quality health care. Today, health centers have a network of 19 Community and Migrant health centers in both urban and rural Missouri with more than 90 comprehensive, community-based health clinics that serve more than 236,000 individuals in over 851,000 visits each year.
   The NACHC strongly supports many of Sen. Talent's top health care initiatives including the Sickle Cell Disease Treatment Act, now law, and his plan to allow small businesses to join together nationally to sponsor health care for themselves and their workers.
 
 