SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES $4 MILLION IN DROUGHT ASSISTANCE FOR MISSOURI FARMERS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) will be sending $4,000,000 in drought disaster assistance to Missouri to help farmers and ranchers cope with this year's drought.  
   "For many years, producers in Missouri have suffered from consecutive droughts. While this is difficult for all sectors of the agriculture industry, our livestock producers have been hit the hardest. I am pleased that Missouri will be receiving this assistance and I thank Secretary Johanns for releasing this much needed funding," said Sen. Talent. "Additionally, I support a $4 billion agriculture disaster assistance package included in the Senate Agriculture Appropriations bill and I'm hopeful we will be able to maintain the funds in the final package." 
   Missouri counties receiving $430,000 in Emergency Conservation Program assistance funding include: Cedar, Cole, Miller, Morgan, St. Clair, Henry and Johnson. Christian County will receive $70,000 for tornado related damage. The funds will be used for existing requests and producers with unfunded contracts should contact their local Farm Service Agency office. 
   Missouri will also receive $2.5 million for the Livestock Assistance Grant Program. The state will distribute the funds to livestock producers in counties that were designated as D3 or D4 on the Drought Monitor anytime between March 7 and August 31, 2006. The grants will help livestock producers restore their purchasing power as the price of hay has increased significantly. A list of eligibility criteria and eligible counties can be found at www.usda.gov by clicking on the drought spotlight. 
   Additionally, Missouri will get $1 million for the Grassland Reserve Program (GRP) to be directed at pending applications in drought areas. The GRP is a voluntary program offering landowners the opportunity to protect, restore, and enhance grasslands on their property. The program creates valuable grasslands and helps maintain viable ranching operations. 
   The drought threatens to do considerable damage to Missouri's economy. Livestock producers have been devastated, and some are being forced to sell their animals. Nearly 75 percent of the pastures in the state are in poor or very poor condition. Missouri has nearly 68,000 farms with beef or dairy cattle and is the second leading state in the nation in the number of beef cows with over 2 million.
 
 