SENS. BOND, TALENT ANNOUNCE $3.3 MILLION IN ASSISTANCE FOR FORMER TWA WORKERS
  Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent today announced that the Department of Labor (DOL) approved $3.3 million in National Emergency Grant (NEG) assistance for laid-off airline workers in Missouri.  
   "Federal assistance funds have been critical in helping the former-TWA and American workers in St. Louis and Kansas City who have been laid-off," said Senator Kit Bond. "This is much needed relief for the hard working Missourians who devoted years of service to TWA. I am pleased that the Administration recognizes the plight of these folks who are working to get back on their feet." 
   "Sen. Bond and I have continued to advocate on behalf of the former-TWA workers in St. Louis and Kansas City and I am very pleased President Bush and Secretary Chao are fulfilling their promise to help," said Sen. Talent. "I've talked personally to workers who have told me this assistance is working and that's why it's so important for us to continue doing everything we can to help the people who dedicated their entire careers to TWA only to lose their jobs after American Airlines bought the company. This is an issue of fairness, and the Administration understands that we must do whatever possible to provide assistance for these men and women."
   The $3.3 million in funds is the second and final increment of the $7.4 million NEG program dollars Bond and Talent helped secure from the DOL in late 2003. The funds will provide crucial funds for job search assistance, job development, job placement, basic skills training, and counseling for the displaced workers.
   Senators Bond and Talent have worked with Secretary of Labor, Elaine Chao to provide federal assistance for the pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and other employees that have lost their jobs as a result of the American Airlines' restructuring plans following its acquisition of Trans World Airlines' in 2001. 
   Missourians have borne the brunt of this restructuring, with more than 10,000 St. Louis based TWA/American employees who have lost their jobs. In addition to the St. Louis job losses, Kansas City workers have also been hit hard. Together, these losses have had a tremendous negative impact on Missouri's economic recovery.
 
 