SENS. TALENT, BOND'S REQUEST FOR WATER QUALITY APPROVED BY SENATE
  Sens. Jim Talent and Kit Bond's request for $500,000 for the Ozarks Environmental and Water Resources Institute at Southwest Missouri State University was approved today by the Senate as part of the 2006 Interior Appropriations bill. Sen. Talent requested the funds to allow the Institute to begin expanded work in the lab and the field and to purchase key water monitoring equipment. 
   "Water quality in the Southwest region is the No. 1 environmental issue facing Missouri," said Senator Talent. "I've been working with local water quality organizations to find long term solutions and SMSU's proposal is key to protecting our water resources. We are committed to providing additional resources to protect the water in the Ozarks region and I will continue to work in the Senate to make certain the funding remains in the bill." 
   "For years SMSU researchers have conducted studies aimed at mitigating the impact of pollution on water resources throughout the Ozarks. The expanded capacity for research that this institute provides will enhance our ability to address the region's water quality issues," said Senator Kit Bond, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that secured the federal dollars for the project.
   "We very much appreciate the second year support for the Ozarks Environmental and Waters Resources Institute," said Dr. John H. Keiser, President of Southwest Missouri State University. "Water quality and water resources are particularly important in southwest Missouri and this funding will help our scientists and researchers continue to work with area groups to ensure the future of this vital resource. We applaud our Missouri Senators, Senator Bond and Senator Talent, for their determination and hard work in obtaining this funding to benefit the citizens of Missouri."
   As part of the College of Natural and Applied Sciences, the Institute will use this funding to conduct applied and basic research focusing on the relationship between land use patterns and water quality and quantity. The Institute will provide education and training services to local stakeholders and policymakers. This is the second year Southwest Missouri State University has received funding for this project. 
   During the past several decades, the Ozarks has experienced rapid growth and economic expansion and as a result of that growth, the water quality of the region has diminished and, in certain locales, the water supply is threatened.
   Senators Talent and Bond's funding must now be reconciled with the House before being signed into law.
 
 