SENS. TALENT-DURBIN SEEK $15 MILLION INCREASE FOR METH TREATMENT
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) are seeking a $15 million increase for family-based treatment centers that help treat meth addicts. Sens. Talent and Durbin sent a letter this week to senators in both parties seeking support for the funding. They hope to boost funding from $10 million to $25 million through family-based treatment programs administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). 
   "Increasing meth treatment funding is critical to fighting the meth epidemic in our neighborhoods," said Sen. Talent. "Treating meth addiction is much more complex than other drug treatments. There is no methadone to help meth addicts. And in too many cases, our health workers are not only treating meth addicts, but the kids who were exposed to this deadly drug and the chemicals used to make it. We need to provide additional funding for family-based treatment to help those who want help and for the children who have been exposed to meth."
   Approximately 10,600 children in the U.S. were either present at lab seizures or lived where meth was being made between 2000 and 2003. During 2002 and 2003, close to 3,000 children were removed from their homes because of neglect or abuse by meth-addicted parents. In Missouri, 31 percent of children in the social services system are there because of a parents' drug offense.
   Family-based treatment programs, established through SAMHSA's Residential Women and Children and Post-Partum Program Initiative have been enormously effective. Studies consistently show that these programs have changed lives by increasing long-term sobriety and helping former addicts lead productive lives.
   Sen. Talent pointed out that most of the 50 centers providing family-based treatments in the country are operating at full capacity and waiting lists are common.
   Sen. Talent serves as Co-Chair of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. Earlier this year, the Senate approved Senators Talent and Dianne Feinstein's (D-Calif.) Combat Meth Act, the most comprehensive anti-meth legislation ever introduced in the Congress. The President signed Talent and Feinstein's Combat Meth legislation into law on March 9. Sen. Talent also worked with Republicans and Democrats to add more than $1 billion to the Budget to help law enforcement officials fight methamphetamine.
 
 