SEN. TALENT PROMOTES BILL TO DESIGNATE LIBERTY MEMORIAL AS NATION'S WORLD WAR I MUSEUM
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo) was in Kansas City today to discuss legislation he sponsored in the Senate to designate Liberty Memorial as America's National World War I Museum. 
   "The Liberty Memorial is a national treasure and an institution in Kansas City," said Sen. Talent. "Our legislation would provide well-deserved recognition for Kansas City which is very proud to have one of the largest World War I collections in the country. I am honored to join with the Liberty Memorial leadership, the VFW and the people of Kansas City who have dedicated their time, energy and resources to the museum." 
   Sen. Talent successfully added his legislation on June 15 as an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill (S. 2400). The defense bill, which includes Sen. Talent's amendment, passed the Senate last Wednesday.
   "The designation, if approved, as America's National World War I Museum, will open many doors for us, both financially and educationally," said Steve Berkheiser, Executive Director, Liberty Memorial Association. "We are very grateful that Senator Talent, as well as the rest of Missouri Congressional delegation, has recognized that the Liberty Memorial is truly a national treasure." 
   The Liberty Memorial Museum is the only public museum in the nation dedicated exclusively to interpreting the experiences of the United States and its allies in the World War I years (1914-1918), both on the battlefield and on the home front. 
   The Liberty Memorial Museum project began after the 1918 Armistice through the efforts of a large-scale, grass-roots civic and fundraising effort by the citizens and veterans of the greater Kansas City metropolitan area. After the conclusion of a national architectural design competition, ground was broken in 1921, construction began in 1923, and the Liberty Memorial Museum was opened to the public in 1926.
   Today, the Liberty Memorial Museum seeks to educate all Americans through its comprehensive collection of historical materials, emphasizing eyewitness accounts of soldiers on the battlefield and Americans on the home front, and the impact of World War I on Americans, then and now. The Liberty Memorial Museum continues to actively acquire and preserve such materials.
   The defense bill, which includes Sen. Talent's Liberty Memorial legislation, will now go before a conference committee where differences between the House and Senate bills will be worked out.
 
 