SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES $195 MILLION IN TAX CREDITS FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the U.S. Treasury Department Community Development Financial Institutions Fund has allocated $195 million in New Market Tax Credits (NMTC) to two Missouri companies. U.S. Bankcorp Community Development Corporation (USBCDE) received $135 million and McCormack Baron Salazar Urban Initiatives CDE received $60 million.  
   "This is great news for Missouri," said Sen. Talent. "Many low-income communities in Missouri have tremendous potential for job creation and urban revitalization. These tax credits will help strengthen underserved communities through opportunities for local economic development."
   The NMTC program stimulates capital investment into urban and rural low-income communities through private-sector investment that finances community development projects, economic growth and job creation.
   "We are the largest New Markets Tax Credit investor in the country because we believe in the economic and social benefits of this program," said Kathy Bader, Chairman of USBCDE. "In many economically disadvantaged areas, it has been the impetus to get America to work, revitalizing factories, creating construction jobs, and spurring small business."
   St. Louis based USBCDC will use the funding to provide equity, equity-like debt, and favorable loan rates for developers. MBS Urban Initiative CDE will use the award to provide gap financing to real estate projects, such as mixed use commercial and housing projects, for-sale housing and community facilities.
   While serving in the House of Representatives, Talent joined with Rep. J.C. Watts (R-Okla.), Floyd Flake (D-N.Y.), and Danny Davis (D-Ill.) to introduce the Community Renewal Act, designed to empower local neighborhood groups, pastors and community leaders by providing the tools they need to create good jobs, housing, new businesses and safe neighborhoods. Sen. Talent's initiative to reduced poverty in America was signed into law in 2000.
 
 