SEN. TALENT CONTINUES PUSH TO ENHANCE WELFARE REFORM
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), Rick Santorum (R-Penn.), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) and Sam Brownback (R-KS.) today unveiled a poverty alleviation agenda for the Senate, which includes an effort led by Sen. Talent to enhance the landmark 1996 Welfare Reform bill.  
   "Welfare reform is a priority for the President and the Senate leadership," said Sen. Talent. "I've always believed the two best anti-poverty programs are work and marriage. The legislation I've introduced builds on the successful work requirements of the 1996 welfare reform law and provides funding for programs that encourage healthy, stable marriages. Passing this legislation will help more people realize the American dream through work, independence and opportunity."
   Sen. Talent introduced the Personal Responsibility, Work and Family Promotion Act, (S. 105), which would require able-bodied welfare recipients to participate in a 40 hour work week, which includes 24 hours of core work, and 16 hours of education, job training and other opportunities to help them become independent. Most Americans work 40 hours every week or more. The goal of the legislation is to help more welfare recipients move from welfare to independence by preparing them for a typical work week.
   The legislation also makes available up to $300 million annually for programs that encourage healthy, stable marriages. These programs include pre-marital education and counseling, as well as research and technical assistance into promising approaches that work. Additionally, the bill protects children by increasing childcare funding and increasing states' flexibility in providing childcare for low-income working families. 
   "The goal of this bill is to continue the progress we began in the 1990's to help people achieve the dignity that comes with a job and to help strengthen families in disadvantaged communities," said Sen. Talent. "The old welfare system was hurting people by discouraging work and marriage. Welfare reform, and now this legislation, will build on the understanding that work and strong families are the foundation upon which we build our future."
   Sen. Talent has been a leader on welfare reform for more than a decade. As a freshman congressman, he introduced the Real Welfare Reform Act of 1994, a bill which subsequently became the basis for the historic bipartisan welfare reform bill, the Personal Responsibility Act of 1996. 
   Other elements of the poverty alleviation agenda include boosting charitable giving, promoting incentives to encourage food donation and delivery, encouraging the rehabilitation and construction of affordable housing, leveling the playing field for faith-based organizations, permanently eliminating the unfair tax on married couples, making the child tax credit permanent and other anti-poverty initiatives.
 
 