SEN. TALENT URGES CONGRESS TO PASS WATER INFRASTRUCTURE LEGISLATION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today joined agriculture and labor groups to urge passage of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), S. 728, to modernize the Mississippi and Illinois River lock and dam system. Sen. Talent advocated for the bill's passage with Sens. Kit Bond (R-Mo.), Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and representatives from the National Corn Growers Association, Midwest Area River Coalition 2000, and the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, who all stressed the importance of the bipartisan legislation.  
   "Ignoring the fact that our locks and dams need repairs and upgrades is like ignoring a hole in your roof," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Waterways Caucus. "It will be a lot more costly down the road to make theses necessary repairs unless we do something about it now. We need to bring these locks into the 21st Century."
   Sen. Talent is seeking a Senate vote on the Water Resources Development Act which would modernize deteriorating locks and dams along the nation's waterways. The legislation would increase the lock capacity on the Upper Mississippi and Illinois Rivers and begin an ambitious program of ecosystem restoration. The measure is also expected to create more than 48,000,000 man-hours of employment over 10 to 15 years through construction of new 1,200-foot locks and lock extensions. 
   "The modernization of our water infrastructure is critical to our economy," said Sen. Talent. "This legislation means jobs for Americans and it allows us to maintain our ability to efficiently move products and commodities on the Mississippi River while protecting the environment. We must pass this legislation now to make the necessary updates to our locks and dams for Missourians who depend on the river for their livelihood."
   The Upper Mississippi River and Illinois Waterway carry approximately 60 percent of the country's corn exports and 45 percent of our soybean exports. One medium barge tow can carry the same freight as 870 tractor trails trucks, which relieves highway congestion, reduces shipping costs, and reduces fuels consumption and air emissions.
 
 