SEN. TALENT TAKES TO SENATE FLOOR TO SUPPORT OIL EXPLORATION IN THE ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Energy Committee, today took to the Senate floor to support oil exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) as one solution to reducing America's dependence on foreign oil. The plan, which is strongly supported by business groups and labor unions, could create more than 14,000 Missouri jobs. The Senate is expected to vote on the ANWR proposal this week as part of budget plan. 
   "Exploring for oil in the Arctic is a pro-jobs, pro-growth plan that will reduce America's dependence on unreliable foreign sources of oil," said Sen. Talent. "We can explore for oil in the Arctic in an environmentally-sensitive way, using the highest technologies, while creating jobs and helping reduce gas prices and home heating costs over the long term."
   There are a number of powerful reasons for exploring for oil in the ANWR. The ANWR is the single greatest prospect for onshore oil and gas development in the United States. 
   The U.S. Department of Interior estimates that between 9 to 16 billion barrels of recoverable oil is available in a tiny portion of the ANWR. At peak production, ANWR could produce more oil than any state in the nation, including Texas and Louisiana.
   The ANWR plan is strongly supported by business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and labor unions, including the Missouri Laborers who represent 13,000 members, and the Carpenters District Council of Greater St. Louis who represent 22,000 members, as well as the Teamsters Union.
   Due to enhancements in technology, we can explore for oil with minimal impact on the environment. The ANWR covers 19.6 million acres. Of this area, 17 million acres are completely off-limits to any kind of development, and only 2,000 acres - roughly the size of a large airport - are needed to explore for oil.
   "We shouldn't cut ourselves off from our own resources when the alternative is greater dependence on foreign oil extracted without regard for the environment," Sen. Talent said.
   Sen. Talent added that exploring for oil in the ANWR isn't the only solution. To help boost natural gas production, Sen. Talent is leading an effort to open a portion of the Gulf of Mexico to access domestic gas supplies. 
   In a bipartisan letter, Sen. Talent and eleven senators asked President Bush to direct the Secretary of Interior to exercise her authority under current law to lease lands for oil and natural gas development and production within the area commonly referred to as the original "Lease Sale 181" in the Gulf of Mexico.
   According to the Interior Department's Minerals Management Service, natural gas production in this region will increase supplies by 6 trillion cubic feet, which is enough to heat 6 million homes for 15 years.
   Sen. Talent said another solution to help lower gas prices and reduce our energy independence is renewable fuels. Sen. Talent was an architect of the nation's first-ever Renewable Fuels Standard which will add 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel, to the nation's fuel supply by 2012. 
   Senators Talent and Tim Johnson (D-S.D.) led the successful effort in the Energy Committee against the big oil companies who opposed the Renewable Fuels Standard. As a result, the Renewable Fuels Standard was approved as part of the bipartisan Energy bill, now law.
   "Passing the Energy bill which stalled for four years, supporting renewable fuels, boosting production of natural gas and exploring for oil in the ANWR is a pro-production, pro-jobs, pro-growth package to help reduce energy prices over the long term for Missourians," said Sen. Talent.
 
 