SENS. TALENT, BOND, REP. HULSHOF ANNOUNCE HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS DESIGNATION FOR FOUR ADDITIONAL MISSOURI COUNTIES
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Rep. Kenny Hulshof (Mo.-9) today joined Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Director John Walters in announcing the designation of Franklin, Jefferson, Cole, and Boone Counties as part of the Midwest High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program. The Congressmen said the designation will bring an additional $500,000 in funding to coordinate all levels of law enforcement activities against drug trafficking throughout the Midwest High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas.  
   "Methamphetamine is the worst drug I've encountered in my nearly 20 years in public life and it's destroying lives all over states like Missouri," said Sen. Talent. "We can do something about it by assisting local law enforcement and the efforts they tell us will work. This new designation will make resources available to our sheriffs and local law enforcement working to combat meth trafficking and distribution in their communities. We need to get ahead of the meth problem, which is why this funding is so important."
   "The meth epidemic is not just confined to our inner cities and hard-core users. It is common in small towns, and suburbia, even among families with children. All of us - law enforcement, federal, state and local officials - are continuing to attack the meth problem on many fronts," said Sen. Kit Bond. "This new designation will be another weapon in the arsenal of Franklin, Jefferson, Cole and Boone counties as they fight the menace of illegal drugs." 
   "We have made tremendous progress in the fight against drug producers and traffickers," said Rep. Hulshof. "Unfortunately, because of Missouri's major highways, we remain a hotspot for people transporting these illegal drugs. This designation will help coordinate efforts between federal, state and local law enforcement. The more these authorities work together, the better it will position us to fight back. I'm pleased that the federal government recognizes the unique needs of these counties and has given this designation." 
   "Missourians can be proud that their state has made significant progress reducing methamphetamine production and use," said Director Walters. "But the threat from Mexican drug trafficking organizations looms large. By designating Franklin, Jefferson, Cole, and Boone Counties as part of the Midwest HIDTA, we can leverage the progress already made and more effectively push back against individuals and organizations seeking to use the area as a transit corridor for drugs." 
   Law enforcement officials in the newly designated counties will use the new federal resources to coordinate investigations and interdiction efforts against local clandestine methamphetamine labs and Mexican cartels using Interstates 70, 55 and 44 as key transit corridors for illegal drugs. These violent drug trafficking organizations ship multi-kilogram quantities of methamphetamine and other drugs into and through the region. 
   The HIDTA program designates regions which exhibit serious drug trafficking problems and harmfully impact other areas of the country, providing additional federal resources to those areas to help eliminate or reduce drug trafficking. Currently, the following Missouri counties are included in the Midwest HIDTA designation: Boone, Cape Girardeau, Christian, Clay, Cole, Franklin, Jackson, Jefferson, Lafayette, Lawrence, Ray, Scott, St. Charles, Greene, Benton, Buchanan, Jasper, Texas, Platte, Marion and St. Louis.
 
 