SEN. TALENT, REP. BLUNT INTRODUCE COMBAT METH ACT TO STOP DEADLIEST DRUG IN MISSOURI
  Sen. Jim Talent and Rep. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) today announced they have filed legislation to provide Missouri and other states with new resources to stop the production and distribution of the deadliest drug in the state. Talent and Blunt's comprehensive Combat Meth Act provides critical funding for law enforcement and prosecutors and increases community awareness, education and new treatment options for those recovering from a methamphetamine addiction. 
   "Missouri currently leads the country in meth production," said Sen. Talent. "With this legislation our local law enforcement will have the opportunity to lead the country in cracking down on meth dealers. Our bill says if you're addicted to meth and want help, we will help you. But if you cook or sell meth, you're going to jail."
   Blunt, the House Majority Whip, said, "Sheriffs and prosecutors in Southwest Missouri have told me that at least a third to more than half of all their reported crimes are meth related. Meth is responsible for murders and assaults and thefts and burglaries used to support an addiction." He added, "The Combat Meth Act is based on their suggestions to provide law enforcement with more tools in this battle. There are additional dollars to aid in jailing the cookers and tracking the pseudoephedrine used in making meth. There is also new money included for helping children living in homes with meth labs that expose them to harmful chemicals." 
   A key feature of the Combat Meth Act is the creation of a two state Pilot Program that will provide $5 million to help prosecute meth offenders. It requires participating states to enhance their laws to require mandatory minimum sentences and bail restrictions for meth cooks and dealers to ensure that they are removed from the streets. Talent and Blunt said it is likely Missouri could be selected to participate in the Pilot Program due to the state's escalating meth problem.
   The Combat Meth Act empowers the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide grants to state agencies and to non-profit private entities to help treat those addicted to meth.
   Talent and Blunt's proposal also provides an additional $20 million under the COPS program to train state and local law enforcement and prosecutors to lock-up meth offenders. It provides $10 million to train local law enforcement by the Clandestine Laboratory Training Facility of the DEA. Additionally, the bill provides $1 million to hire additional federal prosecutors and to train local prosecutors to better understand state and federal meth laws, giving them the authority to prosecute meth cooks and traffickers under tougher guidelines. Finally, it provides $1 million to develop rapid response teams to help kids exposed to meth, and $1 million for a system to monitor suspicious purchases of meth ingredients.
   Missourileads the country in meth production. The National Clandestine Laboratory Database managed by the DEA said Missouri had the most lab seizures in 2003, with California in second place. 
   During the past decade, while law enforcement officers continue to bust record numbers of clandestine labs, meth use in communities has increased by as much as 300%. Meth is cheap, potent, and available everywhere.
 
 