SEN. TALENT HIGHLIGHTS DIVERSITY IN STATEWIDE AGRICULTURE TOUR OF MISSOURI
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, is traveling the state this week on his annual statewide Missouri agriculture tour. On the tour, Sen. Jim Talent is visiting with a diverse group of agriculture organizations and producers to highlight the importance of the industry to Missouri's economy. 
   "This tour gives me the opportunity to meet one-on-one with farmers, producers and leaders in the agriculture industry across Missouri," said Sen. Talent. "The agricultural products we grow and raise locally are some of the most diverse in the country. Its important to pay tribute to Missouri producers who are doing their part to make certain America continues to have the safest, most abundant and affordable food supply in the world. I will also use this as an opportunity to discuss the upcoming 2007 Farm bill, and get input as we begin work on the legislation."  
   On the agriculture tour, Sen. Talent is traveling to the following cities: 
   Kansas City Board of Trade 
   Sen. Talent will hold a meeting with local agribusiness leaders at the Kansas City Board of Trade (KCBOT) and ring the opening bell to start trading 9:30 a.m. The KCBOT was founded in 1856 by a group of Kansas City merchants and is known for wheat trading. It is located in one of the most productive wheat producing regions of the world. Today, more than 10 billion bushels of wheat change hands on the exchange every year. 
   Harrison Fish Farm - Hurdland 
   Sen. Talent is taking an aquaculture tour at the Harrison Fish Farm in Hurdland. The farm raises, black crappie, bluegill, bullhead, muskie, and a variety of other fish. One of Harrison's largest markets is selling live catfish, largemouth bass, grass carp and tilapia to Chinese markets in Chicago, St. Louis and Kansas City. 
   New Madrid City Harbor 
   Sen. Talent will visit the New Madrid City Harbor and discuss the sediment accumulation issue with local government leaders and harbor agriculture vendors. The harbor is a key component of the transportation infrastructure system which provides market access for local agriculture producers. Barges use the harbor for loading to ship commodities down the Mississippi River and the continued sediment buildup in the harbor could present significant shipping challenges if not addressed. 
   Kevin Mainord Farm - East Prairie 
   Sen. Talent will visit the Kevin Mainord Farm in East Prairie as they shell corn. Sen. Talent will discuss renewable fuels with local farmers from Mississippi County during the tour. There are currently three ethanol production plants operating in Missouri with an additional plant to open on Monday in Laddonia. Several ethanol plants are in the planning stages for Southeast Missouri. The Mainord Farm produces corn, soybeans, wheat and seed corn on 4,800 acres. 
   Missouri Farms Dairy - Golden City 
   Sen. Talent will tour Missouri Farms Dairy, Inc., a new generation business formed by over 150 Missouri farmers. The dairy facility, located in Southwest Missouri, has been renovated to include three freestall barns, a 32 stall rotary parlor, nutrient management system and a feed barn. The farm is designed to handle 1,200 head of cattle with 1,100 being milked three times per day. 
   Dairy Farmers of America Technology Center - Springfield 
   Sen. Talent will tour Dairy Farmers of America (DFA) Technology Center in Springfield. The center allows DFA customers to utilize lab space for research and development of new dairy products that will eventually end up on grocery store shelves. The space available to customers at the center includes private offices, research and development labs, a small-scale pilot test plot and a sensory lab. The research and development conducted at the facility results in products 
   Stone Hill Winery - Hermann 
   Stone Hill Winery, established in 1847, was at one time the second largest winery in the nation. Today they grow 145 acres of wine grapes, produce 90,000 cases of wine and operate three winery locations and a restaurant. The winery is a major employer in the region, with 85 full-time employees. During the peak tourism and farming season they employ more than 150 people. 
   Two Mile Pork - Monroe City 
   Sen. Talent will tour Two Mile Pork, a value added agriculture facility in Monroe City. The farm is currently looking into the prospect of partnering with PNC Products LLC to work on efficient ways of converting animal waste into plastics. The intended commercial use for plastic of this type would be for livestock related use. Missouri ranks sixth in the nation in pork production.
 
 