SEN. TALENT MEASURE SIGNED INTO LAW WILL ALLOW CAMP FOR INNER CITY KIDS TO JOIN SUMMER FOOD PROGRAM
  A Missouri camp that helps disadvantaged children in St. Louis will now be allowed to provide meals to kids as part of the summer food program thanks to a measure sponsored by Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.). Sen. Talent was in St. Louis today to see off a group of children on their way to Camp Penuel, and joined with leaders of the camp to commemorate the passage of the provision which was recently signed into law. 
   "Camp Penuel is doing a great service on behalf of children living in impoverished neighborhoods," said Talent. "Each summer, thousands of kids enjoy the camp's activities including swimming, hiking, fishing, sports and arts and crafts. For many children, a week at Camp Penuel is the highlight of their summer. The bill we approved makes it easier for Camp Penuel to continue providing nutritious meals to at-risk kids by removing a paperwork barrier that has prevented the camp from participating in the summer food program."
   CampPenuel, located in Ironton, provides a totally free camping experience for inner city, disadvantaged and abused children ages 7-11.
   The kids who attend Camp Penuel are already eligible for the School Lunch and Breakfast Programs during the school year. However, in order for them to access meals as part of the summer food program, a qualified provider must obtain the appropriate paperwork, many times from the kids themselves, and supply it to the government for reimbursement.
   Because Camp Penuel provides meals to a different group of children each week, and due to the large number of kids who attend the camp each summer, gathering this information in advance is a tremendous burden. The camp, which is run entirely on donations, currently purchases the children's meals using donated funds. Sen. Talent's measure makes Camp Penuel eligible for the summer food program without the burdensome paperwork requirement.
   Sen. Talent, a member of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, added the Camp Penuel provision to the Child Nutrition bill (S. 2507) when the legislation was before his committee. The bill was approved by the Senate and the President signed it into law on June 30.
 
 