SENATE APPROVES SEN. TALENT'S PLAN TO STOP PREDATORY LENDERS FROM TARGETING OUR TROOPS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the Senate has approved his provision to stop predatory lenders from targeting servicemembers and their families. Talent's legislation, cosponsored by Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), passed the Senate unanimously in June as an amendment to the Senate Defense Authorization bill. The measure calls for a 36 percent annual interest rate cap on loans to servicemembers and their families that is consistent with the recent recommendations by the Department of Defense.
   "This is a great day for military families in Missouri and throughout the country," said Sen. Talent, member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "We need to enact these new protections for our troops and their families because a growing predatory lending problem has impacted our operational readiness. Our measure protects the servicemen and women who put so much on the line to protect us. For years, our strong coalition of supporters has been steadfast in seeing this measure get this far, and I'm confident it will be signed into law." 
   "I couldn't be happier that my colleagues in the House and Senate were able to set politics aside and pass this important measure to protect our troops," said U.S. Representative Sam Graves. "I have been working to pass these essential consumer protections for our troops for two years. We have an obligation to protect our servicemembers here so they can focus on protecting us oversees." 
   "Predatory lenders directly affect the military's Operational Readiness," said Mark Seavey, Assistant Director of the National Legislative Commission of the American Legion. "The military identified personal financial issues as one of the most important issues facing military families. Congress has an obligation to protect military servicemen and women from these types of predatory lending tactics. This is very important legislation that would provide new consumer lending protections for all members of the U.S. Armed Forces."
   "Today our military, and the veterans and consumer and civil rights groups that stood up with it, have won a tremendous victory," said Michael D. Calhoun, President of the Center for Responsible Lending. "Let there be no mistake: Senators Jim Talent and Bill Nelson with their amendment have protected thousands of service members and their families from financial catastrophe and misery - the people who have the most important job in our country: keeping us safe every day."
   "This is great news for our service men and women and their families, passage of this measure is a large step forward in protecting them from those who prey upon their finances," said Terry Scott, retired Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy. "Too many of our military personnel were ensnared in these traps in the past, especially when they were financially vulnerable. This will go a long way in ensuring that they are directed towards reputable lenders and military relief societies and away from the temptation of those whose unscrupulous practices have taken advantage of our personnel for too long. With a more favorable financial future, our Sailors, Soldiers, Airmen and Marines will now be able to focus on the mission rather than the distraction created by predatory lenders. Leaders in our military will now be able to focus their time and energy which was spent dealing with these financial problems to other more productive areas. I see this as a big win for our military, our personnel, and their families and for the nation."
   "This historic legislation will protect members of the military and their families from financial predators who destroy their finances, damage their morale and undermine military readiness," said Jean Ann Fox, Director of Consumer Protection for the Consumer Federation of American. 
   "This is an important provision in the Defense Authorization bill because unregulated predatory lenders represent a serious danger to national security, and this is a major concern in the Sea Services senior enlisted communities," John R. Davis, Director of Legislative Programs Fleet Reserve Association. "A service member experiencing debt related stresses may be less focused on the mission and compromises not only his or her safety, but also that of the entire unit."
   More than 80 military, consumer, and civil rights groups support the legislation including: the Association of the United States Army (AUSA), Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Navy League of the United States (NLUS), Air Force Association (AFA), Marine Corps League (MCL), American Legion, and Fleet Reserve Association (FRA), National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Center for Responsible Lending, Consumer Federation of America, and Institute of Consumer Financial Education.
   The conference report was approved by the House and must now be sent to the President for his signature to become law.
 
 