SEN. TALENT DISCUSSES FUTURE OF FAMILY FARMING AT DELTA CENTER FIELD DAY
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today spoke at the Delta Center Appreciation Breakfast in Portageville as part of the annual Delta Center Field Day. The Delta Center is a key Missouri agriculture research facility located in Portageville. The center's leadership partners with area producers and local leaders to fund critical agriculture research, including efforts to help develop value-added enterprises for our producers. 
   "I want to thank everyone at the Delta Center for their hard work on behalf of Missouri agriculture," said Sen. Talent. "Every time I visit the Delta Center I am always encouraged about the future of family farming in Missouri. It's a bright future because of the leadership of our producers and the research that goes on here and the people who support that research."
   The 1,024 acre Delta Research Center is part of the University of Missouri-Columbia. The University of Missouri's cotton and rice production research is conducted at the Delta Center. Scientists at the Delta Center also conduct research on soybean cropping systems, weed, insect and disease control in all crops and variety evaluations. Delta Center scientists have also gained recognition for developing improved soybean varieties.
   In his remarks, Sen. Talent also discussed his success in adding a Renewable Fuels Standard for ethanol and biodiesel to the comprehensive Energy bill. The Renewable Fuels Standard will add 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol, biodiesel and other renewables to the nation's fuel supply by 2012. The President signed the Energy bill into law on August 8. 
   "Renewable fuels are at the heart of economic growth and jobs for the future; at the heart of energy independence from foreign energy producers; at the heart of environmental 
   quality; and at the heart of value-added agriculture for our family farmers and producers," Sen. Talent said, a member of the Senate Energy Committee.
   Sen. Talent also discussed the upcoming Farm bill and his efforts to make certain the ideas and concerns of Missouri producers are heard. As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Sen. Talent will play a key role in developing agriculture and conservation policy in the next Farm bill.
 
 