SEN. TALENT PLEASED WITH FOCUS ON HEALTH CARE & ENERGY ISSUES IN STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) tonight said he is pleased the President is focusing his attention on the need to lower health care costs and promoting America's energy independence by supporting renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel.  
   In tonight's State of the Union Address, President Bush discussed his support for legislation Sen. Talent is sponsoring to establish national Association Health Plans (AHPs). 
   "I thought it was a great speech. The President focused on health care and the need to lower health insurance costs which is an issue I constantly hear about when I'm visiting with Missourians. I'm very pleased he talked about legislation I'm sponsoring in the Senate to allow small business men and women to join together nationally to purchase health care plans for themselves and their workers. Our plan will help lower the cost of health care and reduce the number of uninsured by millions, all at no cost to the taxpayer.
   The President also discussed another priority for Sen. Talent: renewable fuels. Sen. Talent said the Renewable Fuels Standard included in the Energy bill provided the foundation for the President's proposals on renewable fuels. The Renewable Fuels Standard, which Sen. Talent added to the Energy bill in Committee last summer, will add a minimum of 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels like ethanol and biodiesel to the nation's fuel supply by 2012.
   "The President understands that the only way to have energy security is to be more energy independent. The Energy bill we passed last summer will help lower energy prices over the long term for consumers by diversifying our energy supply and promoting energy of all kinds. I'm very pleased the President set a long term goal for renewable fuels which is great for our producers and Missouri jobs. This will build on our success last year in establishing the nation's first standard for ethanol and biodiesel. Renewable fuels are key to reducing our dependence on foreign oil and lowering the price of gasoline over the long term."
 
 