SEN. TALENT AWARDED TOP HONOR FOR LEADERSHIP ON BEHALF OF MINORITIES & SENIORS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) has received the Troy D. Cole Leadership Award for his legislative efforts on behalf of minorities and seniors. The Paula J. Carter Center on Minority Health and Aging presents the award to a Missourian who has shown extraordinary efforts in promoting and working towards greater diversity through public policy and program development. Sen. Jim Talent was honored at Lincoln University in Jefferson City, during a ceremony marking the 10th Missouri Institute on Minority Aging (MIMA).  
   "It's been an honor to work in the Senate on these issues and I'm proud of this award," said Sen. Talent, who accepted the award from Washington where there are votes scheduled in the Senate. "I've appreciated the opportunity to partner with Lincoln University and to work with Republicans and Democrats in the Senate for an agenda to improve the quality of life for the African-American community and for our seniors. The Paula J. Carter Center on Minority Health and Aging in particular deserves a lot of credit for providing quality services for seniors living in the areas that have been historically underserved in health care. I am optimistic we can do even more to help lower the cost of health care and provide greater access to care for the people who need it the most." 
   "I think when you look at the legislators and what they've done for minorities and the elderly in Missouri, no one is working harder than Senator Talent," said Mark McCarthy of Lincoln University's Cooperative Extension.
   MIMA provides training and educational guidance for improving the quality of life of minority, and underserved seniors. Sen. Talent was honored for his work on the Sickle Cell Treatment Act, now law, which increases funding for treatment and research efforts for the disease. He was also recognized for his leadership on legislation to allow Small Business Health Plans which would empower small business people to join together through their trade associations to purchase quality, affordable health care for themselves as well as their families. Sen. Talent was also an instrumental supporter of the new Medicare prescription drug program to give Missouri seniors access to quality prescription drug coverage. 
   The Troy D. Cole Leadership Award was named in memory, and in honor of the late Troy D. Cole, Assistant to Lt. Governor Roger B. Wilson in 1998. Past Recipients include State Senator J.B. "Jet" Banks, William H. Mallory, Troy D. Cole, State Senator Paula J. Carter, Lt. Governor Roger Wilson, Ben Germany, Mona Perry, Lt. Governor Joe Maxwell and State Representative Connie Johnson.
 
 