SEN. TALENT'S UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS CRIME ACT PASSES KEY COMMITTEE
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced the Senate Judiciary Committee approved his bipartisan plan to create two offices to investigate and prosecute unsolved civil rights-era murders like the Emmett Till case. Sens. JimTalent and Chris Dodd (D-Conn.) and Reps. John Lewis (D-Ga.) and Kenny Hulshof (R-Mo.) introduced the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act in April, which would establish a special section within the Department of Justice and a new Federal Bureau of Investigation. office to investigate these cases to bring the guilty to justice. 
   "The blatant failure for decades to bring Emmett Till's murderers to justice was and is a national disgrace," said U.S. Senator Jim Talent. "The idea for this legislation grew out of the Emmett Till case and discussions I had with Alvin Sykes, a civil rights leader in Kansas City and President of the Emmett Till Justice Campaign. It became clear that we needed to create federal offices to investigate and prosecute unsolved murders that occurred in the era before there was vigorous enforcement of federal law. It's America's obligation to unearth the truth and do justice because there can not be healing without the truth." 
   "There are unsolved cases like the Till case in many states in America." said Rep. Lewis. "If we allow these crimes to go unanswered, we cannot candidly declare we are a nation that believes in justice. By using the resources of the federal government to resolve these crimes, we are saying that historical context is no excuse for brutality in America. And we are reclaiming our integrity as a nation by doing what we can to right these wrongs today." 
   "It is critically important that we right the wrongs of the past and bring to justice the people who perpetrated heinous crimes predicated on racial hatred," said Sen. Dodd. "While we cannot bring back and make whole those who suffered and died at the hands of racists, we can at least reaffirm our nation's commitment to seek the truth and make equal justice a reality." 
   "We have a solemn responsibility and special duty to move our governments and communities together in a united credible search and investigation of every unsolved civil rights-era murder," said Alvin Sykes, President of the Emmett Till Justice Campaign, Inc. "Under the bipartisan leadership of Senator Jim Talent and Congressman John Lewis, backed by Senator Chris Dodd, Congressman Hulshof and others, The Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act (Till Bill) creates the best justice-seeking vehicle available to transform this good idea into a great reality." 
   "The Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act is perhaps the most important piece of civil rights legislation since the 1960s," said Fannie L. Chaney, mother of James Earl Chaney, a civil rights worker who was murdered near Philadelphia, Mississippi. 
   The Talent proposal would create the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office, a new FBI office headed by a Deputy Investigator, to focus specifically on investigating unsolved civil rights-era murders in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials. 
   The Unsolved Civil Rights Era Crimes Unit, a new office within the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice, will focus on prosecuting pre-1970 cases that resulted in death and still remain unsolved in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials. The Unit Deputy would be responsible for prosecuting these cases and would be required to report to Congress and the American people on their actions.
   If a crime other than murder is discovered during the course of an investigation it will be referred to the appropriate law enforcement officials. The Section would report its findings to Congress annually on September 30th, the end of the federal fiscal year.
   Key Components of the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act:
   NEW OFFICES FOCUSED ON UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS MURDERS - The Unsolved Civil Rights Era Crimes Unit and the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office will specifically target murders from the Civil Rights era. 
   SEEKING THE TRUTH - Through aggressive investigation, prosecution and reporting, the new Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office and the Unsolved Civil Rights Era Crimes Unit will shed light on the unsolved murders from the civil rights era, allowing victims' families to rest easier knowing the truth.
   INVESTIGATE UNSOLVED MURDERS - The mission of the Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office is to aggressively investigate unsolved murders in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials.
   PROSECUTE CRIMINALS - The mission of the Unsolved Civil Rights Era Crimes Unit is to aggressively prosecute criminals in coordination with state and local law enforcement officials.
   REFERRAL OF OTHER UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATIONS - If during the course of an investigation a crime other than murder is discovered, it will be promptly referred to the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice.
   ACCOUNTABILITY TO CONGRESS - The Deputy of the Unsolved Civil Rights Era Crimes Unit will provide a report on its activities to Congress annually on September 30th, the end of the federal fiscal year.
   COMMUNITY RELATIONS SERVICE - The Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act includes an additional $1.5 million per year for the Community Relations Service of the Department of Justice to partner with local communities.
 
 