SEN. TALENT AWARDED TOP HONOR FOR ADVOCATING FIGHT AGAINST BREAST CANCER
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) has been honored by the National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) with their "Annual Advocacy Conference Congressional Award" for his leadership in the fight against breast cancer.  
   "Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death among women in the United States," said U.S. Senator Jim Talent, who lost his mother to the disease. "Like nearly every American family, my family has been affected by breast cancer. It's important to support and provide resources for researchers and healthcare professions find a cure to this life threatening disease that effects nearly three million women in the U.S." 
   "We are pleased Senator Jim Talent is such a strong advocate for breast cancer research," said Sue Baebler, Missouri Field Coordinator for NBCC. "We have spread the word across the state of Missouri and are so pleased that he is a lead sponsor on S.757. We are proud of Senator Talent for being a real champion for our organization and our cause." 
   Sen. Talent has cosponsored the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act of 2005 (S. 757) in the 108th and 109th Congresses. The legislation amends the Public Health Service Act to authorize the Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (in NIH) to make grants for the development and operation of research centers regarding environmental factors that may be related to the etiology of breast cancer. The grants will be used to set up eight research centers across the country. Currently, the funds total $150 million for 5 years. 
   Sen. Talent has also twice signed Department of Defense (DoD) letters to fund research into the connection between environmental factors and breast cancer: $150 million appropriation for the DoD peer-reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program for FY 06.
   Last October, Sen. Talent sponsored legislation to illuminate the St. Louis Gateway Arch, one of America's most prominent and recognized landmarks, in pink lights to recognize the millions of women battling breast cancer and those who lost their lives fighting this disease. The President signed into law Sen. Talent's legislation giving the National Parks Service the authority to illuminate the Arch in honor of Breast Cancer Awareness Month.
 
 