SEN. TALENT SPONSORS BILL TO EXPAND S. TRUMAN FARM HOME
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today introduced the Truman Farm Home Expansion Act to expand the boundaries of the Harry S. Truman Farm Home in Grandview, providing increased acreage to build a new visitors center and preserve the historic integrity of the farm by preventing additional commercial encroachment. 
   "The Truman Farm home is a national treasure and an institution in Grandview and the Kansas City area," said Sen. Talent who holds the Missouri Senate seat formerly held by Truman. "This legislation will help preserve the history of one of Missouri's greatest leaders for generations to come. I want to work with people in the Kansas City area to pass this legislation and enhance the experience and appreciation for everyone who visits the Truman Farm."
   "The homes of former presidents are important sites in preserving our national history and heritage," said Interior Secretary Gale Norton. "I applaud Senator Talent for introducing this bill to ensure President Truman's homestead is conserved so that Americans can visit it to learn about his life and presidency."
   "We certainly wish to thank Senator Talent for introducing this bill in the U.S. Senate," said James Sanders, Superintendent of the Harry S. Truman National Historic Site. "The Truman Farm Home is a very special place to the people of Grandview and the Greater Kansas City area. It is here that Harry S. Truman's mother said he got his common sense. This bill will permit the National Park Service to ensure the protection of the Farm Home and the historic grounds by removing non-historic uses. It will also offer increased educational opportunities to school children, residents, and visitors alike that are not currently available at this site."
   Currently the Truman Farm is located on a 5.2 acre area. Sen. Talent's legislation would nearly double the size of the Harry S. Truman Historic Site by giving the government the authority to purchase approximately 5-acres of land on the south side of the property. This area is basically undeveloped except for a small retail paint store located at the west end and fronting on Blue Ridge Boulevard. The proposed 5-acre strip is the only undeveloped land that remains of the original 600-acre Truman Farm.
   The use of the existing paint store as a visitor contact center will permit the park to eliminate the administrative use of the Truman Farm Home's screened-in side porch as a visitor welcome point and sales area. This will restore the historic integrity to the home, while removing the impact of the wear and tear on the historic structure.
   Since the existing portion of the Truman Farm is so small, there isn't adequate space to plant vegetation that would have the potential of screening existing commercial development. Sen. Talent's bill would give the park space to provide for those plantings without encroaching on the home. Eliminating views of commercial development, which surrounds the farm site, would help visitors better understand and appreciate the rural nature of the farm.
   The Truman Farm Home Expansion Act will be referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on which Sen. Talent serves.
 
 