SEN. TALENT, INDYCAR SERIES OFFICIALS ANNOUNCE INDY RACING LEAGUE'S SWITCH TO ETHANOL
  Sen. Jim Talent, co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus, today joined IndyCar Series officials and driver Paul Dana, to announce that starting in 2006 ethanol will be used to power the IndyCar Series, including the Indianapolis 500. Sen. Talent, who for nearly two years has encouraged the Indy Racing League (IRL) to switch to ethanol, praised the IRL for their leadership and commitment to renewable fuels. 
   "The great American race will soon run on a great American fuel," said Sen. Talent. "This announcement demonstrates that the Indy Racing League is a leader in reducing our dependence on foreign oil and they are committed to cleaner air through reduced emissions. The switch to ethanol is a win for our energy security, our environment and producers in Missouri and around the country that "grow" ethanol."
   On July 29, 2003, Sen. Talent and other co-chairs of the Senate Biofuels Caucus wrote Tony George, President and CEO of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, urging the IRL to switch to ethanol as its official racing fuel. IRL officials had said previously they were open to the idea.
   With the change, the Indy Racing League will no longer use methanol, a largely imported toxic blend it has used since the 1970's. Ethanol supporters including Sen. Talent have urged the IRL and others to use fuel produced by American farmers.
   Ethanol is a high performance, home grown renewable fuel that is currently blended in nearly 20 percent of all gasoline sold to consumers in the United States. Adding ethanol to gasoline helps it burn cleaner, lowering tailpipe emissions while reducing America's reliance on imported oil and helping the farm economy. Race cars operated on ethanol have demonstrated excellent performance due to the fuel's high octane content.
   Sen. Talent said increased demand for ethanol and biodiesel demonstrates the need for a strong Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) as part of the Energy Bill. The RFS would gradually increase the nation's use of renewable fuel while phasing down the use of MTBE.
   "Renewable fuels are at the crux of economic growth and jobs; at the crux of energy security; at the crux of environmental quality; and at the crux of value-added agriculture for America's producers," said Talent. "It is time to pass an energy bill, and a renewable fuels package should be part of it."
   U.S. Senator Jim Talent is a member of the Senate Energy Committee, the Senate Agriculture Committee and Co-Chair of the Biofuels Caucus.
 
 