SEN. TALENT AWARDED TOP HONOR FOR ADVOCATING FIGHT AGAINST BREAST CANCER
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) has been honored by the National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) with their "Annual Advocacy Conference Congressional Award" for his leadership in the fight against breast cancer.  
   "Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death among women in the United States," said U.S. Senator Jim Talent, who lost his mother to the disease. "Like nearly every American family, my family has been affected by breast cancer. It's important to support and provide resources for researchers and healthcare professions find a cure to this life threatening disease that effects nearly three million women in the U.S. It's been an honor to work with everyone at the National Breast Cancer Coalition and I look forward to continuing our efforts in the fight against breast cancer."
   "The National Breast Cancer Coalition recognizes Senator Talent for his outstanding leadership in ensuring that the federal government gives breast cancer the attention and the funding required to bring this disease to an end," said Fran Visco, NBCC President. "We are so grateful for his commitment and vision."
   Sen. Talent has cosponsored the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act of 2005 (S. 757) in the 108th and 109th Congresses. The legislation amends the Public Health Service Act to authorize the Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (in NIH) to make grants for the development and operation of research centers regarding environmental factors that may be related to the etiology of breast cancer. The grants will be used to set up eight research centers across the country. 
   Sen. Talent signed a letter in support of $150 million for the Department of Defense (DoD) peer-reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program for FY 07. For the past two years, Sen. Talent sponsored legislation to illuminate the St. Louis Gateway Arch, for one night in October, in pink lights to recognize the millions of women battling breast cancer and those who lost their lives fighting this disease. The President signed into law Sen. Talent's legislation giving the National Parks Service the authority to illuminate the Arch in honor of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. 
   Over 40,000 women in the U.S. will die of breast cancer in 2006. It is estimated that 275,000 cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed this year.
 
 