SENS. BOND -TALENT ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDS FOR THE DONALD DANFORTH PLANT SCIENCE CENTER
  Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent today announced that they secured $740,000 in federal funds for the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center in St. Louis. 
   "These funds will help the Danforth Plant Science Center continue their efforts to find solutions to the problems of malnutrition, hunger, disease and environmental degradation that plague so many of the world's citizens. I will continue to use my position to secure funds for this important research Center," said Senator Bond, one of life sciences strongest advocates who, as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has earmarked more than $450 million for plant genomics. 
   "Sen. Bond and I are pleased to announce this funding for the Danforth Plant Science Center," said Sen. Jim Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "The Danforth Center is known around the world for their success in improving human health and increasing agricultural production. The work they are doing in Missouri is also generating economic growth and creating jobs for our workers."
   The Donald Danforth Plant Science Center's vision to serve science, farmers and world-wide consumers attracts some of the world's leading scientists in plant biotechnology. The research project funded by the dollars announced today will focus on genetically enhanced plants for increased level of micronutrients and initiate local studies, including research and develop methods to enhance the value of biorenewable oils in plants, with a focus on soybeans.
   "I am very pleased that Senator Bond and Senator Talent continue to work to support the development of science and technology in Missouri. These funds will be used for research and development in bio-technology to enhance the value of crops in Missouri and the Midwest. This research will ensure that our farmers and others will continue to prosper by benefiting from modern genetic technologies that focus on practical applications," said Dr. Roger Beachy, President of the Danforth Center.
   Bond and Talent secured the $740,000 for the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center in the Department of Agriculture spending bill. The spending bill, passed by the House of Representatives last week and the full Senate today, will now go to the President to be signed into law.
 
 