SENATE APPROVES SENS. WYDEN-TALENT AMENDMENT TO PREVENT OIL COMPANIES FROM SELLING ARTIC OIL OVERSEAS
  The U.S. Senate today approved an amendment to the budget plan sponsored by Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) to prevent oil companies from selling oil accessed in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) to foreign countries. The Wyden-Talent amendment would ensure that America's oil is used to increase our domestic supply, not exported overseas. The Senate approved the amendment 83-16. 
   "Our domestic resources should be sold domestically," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy Committee, who voted to support exploring for oil in the ANWR. "Our amendment would make certain that the oil we get from the Arctic is sold in the United States. This is not something the oil companies are going to like, but it's too important to our energy security. It's a very important hedge against foreign boycotts or threats or oil blackmail that somebody may want to use against the United States."
   "I oppose drilling for oil in the Refuge, but if it's drilled at all, it should be used for its stated purpose - on the U.S. market for U.S. energy consumers," said Sen. Wyden. "It's a fraud on the American public to drill in a wildlife refuge and then sell the oil abroad to the highest bidder, and today's vote is the minimum the Senate should do."
   The Senate is voting today to allow oil exploration in the ANWR as part of the budget plan. The plan, which is strongly supported by business groups and labor unions, has the potential to create more than 14,000 Missouri jobs.
   "Exploring for oil in the Arctic is a pro-jobs, pro-growth plan that will reduce America's dependence on unreliable foreign sources of oil," said Sen. Talent. "We can explore for oil in the Arctic in an environmentally-sensitive way, using the highest technologies, while creating jobs and helping reduce gas prices and home heating costs over the long term."
   Sen. Talent said there are a number of powerful reasons for exploring for oil in the ANWR. The ANWR is the single greatest prospect for onshore oil and gas development in the United States. The U.S. Department of Interior estimates that between 9 to 16 billion barrels of recoverable oil is available in a tiny portion of the ANWR. At peak
  production, ANWR could produce more oil than any state in the nation, including Texas and Louisiana.
   The ANWR plan is strongly supported by business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and labor unions, including the Missouri Laborers who represent 13,000 members, and the Carpenters District Council of Greater St. Louis who represent 22,000 members, as well as the Teamsters Union.
   Due to enhancements in technology, we can explore for oil with minimal impact on the environment. The ANWR covers 19.6 million acres. Of this area, 17 million acres are completely off-limits to any kind of development, and only 2,000 acres - roughly the size of a large airport - are needed to explore for oil.
   "We shouldn't cut ourselves off from our own resources when the alternative is greater dependence on foreign oil accessed without regard for the environment," Sen. Talent said.
   Sen. Talent added that exploring for oil in the ANWR isn't the only solution. To help boost natural gas production, Sen. Talent is leading an effort to open a portion of the Gulf of Mexico to access domestic gas supplies. 
   In a bipartisan letter, Sen. Talent and eleven senators asked President Bush to direct the Secretary of Interior to exercise her authority under current law to lease lands for oil and natural gas development and production within the area commonly referred to as the original "Lease Sale 181" in the Gulf of Mexico.
   According to the Interior Department's Minerals Management Service, natural gas production in this region will increase supplies by 6 trillion cubic feet, which is enough to heat 6 million homes for 15 years.
   Sen. Talent said another solution to help lower gas prices and reduce our energy independence is renewable fuels. Sen. Talent was an architect of the nation's first-ever Renewable Fuels Standard which will add 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel, to the nation's fuel supply by 2012. 
   Senators Talent and Tim Johnson (D-S.D.) led the successful effort in the Energy Committee against the big oil companies who opposed the Renewable Fuels Standard. As a result, the Renewable Fuels Standard was approved as part of the bipartisan Energy bill, now law.
   "Passing the Energy bill which stalled for four years, supporting renewable fuels, boosting production of natural gas and exploring for oil in the ANWR is a pro-production, pro-jobs, pro-growth package to help reduce energy prices over the long term for Missourians," said Sen. Talent.
 
 