SEN. TALENT ADDRESSES MEMBERS AT MISSOURI ELECTRIC COOPERATIVES ANNUAL MEETING
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Energy Committee, today addressed members of the Association of Missouri Electric Cooperatives (AMEC) at their 69th annual meeting. Sen. Jim Talent discussed the important role electric cooperatives play in the local economies of rural Missouri communities.  
   "Missouri needs a strong and reliable electric grid and our electric cooperatives have been able to provide low cost power that is essential for creating jobs and sustaining economic growth in Missouri," said Sen. Talent. "I look forward to working with Missouri's electric cooperatives in the future on ways to ensure Missourians in rural areas have continued access to affordable and reliable electricity."
   "Sen. Talent has been a great friend of Missouri's rural electric cooperatives in the U.S. Senate and continues to work in the Energy Committee to benefit our 650,000 cooperative members in rural Missouri," said Barry Hart, Executive Vice President of the Association of Missouri Electric Cooperatives. "He has stood up for us on a number of issues including carrying the ball for increased funding for electric cooperatives, which will allow co-ops to maintain the current electric system reliability and build new systems to meet the growth in rural Missouri. Sen. Talent has fought to keep control of these electric cooperatives in the local rural communities they serve instead of in Washington D.C. His leadership on the Renewable Fuels Standard to bring jobs to rural Missouri through ethanol and biodiesel production is also greatly appreciated and we are already seeing the economic impact in rural Missouri." 
   In July, Sen. Talent was given the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association's National Legislative Leadership Award at the Boone Electric Cooperative annual meeting for his advocacy on behalf of rural electric co-ops. Sen. Talent has supported numerous legislative initiatives to assist electric cooperatives to better serve their members. He fought to maintain funding for the Rural Utilities Service which provides loans to rural electric cooperatives to make needed infrastructure upgrades. Without these loans, utility rates would be higher and the services would be less reliable in rural areas across Missouri.
 
 