SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES $484,000 FOR CRIMINAL REGISTRY SYSTEM IN MISSOURI
 Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice will award a $484,000 grant to the Missouri State Highway Patrol. The funds will be used to implement the National Criminal History Improvement Program (NCHIP) in Missouri. 
   "This funding will go to improving the current database system which Missouri's criminal records are currently stored," said Sen. Talent. "Local law enforcement across the state will receive the training and ability to update their criminal record systems. This grant will assist in getting the courts, correctional instructions and law enforcement agencies to electronically connect criminal records. Programs like this assist our officers in detecting criminals and sexual predators in our communities so they can keep our families and neighborhoods safe."
   "We are pleased that the State of Missouri has been awarded $484,000 from the Department of Justice towards the improvement of criminal history record information," said L. June Baker, Assistant Director of Criminal Records and Identification Division of the Missouri State Highway Patrol. "The Missouri State Highway Patrol, administrator of the National Criminal History Improvement Program (NCHIP) grant, will work diligently toward information sharing with other criminal justice agencies within the State of Missouri to enhance the processing of criminal history information electronically between the Office of State Courts Administrator, Office of Prosecution Services, and the Department of Corrections in conjunction with the Missouri State Highway Patrol serving as Missouri's Central Records Repository."
   The purpose of NCHIP is to improve safety and security efforts by insuring the quality and accessibility of criminal history record information. The goal of the program is to implement a nationwide criminal and non-criminal background check system. This system will allow Missouri to ensure that accurate records are available for use in law enforcement, including sex offender registry requirements, and to protect public safety and national security. It will also help law enforcement officer identity ineligible firearm purchasers to persons subject to protection orders or wanted, arrested, or convicted of stalking and/or domestic violence.
   Additional information about the National Criminal History Improvement Program can be found at http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bjs/.
 
 