AT SEN. TALENT'S REQUEST, SENATE ADDS FUNDING FOR C-17S
  At Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.) request, a key Senate Subcommittee today approved $227.5 million for the C-17 transport aircraft. Sen. Talent applauded the approval of his request, but cautioned that it's a first step in the effort to keep the line open. The C-17 funding was added today by the Senate Defense Appropriations Committee as part of a larger spending bill. 
   "It's a good first step toward sustaining C-17 production," said Sen. Jim Talent, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "There are few systems more important to our armed forces than the C-17. Today's decision reflects this fact. I will continue to advocate, as part of the defense bills this summer, and the anticipated supplemental bill in the fall, to fund additional aircraft to ensure that our armed forces have the airlift needed to perform their mission." 
   Senators Talent and Lieberman, along with seven other senators, requested the funding in a bipartisan letter to the Appropriations Committee. Sen. Talent said the funding will provide a down payment to provide funding for at least seven additional C-17s. The seven C-17s would be bought as "attrition" aircraft to replace aging transport planes that have been overused.
   The Administration zeroed out funding for the C-17 beyond fiscal year 2007. However, the Air Force has requested additional C-17s as part of their unfunded priorities list. Sen. Talent, who has advocated for additional defense spending, said he was confident the Senate will sustain the $227.5 million in the spending bill for the C-17, but stressed that he and Sen. Lieberman plan to do more this year to keep the line open.
   "The C-17 is the finest military transport in the world," said Sen. Talent, chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee which oversees the C-17 program. "Our ongoing military operations require an aircraft that can quickly and reliably deliver troops and military cargo of all kinds to locations around the world."
   The C-17 is the primary inter-theater air transport used by the U.S. to deploy and sustain forces overseas including the global War on Terror. Additionally, the C-17 played a key role in several recent humanitarian relief missions, including responses to the Gulf Coast hurricanes. 
   Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Michael Mosely has said the C-17 has proven its worth "in gold."
 
 