SENATE APPROVES SEN. TALENT' S LEGISLATION FOR NEGRO LEAGUES BASEBALL MUSEUM IN KANSAS CITY
  Senate tonight approved Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.) legislation to designate the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum (NLBM) in Kansas City as America's National Negro Leagues Baseball Museum. The legislation passed the Senate unanimously and it must now be approved by the U.S. House. 
   "This is a great day for everyone at the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum in Kansas City," said Sen. Talent. "The museum is a national destination for anyone seeking to enrich their understanding of this period in America's history. I highly recommend a visit to the museum for anybody who is in Kansas City. Whether you are a baseball fan or not, you will be moved by what you see there. You will be encouraged and inspired in every way by seeing how those players confronted the injustices of their times, and the great spirit, energy and joy with which they overcame those obstacles. We are one step closer to providing this designation for the museum and I am hopeful the full Congress will approve it soon."
   Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, held a hearing last year on the Resolution where Negro Leagues legend Buck O'Neil testified in support of the idea. Sen. Talent is the chief sponsor of the Resolution, S. Con. Res. 60, in the Senate and companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. House by Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D-Mo.-5).
   The NLBM was founded in 1990 and is the only public museum in the nation that exists for exclusively portraying the players in the Negro Leagues from 1920 thru the 1960s. 
   More than 60,000 baseball fans from all over the country visit the museum in Kansas City each year. Currently, the NLBM houses a comprehensive collection of historical materials, important artifacts and oral histories of the participants in the Negro Leagues and the impact that segregation played in the lives of the ballplayers and their fans.
 
 