LESSENING THE PAIN FOR THE UNBORN
  My wife Brenda and I have three children. When Brenda was pregnant, I remember feeling the tiny baby kick and move in her womb. At the doctor's office we saw the sonogram images of a beautiful child with a heartbeat. The baby she was carrying at 20 weeks was very much alive, developing more each day.  
   Science tells us that an unborn child in the womb can feel pain at 20 weeks, but this is probably a conservative estimate. Evidence has shown that elements of the pain conveying system begin to be assembled at 7 weeks, and by the third trimester, the pain sensors are fully established. 
   Recognizing the pain an unborn child can feel at 20 weeks, I've cosponsored the Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act. The bill, sponsored by U.S. Sen. Sam Brownback, will require abortion providers to notify a woman who is seeking an abortion in the 20th week or after of the medical and scientific evidence that the unborn child in her womb can feel severe pain during an abortion procedure. 
   Our legislation will make certain that a woman considering an abortion is fully informed about the procedure and the extreme pain it can cause her unborn child. If the woman intends to carry through with the abortion, she will have the option to first anesthetize the unborn child.
   The Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act would require abortion providers to inform women, who are 20 weeks or more into their pregnancy, that the abortion procedure inflicts pain on their unborn child. This will be done both verbally and through a brochure issued by the Department of Health & Human Services.
   Women have the right to know what their unborn child experiences during an abortion procedure. At some stage during pregnancy, there is a consensus, based on science, that a fetus becomes capable of feeling pain. Even during utero surgeries unborn children are administered anesthesia. Unborn children 20 weeks or older deserve the same humane treatment. 
   There are currently 26 Senators cosponsoring the Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act and 81 members of Congress supporting the House companion bill. Like the ban on partial birth abortion and the Unborn Victims of Violence law, I believe Republicans and Democrats alike can support this common sense legislation. 
   The road ahead is long, but I look forward to the day when there will once again be room in our hearts and in our laws for all the children God has given us.
 
 