SEN. TALENT SECURES ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR C-17
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today announced that he successfully secured $227.5 million for continued C-17 production in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, which the Senate passed this afternoon. Sen. Talent also secured authorization of $2.6 billion for ten C-17 transports to be included in the FY07 Department of Defense budget as part of the Senate Armed Services Committee mark-up completed today.  
   "There are few systems more important to our armed forces than the C-17," said Sen. Talent, Chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee which oversees the C-17 program. "Air Force officials made it altogether clear in testimony this spring that the service will require more than 180 C-17s. Adding these funds is the first step, over the course of this year and next, to provide those planes and to keep the line open. I will continue to advocate, as part of the defense bills this summer, and the anticipated supplemental bill in the fall, to fund additional aircraft to ensure that our armed forces have the airlift needed to perform their missions." 
   Sen. Talent said the actions this week will now bring total production to 183. The new C-17s would be bought as "attrition" aircraft to replace aging transport planes that have been overused. 
   The Administration zeroed out funding for the C-17 beyond fiscal year 2007. However, the Air Force has identified additional C-17s as its number one unfunded priority. Sen. Talent, who has been advocating for additional defense spending, expressed confidence that the Senate will continue to support the C-17, and stressed that he and U.S. Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.) will do more this year to sustain production. 
   "The C-17 is the finest military transport in the world," said Sen. Talent. "Our ongoing military operations require an aircraft that can quickly and reliably deliver troops and military cargo of all kinds to locations around the world."
   The C-17 is the primary inter-theater air transport used by the U.S. to deploy and sustain forces overseas including the global War on Terror. Additionally, the C-17 played a key role in several recent humanitarian relief missions, including responses to the Gulf Coast hurricanes. 
   Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Michael Mosely has said the C-17 has proven its worth "in gold."
 
 