SENS. TALENT, SCHUMER PRAISE DECISION TO EXHUME EMMETT TILL'S BODY
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) today praised the decision by the Justice Department to exhume the body of Emmett Till, the 14-year-old African American who was killed nearly 50 years ago. Sens. Talent and Schumer have repeatedly called on the Justice Department to pursue the investigation more quickly in light of new information that some involved in the murder may still be alive. Both Senators took up the issue with Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez during his Senate confirmation and they have introduced a Senate Resolution (S. Con. Res. 3) calling on the Justice Department to expedite the Emmett Till investigation. 
   "The death of Emmett Till was a brutal and hateful crime," said Sen. Talent. "But the blatant failure for decades to bring the murderers to justice was and is a national disgrace. I told the Attorney General when I met with him that no matter how much time has passed, if there are still people out there who were responsible for the brutal murder of Emmett Till, they should be brought to justice. This announcement is an encouraging one, and I'm hopeful the Justice Department will dedicate whatever resources are necessary to make certain justice is done."
   "The exhumation of the body of Emmett Till brings the Justice Department investigation to a much higher level," said Sen. Schumer. "In this rare instance justice delayed will not be justice denied. The Justice Department should turn over every stone so that those who committed this dastardly act are brought to justice. We cannot afford to wait because the witnesses and potential defendants are getting much older."
   Emmett Till is buried in Alsip, Illinois. The FBI said his body will be exhumed in the coming weeks so an autopsy can be conducted to help determine who killed him.
   In August 1955, a then 14-year-old African American named Emmett Till was kidnapped from his uncle's home, viciously beaten, dragged to the banks of the Tallahatchie River, shot and dumped into the river - all of this because he allegedly whistled at a white woman. Emmett's mother, Mamie Till, wanted the truth to be told in America. She left her son's casket open and photos of Emmett's corpse were published around the world. The crime was a key catalyst launching the Civil Rights movement in the United States.
   In September 1955, Roy Bryant and J.W. Milam stood trial in Mississippi for Emmett's murder. An all white jury acquitted both men after only 67 minutes of deliberation. Yet in the months that followed, both Bryant and Milam talked about the murder in detail, and Milam actually admitted he didn't regret the killing. Bryant and Milam lived the rest of their lives as free men; Milam died in 1980 and Bryant in 1990.
   In recent years, Keith A. Beachamp - a documentary film maker from Fort Greene, Brooklyn - found new evidence about the case, including never-before-heard eyewitness accounts while making his documentary "The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till." These findings prompted the Justice Department to a nominal reopening of the case, but Talent and Schumer have said they are concerned that the inquiry is not moving quick enough to interview elderly witnesses.
 
 