SEN. TALENT, REP. EMERSON BRING AGRICULTURE SECRETARY TO SPRINGFIELD FOR FARM BILL LISTENING SESSION
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Rep. Jo Ann Emerson today hosted a Farm bill listening session with U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns in Springfield to allow producers to share ideas and concerns as Congress prepares to write the next Farm bill. The current Farm bill is set to expire in 2007.  
   "I want to make certain our producers in Missouri have every opportunity to provide input as work begins on the new bill," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee which is preparing to write the next Farm bill. "In other words, I don't want Washington deciding what is best for our farmers and ranchers in Missouri. This listening session is a chance for the Secretary to talk with, and more importantly, listen to Missouri farmers and ranchers. The best way to produce a successful Farm bill is to start working from the ground-up rather than waiting for Washington to tell our farmers what's best for them."
   "The Farm bill is quite possibly the most important legislation passed by Congress when it comes to Southern Missouri and the rest of rural America. The important policies in this bill form the foundation of how our hardworking producers run their businesses in one of the most diverse agricultural districts in the country. I appreciate Secretary Johanns coming to Southern Missouri to meet with us face-to-face and to talk about his approach to the Farm bill, as well as to get our thoughts and perspectives. I look forward to being an active part of this discussion now and in the future as our Missouri delegation works together to represent our outstanding producers," said Congresswoman Emerson.
   This forum marks one of the final listening sessions to be hosted by Sec. Johanns, bringing the total number of forums he will have conducted to 22. USDA's nationwide listening tour continues for several more weeks as top officials host specialty forums throughout November.
 
 