SEN. TALENT'S HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING FLEXIBILITY MEASURE PASSES SENATE
  The Senate today approved a measure co-authored by Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) to give Missouri first responders greater flexibility in spending homeland security funding and to address unforeseen security needs. An amendment to the intelligence overhaul legislation sponsored by Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) included Sens. Talent's measure to provide greater flexibility in homeland security spending. 
   "I've talked personally with first responders in Missouri who tell me that while they appreciate the additional homeland security funding, they sometimes need greater flexibility in spending the money," said Sen. Talent. "Missouri also needs additional flexibility to use homeland security funds to increase security at events that could be a target for terrorism, such as last summer's Maccabi Games."
   In August 2003, Missouri hosted the Maccabi Games in which thousands of Jewish teens from across the U.S. and around the world competed in Olympic-style events. During event planning, representatives at the St. Louis Jewish Community Center, which hosted the event, were told their security budget of $55,000 was inadequate and that an additional $300,000 in funding would be necessary. Federal regulations, however, prevented the state from using available federal funds to enhance security at the event. Sen. Talent said the inflexibility was inexcusable.
   "For the teens, families and staff who participated in the 2003 Maccabi Games, I was relieved the games went on without incident," said Sen. Talent, who along with Sen. Bond fought for more security at the Maccabi Games. "But we knew we needed to make some changes so this kind of thing doesn't happen again." 
   Presently, states are required to provide a plan to the Department of Homeland Security for spending the grant funds. However, once the plan is submitted, states must spend their share of the grant money according to their plan, with little flexibility for dealing with new threats or emergencies. 
   Sen. Talent's measure calls on the Department Homeland Security to allow states flexibility in reprogramming homeland security grant funds if they determine new threats or security needs. Under the legislation, states would be allowed to reprogram up to 20 percent of their annual appropriations from the State Homeland Security Grant Program. In addition, this legislation requires that 80 percent of the homeland security grant funds be used to purchase equipment for local first responders. During fiscal 2004, Missouri has received $42.2 million in homeland security grants and $23.9 million for the Urban Areas Security Initiative Grant Program.
   During the past eighteen months, Senator Talent has argued the need for this flexibility on the senate floor, worked to craft the legislation with Senator Collins, and earlier this month successfully offered an amendment expressing the support of the senate for this important reform. Senator Collins made the following statement regarding Senator Talent's efforts: "I appreciate the leadership of the distinguished Senator from Missouri to allow greater flexibility for State and local officials in spending homeland security grant funds. Senator Talent has been tireless in his efforts to pass his measure and achieve this flexibility to help local first responders and I am proud that we could include it in this amendment."
   Talent said he will continue advocating on behalf of his legislation as the National Intelligence Reform Bill moves through the Congress. The House of Representatives must now pass intelligence reform legislation to be reconciled with the Senate bill before the measure become law.
 
 