SEN. TALENT ANNOUNCES $52 MILLION TAX CREDIT AUTHORITY FOR URBAN RENEWAL IN ST. LOUIS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced that the St. Louis Development Corporation has been given the authority to issue $52 million in tax credits to help low-income communities in St. Louis. The New Markets Tax Credit awarded to St. Louis is part of the Community Renewal/New Markets Initiative passed by then-Congressman Talent and signed into law by President Bill Clinton in December 2000 to help distressed neighborhoods around the country. 
   "The St. Louis area has tremendous potential for new businesses, job creation and urban revitalization," said Talent. "This tax credit is an investment in St. Louis, particularly the downtown area, and provides the opportunity to help existing and emerging businesses, big and small, as well as charter schools, manufacturing plants and community centers, all in distressed areas. We said at the time that the Community Renewal/New Markets bill was one of the most comprehensive anti-poverty initiatives to come out of the federal government in a generation. Now we are taking those anti-poverty initiatives to St. Louis where I am confident they will help create new prosperity for the region."
   In the mid-1990's, Sen. Talent joined with former Rep. J.C. Watts (R-Okla.), former Rep. Floyd Flake (D-N.Y.), and Rep. Danny Davis (D-Ill.) to introduce the Community Renewal Act designed to empower local neighborhood groups, pastors and community leaders by providing the tools they need to create good jobs, housing, new businesses and safe neighborhoods. After five years of hard work, Sen. Talent and others passed the legislation and reached a compromise with President Clinton who signed the legislation into law. At the signing ceremony, President Clinton lauded Sen. Talent for his bipartisan efforts to reduce poverty in America.
   The St. Louis Development Corporation, the economic development agency for the City of St. Louis, was selected after a rigorous review process to receive the tax credit allocation through the New Markets Tax Credit Program.
   The New Markets Tax Credit Program permits taxpayers to receive a credit against federal income taxes for investing in the nation's inner cities. The St. Louis Development Center now has the authority to issue $52 million in federal tax credits to corporations, individual investors and private lenders. 
   Those who invest in the area's distressed neighborhoods will receive a federal tax credit totaling 39 percent of the cost of the investment. The credit is claimed over a seven-year credit allowance period. In each of the first three years, the investor receives a credit equal to five percent of the total amount paid. For the final four years, the value of the credit is six percent annually.
   St. Louis Development Corporation anticipates a wide range of investments in ventures to help highly distressed areas in the St. Louis region.
 
 