SENATE PASSES SEN. TALENT AMENDMENT TO ILLUMINATE GATEWAY ARCH IN PINK TO HONOR BREAST CANCER AWARENESS MONTH
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today passed legislation giving the National Parks Service authority to illuminate the Gateway Arch in St. Louis with pink lighting in October to honor Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Sen. Talent said illuminating the Arch would heighten awareness about the risk of breast cancer and help promote early testing. 2004 marks the twentieth year of the Breast Cancer Awareness Month.  
   "Like nearly every American family, my family has been touched by breast cancer. My mother fought and eventually lost a battle against this deadly disease, and her struggle had a profound impact on me and my family." 
   Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death for women in the United States. The American Cancer Society estimates that a woman in the United States has a 1 in 7 chance of developing invasive breast cancer. Researchers have estimated that approximately 3 million women in the U.S. are living with the disease: 2 million who have been diagnosed and an estimated 1 million who do not yet know they have the disease.
   "Lighting the Arch, one of Missouri's most prominent and recognized landmarks, in pink will recognize the millions of women battling breast cancer and those who lost their lives fighting this disease," Talent said. "We hope to raise awareness about the importance of early detection and prevention. It will also send a message that we are searching for a cure."
   "Making the Gateway Arch a beacon for Breast Cancer Awareness Month will draw the St. Louis community's attention to the importance of prevention and finding a cure," said Gene Kahn, chairman and chief executive officer of The May Department Stores Company. "We would like to express our congratulations and appreciation to Sen. Talent for his efforts to make this happen." 
   Sen. Talent was approached by business leaders in the St. Louis area to assist them in this project to advocate breast cancer awareness. Throughout his years in public life Sen. Talent has championed measures to defeat breast cancer which took the life of his mother, Marie Talent, in 1988. Sen. Talent's legislation was cosponsored in the Senate by U.S. Sen. Kit Bond (R-Mo.).
 
 