SEN. TALENT DISCUSSES LOCKS, DAMS IN CONFIRMATION HEARING FOR AGRICULTURE DEPUTY SECRETARY NOMINEE
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today discussed the crucial need to repair and modernize the locks and dams on the Mississippi River at a hearing to confirm Charles F. Conner, of Indiana, to be Deputy Secretary of the Department of Agriculture.  
   "I am pleased Charles Conner has been nominated to join Secretary Johanns to help lead the Department of Agriculture as Deputy Secretary," Sen. Talent said. "We need to address the issue of locks and dams. Our agriculture community is trying to compete internationally, while at the same time, we are pressuring them to accept less in terms of domestic support in providing an adequate transportation system. Nearly two-thirds of our grain moves through the Mississippi River system. Currently, we have 70-year-old locks and dams built 600 feet wide, where they should be 1,200 feet wide. We must update the system now."
   Talent asked Conner how he plans to assist Secretary Johanns in being an advocate in the Administration for rebuilding the Mississippi River system by making major river locks and dams wider for producers to get products to market.
   "I feel that it is necessary for the Department of Agriculture to make that clear within the Administration that these changes are absolutely necessary to complete with other counties in terms of grain and river traffic," Sen. Talent said. "It is incredibly important that we improve this system which is carrying so much of the nation's commerce and I am confident Mr. Conner is committed to doing just that." 
   Mr. Conner said that he understood the impact the Mississippi River makes on agriculture commerce, and it is absolutely essential to getting bulk agricultural commodities out of the Midwest to the River Delta for export and is committed to working on this important issue
   A vote on the nomination of Conner is expected to occur soon. Sen. Talent said he is hopeful the Senate will move to confirm him as quickly as possible.
 
 