SEN. TALENT ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT BUSH'S BUDGET
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today said he was pleased the President's budget focuses on making health care more affordable through small business health plans and reducing wasteful spending by supporting the line item veto. But he is concerned about the proposed termination of the C-17 transport program, the size of the defense budget and cuts to programs to fight methamphetamine. 
   Sen. Talent issued the following statement on the President's Budget:
   "Missourians are concerned about health care costs and I'm very pleased the President addresses this problem with his support for legislation I'm sponsoring to allow small business men and women to join together nationally to sponsor quality, affordable health care for themselves and their workers.
   "We also need to eliminate wasteful spending in Washington and the best way to do this is to pass the line item veto. The President included the line item veto in the budget because he understands it would give him the discretion to remove items from appropriations bills that may have been logrolled in by the Congress but are considered wasteful on a national perspective. Senator George Allen of Virginia and I introduced a Constitutional amendment to empower Presidents with this time-honored tool and I urge the Senate to pass it. 
   "I am very strongly opposed to the proposal to terminate the C-17 transport program. If we do not purchase additional transports, we will lack the capability needed to deploy and adequately sustain forces overseas. This is one of the reasons the Senate overwhelmingly passed an amendment I sponsored with Sen. Leiberman last year in support of the C-17. It will be an uphill battle, but we are going to strongly support additional C-17s.
   "I also have serious concerns that we are not spending enough on defense. We made clear to the Administration last year that we were opposed to budget-driven defense cuts and it appears they have restored some of the money. I will continue to be vigilant to make certain our men and women in uniform have the tools they need to protect us, and that includes an adequate defense top line.
   "While I am pleased to see a proposed doubling of funding for the clean-up of toxic meth labs, I am seriously concerned that the Administration is not adequately funding law enforcement grant programs such as HIDTA, Byrne Local Law Enforcement grants and the COPS grant program. As I have in years past, I will work with senators in both parties to restore funding to appropriate levels."
 
 