HYBRIDS IN THE FAST LANE
  Many states have constructed High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes as a means to reduce traffic congestion. These lanes often run parallel to the nation's most congested highways. Traditionally, access has been limited to vehicles with more than one occupant such as a carpool. A byproduct of HOV lanes is improving air quality because vehicles typically generate fewer emissions when operating more efficiently at steady speeds.  
   Congress has previously approved a novel approach to using HOV lanes for air quality purposes by allowing states to permit vehicles with low emissions to operate in an HOV lane with only one occupant. The idea was to offer a benefit that would encourage the purchase of cleaner vehicles, thereby helping to improve air quality. In October of 2003, this authority expired. 
   I have proposed an innovative solution to ease congestion on our highways, while offering incentives to people who choose to drive a more environmentally-friendly vehicle. My measure would be similar to past legislation, but would be expanded to include other low-emission vehicles that haven't qualified in the past. 
   The legislation will allow hybrid vehicles, including SUVs like the Ford Escape Hybrid, access to the nation's HOV lanes. The amendment states that any hybrid vehicle that achieves at least 10 percent better gas mileages than the standard model is allowed on the nation's HOV lanes regardless of the number of passengers. 
   Currently, nineteen states have HOV lane privileges and all of them imposed a variety of efficiency criteria. California, for example, requires hybrids to achieve 45 miles per gallon to use its HOV lanes. Florida, Georgia, Massachusetts and Arizona have developed their own efficiency definitions. For example, in Florida as of July 1, 2003, any Inherently Low Emissions Vehicle (ILEV), certified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, may be driven in an HOV lane at any time regardless of its occupancy as long as a decal is obtained.
   Not only will this legislation be helpful for hybrid vehicle drivers, but it will boost production of the fuel efficient vehicles, like the Ford Escape Hybrid. These vehicles are manufactured in Kansas City and an increase in production will benefit the state's economy. Providing incentives to purchase a more environmentally-friendly vehicle will help create and sustain jobs in Kansas City while significantly reducing vehicle emissions.
   At Ford's Kansas City Assembly Plant in Claycomo, 5,000 workers build the Escape Hybrid, the Ford Escape, the Ford F-150 and the Mazda Tribute. Our legislation will make certain hybrids like the Escape will continue to be attractive to consumers.
   As part of the Highway bill, Congress is considering a provision that would give states the ability to open their HOV lanes by setting a mileage standard for hybrids that benefits only smaller vehicles. The bill would allow larger vehicles, such as the Escape Hybrid, to access the special lanes.
   The legislation would also give states the discretion to open up their HOV lanes to hybrid vehicles that achieve a substantial increase in lifetime fuel savings relative to comparable gasoline. Each state would also be able to set a minimum standard of improvement for hybrids while giving states the option of increasing that level to avoid over congestion of HOV lanes. 
   The Ford Escape Hybrid is the first hybrid SUV and gets 35 to 40 miles per gallon. That constitutes a 75 percent improvement over the traditional model, plus it eliminates three to four tons of greenhouse gases every year, making it the most fuel efficient SUV on the road. Escape Hybrid drivers have the ability to travel an average of 400 to 500 miles on one tank of gas.
   Technological advancements have allowed automobile and truck manufacturers to produce a variety of environmentally-friendly vehicles. I've always said that everything we want to do for the environment depends on economic prosperity. For all of us who have a desire to protect the air and create jobs and economic growth, this bill represents a big step towards achieving those goals.
 
 