SEN. TALENT ISSUES STATEMENT ON BUSH'S BUDGET
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today issued the following statement on President Bush's $2.57 trillion budget:
   "The President's budget represents a starting point for what is certain to be a long debate in the Congress over the priorities of government. 
   "I was very pleased the President's budget includes a solution to address the rising cost of health insurance. His budget includes Association Health Plans which would reduce the cost of health insurance by up to 30 percent, provide health care to millions of people who don't have it and, unlike other priorities in the budget, it won't cost the taxpayer anything.
   "The budget prioritizes some major Missouri defense programs including Boeing's F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, C-17 transport, T-45 Navy trainer and JDAM munitions. The President also budgets for military construction projects in Missouri at Whiteman Air Force Base and Fort Leonard Wood.
   "In the coming weeks, Congress will look carefully at the President's recommendations and determine whether the programs he wants to add or eliminate are a good deal for the taxpayer. That said, I have two immediate concerns regarding the defense budget and the proposed cuts to agriculture programs.
   "The overall defense increase isn't high enough. Given the stress on our service men and women as a result of the war on terror, and the needs in procurement and quality of life for our soldiers, we need to do more. I've said for ten years that we have to face the reality that our Army is too small. We need a defense budget that's big enough to sustain an increase in the size of the Army.
   "I'm also concerned that this budget proposal makes sweeping changes to mandatory agriculture programs which were established in the 2002 farm bill. The farm bill is working and we shouldn't re-write it in the Budget Committee. In fact, through the first three years of the 2002 farm bill, farm program costs have been more than $15 billion less than the costs initially projected by the Congressional Budget Office when Congress passed the legislation. We need to protect our people's access to a safe, abundant and affordable food supply.
   "We all agree we need to get the deficit under control. We need to continue passing a pro-jobs, pro-growth agenda to boost the economy and win the war on terrorism. That, together with a reasonable degree of spending restraint, will balance the budget."
 
 