SEN. TALENT- REP. GRAVES OUTLINE PLAN TO STOP PREDATORY LENDERS FROM TARGETING OUR TROOPS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Rep. Sam Graves (MO-6) today outlined their plan to stop predatory lending practices targeted at our servicemembers and their families. Sen. Jim Talent sponsored and helped pass an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill that would limit the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) that lenders can charge soldiers and their spouses for a loan. Predatory lenders have targeted active duty servicemembers who, in some cases, are now paying over 800 percent Annual Percentage Rate on a loan.  
   "Predatory lending has been a staggering problem in Missouri and around the country in areas where our servicemen and woman are stationed," said Sen. Talent, member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee. "These businesses prey on young military personnel and charge upwards of 800 percent APR on small loans. We have to step in and stop these predatory lenders from making a quick buck at the expense of the livelihood and future of those defending our freedom."
   Congressman Graves is sponsoring companion legislation (H.R. 97) in the House that has strong bipartisan support, including 38 Democrat and 31 Republican cosponsors. 
   "A study released by professors at the University of Florida and Cal State-Northridge found that predatory payday lenders are clustered heavily around military bases," said Congressman Graves. "The numbers are astounding. There is no doubt that these lenders are targeting our soldiers. And unfortunately, these practices are more and more prevalent, especially during times of high troop deployment." 
   Predatory lenders have targeted active duty servicemembers who, in some cases, are now paying triple-digit percentage rates on a loan. Missouri has the unfortunate distinction of having a relatively large number and high density of payday lenders around its largest military base, Fort Leonard Wood in Pulaski County. The Talent amendment applies only to military personnel and 
   their families and offers national protection from abusive lenders including predatory payday lenders. The measure establishes a federal ceiling at 36 percent APR and does not prohibit states from adopting legislation with a lower limit. 
   The impact of predatory lending practices on military readiness has been widely reported. In a recent issue of Seapower magazine, Admiral Mike Mullen, Chief of Naval Operations, U.S. Navy, said, "A sailor's financial readiness directly impacts unit readiness and the navy's ability to accomplish its mission ? I am concerned with the number of sailors who are taken advantage of by predatory lending practices, the most common of which is the payday loan." According to the Navy-Marine Corps Relief Society (NMCRS), military families pay an estimated $80 million annually in payday loan fees. 
   In addition, an impressive list of military and veteran service organizations, with over 5.5 million members, support the Talent-Nelson legislation. The Military Coalition includes the Association of the United States Army (AUSA), Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Navy League of the United States (NLUS), Air Force Association (AFA), and Marine Corps League (MCL) and many others. Consumer groups like the Center for Responsible Lending, Consumer Federation of America, and Institute of Consumer Financial Education also support the bipartisan amendment.
 
 