SEN. TALENT URGES SENATE TO PERMANENTLY REPEAL DEATH TAX
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), today spoke on the Senate floor in favor of a measure to permanently repeal the estate tax, more commonly known as the "death tax," to help farmers and small business men and women. Sen. Jim Talent is an original cosponsor of the Death Tax Repeal Permanency Act (S. 420), which would permanently repeal the death tax, scheduled to sunset December 31, 2010. The Senate is expected to vote on the measure this week.  
   "The death tax penalizes those who save and invest hoping to help their children and grand children," said Sen. Talent. "It also destroys jobs and economic growth. The Senate should at least be able to vote up-or-down to repeal this unfair tax that punishes people who work and save." 
   Because any tax bill lasting more than 10 years could be filibustered, the Congress gradually phased out the death tax between now and 2010. Without congressional action to permanently repeal the death tax, it will be reinstated in 2011 at a tax rate of 55 percent after a $1 million exemption. 
   "Our organization has long-supported legislation to permanently repeal the death tax because of the financial burden it places on farm and ranch families," said Charles Kruse, President of the Missouri Farm Bureau. "We appreciate the efforts of Sen. Talent and urge his colleagues in the U.S. Senate to join him in bringing an end to the death tax once and for all." 
   The Missouri Farm Bureau estimates that 9,215 farms in Missouri are valued at $1 million or more. These farms account for about nine percent of agricultural operations in the state. Many farms and small businesses in Missouri spend resources on legal fees and life insurance to minimize the unfair burden caused by the estate tax when they could be investing in their operations and the future of their families. 
   "There are many business owners and farmers in Missouri who are forced to make decisions to safeguard against being penalized by the death tax," said Sen. Talent. "If the death tax is reinstated, it could result in the loss of a large number of jobs as the heirs of small business owners and family farmers would be forced to liquidate their livelihoods." 
   The measure must get 60 votes to proceed to debate on the underlying bill. In April 2005, the House passed a permanent repeal of the death tax by a vote of 272 to 162.
 
 