SENS. BOND, TALENT INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO NAME NEW COURTHOUSE IN CAPE FOR LOCAL HERO RUSH H. LIMBAUGH SR.
  Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent today introduced S. 3867, legislation designating the new Federal Courthouse in Cape Girardeau as the Rush H. Limbaugh Sr., Federal Courthouse.  
   "Known by his peers as a superb trial lawyer with impeccable character and integrity, Rush H. Limbaugh Sr. was a beloved icon of the Missouri legal community, especially in Southeast Missouri where he lived all his life," said Senator Kit Bond. "It is only fitting that the new federal courthouse in Cape Girardeau be named after this great hero of American Jurisprudence." 
   "I can't think of anyone more deserving of this honor," said U.S. Sen. Talent. "No one played a more important role during the past century in Southeast Missouri and Cape Girardeau than Mr. Limbaugh. He was a leader in his community and a leader in the practice of law and the naming of the new Federal Courthouse is a fitting way to remember his contributions to our nation."
   Bond, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations, secured more than $55 million in federal funds for the Federal Courthouse in Cape Girardeau from fiscal years 1994 through 2003. 
   Bond and Talent pointed out that Mr. Limbaugh led an extraordinary life in which he practiced law for almost 80 years until his death at age 104, at which time he was the nation's oldest practicing lawyer. 
   Over his career, Mr. Limbaugh argued more than 60 cases in front of the Missouri Supreme Court along with many prominent civil cases. He was a specialist in probate law and helped draft the 1955 Probate Code of Missouri. He also tried cases before the Interstate Commerce Commission, the U.S. Labor Board and the Internal Revenue Appellate Division. 
   From 1955 through 1956, he was President of the Missouri Bar and later served as President of the State Historical Society of Missouri and was a leading member of numerous legal and civic organizations. 
   In the late 1950's, Mr. Limbaugh served as a U.S. State Department special envoy to India where he promoted American jurisprudence and constitutional government among lawyers, judges and university students in that newly formed country. And in the 1960's, he served as Chairman of the American Bar Association's special committee on the Bill of Rights.
   Bond and Talent praised Mr. Limbaugh for being an inspiration and mentor to many aspiring lawyers, especially the ones in his own family. His two sons, Rush Jr. and Stephen, both practiced law with him for many years. Stephen currently serves as a Senior Federal Judge in St. Louis. Four of his grandsons followed in his footsteps and pursued legal careers including his grandson Steven Jr. who is now a Missouri Supreme Court Justice.
 
 