SEN. TALENT, REP. GRAVES ANNOUNCE NEW SUPPORT TO STOP PREDATORY LENDERS FROM TARGETING OUR TROOPS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Rep. Sam Graves (Mo.-6) today announced that a bipartisan group of 31 Senators has sent a letter to Defense Authorization conferees urging them to maintain a provision to stop predatory lenders from targeting servicemembers and their families. In June, Sen. Jim Talent sponsored an amendment that passed as part of the Senate Defense Authorization bill to enact a 36 percent annual percentage rate (APR) cap on loans to servicemembers. The Sen. Jim Talent amendment is based on the Servicemember's Anti-Predatory Lending Protection Act (H.R. 97), legislation introduced by Rep. Sam Graves. 
   "Predatory lending has been a staggering problem and we must step in and stop these lenders from making a quick buck at the expense of the livelihood and future of those defending our freedom," said Sen. Jim Talent, Chairman of the Seapower Subcommittee. "I am pleased to announce that today a bipartisan group of 31 Senators has sent a letter to conferees urging them to maintain this important amendment in the final conference report for the Defense Authorization Act. The Department of Defense and more than 75 veterans, civil rights, and consumer organizations support our efforts to stop predatory lenders from preying on military personnel and their families. Now we need to hold this important amendment in conference, and together I am confident we will be able to do that." 
   "Protecting our troops from predatory lenders has been a priority of mine for a long time. The DoD report confirms that predatory lenders are taking advantage of hundreds of thousands of men and women serving our country," said Congressman Graves. "America's soldiers defend our freedom overseas, and I do not think they should be taken advantage of at home, especially during a time of war. As a nation, we have an obligation to protect our troops from abuse by predatory lenders. I call on my colleagues to set politics aside and move forward to protect our troops." 
   The Senate Defense Authorization bill, which includes the Talent amendment, is now in conference with the House of Representatives. Last month, the Department of Defense (DoD) released a report urging Congress to enact a 36 percent annual interest rate cap to servicemembers, consistent with the Talent and Graves legislation. Currently, there is no federal law stopping predatory lenders from targeting active duty servicemembers who, in some cases, are now paying over 800 percent APR on a loan. With the Pentagon's report recommending a 36 percent APR cap, both Talent and Graves say conferees should have no reason to oppose the provision. 
   "Predatory loan outlets, parked within a short walk outside the gates of our homeports, lure our sailors with their deceptive marketing techniques and offers for quick, short-term loans to carry them to the next payday, but for a hefty price," said Terry Scott, retired Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy at today's news conference. "While they claim to provide what appears to be the easiest option for our sailors to climb out of tough financial times, the fees these predatory lenders charge can add up quickly - a sailor will find paying an annual percentage rate in some cases, without exaggeration, of more than 1,000 percent. This financial meltdown can potentially be eclipsed by the loss of a security clearance and the possibility of a discharge from the military - negatively affecting our military readiness."
   "Predatory lenders directly affect the military's Operational Readiness," said Mark Seavey, Assistant Director of the National Legislative Commission of the American Legion. "The military identified personal financial issues as one of the most important issues facing military families. Congress has an obligation to protect military servicemen and women from these types of predatory lending tactics. This is very important legislation that would provide new consumer lending protections for all members of the U.S. Armed Forces."
   "This amendment stops the payday lenders from fleecing service members and hurting our military preparedness while we are at war against terrorists," said Michael D. Calhoun, President of the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit that goes after predatory lenders. "That's why scores of veterans groups, the Pentagon, consumer and civil rights groups support it."
   "FRA believes that predatory lending poses a serious threat to military readiness," said John R. Davis, Director of Legislative Programs Fleet Reserve Association. "Servicemembers experiencing debt related stresses are less focused on the mission and prone to compromising not only his or her safety, but also that of the entire unit."
   A coalition of more than 75 veterans, civil rights, and consumer organizations, sent letters to members of Congress last month urging them to enact the Talent-Graves legislation to protect military families from predatory lenders. 
   The coalition of support for the legislation includes: the Association of the United States Army (AUSA), Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Navy League of the United States (NLUS), Air Force Association (AFA), Marine Corps League (MCL), American Legion, and Fleet Reserve Association (FRA), National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Center for Responsible Lending, Consumer Federation of America, and Institute of Consumer Financial Education.
   To view the new letter urging conferees to maintain the Talent-Nelson amendment, click on the following link:
   http://talent.senate.gov/31 Senators Sign Anti Predatory Lending Letter to Conferees.pdf.
 
 