SEN. TALENT TO HOSTS RALLY IN MARSHFIELD TO PROTECT THE PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today hosted a pro-Pledge rally in Webster County to give the community an opportunity to express their view that the Pledge should remain legal. On September 15, 2005, the Senate unanimously passed a resolution sponsored by Sen. Talent strongly supporting the Pledge and condemning the September 14, 2005 decision by a U.S. District Court which ruled that the Pledge of Allegiance was unconstitutional because it contains the words "under God." In addition, Sen. Talent introduced the Pledge Protection Act of 2005 with Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) to ensure that the federal courts can not rule that the Pledge is unconstitutional again. 
   "I believe it is the responsibility of Congress to protect the Constitution and the Pledge of Allegiance," Sen. Talent said. "The Senate voted unanimously to support the use of 'under God' in the Pledge, but in my judgment we should do more. The Pledge Protection Act preserves and protects individual rights to affirm their beliefs and pledge their allegiance to the flag while making certain that no person would ever be forced to say 'under God' when reciting the Pledge. I am optimistic that we can rally Congress to defend the Constitution and protect the Pledge by limiting the jurisdiction of the federal courts." 
   The Senate Resolution is a response to the recent decision by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California which ruled that the Pledge of Allegiance is unconstitutional. In 2002, in another infamous case, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco ruled the Pledge of Allegiance to be unconstitutional when recited voluntarily because it uses the phrase "one nation, under God." 
   Some believed that last year's decision by the Supreme Court to preserve the phrase "one nation, under God," in the Pledge of Allegiance ended the debate. However, the recent federal court decision is proof that our Pledge is still threatened. Sen. Talent believes more should be done to support the Pledge and he urged the Senate to pass the Pledge Protection Act.
   The Kyl-Talent bill is co-sponsored by U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-Kan.), Jim Bunning (R-Ky.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), Mike Crapo (R-Ind.), John Ensign (R-Nev.), James Inholfe (R-Okla.), Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), Ted Stevens (R-Ark.), John Thune (R-S.D.) and David Vitter (R-La.).
 
 