RENEWABLE FUELS, MOVING FORWARD
  As oil prices continue to sky rocket, consumers are feeling the effects of an energy crisis in their pocket books after each trip to the gas pumps. Congress needs to pass a pro-growth national energy policy to help reduce energy prices whether it's fuel for our cars and trucks or natural gas for our homes.  
   The good news is we already have the technology and resources available to ease our dependence on foreign energy sources by relying less on traditional fuel, and more on gasoline blended with ethanol and biodiesel. Renewable fuels are available now in communities across the country, and there is potential for enormous growth in the industry. 
   Ethanol is clean-burning, efficient and potentially less expensive than gasoline. If you drive in Missouri, chances are you've already filled your tank with ethanol blended gasoline. You don't have to modify your vehicle to use ethanol and the fuel doesn't hurt performance.
   The automobile industry is also beginning to rollout new Flexible Fuel Vehicles (FFV). These cars and trucks are able to burn E85, a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent unleaded gasoline. In fact, you may already be driving an FFV. Some models of the Ford Explorer, Chevy Tahoe, Dodge Caravan and GMC pickup, to name a few, can run on E85 (be sure and consult your auto dealer before filling up). Currently there are more than 100 fueling stations offering E85, seven of which are located in Missouri: two in Columbia, two in Jefferson City, two in Kansas City and one in St. Louis. 
   The biodiesel industry is growing as well. Five years ago, only a few entities with fleets of cars and trucks used biodiesel. Today, hundreds of major fleets have implemented biodiesel programs, including federal fleets for the U.S. Postal Service, the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Army, the U.S. Department of Energy and NASA; state fleets including Missouri, Iowa, Ohio, Virginia, Delaware and New Jersey; and many private fleets.
   The environmental and economical benefits of using biodiesel are countless. A government study showed the production and use of biodiesel, compared to petroleum diesel, resulted in a 78.5 percent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. Vehicles burning biodiesel can also go further on less fuel, edging a 5 percent better fuel economy and 5 percent more power over typical diesel. 
   In the Congress, Senators Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) and I formed the Senate Biofuels Caucus to promote renewable fuels. Our chief goal this Congress is to make certain the Senate energy bill includes a strong Renewable Fuels Standard. I have introduced a comprehensive renewable fuels package in the Senate on behalf of Missouri's producers and the state's economy, which includes two bills. 
   The first bill, S.650, will double the market for renewable fuels. It calls for the implementation of a Renewable Fuels Standard, which will phase in renewable fuels over 7 years, beginning with 4 billion gallons by 2006 and ending at 8 billion gallons in 2012. The bill would allow officials to increase the renewable fuel requirement in 2013 and beyond after reviewing the success of the program. The legislation would establish the strongest Renewable Fuels Standard ever.
   The second bill, S. 610, provides a ten-cent-per-gallon tax credit for small biodiesel producers who make up to 60 million gallons of biodiesel per year. This tax credit would be an incentive for farmers who invest in small ethanol production facilities and producers who want to expand ethanol or biodiesel plants.
   Currently Missouri has three ethanol plants with two more under construction. The Northeast Missouri Grain Processors Ethanol Plant in Macon and the Mid-Missouri Energy Ethanol Plant in Malta Bend are now producing more than 30 million gallons annually and no longer qualify for the current small producer tax credit. Under this new bill, both facilities would qualify.
   The ethanol plants themselves provide good paying jobs for Missouri workers. A typical ethanol plant, like the ones in Missouri, will provide about 40 high quality jobs. A recent study found that increasing ethanol production by at least 5 billion gallons annually would add 214,000 U.S. jobs. Farmers will also benefit from an increase in renewable fuels production. One bushel of harvested corn can yield approximately 2.7 gallons of ethanol fuel.
   The Biofuels Caucus is continuing to promote renewable fuels in other ways. For two years we had been encouraging the Indy Racing League (IRL) to switch from methanol to ethanol. On March 3, I was pleased to join IndyCar Racing League officials and driver Paul Dana to announce that starting in 2006 ethanol will be used to power the IndyCar Series, including the Indianapolis 500. This announcement confirms what many of us already know: ethanol is a high quality, high performance fuel. 
   The bottom line is simple: promoting renewable fuels will create jobs in Missouri and, over the long term, it will help lower prices at the pump. Just by blending ethanol with gasoline at a 10 percent level will reduce the retail price of regular gasoline by 5 percent, or 6.6 cents per gallon based on national average 2002 prices. Over one year, this adds up to $3.3 billion in consumer savings. It is time to pass an energy bill, and a renewable fuels package must be part of it. 
   Senator Jim Talent (R-Mo.) serves on both the Senate Agriculture Committee and the Senate Energy Committee was elected to serve Missouri in the U.S. Senate in November 2002. Previously he served in the U.S. House of Representatives (1993-2001) and the Missouri House (1985-1992).
 
 