REP. EMERSON, SENS. BOND, TALENT SEND SIGNATURES TO BUSH
  Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) and Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent today sent a petition from 9,925 Rolla area residents to President Bush. The petition is to urge reconsideration of the USGS decision to close the Mid-Continent Mapping Center in Rolla. 
   "I think it is a wonderful help to have this tremendous show of support for the employees of the Rolla Mapping Center. It shows how important the Center and these jobs truly are to our community. That kind of backing gives our congressional delegation a clear mandate as we continue to press for a fair process on Rolla's behalf," Emerson said. "My sincere thanks go to every individual who took the time to sign the petition. I am glad it is in the president's hands."
   "The facts are on our side and the local community's show of support for these workers only strengthens our position. These hard-working Rolla workers have proven they do their jobs more efficiently than anyone else. Sending these jobs to Denver will not result in any cost savings, in fact such a move would likely cost more. This decision was reached as a result of a severely flawed process and the Interior Department needs to recognize this," U.S. Senator Kit Bond said.
   "The people of Rolla have shown overwhelming support for their neighbors," said U.S. Sen. Jim Talent. "This petition will help us continue making our case in Washington on behalf of everyone at the Rolla Mapping Center. With the strong support of nearly 10,000 Missourians, we continue to push for a fair process. We are grateful to everyone in the community who added their name to this important effort."
   The congressional delegation continues to await the outcomes of an internal review and an investigation by the Department of Interior Inspector General.
   The text of the letter to President Bush is attached below. A copy of the petition was also delivered to U.S. Secretary of the Interior, Gale Norton.
   December 8, 2005
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
  President of the United States 
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
  Washington, DC 20502 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   The MidContinent Mapping Center of the U.S. Geological Survey in Rolla, Missouri is a valuable and respected employer in the state. Recently, the decision was made by USGS to consolidate this important facility in Denver, despite the fact that the Rolla site scored higher than Denver on the overall decision criteria, as well as on specific cost criteria. In addition, we are concerned that Rolla will be excluded or discounted when a privatization study is conducted in the next year. We have asked for an internal review of this decision and an Inspector General investigation into the process, both of which are underway. In the meantime, an entire community in Missouri waits with bated breath, the jobs they love hanging in the balance.
   There is also great deal of community pride in the USGS Mapping Center, as you can see from the original copy of the attached petition, which contains 9,925 signatures from residents who share our concern and support for the facility. USGS jobs form an important part of the local economy, and the Mapping Center is a component of a wide-ranging network of cooperating universities and institutions focused on the same mission. The loss of this facility would be felt throughout the region, by each signatory to the petition now before you.
   The sheer volume of signatures indicates the importance of the Mapping Center to the people of Rolla. Their support has been critical in providing momentum to the inquiries made by our offices into the decision to close the Rolla Mapping Center. It is our hope that you bear their strong support, as well as ours, in mind during the reviews of this decision and the process that was used to inform it.
   Once again, thank you for your interest and involvement in the matter of the USGS facility in Rolla, Missouri. We will continue to work closely with your Secretary of the Interior, Gale Norton, as these two inquiries are concluded and a future course of action is decided. Please call upon us if we can be of any further assistance to you in this, or any other, matter.
   Sincerely, 
   CHRISTOPHER S. BOND
   JIM TALENT
   JO ANN EMERSON
 
 