SEN. TALENT, REP. GRAVES LEGISLATION WOULD CREATE, SUSTAIN JOBS AT FORD'S KANSAS CITY ASSEMBLY PLANT
  Sen. Jim Talent and Rep. Sam Graves have a plan to create and sustain jobs for auto workers in Missouri by boosting production of the Ford Escape Hybrid. Sen. Talent and Rep. Graves have teamed up to introduce the Hybrid HOV Access Act (H.R. 325 and S. 129) which would increase fuel efficiency by 10 percent by allowing drivers who own vehicles such as the Ford Escape Hybrid to use High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes. 
   "This is a pro-jobs, pro-growth bill for workers in Kansas City," said Sen. Talent. "Our bill rewards consumers who buy fuel efficient vehicles, like the Escape Hybrid, by giving them access to HOV lanes which run parallel to some of the nation's most notoriously congested highways. Providing incentives to purchase a more environmentally-friendly vehicle will help create and sustain jobs in Kansas City while significantly reducing vehicle emissions."
   The Ford Escape Hybrid is built at Ford's Kansas City Assembly Plant in Claycomo. The facility employs 5,000 workers to build the Escape Hybrid, the Ford Escape, the Ford F-150 and the Mazda Tribute. Talent and Graves' legislation would make certain hybrids like the Escape will continue to be attractive to consumers.
   "Ford is a big part of the Sixth District and Kansas City's economy," said Rep. Graves. "The Ford Escape represents tremendous improvements in fuel efficiency for its size of vehicle. I think we should reward those efforts and not discriminate against them."
   Congress is considering highway legislation that would give states the ability to open up their HOV by setting a mileage standard for hybrids that benefit only smaller vehicles. Talent and Graves' bill would allow larger vehicles, such as the Escape Hybrid, to access the special lanes.
   The legislation would give States the discretion to open up their HOV lanes to hybrid vehicles that achieve a substantial increase in lifetime fuel savings relative to comparable gasoline vehicles, or achieve a substantial increase in lifetime fuel savings relative to comparable gasoline vehicles. It creates a minimum standard of improvement for hybrids while giving states the option of increasing that level.
   The Ford Escape HEV is the first hybrid SUV and gets 35 to 40 miles per gallon. That constitutes a 75% improvement over the internal combustion model, plus it eliminates 3-4 tons of greenhouse gases every year, making it the most fuel efficient SUV on the road. Escape Hybrid drives have the ability to drive 400-500 miles on one tank of gas.
   "I've said in many different contexts that everything we want to do for the environment depends on economic prosperity," said Sen. Talent. "For all of us who have a desire to protect the environment and create jobs and economic growth, this bill represents a big step towards achieving those goals."
 
 