SEN. TALENT FRUSTRATED WITH FILIBUSTER OF BILL TO PERMANENTLY REPEAL DEATH TAX
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) said he was disappointed by the filibuster against the measure to permanently repeal the estate tax, more commonly known as the "death tax," to help farmers and small business men and women. Sen. Jim Talent is an original cosponsor of the Death Tax Repeal Permanency Act (S. 420), which would permanently repeal the death tax, scheduled to sunset December 31, 2010.  
   "I am extremely frustrated that once again we have tried to pass a bill to permanently repeal a tax that's destroying farms and small businesses in Missouri and we can't even get a chance to debate the bill on the Senate floor," said Sen. Talent. "The death tax penalizes those who save and invest hoping to help their children and grand children. It also destroys jobs and economic growth. There are many business owners and farmers in Missouri who are forced to make decisions to safeguard against being penalized by the death tax. We are going to keep the pressure up and I am going to continue to work to permanently repeal the death tax that unfairly punishes people who work and save." 
   The measure received 57 votes in favor to proceed to debate to the bill and 41 senators voted against it, filibustering the bill. In April 2005, the House passed a permanent repeal of the death tax by a vote of 272 to 162. 
   Because any tax bill lasting more than 10 years could be filibustered, the Congress gradually phased out the death tax between now and 2010. Without congressional action to permanently repeal the death tax, it will be reinstated in 2011 at a tax rate of 55 percent after a $1 million exemption. 
   The Missouri Farm Bureau estimates that 9,215 farms in Missouri are valued at $1 million or more. These farms account for about nine percent of agricultural operations in the state. Many farms and small businesses in Missouri spend resources on legal fees and life insurance to minimize the unfair burden caused by the estate tax when they could be investing in their operations and the future of their families.
 
 