SENS. BOND, TALENT ASK PRESIDENT FOR DISASTER HELP FOR MISSOURI FAMILIES AFTER TORNADOS
  Missouri Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent today urged President Bush to approve Missouri's request for disaster assistance as a result of the storms and tornados in May. 
   In May, severe storms and tornados swept through Missouri, causing significant damage in Cass, Clinton, Davies, DeKalb, Gentry, Grundy, Linn, Livingston, Macon and St. Clair counties. In a letter Bond and Talent wrote to President Bush, the Senators stressed that the concentration of damage in Northwest Missouri alone could result in millions of dollars in disaster assistance.
   "It is our hope that you will grant this request promptly, to help Missouri residents recover from this disaster. Along with our fellow Missourians, we eagerly await your decision on this request for assistance," the Senators wrote in their letter to the President.
   The disaster assistance for these counties will allow for individual and family grants and for business and home owners to get small business low interest loans to rebuilt. Also, approval of today's request would provide access to temporary housing assistance, low interest Small Business Administration loans for families, individuals and business that suffered damages and disaster grants for essential needs. This assistance is designed to help individuals and families begin to recover uninsured losses for personal property and businesses to recover uninsured business related losses.
   Almost two weeks ago, Bond and Talent asked Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman to approve disaster assistance for Missouri farmers hurt by the same May storms. Just last week the Senators announced the first installment in disaster assistance to Missouri's producers.
   Following the tornados that tore through the state in the Spring of 2003, Bond and Talent worked together to provide the federal relief Missouri communities needed to rebuild. The Senators pledged they would again team up to ensure that federal agencies provide all available help to Missourians affected by Monday's tornados.
   A copy of the letter is attached
   June 8, 2004
   The Honorable George Bush
  President of the United States
  The White House
  Washington, D.C.
   Dear Mr. President:
   On June 8, the Governor of Missouri requested a disaster declaration for the counties of Cass, Clinton, Davies, DeKalb, Gentry, Grundy, Linn, Livingston, Macon and St. Clair for Individual Assistance. He has also requested that the 27 contiguous counties also be considered Individual Assistance. We urge your speedy approval of this declaration request.
   The amount of damage caused by the severe storms and tornados which swept through Missouri from May 18 through Memorial Day is significant. The concentration of damage in Northwest Missouri alone could result in millions of dollars in disaster assistance.
   It is our hope that you will grant the Governor's request promptly, to help state and local governments recover from this disaster. Along with our fellow Missourians, we eagerly await your decision on this request for assistance.
   Sincerely,
   Christopher S. Bond 
   James M. Talent.
 
 