SEN. TALENT ADVOCATES BILL TO HELP PRESERVE HISTORIC PLACES
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) is promoting a bill to permanently authorize an agency that has been instrumental in preserving historic places in Missouri and across the country. The Senate Subcommittee on National Parks held a hearing today on Talent's legislation to amend the National Historic Preservation Act (S. 2469). 
   Sen. Talent's bill would allow Congress to continue funding the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP) which has been closely involved with historic preservation cases in Missouri including the restoration of Union Station and rehabilitation and expansion of Liberty Memorial in Kansas City, the preservation of World War II stonework at Fort Leonard Wood, the Market Street Redevelopment Project in St. Louis and many other historic projects in the state.
   "As an independent agency, the council plays a key role in shaping historic preservation policy and programs at the highest levels of the Administration," said Talent. "They have the ability to coordinate the national program, assisting federal agencies in meeting their preservation responsibilities in Missouri and around the country. This includes the preservation of buildings, battlefields, landmarks and other federal treasures in Missouri which can bring tourism to the state, provide students with a hands-on learning experience, enhance the research of historians and attract national and world leaders."
   The ACHP is responsible for preservation initiatives such as heritage tourism to promote preservation with state and local governments, the private sector and others. They provide information about historic places to the public through outreach and education. Additionally, they partner with other federal agencies to help improve historic preservation in their programs.
   Unless Congress acts, the ACHP will lose its resources. Sen. Talent's legislation makes the agency permanent, allows for additional funding and expands its membership by allowing heads of three federal agencies to participate. The bill has been referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on which Sen. Talent serves.
   ACHP was established with the passage of the National Historic Preservation Act in 1966, the bill that made the federal government a full partner and a leader in historic preservation.
 
 