TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY, UNIONS JOIN SENS. TALENT, WYDEN IN URGING CONFEREES TO RETAIN $15 BILLION BONDING PACKAGE IN HIGHWAY BILL
  Major stakeholders in transportation are joining Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) in urging the transportation conference committee to retain a bipartisan $15 billion Highway Infrastructure Bonds package in the Highway bill. The U.S. Senate last month added the bonding proposal, sponsored by Talent and Wyden, as an amendment to the $295 billion Highway bill.  
   The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), American Road and Transportation Builders Association, National Heavy and Highway Alliance, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Associated General Contractors joined Talent and Wyden in urging the conference committee to retain the $15 billion bonding plan. The conference committee will meet for the first time this week to hammer out the differences between the House and Senate Highway bills.
   "The Senate passed a pro-growth, pro-jobs Highway bill that will create jobs and save lives in Missouri and around the country," said Sen. Talent. "I was also pleased that the Senate included the $15 billion bonding plan that I've sponsored with Sen. Wyden. We believe that by supplementing the Highway bill, we will finally start addressing the country's transportation infrastructure deficit. I urge the conference committee to do everything possible to maintain this proposal in the bill." 
   "Many of America's roadways are in dire need of repair, and the $15 billion approved by the Senate will go a long way toward making those fixes - while creating jobs and boosting our economy to boot," said Sen. Wyden. "The conference committee should keep this common-sense bonding plan in the bill to get the best deal for American taxpayers who depend on our nation's highways every day."
   Talent and Wyden's Highway Infrastructure Bonds plan will provide additional funding to build roads and bridges by encouraging public-private partnerships. The tax-exempt bonds are commonly used by states and localities to finance a wide variety of public infrastructure needs such as airports and water facilities, but they have never been used for roads and bridges. The Talent-Wyden plan would allow $15 billion to be used in this way for roads, bridges and other transportation infrastructure.
   "The conference committee should keep the $15 billion private activity bonding program in the Highway bill," said John Horsley, Executive Director of American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO). "This is an innovative plan to add more money to America's transportation infrastructure through bonding."
   "In the interest of jobs and safer transportation infrastructure, we strongly urge the conferees to produce a Highway bill that includes the Talent-Wyden Highway Infrastructure Bonds proposal," said Ray Poupore, Executive Director of the National Heavy and Highway Alliance. "This $15 billion proposal is a critical supplement to the Highway bill that will create tens of thousands of jobs for our workers while saving lives."
   "We urge the conferees to retain Senators Talent and Wyden's $15 billion bonding package in the final Highway bill," said Ed Mortimer, Director, Transportation Infrastructure, U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Executive Director, Americans for Transportation Mobility. "This is an innovative way to increase transportation infrastructure funding and the Congress should pass it."
   "Available transportation resources are woefully inadequate to address the nation's transportation infrastructure needs, and Senators Talent and Wyden are fighting to bridge this gap," said T. Peter Ruane, President and CEO, American Road and Transportation Builders Association. "The Highway Infrastructure Bonds plan would be a significant step towards repairing and expanding our nation's highway infrastructure, while at the same time creating good-paying jobs for the U.S. economy and its workers."
   "We can't have a first class economy without a first class infrastructure," said Steve Sandherr, CEO for the Associated General Contractors. "AGC supports Senators Jim Talent and Ron Wyden for recognizing this and for fighting to increase transportation funding. The conferees should do everything possible to make certain their Highway Infrastructure Bonds plan is included in the final bill."
   The Senators and transportation groups pointed out that for every $1 billion invested in federal highway and transit infrastructure, an estimated 47,500 jobs are created. For every dollar invested in federal transportation infrastructure, an estimated $5.70 in economic activity is generated. 
   Additionally, the senators and the groups want to boost transportation infrastructure funding by another $30 billion through Build America Bonds. In April, the Senate Finance Committee passed an amendment to the Highway bill authored by Talent and Wyden to create the Build America Bonds Corporation for the purpose of issuing the bonds. The amendment gives the conference committee the authority to approve the money to fund the issuance of the bonds.
 
 