SEN. TALENT TAKES ISSUE WITH AMEREN PLAN TO LIMIT BOAT DOCKS AT LAKE OF THE OZARKS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) is taking issue with an AmerenUE plan to limit the number of boat docks along the shoreline of portions of the Lake of the Ozarks. AmerenUE asserts that limiting boat docks at the lake would enhance safety around their Osage hydroelectric facility. Sen. Talent questioned to what degree safety concerns extend to restricting landowner access to the lake. 
   "I am greatly concerned over this attempt to overturn landowner expectations regarding access to the Lake of the Ozarks," Sen. Talent said in a letter to the Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the federal agency in charge of approving the plan. "For decades, Missourians have purchased land bordering the Lake of the Ozarks with the obvious expectation that they will have reasonable access to the lake for boating and fishing simply by building a dock. Denial of lake access would also have a devastating impact on jobs, tourism and economic development in the counties surrounding the lake."
   AmerenUE's "shoreline management plan" was submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission as part of a relicensing proposal for the company's Osage hydroelectric facility.
   Sen. Talent, who serves on the Senate Energy Committee which has oversight authority over the Commission, also questioned whether the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's statute extends to restricting private recreational development, such as a dock, that does not impact the operation of the hydroelectric dam. He said this action suggests the Commission has overstepped its statutory authority in the Federal Power Act.
   "Nowhere does the statute contemplate the Commission making planning decisions such as determining the optimum number of boats on the water, the ideal number and location of privately-owned boat docks or the appropriate maximum boat size," Sen. Talent wrote. "Nor does it extend to the Commission the authority to determine the balance between public and private recreational opportunities. Such decisions do not impact the hydroelectric facility and are properly vested with the state and affected communities. In other words, they should be decided by Missourians."
   In the letter, Sen. Talent also noted that he had received numerous complaints from Missourians about the level of consultation with respect to the proposal. He asked the Commission to inform and work with the adversely affected counties in Missouri to address their concerns.
 
 