COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. TALENT BILL SEEKING NATIONAL DESIGNATION FOR NEGRO LEAGUES BASEBALL MUSEUM IN KANSAS CITY
  The Senate Energy Committee today approved Sen. Jim Talent's (R-Mo.) plan to designate the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum (NLBM) in Kansas City, Missouri, as America's National Negro Leagues Baseball Museum.  
   "For more than forty years Negro Leagues teams played the highest level of baseball in front of huge crowds throughout America," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "The Negro Leagues Baseball Museum in Kansas City is a national destination for baseball fans, historians and others seeking to enrich their understanding of this period in America's history. This national designation will enhance their ability to secure additional resources, both public and private, for the continued collection and preservation of the history of the Negro Leagues." 
   The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks held a hearing last November on the Resolution, S. Con. Res. 60, which was introduced in the Senate by Sen. Talent and in the U.S. House by Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D-Mo.-5). Negro Leagues Baseball Legend and NLBM Chairman John "Buck" O'Neil testified at the November hearing.
   "For 15 years the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum has stood as a testament to the passion, courage and sacrifice of America's unsung baseball heroes," said Buck O'Neil. "Now, thanks to the efforts of Sen. Talent and Congressman Cleaver, we have an opportunity to have this great institution officially recognized as America's repository for Negro Leagues history." 
   The NLBM was founded in 1990 and is the only public museum in the nation that exists for exclusively portraying the players in the Negro Leagues from 1920 to 1970. Over 60,000 baseball fans from all over the country visit the museum in Kansas City each year. Currently, the NLBM houses a comprehensive collection of historical materials, important artifacts and oral histories of the participants in the Negro Leagues and the impact that segregation played in the lives of the ballplayers and their fans.
   The legislation must now be approved by the full Senate. Sen. Talent said he will push for a vote on the bill as soon as possible.
 
 