SEN. TALENT CONGRATULATES SPRINGFIELD STUDENT BOUND FOR U.S. MILITARY ACADEMY
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today congratulated Price Matthew Harris on his admission to the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York. He is the son of Donald and Janie Harris of Springfield. Harris was nominated to attend West Point by Sen. Talent.  
   "I was very pleased to inform Price of his acceptance to the U.S. Military Academy," said Sen. Jim Talent, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "His academic achievements, his character, athletic ability and his leadership skills are the attributes of a successful cadet and an outstanding Army officer. I am continuously impressed by the high caliber of the young people I meet around the state, and Price is no exception. He joins a long line of young Americans who attended West Point and went on to distinguished careers. I have every confidence Price will excel at West Point." 
   Harris, senior at Kickapoo High School, is a member of the National Honor Society, FBLA and the Environmental Club. He has remained active in his community as a member of Troop 239 of Boy Scouts of America and attended Boys State and the Presidential Youth Leadership Conference. During his high school athletics career, Harris has participated in American Legion baseball and the track and soccer teams for Kickapoo High School. 
   Founded in 1802, the United States Military Academy (USMA) at West Point is the nation's oldest service academy. The Academy provides a four-year academic program with summers devoted to military training. Academy graduates are awarded a Bachelor of Science degree and a commission as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army, serving a minimum of five years on active duty. 
   "I encourage all students interested in learning more about the Academy nomination process to download an information packet from my Website or contact my Jefferson City office at (573) 636-1070 to request an application," said Talent. 
   For more information about Sen. Talent's military academy nominations, visit http://talent.senate.gov.
 
 