SEN. TALENT APPLAUDS PLAN FOR MISSOURI'S LARGEST BIODIESEL PLANT
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus, today applauded the announcement that Missouri's largest biodiesel production plant will be built in Kansas City, Mo. Sen. Jim Talent, a member of both the Senate Energy Committee and the Senate Agriculture Committee, said the renewable fuels package in last year's Energy bill has paved the way for increased infrastructure to produce biodiesel and other renewables.  
   "I am pleased to help announce this new biodiesel production facility in Missouri," said Sen. Talent. "I've worked with farmers and industry leaders to extend tax incentives for biodiesel as well as secure funding for programs to help develop improved diesel engine technologies. Biodiesel is a cleaner burning alternative to standard diesel fuel. I applaud all of the farmers and producers for coming together to build Missouri's largest biodiesel plant in Kansas City." 
   "The addition of this biodiesel production plant gives Missouri soybean farmers another opportunity to play a large part in the industry as both suppliers and investors," said Dale R. Ludwig, Missouri Soybean Association Executive Director/CEO. "Missouri has a great group of legislators who understand the importance of renewable fuels like biodiesel and have helped create and pass bills which will help American farmers fuel the nation. I want to specifically thank Senator Talent for his hard work in helping the biofuels industry move forward to where it is today." 
   Talent joined soybean farmers and representatives from the Missouri Soybean Association, Cargill and Paseo Biofuels, LLC, to announce the plans for Royal American Biofuels. The facility is estimated to produce approximately 37.5 million gallons of biodiesel per year. Sen. Talent said construction will begin this fall and the plant is expected to be open by 2007. 
   Sen. Talent has been instrumental in extending a federal tax incentive for biodiesel. Sen. Talent also secured $1.5 million in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007 for critical testing of biodiesel in future advanced diesel engines. The funding request must be passed by the full U.S. Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives' bill before being signed into law.
 
 