SEN. TALENT HONORED BY AMERICAN COALITION FOR ETHANOL
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus, today received the Legislative Leadership Award from the American Coalition for Ethanol (ACE) at its 19th Annual Ethanol Conference and Trade Show in Kansas City. The award is given to a policymaker who goes above and beyond to promote the U.S. ethanol industry and strengthen rural America. Sen. Jim Talent was selected for his leadership in championing the 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuels Standard for ethanol and biodiesel, as well as for his sponsorship and support for the Small Producer Tax Credit and E85 tax credit, all of which were included in last year's Energy bill, now law. 
   "This is a tremendous honor," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. "It's been a privilege to work with the American Coalition for Ethanol on renewable fuels legislation and for value-added agriculture. Every farm state senator supported the Energy bill precisely because it included the Renewable Fuels Standard for ethanol and biodiesel. We are already seeing a boost in ethanol production in Missouri as a result of the new standard. Renewable fuels are at the heart of energy security, economic growth and job production. With the leadership of the Coalition, I am confident that we can do even more to promote ethanol and biodiesel in the Senate."
   "We are honored that Senator Talent attended our conference in Kansas City to receive this award for the extraordinary contributions he made to the advancement of the ethanol and of the Renewable Fuels Standard," said Brian Jennings, ACE Executive Vice President. "Because of individuals like Senator Talent, the ethanol industry can prepare for a prosperous future fueled by confidence in homegrown fuels and the support of our nation's government."
   Sen. Talent helped negotiate the Renewable Fuels Standard which would add 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol, biodiesel and other renewables to the nation's fuel supply by 2012. Sen. Talent also worked with Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) to add to the Energy bill a measure to increase the availability of fuels blended with 85 percent ethanol. 
   Sen. Talent also partnered with Sen. Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) successfully adding a measure to expand the ten-cent-per-gallon small ethanol producer tax credit to those who produce up to 60 million gallons annually.
 
 