SENS. TALENT, BOND, REP. BLUNT ANNOUNCE $133,280 FIRE GRANT FOR CRANE
  Sens. Jim Talent and Kit Bond and Rep. Roy Blunt today announced that the Department of Homeland Security has awarded a $133,280 grant for the North Stone and Northeast Barry County Fire Protection District. The funds will be used to purchase operations and firefighter safety equipment. 
   "I am pleased to announce this Homeland Security grant for the firefighters protecting Crane," said Sen. Jim Talent. "I believe it is important that we provide Missouri's first responders with the resources they need to meet local priorities. This grant will result in better protection for the citizens in Southwest Missouri. I will continue to work with Senator Bond and Congressman Blunt to do even more for our local fire departments across Missouri."
   "A lack of funding should never make the difference between life or death for a fire-fighter or a victim, which is why I have been committed to ensuring that the federal government meets its responsibilities to fire-fighters," said Sen. Kit Bond. "Our first responders put their lives on the line to protect our families, friends and homes and these dollars will help them do their jobs more safely."
   Southwest Missouri Congressman Roy Blunt said, "Fire Departments like those serving Northern Stone and Northeastern Barry Counties will be able to replace outdated equipment with the most modern protective clothing and air paks on the market. The use of new thermal imaging cameras will allow these firefighters to save lives and reduce property losses by locating fire victims more quickly and pinpointing the source of fires in hard-to-reach areas like attics and basements. These new technologies for rural fire departments would not be possible without the federal Assistance to Firefighters Program. Since June 2004, two dozen Southwest Missouri departments have received more than $1.6 million for vehicles and equipment improvements."
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their abilities to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in their communities. For fiscal year 2004, $750 million in firefighter grants are to be distributed by the Department of Homeland Security.
 
 