MEMBERS OF CONGRESS IN BOTH CHAMBERS URGE VOTE ON LINE ITEM VETO
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), George Allen (R-Va.), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) and Rep. Mark Kennedy (R-Minn.) today urged both the Senate and the House to support the line item veto. In a news conference on Capitol Hill, the members said they support the line item veto because it would empower Presidents to eliminate or reduce wasteful spending, noting that 43 states have given their governors the authority to use it.
   "The line item veto is a time-tested, time-honored tool," said Sen. Jim Talent. "It will strengthen the hand of the executive by giving the President the discretion to remove items from appropriations bills that may have been logrolled in by the Congress but are considered wasteful on a national perspective. While there are certainly worthwhile projects and programs that receive federal funding, we need to change the system to provide for this additional tool to help control wasteful spending." 
   "One of the ways to help curb superfluous spending by Congress is by implementing, on a federal level the power I had as Governor of Virginia to line-item veto wasteful pork barrel projects," said Sen. George Allen. "Given the challenges we face today in the War on Terror and the long tradition of Congress to lard appropriations with non-essential spending it's important that the President finally have the ability and responsibility to eliminate some of the waste that Congress is so efficient in producing."
   "I'm proud to step forward to support the line item veto," said Sen. Norm Coleman. "In light of the many challenges facing our nation today, from the global war on terror to the reconstruction of the Gulf Coast, the office of the President needs all available tools to control unnecessary spending. A line item veto provides another check to ensure fiscal responsibility. The use of a line-item veto has a long history of bipartisan support, and I urge my colleagues to keep this in mind as we work towards creating a more efficient process for eliminating unnecessary government spending."
   "We must do everything possible to stop the runaway spending in Washington," said Sen. Saxby Chambliss. "The line item veto will help defend American taxpayers against wasteful federal spending and bring fiscal restraint to the federal spending process." 
   "I applaud the President for supporting line-item veto authority. Earmarks have gotten out of control and Congress should act quickly to give the President this important fiscal tool," said Senator Jim DeMint. 
   "I thank my friends in the Senate for joining me today to rally in support of such this critical issue. I was pleased to take the lead on introducing a Line Item Veto Amendment in the House, because the trend of sticking ridiculous projects into meaningful legislation is on the rise. This should serve as a call to action for those of us who can do something about it," said Congressman Mark Kennedy. "Simply put, we need to give the president, whether a Republican or Democrat, line item veto authority, and a constitutional amendment is the surest way for this ability to become permanent."
   The line item veto continues to have strong bipartisan support. In 1996, the Senate and House overwhelmingly voted to pass it. The Line Item Veto Act was signed into law on April 9, 1996 and became effective January 1, 1997. President Clinton first invoked the new authority on August 11, 1997, and used the line item veto a total of 82 times before it was ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court on June 25, 1998.
   Supporters of the line item veto say it would be an effective tool to reduce federal spending because it gives Presidents a greater role in the appropriations process, allowing them to be held accountable for the budget, particularly for wasteful spending.
 
 