SEN. TALENT URGES SENATE PASSAGE OF SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH PLANS
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today urged the Senate to pass Small Business Health Plans (SBHPs). Sen. Talent is a longtime proponent of legislation that would allow small business people to purchase health insurance for themselves and their employees through their trade associations at no cost to the taxpayer.  
   "The No. 1 problem facing small business in this country today is the rising cost of health insurance," said Sen. Talent. "Two-thirds of America's 46 million uninsured either own a small business, work for a small business or are dependent on someone who does. This legislation would help reduce the cost of health insurance for small businesses by 15 percent or more on average and provide health insurance to millions of people who don't have it and it wouldn't cost the taxpayer a dime."
   Sen. Talent was the chief sponsor of similar legislation in the House when he served as Chairman of the Small Business Committee. In the Senate, Talent has continued to push the legislation with Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine). Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) appointed Sen. Talent to the Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured where he co-authored the Small Business Health Plans legislation.
   The legislation would allow small business associations, such as the National Federation of Independent Business, the National Restaurant Association, Farm Bureau and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to pool their members together to purchase the same quality health insurance offered by Fortune 500 companies, labor unions and the federal government. Trade groups could then offer these national health care plans to their small business members, who could purchase health insurance for themselves, their employees and their families. 
   "Missourians deserve access to more affordable health insurance," Sen. Talent said. "This is an idea whose time has come and it's time for the Senate to support health plans for small business men and women and their employees."
 
 