SEN. TALENT CHALLENGES OIL COMPANIES ON THEIR OPPOSITION TO ETHANOL-BIODIESEL STANDARD
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today challenged oil company CEOs on their opposition to a Renewable Fuels Standard for ethanol and biodiesel at a hearing in the Senate Energy Committee. In their testimony, some oil company executives said they supported renewable sources of energy, but Sen. Talent reminded them of the industry's uniform opposition to the Renewable Fuels Standard in the Energy bill, now law, which will add 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel to the nation's fuel supply by 2012 and reduce America's dependence on unreliable sources of oil. 
   Sen. Talent challenged David J. O'Reilly, Chairman and CEO of the Chevron Corporation, who testified that, "We need to shift the framework of the national energy dialogue to acknowledge that improving America's access to oil and natural gas, investing in new energy sources such as hydrogen fuel cells and renewables..."
   "I will say to you sir, that it would have been good to have that kind of help a couple of months ago when we put the Renewable Fuels Standard on the Energy bill in this Committee," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "Your industry uniformly fought to prevent us setting of a Renewable Fuels Standard that would help us encourage the production of ethanol and biodiesel. I don't know if this is an 11th hour conversion or that maybe you were a dissenting voice at the time."
   Sen. Talent also addressed the issue with James J. Mulva, Chairman and CEO of ConocoPhillips who maintained the industry's position against standards for renewable fuels. "When it comes down to renewables, we're all for that, but we don't need mandates to how to do that," said Mulva.
   Sen. Talent said he hoped in the future there would be less opposition to renewable fuels and that all sides could work together to reduce our dependence on unreliable sources of oil and help lower prices for consumers.
   "Supporting renewable fuels, passing the Energy bill which stalled for four years, boosting production of natural gas and exploring for oil in the ANWR is a pro-production, pro-jobs, pro-growth package to help reduce energy prices over the long term for Missourians," said Sen. Talent.
   Sen. Talent's remarks at the Energy Committee hearing are available at 
   http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/talentOil11_09_05.mp3.
 
 