SEN. TALENT DISCUSSES NEW SICKLE CELL DISEASE TREATMENT LAW AT UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI
  Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today met with a group of doctors and educators from the University of Missouri Columbia Medical School to discuss how his new Sickle Cell Disease legislation will help treat patients with the disease. President Bush recently signed Talent's Sickle Cell Treatment Act (P.L.108-357) into law.  
   "This legislation will help the tens of thousands of Americans with Sickle Cell Disease," said Sen. Talent. "This is comprehensive health care legislation that will increase funding for treatment and research efforts, expand awareness about the disease and provide additional services for sickle cell disease patients. While the Congress has been doing it's job to provide additional resources to fight the disease, the University of Missouri has been a leader in discovering new treatment methods to help patients."
   Sickle Cell Disease affects about one in 300 African-American newborns. It is an inherited defect in blood that causes normally round blood cells to take on a sickle shape. These sickle-shaped cells clog the bloodstream, creating obstructions that result in severe medical complications. The disease affects approximately 70,000 Americans; more than 2,500,000 Americans, mostly African-Americans, have the sickle cell trait. 
   "We appreciate the opportunity to visit with Senator Talent and discuss the University of Missouri Health Care's role in enhancing the lives of those with Sickle Cell Disease," said University Hospital Director Cynthia Grueber.
   The University of Missouri Sickle Cell Center and outreach clinic provides comprehensive care to patients from 71 counties in Missouri. The center collaborates with other institutions in research to provide treatments and care for sickle cell disease and other hemoglobinopathies and serves as a source of information to area health care providers and the public.
   The Sickle Cell Treatment Act will increase health care access for patients by providing federal matching funds for Sickle Cell Disease-related services under Medicaid making it easier for doctors to treat patients with the disease and increasing state funding for physician and laboratory services.
   The legislation also enhances the number of services available to Sickle Cell Disease patients by allowing states to receive a federal 50-50 funding match for treatment expenses such as genetic counseling, community outreach and education. 
   Additionally, the bill creates 40 Sickle Cell Disease treatment centers across the country and establishes a National Sickle Cell Disease Research Headquarters through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. This National Coordinating Center will coordinate the research conducted by health professionals and universities to help educate patients with the goal of finding a comprehensive cure for Sickle Cell Disease.
   Sen. Talent's bipartisan, bicameral Sickle Cell Treatment Act (S. 874/H.R. 1736) was supported by the American Medical Association, the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), the NAACP, the Sickle Cell Disease Association of America and many other health care organizations.
 
 