SENATE PASSES RESOLUTION SPONSORED BY SEN. TALENT EXPRESSING OUTRAGE AT TERRORISM IN RUSSIA
  The U.S. Senate today passed a Resolution expressing outrage at the recent terrorist action in Beslan, Russia and expressing condolences to the families of the victims. Sen. Jim Talent (R-Mo.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Sen. Tom Daschle (D-S.D.) sponsored the resolution which strongly condemns the terrorist action that left at least 335 people dead, many of them children. 
   "The terror last week at the school in Beslan, Russia, is the same face of evil we saw in the U.S. on September 11," said Sen. Talent. "The terrorists held children, parents and teachers hostage for more than two days without food, water or medicine. Without conscience or mercy, the terrorists shot children in their backs as they fled for safety. These killers seek not only to terrorize the western world, but the entire civilized world. They have no regard for human life, even the lives of children. Today, America stands together with the Russian people more resolved than ever to win the war against terrorism."
   The Resolution states that the Senate condemns in the strongest possible terms this despicable terrorist act; and expresses its condolences to the Russian people and in particular to those families who lost loved ones in the Beslan school tragedy.
   The terror started on Wednesday, September 1, the first day of the Russian school year, when terrorists took hostage more than 1,100 people, mostly children, in School No. 1 in Beslan, Russia. Terrorists held the hostages for over 50 hours, rigging the school with explosives, including a large bomb in the center of the gymnasium where the hostages were being held, and strapped suicide bombs to themselves. Children, their parents, and their teachers who attempted to flee, or assist the hostages that attempted to escape, were shot by terrorists.
   On September 3, Russian troops and the Beslan hostage-takers exchanged gun fire, a bomb exploded collapsing the roof of the school, the terrorists began killing the hostages, and massive loss of life ensued. This horrendous terrorist action left at least 335 people dead, many of them children, as well as hundreds more severely wounded or unaccounted for.
 
 