SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN: ADDED PHYSICIAN, MORE MEDICAL SERVICES AT TRAVERSE CITY CBOC WILL IMPROVE VETERANS' HEALTH CARE SERVICE
  The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs is adding one new full-time family practice physician to the staff of the Traverse City VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic, joining the current staff of a full-time physician and nurse practitioner in providing primary care to veterans inorthwestern Michigan, Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) said today. 
   In addition to the new physician, who will be on duty by August, the Traverse City CBOC will begin providing substance abuse services by the end of September.
   "I wrote the VA in May, outlining my concerns over long waiting times and the lack of needed medical services for the 70,000 veterans in northern lower Michigan who depend on the Traverse City CBOC," Stabenow said. "This announcement of added staff and services is an important step toward meeting these veterans' health care needs, and I look forward to working with the VA to continue to expand medical services for area veterans.
   "Doctors in the VA health system have been consistently understaffed and overworked, and veterans are the people who suffer," Levin said. "By adding a physician to the Traverse City VA facility, the clinic will be able to greater meet the health care needs of northern Michigan veterans and families."
   In a recent letter to Stabenow, Dr. Jonathan B. Perlin, VA Acting Under Secretary for Health, spotlighted other recent expansions of service in Traverse City. The facility, he said, began providing mental health services on a contractual basis since December 2003, and it has recently linked with the Saginaw Veterans Affairs Medical Center in a pilot program to provide tele-cardiology and tele-pulmonology services.
   "My hope is that this additional staff will significantly reduce the waiting times for the current backlog of patients at the Traverse City facility, and that the expansion of services will reduce travel time for veterans," Stabenow said.
   Senators Stabenow and Levin have pressed for local availability of medical services for veterans in order to minimize the hardship associated with having to travel to distant facilities in the state for more specialized treatment.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 