SEN. STABENOW: NEW BIPARTISAN REIMPORTATION LEGISLATION WOULD MAKE PRESCRIPTION DRUGS MORE AFFORDABLE FOR SENIORS, BUSINESSES
 Approving bipartisan legislation that lifts the ban on reimporting prescription drugs from Canada would dramatically help Michigan's seniors, businesses, and other consumers who are tired of paying the highest prices in the world for their prescription drugs, Sen. Debbie Stabenow said at a news conference here today.  
   "This new reimportation legislation represents a major bipartisan breakthrough that will pave the way to lower priced prescription drugs for millions of Americans," said Stabenow, who has been one of the leading advocates in the U.S. Senate on this issue as head of the Senate Democratic Health Care Task Force. 
   The legislation, co-authored by Stabenow, would allow U.S. pharmacies to reimport lower-priced prescription drugs, providing great savings for American families and businesses. The Food and Drug Administration would set strict guidelines for reimportation, and FDA-registered pharmacies would be allowed to reimport drugs from several sources, including Australia, Japan, and the European Union. Until this system is in place, individuals would be able to legally purchase prescription drugs from Canada.
   Stabenow detailed today just how much Michigan residents and other Americans could expect to save on commonly prescribed drugs, if reimportation were allowed. For example, Tamoxofin costs one-eighth, and Celebrex, Prevacid and Zocor cost half as much from Canadian pharmacies as they do in the U.S. Anyone purchasing Lipitor from Canada could expect to save 40 percent, and Zyprexa, 30 percent.
   "I have long argued that the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs is a major force in the rising cost of health care, hurting not only seniors and families but businesses as well," Stabenow said. "This legislation is part of the solution to this problem, by allowing lower-priced drugs to be reimported into the U.S. The benefit of this bill cannot be underestimated."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 