SEN. STABENOW, BIPARTISAN GROUP OF SENATORS CALL FOR $12.5 MILLION TO HELP U.S. MANUFACTURERS STAY COMPETITIVE AGAINST FOREIGN COMPANIES
  Protecting good manufacturing jobs remains a top priority, and that effort must include adequate funds to aid small and medium-sized manufacturers and agricultural companies that experience job losses because of imports, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today.  
   Stabenow is among 23 senators - Democrat, Republican and Independent - who are asking House and Senate appropriators to provide $12.5 million for the Trade Adjust Assistance for Firms program, which helps U.S. companies hurt by foreign trade. The senators are asking that the final version of an appropriations bill utilize the House-approved amount for this program, rather than the Senate amount, which is $3.7 million less.
   "Each year, the TAA for Firms program provides assistance to firms employing across the nation employing as many as two million workers, " Stabenow said. "This successful and cost-effective program is a key tool to aid our nation's small business."
   Illustrating the program's cost-effectiveness, Stabenow said that since 1999 the program has helped to retain or create almost 50,000 jobs and has increased sales at participating companies by $6.2 billion. In addition, she said, the program averts the need for millions of dollars in unemployment compensation and other dislocated worker programs by saving companies and jobs imperiled by import competition. 
   "TAA for Firms helps to assure that a worker is never unemployed in the first place," Stabenow said. "Moreover, by retaining and creating jobs, the program generates federal and state tax revenues at a ratio of $7.98 for every federal dollar appropriated. This is an excellent investment in our workers and our state and national economies."
   Qualifying companies receive technical assistance in areas such as marketing, financing, production, product development, distribution, management information systems and exporting. The House and Senate are expected to vote on final passage of TAA for Firms program funding next week. TAA for Firms is a separate program from NAFTA-TAA, which provides retraining assistance to workers who have lost jobs because of the impact of the North American Free Trade Agreement on U.S. manufacturers.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 