SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE $347,449 IN FIREFIGHTER GRANTS FOR SEVEN MICHIGAN COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that the Department of Homeland Security has awarded $347,449 in grants to seven Michigan fire departments under the terms of the fiscal year 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program.  
   "The grants we are announcing today will allow these seven fire departments to enhance their ability to respond to fires and other emergencies in their communities," Stabenow said. "This funding makes communities safer, while at the same time improving the safety of the firefighters themselves."
   "Our brave firefighters and first responders deserve the best training and equipment," said Levin. "This funding will strengthen each department's ability to respond to emergencies while minimizing the risks to the men and women who work so hard to protect our lives."
   Grants for Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety provide firefighters with equipment, training and modifications to facilities. 
   * Grant Recipient: Salem Township Fire Department 
  Community: Burnips 
  Amount: $82,656 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  * Grant Recipient: Unadilla Township Fire Department 
  Community: Gregory 
  Amount: $26,860 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  * Grant Recipient: Olive Township Fire Rescue 
  Community: Zeeland 
  Amount: $40,917 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  * Grant Recipient: Hesperia Area Fire Department 
  Community: Hesperia 
  Amount: $44,837 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  * Grant Recipient: Ironwood Public Safety Department 
  Community: Ironwood 
  Amount: $27,917 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  * Grant Recipient: Garfield Township Volunteer Fire Department 
  Community: Engadine 
  Amount: $67,896 
  Program Area Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  * Grant Recipient: Burtchville Township Fire Department 
  Community: Lakeport 
  Amount: $56,366 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  The most current information on the 2004 Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program is available at: www.firegrantsupport.com.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 