SEN. STABENOW: EPA SHOULD IMMEDIATELY STOP CANADIAN TRASH SHIPMENTS INTO MICHIGAN
  Recent comments by Toronto's mayor, quoted in a news story on Wednesday, revealed shocking new information about the ongoing arrangements to bring Canadian trash into Michigan, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) told EPA Administrator Michael Leavitt in a letter Thursday, and she asked Leavitt to immediately block these shipments. 
   Stabenow's letter is the latest in a series of events following the announcement by presidential candidate John Kerry, who said Tuesday he supports Stabenow's legislation to ban Canadian trash and would ban any shipments into Michigan if he were elected. Kerry's remarks in turn prompted Mayor David Miller to tell The Associated Press that Toronto has always had a "plan B," if municipal waste shipments to Michigan are blocked, and that, in any event, he expects he would be sitting down with someone from a Kerry administration to discuss the issue.
   "There is a plan B," the AP quoted Miller as saying. "The (waste hauling) company is obliged to find us alternative landfills. They have commercial arrangements with other landfill operators." 
   "Mayor Miller's statement makes it clear that Toronto is willing to work with our government to develop these alternative options and stop shipping waste into Michigan," Stabenow told Leavitt. "Unfortunately, because of the EPA's lack of action, Toronto's own mayor sees no need to work with our government to address this problem unless a new president is elected."
   As she has on many occasions, Stabenow again cited the EPA's authority to block Canadian trash shipments under the terms of an existing agreement with Canada, and she urged Leavitt to bypass the voluntary pilot program he outlined for Stabenow last spring and immediately halt trash shipments into Michigan. 
   "Exercising your authority under this agreement rather than focusing on a voluntary pilot program would force the City of Toronto to implement their alternative plans and ship their waste to these "plan B" landfills," Stabenow said. "I urge you to stop the Canadian trash shipments immediately and urge the City of Toronto to send their trash to these alternative landfills."
   Stabenow told Leavitt she looked forward to continuing to work with him on this issue.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 