SENATE APPROVES SEN. STABENOW LEGISLATION TO ASSIST MANUFACTURERS, HELP CREATE JOBS IN AMERICA
  The Senate took a positive step toward protecting and fostering U.S. manufacturing jobs today with its approval of tax incentive legislation authored by Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) that is expected to provide an immediate $6.5 billion boost to manufacturing companies. Co-sponsored by Sen. Jim Bunning (R-KY), Stabenow's legislation was adopted in March as part of a major tax reform bill that won final approval today. 
   "The people of Michigan recognize that our nation is in a manufacturing jobs crisis, and that we need to take immediate steps to stop these crippling job losses. In fact, Michigan - which lost more jobs than any other state in 2003 - is among the worst-hit states," Stabenow said. "Approval of this legislation is a positive step forward in our fight to create jobs here at home."
   The key benefit of Stabenow's amendment is that it provides immediate tax relief for U.S. manufacturers who create jobs in the United States by dramatically speeding up tax benefits.
   "This manufacturing crisis demands immediate action," Stabenow said. "We can't wait five years. We need help now, and my amendment gives manufacturers an incentive to create American jobs immediately." 
   Stabenow's amendment allows a company to take a pre-tax deduction equal to a percentage of its domestic manufacturing income, effectively serving both as a tax cut and an incentive to expand domestic manufacturing. It increases the deduction from 1 percent to 5 percent in 2004 to provide immediate critical relief. The deductions translate into roughly a 3 percent reduction in a company's taxes.
   Passage of this legislation was one of the top items on the "jobs creation agenda" that Stabenow unveiled in Michigan in March.
   Other provisions of the tax bill would:
   * Protect the overtime pay rights of millions of workers
   * Ensure that multinational companies only get tax rewards based on their support of American manufacturing, not when they ship jobs overseas.
   * Combat exporting of U.S. jobs by prohibiting the use of taxpayer dollars to take work offshore.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 