SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN: OVER $384,000 COMING TO INGHAM COUNTY TO COMBAT DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
  U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) today announced that Ingham County will receive $384,490 to prevent instances of domestic violence and prosecute offenders. The funds were awarded under the Department of Justice Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders program.  
  "Sadly, women who are victims of a violent crime fail to receive needed support while their assailants often times go unpunished," said Stabenow. "This funding will bring together community organizations and law enforcement committed to reducing violence against women while boosting enforcement against perpetrators." 
   "With the assistance of committed local officials, I am hopeful that law enforcement officials can ensure the health and safety of Michigan's families," said Levin. "This federal grant will help Ingham County to work with the community to prevent domestic violence and its terrible consequences for families."
   Ingham County will work in collaboration with End Violent Encounter (EVE Inc.), which is a non-profit organization offering services to victims, in order to decrease incidents of domestic violence, enhance victim safety, and hold offenders accountable. This project will include: continued support for the Domestic Assault Response Team (DART), which consists of law enforcement, the courts, and community advocates; the support of a full-time prosecutor, probation officer, and victim advocate; the strict monitoring of domestic violence cases; and the education of professionals about domestic violence and the correct responses to cases of domestic violence.
   The Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders program addresses the need to improve and enhance certain provisions of the Violence Against Women Act. The program focuses on reducing incidents of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by creating a diverse community organization dedicated to supporting victims and responding to incidents.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822. 
 
 