SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW REMIND LENAWEE, MONROE COUNTY SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS THAT DEADLINE APPROACHES FOR FEDERAL DISASTER LOANS
  Small agricultural-dependent businesses and agricultural cooperatives in Lenawee and Monroe Counties have just over two weeks to apply for low interest federal disaster loans from the Small Business Administration for damage that occurred due to severe weather in May 2004. Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., remind small business owners that the filing deadline to apply for economic injury disaster loans is Wednesday, April 12, 2005. 
   "Eligible small business owners in Lenawee and Monroe Counties have only two more weeks to complete an application for a disaster loan," said Levin. "I encourage those who suffered financial losses last May to consider applying for an SBA loan to help get them back on stronger economic footing."
   "This SBA loan program is well-suited to assist those agricultural-dependent businesses in Michigan that were otherwise healthy and well-run but sustained serious losses in cash flow because of severe weather last May," Stabenow said. "With the April 27 deadline looming, I encourage affected businesses to investigate whether they qualify for this assistance."
   These loans are designed to help recovery efforts following severe weather - excess rain, lightning, high winds, flooding, hail, and a tornado - that hit the area on May 1, 2004. The interest rate on the loans is 2.75 percent with terms up to 30 years. The loans are limited to those small businesses that are not able to recover through their own financial resources. Ohio counties are the primary recipients of the loans but Lenawee and Monroe Counties are also eligible because they are adjacent. These loans are not available for agricultural producers.
   Applications for the loans must be returned to the Small Business Administration by April 27, 2005. Business owners interested in applying for the loans should visit the website at www.sba.gov/disaster for more information or to download an application. Individuals may also contact the SBA at 1-800-359-2227 and refer to disaster declaration #9ZV3.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 