SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW APPLAUD SENATE APPROVAL OF GREAT LAKES FISH, WILDLIFE RESTORATION ACT
  The Senate last night approved the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act, S. 2430, which would support fish and wildlife in the Great Lakes. Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI) and Mike DeWine (R-OH) introduced the bipartisan bill, which was co-sponsored by Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and George Voinovich (R-OH). 
   "The Great Lakes are not only vital to Michigan, but to the nation, and we must recognize that we are only their temporary stewards," said Levin. "This bill provides funding to help protect and restore the fish and wildlife so crucial to the Great Lakes ecosystem."  
   "The future of Michigan is directly linked to the future of the Great Lakes," Stabenow said. "The Great Lakes are a part of our way of life - where we vacation with our families, where we boat and swim, and where we fish and hunt. They are also a critical part of the Michigan economy, bringing billions of tourism dollars to our state and creating jobs."
   The Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act was enacted in 1990 and in 1998, and S. 2430 would reauthorize this critical program. The bill reauthorizes a grant program to restore fish and wildlife in the lakes, authorizes up to $6 million for newly created fish and wildlife regional projects, requires the Fish and Wildlife Service to provide information on-line for fish and wildlife managers, calls for reports on fish and wildlife in the lakes, and maintains the Fish and Wildlife Service's Fisheries Resources Offices and the Great Lakes Coordination Office. The authorization of appropriations for this bill is increased from $8 million to $20 million per year.
   Some of the specific provisions of the bill include the following:
   Fish and Wildlife Grants: The bill authorizes the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to award grants, based on the recommendations of the Great Lakes states and tribes, to restore fish and wildlife in the Great Lakes. Grants must be consistent with water quality, fisheries, and wildlife agreements as well as the recommendations of the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration. The grant program is authorized to receive up to $12 million per year.
   Fish and Wildlife Regional Projects: The bill authorizes up to $6 million each year for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to undertake projects that have a regional benefit to fish and wildlife. Under this new authority, the Service would undertake projects based on the recommendations of states and tribes. 
   Studies and Reports: 
   * The Fish and Wildlife Service will submit a report to Congress in 2011 that describe the fish and wildlife grants that have been awarded and the results of those grants. 
   * The Fish and Wildlife Service will maintain a public access website for states and tribes on what grants have been awarded, priorities proposed for funding in the budget, and actions taken in support of Great Lakes Regional Collaboration.
   * The Fish and Wildlife Service may update the "Great Lakes Fishery Resources Restoration Study" as necessary.
   * The bill calls upon the Fish and Wildlife Service to complete the 2002 Report on actions taken under this Act, which was called for under existing law, to be released by June of 2006.
   Fishery Resource Offices: Maintains Fish and Wildlife Services Offices, which were authorized in 1990, and the Offices have the same operational duties.
   A companion bill, H.R.4953, introduced by Representative Dale Kildee (D-Flint), awaits consideration by the House of Representatives.
 
 