SEN. STABENOW: 43 MILLION AMERICANS WITHOUT HEALTH COVERAGE IS HEALTH CARE CRISIS
  Almost a million Michiganians - 11 percent of the state's population - have no health insurance, and the rising cost of health care is making the problem worse for working people and their families in the state and across the nation, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today. 
   "The lack of affordable health care coverage is more than just a problem faced by the unemployed, although for them this lack of coverage is a constant threat," Stabenow said. "In fact, for 76 percent of Michigan's uninsured, at least one person has a family member who works either full or part-time, and 44 percent have family members who work full time.
   "Health insurance needs to be more affordable for all Americans, and the resolution I am co-sponsoring directs the Senate to meet this goal by the end of 2006."
   Specifically, the resolution, introduced in the U.S. Senate today, would commit the Senate to enact legislation by the end of 2006 that would provide everyone in the U.S. an opportunity to purchase the same health insurance coverage as that available to members of Congress and other federal employees - at the same or lower rates. "I don't know of another situation where the employees - members of Congress - have better health care than their employers, the American people," Stabenow said.
   "More than 43 million Americans don't have health insurance, and 56 percent of uninsured adults don't have a personal doctor or health care provider. In addition, more than 100,000 Michigan children remain uninsured," Stabenow said. "With the cost of employer-based insurance premiums growing at annual double-digit rates, this is a state and national heath care crisis that can only grow worse, if we don't begin addressing it now.
   "The lack of health insurance affects more than coverage for injuries or illnesses - it has a tragic impact on the ability of people to get preventive medicine," Stabenow said. She noted that an estimated 18,000 people die prematurely each year because they lack insurance coverage. Among the potential victims are uninsured women, half of whom don't get appropriate mammogram screening for early detection of breast cancer.
   "The United States is the only major industrialized country that does not guarantee health care to all of its citizens," Stabenow said. "This in part accounts for the fact that the U.S. consistently scores near the bottom in infant mortality and life expectancy when compared with other developed, high-income countries. Addressing this matter is both a moral and an economic imperative."
   Stabenow made her comments today at a press event marking "Cover the Uninsured Week," a national non-partisan program that seeks to make sure the issue of the uninsured is an ongoing part of the national dialogue. Former presidents Jimmy Carter and Gerald Ford serve as national honorary co-chairmen of the program.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 