GIRL SCOUTS OF MICHIGAN TRAILS CREATES NEW AWARD IN HONOR OF SEN. STABENOW
  Girl Scouts of Michigan Trails, the 15,000-member western Michigan council based in Grand Rapids, has created the 'Senator Debbie Stabenow Michigan Women in Politics Award' to honor adult mentors, who help girls with their interest in government and politics. 
   The adult award is a companion to a new badge program for Brownies, Juniors, Cadettes and Seniors, who are interested in the subject of women and politics and who earn the badges by learning about the history of women in politics, the workings of local politics and the legislative process.
   "The goal of the 'Senator Debbie Stabenow Michigan Women in Politics' badge and pin program is to educate and engage girls and adult mentors in the political process," Lorena Palm, Michigan Trails executive director, said today. "As the first female Senator in Michigan and because of her long-standing commitment and advocacy for women and children's issues, we felt Senator Stabenow was the ideal role model and first-time recipient of this award"
   Stabenow was told of the new badge and pin program at a ceremony in Grand Rapids earlier this week.
   "Scouting helped shape and develop my own sense of leadership and the importance of public service as a young girl, and Girl Scouts continues to teach these important lessons to thousands of girls today," said Stabenow, whose daughter Michelle was also a Scout. "I am very pleased that Girl Scouts of Michigan Trails will actively foster an interest by young girls in the legislative process.
   "I am also very pleased that this council has chosen to honor the adults who mentor girls in learning about government and public service, and I am extremely flattered that these mentors will be honored with an award in my name."
   Girl Scouts of Michigan Trails, founded in 1947, serves the Michigan counties of Kent, Ionia, Mecosta, Montcalm, Osceola and Ottawa.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 