SEN. STABENOW AMENDMENT HELPS AMERICA'S FIRST RESPONDERS COMMUNICATE IN EMERGENCIES
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today continued her fight to provide America's emergency first responders with reliable, compatible communications equipment. Sen. Debbie Stabenow offered an amendment to the Senate port security bill that will allow states, regional consortiums and local governments to establish and maintain interoperable communications systems.  
   "Yesterday, we observed the five year anniversary of the 9-11 terrorist attacks," Stabenow said. "In emergencies like those on 9-11, the ability to communicate with other rescuers can literally be the difference between life and death. My amendment will secure the updated, compatible equipment America's first responders need to keep our communities safe and respond to threats."
   Almost two years after September 11, 2001, the 9-11 Commission detailed numerous problems first responders encountered as they attempted to communicate on the scene of the attacks. The Commission found that the New York City police and fire departments were using different radio systems that did not work together. More than 50 different public safety organizations from Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia reported to the Pentagon on 9-11, but they could not talk to each other by radio. 
   "Because of the communications failures on 9-11, too many police and firefighters ran into the Twin Towers when they should have been running out," Stabenow said. "On the five year anniversary of the terrorist attacks, it is shameful we have made so little progress to solve this problem. The 9-11 Commission has made clear what needs to be done - Congress must act now to ensure our first responders can communicate in a crisis."
   Since September 11, 2001, the federal government has not yet committed significant funds to help state and local emergency responders obtain compatible communications equipment. The Stabenow amendment would provide a dedicated source of funds, establishing $5 billion in grants over five years for interoperable communications systems at the state, regional and local level. The amendment will allow state and local governments to fully implement the recommendations of the 9-11 Commission for improving emergency communications.
 
 