SEN. STABENOW, GENERAL MOTORS CHIEF CALL FOR ACTION ON OUT-OF-CONTROL HEALTH COSTS
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced General Motors Chairman Rick Wagoner at an official hearing of Senate Special Committee on Aging. Wagoner offered testimony on strategies General Motors has employed to control health care costs for its workers and retirees. Today's hearing was the first in a series of planned Senate Aging Committee hearings to explore ways the public and private sectors can create partnerships to control health care costs and ease the financial burden placed on American businesses.
   "Keeping up with health care costs is a challenge for businesses of every size," said Stabenow. "But American manufacturers are shouldering an especially large burden as they fight to stay competitive in a global economy. American jobs depend on Congress and the President working toward solutions to the high cost of health care, and Rick Wagoner is an important partner in bringing this issue to the forefront in Washington." 
   Earlier this year, Stabenow introduced the Keeping America Competitive Act, which would create a public-private partnership to assist businesses with a portion of their catastrophic health care costs - the most expensive health care cases where medical expenses exceed $50,000 for a one person. According to the National Association of Manufacturers, less than one percent of workers have catastrophic health care costs, but these workers account for more than 20 percent of the average employer's overall health care costs.
   Today Stabenow, along with Senator Carl Levin (D-MI), sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee urging them to hold hearings on legislation to help businesses with catastrophic medical expenses. 
   "A single catastrophic event can cause an employer's costs to skyrocket," said the Senators in the letter. "By providing targeted relief, we can reduce employers' health care costs and make health insurance more secure."
   The full text of the letter follows:
   July 13, 2006
   U.S. Senator Charles Grassley U.S. Senator Max Baucus
   Chairman Ranking Member
   Senate Finance Committee Senate Finance Committee
   219 Dirksen Senate Office Building 219 Dirksen Senate Office Building
   Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Chairman Grassley and Ranking Member Baucus:
   We urge you to hold a hearing on options that the federal government could adopt to help businesses with catastrophic health care costs. One of the greatest challenges facing American businesses--from the largest manufacturers to the smallest corner store--is the issue of catastrophic health care costs. A single catastrophic event can cause an employer's costs to skyrocket. Just two percent of the total population account for about forty percent of all health care expenditures. By providing targeted relief, we can reduce employers' health care costs and make health insurance more secure.
   Additionally, developing such a proposal will give us an opportunity to address a key driver of catastrophic costs-- chronic conditions. It is well known that our health care system focuses a great deal on illness but not on preventing it in the first place. If we can create flexible incentives for managing and even preventing these chronic conditions, we can go a long way toward saving both lives and money.
   Keeping existing insurance costs affordable also will help reduce the number of uninsured and strengthen our employer-based system. R. Glenn Hubbard, a former economic adviser to President Bush, calculated that for each percentage-point rise in the price of health insurance, the number of uninsured increases by 300,000. We need to marshal our resources to prevent these losses from continuing. 
   Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to working with you to address this critical issue.
   Sincerely, 
   U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow
   U.S. Senator Carl Levin.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 