SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN SALUTE DETROIT SHOCK'S WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION CHAMPIONSHIP VICTORY
  The U.S. Senate passed a resolution introduced by Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) congratulating the Detroit Shock on their 2006 Women's National Basketball Association Championship, their second Women's National Basketball Association title in four years. 
   "The Detroit Shock's superior strength, skill, and perseverance throughout the 2006 season has made the City of Detroit and the entire State of Michigan proud," Stabenow said. "Their performance in the finals serves as testimony to the dedication of this remarkable team, their coaches, staff, and fans." 
   "All of Michigan is celebrating the Detroit Shock's second WNBA title in four years," said Levin. "The team deserves our congratulations for the heart they showed in their comeback win in the final game of the series, and I think the 19,000 fans who were at Joe Louis Arena cheering them on would certainly agree."
   The text of the resolution follows:
   Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Mr. LEVIN) submit the following resolution.
   RESOLUTION
   Honoring the Detroit Shock on winning the 2006 Women's National Basketball Association Championship.
   Whereas on Saturday, September 9, 2006, the Detroit Shock won the 2006 Women's National Basketball Association Championship by defeating the defending champion Sacramento Monarchs by a score of 80 to 75;
   Whereas the Detroit Shock triumphed in five highly competitive games, going into the final game with one win and one loss in Michigan and one win and one loss in California;
   Whereas the Shock were able to celebrate the tenth year of the Women's National Basketball Association and the eighth year of the Detroit Shock with an inspiring victory in the fifth game of the WNBA finals that secured their second WNBA championship in four years;
   Whereas the attendance at the Joe Louis Arena of over 19,600 people and the enthusiasm shown by the people of Michigan clearly demonstrate Michigan's strong support for the Detroit Shock organization and the determined effort of all its players;
   Whereas the Shock completed an incredible season, capped by spectacular performances in the deciding game by the Most Valuable Player of the 2006 WNBA Finals, Deanna Nolan, who, with a total of 24 points, led the game in points scored; Cheryl Ford, who led the game in rebounds, recovered 10 rebounds in addition to scoring 10 points; and Katie Smith, who scored 17 points; 
   Whereas each member of the Detroit Shock organization made meaningful contributions to the team success, including players Jacqueline Batteast, Kara Braxton, Swin Cash, Cheryl Ford, Kedra Holland-Corn, Deanna Nolan, Plenette Pierson, Elaine Powell, Ruth Riley, Katie Smith, and Angelina Williams, as well as the Head Coach, Bill Laimbeer, Assistant Coaches Cheryl Reeve and Rick Mahorn, Athletic Trainer Mike Perkins, and the owner of the Detroit Shock, Bill Davidson; 
   Whereas Detroit Shock Head Coach Bill Laimbeer has won four professional basketball titles, including two as coach of the Detroit Shock and two as a player for the Detroit Pistons; 
   Whereas Detroit Shock owner Bill Davidson's Detroit teams have won five championship titles; and
   Whereas the Shock demonstrated superior strength, skill, and perseverance during the 2006 season and have made the City of Detroit and the entire State of Michigan proud; therefore be it 
   Resolved, that the Senate congratulates the Detroit Shock on winning the 2006 Women's National Basketball Association Championship and recognizes all the players, coaches, staff, fans, and others who were instrumental in this great achievement; and therefore be it
   Resolved, that the Secretary of the Senate be directed to transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to the Detroit Shock for appropriate display.
 
 