LOCAL OFFICIALS THANK SEN. STABENOW FOR CRITICAL TRANSPORTATION, HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING
  Local officials in St. Clair County expressed their appreciation to Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today for her leadership in securing important funding for homeland security and transportation services for the community.  
   Jim Wilson, general manager of the Blue Water Area Transportation Commission, and Jeff Friedland, director of Emergency Management for St. Clair County joined Senator Stabenow at the St. Clair International Airport to highlight recently-approved appropriations including $300,000 for St. Clair County for communications towers and other equipment upgrades and $3 million to improve public transportation services for the County. 
   St. Clair County and Port Huron will receive funding for the Blue Water Area Transportation Commission, which will allow the commission to work on its new maintenance and storage facility and replace its aging diesel fleet with environmentally friendly compressed natural gas buses. This new fleet will allow BWATC to accommodate all of St. Clair County in its service area and to link its operations with complementing public transit services in southeast Michigan. 
   "We will put this $3 million dollar grant, along with the $2 million dollar grant that Senator Stabenow obtained for us last year, to good use," Wilson said. "Thanks to the Senator, we hope to begin construction of our new bus maintenance and storage facility this spring. We are very fortunate that Senator Stabenow, who is responsible for all of Michigan, has taken such a great interest in the needs of our community."
   The recently passed appropriations bill also includes critical homeland security funding for the community. 
   "Port Huron and St. Clair County are often overlooked in discussions regarding border security," Stabenow said. "These funds will help address the problem of poor signal reception that interferes with emergency calls to local police and will allow local first responders to better communicate with other public safety agencies. I became aware of this and related problems during my meetings with local officials on homeland security issues in 2002 and have been working hard to address the unique homeland security issues facing Port Huron and St. Clair County."
   "Interoperability between public safety agencies has been a concern for many years," Friedland said. "The appropriation that Senator Stabenow obtained for St. Clair County will help offset a portion of the proposed infrastructure for joining the State of Michigan 800 megahertz system. We hope that the Senator will continue to secure appropriations to further offset the cost of this critical concern."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 