SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN MARK FORMER PRESIDENT GERALD FORD'S 91ST BIRTHDAY WITH SENATE RESOLUTION
 In a resolution sponsored by Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI), the Senate today honored former President Gerald R. Ford - the only U.S. president from Michigan - on his 91st birthday. 
   The resolution notes many highlights of the life of the 38th president, from his successful football career at the University of Michigan through his academic success at Yale Law School, his combat action in the Pacific as a naval officer in World War II, and his rise to the presidency following the resignation of President Richard Nixon.
   Subsequent to his presidency, Ford has been a noted scholar and lecturer, and he and his wife Betty were presented the Congressional Gold Medal in 1999. The Gerald R. Ford Library in Ann Arbor and the Gerald R. Ford Museum in Grand Rapids were dedicated in 1981, and the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan was named for the former president.
   "President Ford earned the respect of the entire nation for his openness and integrity, and he won our gratitude for helping to heal the nation in the wake of the Watergate scandal," Stabenow said. "On behalf of the people of Michigan, I today extend President Ford and his family my best wishes on his birthday. I also extend my thanks for his great contributions - before, during and after his presidency - in the field of public policy and international understanding."
   "I would like to offer President Ford my sincere congratulations and thanks as he celebrates his 91st birthday," Levin said. "For more than five decades, President Ford has devoted his life to the service of our country. This day gives all of us an opportunity to offer our best wishes to Grand Rapids favorite son who has given so much to make Michigan and our nation what they are today."
   The Stabenow-Levin resolution honoring Ford was adopted unanimously by the Senate.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822; Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472.
 
 