SEN. STABENOW: SENATE BUDGET INVESTS IN GREEN TECHNOLOGY, CREATES MIDDLE-CLASS JOBS
  U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today announced Senate passage of the Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Resolution, which includes Senator Stabenow's Green Collar Jobs Initiative. Stabenow's initiative makes critical investments in the newest alternative energy technologies to ensure that the next generation of energy and vehicle production is done in America and, most importantly, creates American jobs. 
   "Any budget is about values and priorities and this budget focuses on what is most important for families across Michigan and across our country by creating good-paying jobs," said Stabenow. "My Green Collar Jobs Initiative will help create these jobs by investing in green technology here at home. If we don't make the real investments in advanced batteries and other alternative energy technologies, we are in danger of simply moving from a dependence on foreign oil to a dependence on foreign technology."
   Stabenow Green Collar Jobs Initiative ($3.5 billion)
   Makes the critical investments needed to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, decrease carbon emissions and most importantly, create jobs here at home.
   Energy Efficiency and Conservation ($1.15 billion)
   Provides cities, counties and states with resources needed to promote alternative energy usage and energy efficiencies.
   Advanced Batteries ($250 million)
   Increases research and production of advanced battery technologies, including lithium ion batteries and hybrid electrical systems. Without these critical investments, the United States will fall behind our trading rivals in what promises to be one of the most important technologies of the future - advanced batteries.
   Retooling for Old Plants ($1 billion)
   Retooling our older manufacturing plants to produce hybrids, plug-in hybrids, advanced diesel and fuel cell vehicles will help keep middle-class jobs in America.
   Biofuel Production and Access ($100 million)
   Investing in the production of advanced biofuels - such as cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel - will provide our country with access to sustainable energy resources, while providing Americans with a real energy choice. This also provides important investments in infrastructure to ensure consumers have access to advanced alternative fuels.
   Green Jobs Training Program ($100 million)
   To stay competitive, we must provide workers with the tools and resources needed to produce the next generation of green technologies. This funding includes competitive grants to non-profits and private partnerships to train workers that will lead to an expanded energy efficiency and renewable energy industry workforce.
   Restore Bush / GOP Cuts to Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy ($730 million)
   President Bush has proposed cutting funding for energy efficiency and renewable energy. This Budget restores this funding, making critical investments in solar, geothermal, biomass, hydrogen and weatherization assistance.
 
 