SEN. STABENOW: EPA ACKNOWLEDGES PROBLEMS WITH CANADIAN TRASH
  The Environmental Protection Agency will take the first steps toward implementing the terms of an international agreement that could lead to turning back shipments of solid municipal waste headed to Michigan landfills from Canada, EPA Administrator Mike Leavitt has told Sen. Debbie Stabenow. 
   "After two meetings with Administrator Leavitt and presenting him with 165,000 signatures of Michiganians, who oppose these shipments, I was pleased that the EPA has now for the first time acknowledged this problem and their role in solving it," Stabenow said. "I will press the EPA for details and a timeline for their planned action, but I think Michigan residents should welcome this announcement as a step forward."
   In his letter to Stabenow, Leavitt said the EPA will:
   * Create a pilot program to begin implementing the procedures under the 1986 Agreement Concerning the Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Waste to consent or object to the Canadian trash shipments;
   * Provide funding to the State of Michigan to help the state stop Canadian trash shipments that are violating the state's landfill and environmental laws; 
   * Begin international dialogue with the Canadian government on how to address the Canadian trash problem at the upcoming U.S. - Canadian bilateral meeting in June.
   Although she has contended that the EPA currently has the authority to block imports of solid waste into Michigan from Canada, Stabenow is a co-sponsor of legislation in the U.S. Senate with Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI) to expand the EPA's authority. She has also introduced legislation to halt shipments until the Stabenow-Levin legislation is adopted.
   "I will continue to work with my colleagues, Senator Levin and Congressman John Dingell, to give the EPA additional authority they say they need to enforce the treaty," Stabenow said. 
   Stabenow presented Leavitt with the 165,000 petition signatures, collected on her website, in October. Leavitt told Stabenow in his letter he was "impressed by the number of concerned citizens listed in your petition." 
   Stabenow said she will ask the EPA next week for more specific information on the planned implementation of the pilot program.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 