SEN. STABENOW: IT'S TIME TO CRACK DOWN ON COUNTERFEIT MANUFACTURED GOODS THAT KILL GOOD U.S. JOBS
  American ingenuity can create great products, and American workers can produce them, but strong legislation is needed to keep cheap, counterfeit versions of these goods from entering the U.S. market, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today. 
   "Rip-offs of American manufactured products hurt American businesses and kill American jobs, and counterfeit versions of automobile parts have the potential to kill Americans on the road," said Stabenow, a cosponsor of the Stop Counterfeiting in Manufacturing Goods Act. "If left unchecked, penetration by counterfeit automotive products, as well as other manufactured goods, has the potential to undermine the public's confidence and trust in what they are buying.
   "We can't let that happen," she said.
   Stabenow said the economic impact of counterfeit goods is enormous in the automotive sector alone - a cornerstone industry of the Michigan economy. 
   "The Federal Trade Commission recently estimated that the automotive parts and components industry loses an estimated $12 billion annually in sales on a global basis to counterfeiting. And if we could eliminate these losses and shift those sales to legitimate parts, it's further estimated the automotive industry could hire 200,000 additional workers."
   Stabenow noted that Michigan has lost more than 196,000 manufacturing jobs in the past 10 years. "It should be very clear that - as part of my overall effort to protect Michigan jobs - passage of tough laws to crack down on counterfeiting of American manufactured goods would be a great benefit to Michigan workers and Michigan families."
   The legislation, introduced today, would add weight to existing trademark laws by requiring that all machinery, tooling and supplies used to make counterfeit items be destroyed as part of enforcement. In addition, the bill would ban the trafficking in labels and other trademark items that can be attached to counterfeit products in order to represent them as the original, genuine item.
   "The U.S. leads the world in manufacturing innovation," Stabenow said. "This legislation will let the U.S. lead the world in helping to protect international trade in legitimate goods for manufacturers in all nations.
   "When the rules are fair and enforced, the U.S. can compete and win," Stabenow said.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 