SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW HONOR LATE SEN. VANDENBERG
  Sens. Carl Levin, D- Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., today honored the life and career of Sen. Arthur H. Vandenberg, R-Mich., as the Senate Commission on Art unveiled his portrait in the Senate Reception Room of the United States Capitol. The Senate passed a resolution by unanimous consent approving the placement of the painting in October 2000. 
  "Senator Vandenberg was a forward-looking man who saw beyond partisan politics and worked for the good of the country," Levin said. "His service in the Senate is an example of true bipartisan leadership, which is so desperately needed today."
   "Senator Vandenberg ably served Michigan and his nation for more than two decades, rising to a key leadership position as chairman of the Senator Foreign Relations Committee," Stabenow said. "As a senator his understanding of the world continued to mature, and he grasped America's essential role as the leader of the Free World after World War II. His vision and his bipartisan efforts in those decisive years helped protect the emerging democracies of Europe and give shape to the modern world."
   Senator Vandenberg was born in Michigan in 1884 and studied law at the University of Michigan. He served as the editor and publisher of the Grand Rapids Herald from 1906 until 1928, at which time he was appointed to fill a vacant U.S. Senate seat as a Republican. Senator Vandenberg served from 1928 until his death, from complications of lung cancer, in 1951. 
   Prior to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, Vandenberg served as a strong voice within the Senate for American isolationism. Following the attack, the Senator abandoned his isolationist stance and called for the involvement of the United States on the world stage. He expressed his new belief in international engagement in his passionate delivery of a Senate speech on January 10, 1945, in which he called for the U.S. to take an international leadership role and endorsed the creation of the United Nations. The rest of Senator Vandenberg's career was spent working on a bipartisan effort to support the creation of the Truman Doctrine, the Marshall Plan and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
   Along with the portrait of Senator Vandenberg, the portrait of the late Senator Robert F. Wagner, D- N.Y., will also be placed in the Senate Reception Room. Senator Vandenberg's portrait was painted by artist Michael Shane Neal, whose other works include portraits of several former Senators and former U.S. Secretary of State Christian A. Herter. Senator Wagner's portrait was painted by Steven Polson, who also painted portraits of former cabinet members Ron Brown and Christine Todd Whitman.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 