SEN. STABENOW INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE PARKINSON'S DISEASE RESEARCH
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced bipartisan legislation to focus federal dollars on lines of research that could lead to a cure for the debilitating neurological disorder known as Parkinson's disease. Named the Morris K. Udall Parkinson's Disease Research Act Amendments of 2005, the legislation is co-sponsored by Sens. Gordon Smith (R-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), John McCain (R-AZ), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Norm Coleman (R-MN), and Mark Dayton (D-MN).  
   "Top scientists say that Parkinson's is one of the first neurological diseases that could be cured, but only if the resources are there," Stabenow said today. "An estimated 60,000 new cases of Parkinson's are diagnosed each year, and we need to find a cure. My legislation will mobilize research dollars and staff to work toward a cure for this disease."
   Instead of calling for additional research funding, the Stabenow bill requires the creation of a Parkinson's research plan, including a budget and an implementation strategy. Under the bill, the National Institute of Health must host a coordinating and planning conference every two years, and it must make a report back to Congress that includes actual spending and actual research results. The goal, Stabenow and sponsors say, is to make the best use of existing funding for Parkinson's disease research.
   "My grandmother had Parkinson's, and I know first-hand the anguish that a family goes through when a loved on is struck with this horrible disease," Stabenow said. "More than a million Americans are now fighting this disease, and we need to make sure that our research dollars are spent in the best way to combat Parkinson's."
   A U.S House version of the bill is cosponsored by Rep. Mark Udall (D-CO) and Rep. Tom Udall (D-NM), respectively a son and a nephew of the late Rep. Morris "Mo" Udall.
   The legislation has the support of the American Parkinson Disease Association, the National Parkinson Foundation, the Parkinson's Action Network, the Parkinson's Disease Foundation, The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, the Parkinson Alliance, and Michigan's Henry Ford Health System, which is conducting Parkinson's research.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 