SENS. STABENOW, LOTT SEEK LOWER PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Trent Lott (R-MS) today introduced the Lower PRICED Drugs Act (Lower Prices with Increased Competition and Efficient Economic Development of Drugs). The bill will help lower the skyrocketing costs of prescription drugs by increasing competition from generic drugs, resulting in dramatic savings for consumers, manufacturers, businesses, and taxpayers. 
   "We need to stop drug companies from using patent loopholes to keep lower priced generics off the shelf and out of patients' hands," said Senator Stabenow. "Making generics more accessible will increase competition and lower costs, which is good for everyone. Americans deserve the best prices possible for medicine that is critical to their health or even their lives." 
   "We all recognize that brand drugs play an important role in improving the lives of millions of Americans," Senator Lott said. "But prescription drugs that are unaffordable, can't help those who depend upon them. Generics allow us to balance the mutual goals of development and affordability. In fact, current law is supposed to guarantee that generics can be brought to market after a reasonable length of time, but unfortunately in many cases, a few loopholes have stifled that process. Our legislation restores the law to better mirror that which Congress intended."
   The Lower PRICED Drugs Act will increase competition and lower prices for prescription drugs by closing loopholes that delay and prevent generics from coming to market. These common sense changes to current law will help ease the burden on America's seniors by taking tools for delaying the introduction of generics out of the hands of drug companies. 
   First, the Lower PRICED Drugs Act would keep drug companies from using rules meant to improve the information we have about the use of prescription drugs in children as a shield against the entry of generics into the market. It would also expand the list of antibiotics that are eligible for generic versions by eliminating a loophole that precludes competition among original uses of an arbitrary subset of antibiotics. And finally, the Stabenow-Lott bill would close a loophole that allows drug companies to use the current complex rules for challenging drug patents as a delaying tactic against the introduction of generics.
   AARP, the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, the Generic Pharmaceutical Association, Families USA, the AFL-CIO, the Coalition for a Competitive Pharmaceutical Marketplace and General Motors all agree that closing these loopholes is the right thing to do. Putting the needs of patients above the desires of drug companies and responsibly opening the market to more generics is an important step towards lowering the costs and increasing the accessibility of many life-saving prescription drugs.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822. 
 
 