SEN. STABENOW ADDRESSES NATION ON NEED TO KEEP ?SECURITY' IN SOCIAL SECURITY
 Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) delivered the Democratic response to the president's weekly national radio address on Saturday, Jan. 15.
   The text of the senator's remarks follow:
   Hello. I'm Senator Debbie Stabenow.  
   Social Security reflects the best of American values. 
   It's a promise our government makes to all Americans that if you work hard and play by the rules, you'll be able to count on a basic quality of life and dignity in your older years. 
   Social Security is not a handout. It's a benefit that Americans earn by working hard all their lives and paying into the system. 
   But Social Security is about more than retirement. It's America 's insurance policy. It protects you whether you're a 22-year-old just starting your career or you're a 75-year-old enjoying retirement. 
   It's not just about tomorrow - it's about today. Social Security covers you if you lose a parent or if you become disabled. 
   Social Security is the great American success story. 
   Before Social Security, 50 percent of older Americans were living in poverty. Now, it's only 10 percent. If that's not a success story, I don't know what is. 
   Some claim that Social Security is in crisis. But let's look at the facts. 
   The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office reports Social Security can pay 100 percent of its commitments until the year 2052, almost 50 years. Still, the program does face long-term challenges, and we should act to strengthen and improve the program for the long term. 
   Democrats want to be part of that effort, and it will require some hard choices. But to provide some perspective, t he projected long-term Social Security shortfall is only one-fifth, or 20 percent, the cost of the tax breaks enacted by President Bush. 
   Democrats look forward to receiving a detailed Social Security proposal from President Bush. But we're concerned by some recent leaks from the White House. A memo prepared by an Administration official suggests President Bush will push a privatization plan with deep cuts in benefits. 
   These cuts would be as high as 25 percent for some current workers, and 45 percent for retirees in the future. 
   And the benefit cuts would apply to all seniors - even those who choose not to invest in privatized accounts. 
   America 's insurance policy was never meant to be a privatized 401(k) plan or a high-risk investment - it was meant to be the secure foundation for your retirement. 
   I remember the looks on the faces of Enron employees, many with tears in their eyes, who told me, "Thank God for Social Security - it's all I have left." 
   Beyond its deep benefit cuts and added risks, privatization also would substantially add to the national debt. Our nation already is staggering under the largest budget deficit in the history of the country. 
   Taking on even more debt could destabilize financial markets, drive up interest rates, and stifle economic growth. It also would force our children and grandchildren to bear the burdens of more debt and higher taxes. 
   When I think about my own children and all young Americans across our country who have hopes and expectations for a secure financial future - I cannot imagine piling even more debt onto their shoulders. 
   Democrats hope that the President will reject privatization schemes that would require deep benefit cuts and massive increases in the national debt. We want to work with the President to strengthen and improve the program. Senator Max Baucus, our senior member on the Finance Committee, will be leading our caucus on this issue. 
   Democrats look forward not only to making Social Security more secure, but to developing new and innovative ways to promote savings, in addition to Social Security. Too few Americans are saving for their future, and we must address that. It's simply not enough to maintain the status quo. 
   Democrats are committed to keeping the security in Social Security. At the same time, we want to look to the future to create new ways for Americans to build wealth and retirement security. 
   Because every working American deserves a secure retirement. 
   I'm Senator Debbie Stabenow. Thank you for listening.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 