SEN. STABENOW PRESSES CONGRESS TO EQUIP AMERICA'S FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today continued her fight to secure proper funding for America's first responders by offering an amendment to the fiscal year 2007 budget resolution that would provide $5 billion for reliable, compatible radio equipment. 
   "We have known for a long time that too many of our police, fire, emergency medical services and transportation officials cannot communicate with each other, and our local departments are not able to link their communications with state and federal emergency response agencies," said Stabenow. "In an emergency, the ability to communicate with other rescuers can be the difference between life and death. We need to get the necessary equipment into the hands of our first responders before the next natural disaster, attack or emergency."
   Problems with America's first responders' ability to communicate with each other have been apparent since 9-11. The 9-11 Commission reported that "the inability to communicate was a critical element at the World Trade Center, Pentagon, and Somerset County, Pennsylvania crash sites, where multiple agencies and multiple jurisdictions responded." 
   The potentially debilitating impact of incompatible communications systems was highlighted once again last year during the devastation of Hurricane Katrina. In New Orleans, the police department and three nearby parishes were on different radio systems. 
   "A few weeks after Hurricane Katrina, I visited the Gulf Region," said Stabenow. "Members of the Michigan National Guard and Coast Guard assisting in the relief efforts told me that they couldn't communicate by radio with the other first responders who were working with them. In fact, they had to use hand signals to communicate with each other in the rescue boats. Five years after 9/11, this is simply unacceptable."
   Since September 11, 2001, the federal government has not provided any Homeland Security funds to help state and local emergency responders purchase effective and compatible communications equipment. A June 2004 survey by the U.S. Conference of Mayors found that 94 percent of cities do not have compatible communications capability between police, fire and emergency medical services. The same survey reported that 80 percent of cities don't have the ability to communicate with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security or the Department of Justice. 
   "I will continue to fight until our rescuers on the front lines have the equipment they need," Stabenow said. "We need to take immediate action to ensure the safety and security of our families and communities.".
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 