NUMBER OF CANADIAN TRASH TRUCKS ENTERING MICHIGAN DOUBLES IN ONE YEAR; MICHIGAN'S DELEGATION ASK HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY FOR IMMEDIATE ACTION
  A survey recently conducted by the Department of Homeland Security has revealed that the number of Canadian trash trucks crossing the border on their way to Michigan landfills has skyrocketed to approximately 415 per day - more than double last year's estimated daily tally of 180. In response to this startling admission, three members of Michigan's congressional delegation are pressing Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge for immediate action and answers on the problem.  
   In a letter to Ridge today, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) and Rep. John Dingell (D-Dearborn) expressed their "serious concern" over the increase in trash truck traffic, particularly in light of the homeland security threat posed by the trucks.
   "As you know these trucks pose a unique homeland security risk, since by their very nature trucks full of garbage are extremely difficult for Customs agents to inspect as compared to traditional cargo," they wrote. "Therefore, this dramatic increase in Canadian trash trucks is extremely disconcerting. The problem is accelerating at an alarming rate and these shipments must be addressed immediately." 
   "These trucks not only pose a homeland security threat but also have a negative impact on Michigan's environment, hamper Michigan's recycling efforts and jeopardize the safety of Michigan's roads and bridges," Stabenow said. "Although the administration has the authority to halt these trash shipments, it has refused to do so. Now, with the number of trucks more than doubling in one year, the very real and potential threats to the state and nation continue to grow."
   "Michigan is facing an intolerable and unsustainable situation with regard to the importation of waste from Canada," Levin said. "The number of trucks carrying Canadian trash crossing into Michigan from Canada is actually increasing, and we need to know what the Administration is doing to ensure the safety of the people of Michigan from any hazards that they may bring with them." 
   "The trash trucks coming across the border into Michigan every day pose a significant and unique risk to our homeland security," Dingell said. "While the Customs and Border protection folks on the ground are doing their utmost to ensure the safety of the American public, they will readily admit that these trucks, by the very nature of their content, are difficult to inspect. Last October, we asked the Department of Homeland Security to investigate Customs' procedures for screening these trucks. Over the course of that year, the number of trash trucks coming across the border has more than doubled - to an average of 415 per day. Given these numbers, the investigation has taken on a new priority and the results are critical for the safety of the American public."
   The three congressional members told Ridge they were "eagerly awaiting" the results of a Department of Homeland Security investigation of its custom procedures and screening of Canadian trash trucks. Because the Port Huron and Detroit reviews revealed the startling, elevated numbers of trash trucks, they asked Ridge that "the remainder of your investigation be accelerated and the Canadian trash shipments be addressed immediately." 
   Stabenow, Levin and Dingell asked Ridge for a staff briefing before December 15 on the findings of his investigation. 
   Stabenow and Levin have co-sponsored legislation in the U.S. Senate and Dingell has introduced a companion bill in the U.S. House requiring the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to implement and enforce a bilateral agreement with Canada that governs the importation of municipal solid waste.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 