SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE $25,000 GRANT FOR SAGINAW AREA
  Sens. Carl Levin, D- Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D- Mich., announced today that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded the Michigan Department of Community Health a $25,000 grant for its Ethnic Fish Consumers of Saginaw (EFCS) project. The project will provide Saginaw area residents with wildlife advisories informing them about the risks and benefits of consuming local fish.  
   "The Saginaw area's many rivers provide local residents with places to fish for both food and enjoyment," said Levin. "This EPA grant will ensure the area's ethnic populations are educated on the benefits and risks of local fish and wildlife consumption."
   "One of the most important goals that Sen. Levin and I have set is to clean up existing contaminated sites in the Great Lakes basin and to prevent additional contamination of the lakes," Stabenow said. "Until we reach that goal, it's important that all our residents who make fish a key part of their diet be kept aware of the benefits and potential hazards of Great Lakes fish consumption."
   The EFCS project will take place in Saginaw, a city that has numerous restrictions and non-consumption advisories due to point source contamination sites along its rivers and in Saginaw Bay. Local ethnic populations fish in the nearby rivers for an economic food. This project will attempt to maintain this food source within the Saginaw area and use fish advisories to educate local residents about fish consumption benefits and risks, specifically persistent bioaccumulative toxic (PBT) chemical contamination. PBT chemicals are a major concern because they stay in the environment for long periods of time, are hard to destroy and can accumulate in body tissue.
   The EFCS project will benefit local ethnic populations by creating focus groups to disseminate information on fish and wildlife advisories, explain the existing barriers preventing contaminated fish consumption, and review proposed fish advisories. The EFCS project will also work with local groups to provide similar programs in the future, encourage low-income family fishing and distribute wildlife advisories.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822; Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472.
 
 