SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE $244,516 IN FIREFIGHTER GRANTS FOR TWO MICHIGAN COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that the fire departments of L'Anse in Baraga County has been awarded $170,000 for a replacement firefighting vehicle, and the fire department of Lexington in Sanilac County has been awarded $74,516 for fire operations and firefighter safety.  
   "I have worked in the Senate to win additional funding for this grant program, because of its importance to small communities like L'Anse and Lexington," Stabenow said. "These funds will enhance the ability of these two fire departments to protect the communities they serve more safely and effectively. 
   "In order for fire fighters to best do their jobs they must have the proper training, equipment and vehicles," said Levin. "These grants will give the Village of L'Anse and Lexington Fire Department the needed resources to properly train their firefighters and have the necessary vehicles in place to continue with their life saving efforts."
   The Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program helps communities buy such vehicles as pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, aerials, fireboats, and multiple feature vehicles known as quints. Grants for Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety provide firefighters with equipment, training and modifications to facilities. 
   These grants are provided through the Fiscal Year 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, a joint effort of the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Fire Administration.
   Fire departments receiving grants are:
   Fire Department Name: Village of L'Anse 
  Community: L'Anse 
  Program Area: Firefighting Vehicle 
  Federal Share: $ 170,000 
   Fire Department Name: Lexington Fire Department 
  Community: Lexington 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: 74,516 
   More information on this grant program is available at: http://firegrantsupport.com.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 