SENATE APPROVES SEN. STABENOW'S AMENDMENT TO HELP VOLUNTEER, PART-TIME FIREFIGHTERS RECEIVE HOMELAND SECURITY TRAINING
  Almost three-quarters of Michigan's firefighters, previously barred from receiving reimbursement for anti-terrorism training because they are part-time or volunteer, will now be eligible for compensation for those costs, thanks to the amendment of Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) approved by the Senate on Tuesday. 
   Stabenow's bipartisan amendment to the Homeland Security Department appropriations bill, co-sponsored by Senator Larry Craig (R-ID), modifies an Office of Domestic Preparedness rule that said only "overtime" costs could be paid for those attending training. This rule effectively barred 72 percent of Michigan's firefighters - the volunteer and part-time firefighters, who don't qualify for overtime pay - from being reimbursed for their time and expenses.
   "Most firefighters in rural Michigan are volunteers who respond to emergencies and train at a flat hourly or fixed rate. In fact, most have full-time jobs they must leave in order to participate in these training courses," Stabenow said. "Yet, these volunteer or part-time first-responders carry the same burden for protecting Michigan communities."
   Stabenow noted that under the misguided rule, the majority of Michigan's first responders were unfairly required to sacrifice their own pay and pay expenses out of their own pocket in order to take such terrorism response courses as rapid response, incident command, civil action management, radiological response, crime scene management, and others.
   "When people call 9-1-1 and report a bomb threat or an anthrax scare, firefighters in every community respond, whether they are full-time, part-time, or volunteer," Stabenow said. "We need to make sure all of our firefighters receive the training they need to protect their communities.
   Stabenow said she was assisted on the legislation in the Senate by her Michigan colleague, Carl Levin (D-MI), and she acknowledged the efforts of Rep. Bart Stupak (D-Menominee), who has been working to have this legislative language adopted in the U.S. House.
   "Nearly 75% of America's firefighters are volunteers," Philip C. Stittleburg, chairman, National Volunteer Fire Council, said today. "This amendment will ensure that more of these local responders will be able to take part in Federal anti-terrorism training."
   In other action on the Homeland Security appropriations bill, the Senate also approved an amendment sponsored by Stabenow to provide an additional $100 million for firefighter training grants. 
   "In my meetings with first responders all across the state, I have learned first-hand how desperately our firefighters need this assistance," Stabenow said. "This additional $100 million will help fund firefighter fitness and professional training, equipment replacement, and fire prevention programs throughout Michigan."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 