SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN, REP. KILDEE TO BUSH: DON'T COME TO MICHIGAN AND IGNORE MANUFACTURING CRISIS
  In a letter today, Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Carl Levin (D-MI) and Rep. Dale Kildee (D-Flint) urged President Bush to visit a plant slated to close on his upcoming trip to Michigan next week.
   "Today, we were informed by your staff that you will be visiting Auburn Hills, Michigan this Monday, President's Day," wrote Stabenow, Levin and Kildee. "We would like to invite you to tour one of the many plants in Michigan that is slated to close, meet with the families who are impacted, and share with them what actions your administration is taking to save their jobs." 
   "We are extremely disappointed that you did not address the crisis facing our American manufacturers in your State of the Union speech two weeks ago, and the devastating impact it is having on good-paying middle-class jobs," wrote Stabenow, Levin and Kildee. "We believe that your visit is an important opportunity for you to see firsthand the devastation that this manufacturing crisis is causing in our communities and share with Michigan families what steps you are taking to save their jobs." 
   "This country needs your leadership to address this manufacturing crisis ant to save these jobs and we look forward to working with you to solve these critical problems."
   Full text of the letter is attached. 
   February 15, 2006
   The Honorable George W. Bush
  President of the United States
  The White House
  Washington, D.C. 20502
   Dear Mr. President:
   Today we were informed by your staff that you will be visiting Auburn Hills, Michigan this Monday, President's Day. We would like to invite you to tour one of the many plants in Michigan that is slated to close, meet with the families who are impacted, and share with them what actions your administration is taking to save their jobs.
   We were extremely disappointed that you did not address the crisis facing our American manufacturers in your State of the Union speech two weeks ago, and the devastating impact it is having on good-paying, middle-class jobs. 
   Michigan is the heart and soul of our country's manufacturing economy and we have lost a third of our manufacturing jobs in just five years. Since 2000, 215,000 manufacturing jobs have disappeared. The plight of Michigan's manufacturers is a warning to the entire nation of a bigger economic crisis to come. Delphi's bankruptcy and the layoffs at General Motors and Ford Motor Company should be a wake-up call to your administration that strong federal initiative is necessary to change the policies that are crippling our manufacturers. 
   We urge you to join with us to fight for legislation to lower the cost of health care for manufacturers, protect workers' pensions and stop currency manipulation and other unfair trade practices by countries like China, Korea and Japan. We have introduced specific legislation to address these issues, as have other colleagues. The solutions are there. Your leadership is needed to help us create the political will to get it done.
   We believe that your visit is an important opportunity for you to see firsthand the devastation that this manufacturing crisis is causing in our communities and share with Michigan families what steps you are taking to save their jobs. We should never forget that the middle class built this country, and manufacturing built the middle class. This is about our way of life, a way of life that is the backbone not just of Michigan, but of America. 
   The country needs your leadership to address this manufacturing crisis and to save these jobs and we look forward to working with you to solve these critical problems. We will be happy to work with your staff to help arrange a plant tour and meetings.
   Sincerely,
   Debbie Stabenow
  Carl Levin
  Dale Kildee .
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 