SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE OVER $352,000 FOR FIRE SAFETY
  U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that eight Michigan organizations have been awarded $352,261 through the Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). The funding will be used to support operations and firefighter safety.  
  "Communities throughout Michigan rely on local firefighters and first responders to protect them when emergencies arise," said Stabenow. "These brave men and women deserve nothing less than the best possible equipment and training, and these grants will help these fire departments and organizations reach that goal."
   "With these grants, our fire departments and first responders will be able to purchase equipment, provide necessary training and offer public safety education programs," said Levin. "This federal funding helps ensure that firefighters and first responders, who risk their lives to protect our communities, have the tools they need to do their jobs and protect themselves."
   The AFGP awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to improve the effectiveness of operations and health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. Grants are awarded competitively through an application process. More information can be found at http://www.firegrantsupport.com/. 
   Individual grant awards can be found in the table below.
   Organization Location Program $Amount
  Fraser Department of Public Safety Fraser Operations and Safety 38,446
  Saline Area Fire Department Saline Operations and Safety 35,562
  Perrinton Fire Department Perrinton Operations and Safety 10,455
  Marenisco Township Volunteer Fire Department Marenisco Operations and Safety 42,940
  City of Tecumseh, Michigan Tecumseh Operations and Safety 135,313
  Summit Township Fire Department Jackson Operations and Safety 19,476
  Cannon Township Fire Department Rockford Operations and Safety 23,979
  Vassar Fire Department Vassar Operations and Safety 46,090
 
 