SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW INTRODUCE SENATE RESOLUTION SALUTING DETROIT PISTONS' NBA CHAMPIONSHIP VICTORY
  The U.S. Senate passed a resolution today introduced by Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) honoring the Detroit Pistons on their victory in the NBA Championship Finals.  
   "Last night's victory capped off an exciting and successful season - and one of the biggest championship upsets in basketball history - which has been marked, above all, by solid teamwork," said Levin. "Since Detroit is now home to both the WNBA and NBA champions, perhaps Detroit will not only be known as Hockeytown USA, but as Hoopstown USA, as well."
   "The Pistons are a determined, hard-working team that has shown relentless determination to achieve their goals, and with today's resolution the Senate has clearly acknowledged those great qualities," Stabenow said. "Great teamwork and great coaching have won these players the enthusiastic support of their Michigan fans, the respect of the sports world and, today, the formal congratulations of the U.S. Senate."
   The resolution introduced by the Senators today recognizes the hard work, skill, and perseverance of the team as well as the important contributions made by owner Bill Davidson, Coach Larry Brown, and President of Basketball Operations Joe Dumars. It salutes the team's tenacity in becoming the first team to win games three, four, and five on their home court; in being the first Eastern Conference team to win the championship since 1998; and for overcoming their underdog status to defeat the heavily-favored L.A. Lakers by four games to one.
   Prior to the onset of the finals, Levin and Stabenow made a wager with Sens. Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein from California. For the Pistons' victory, the California Senators have pledged to give Levin and Stabenow movie DVDs, two Disneyland tickets, a crate of avocados and two bottles of California wine.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822. 
 
 