AARP ENDORSES REIMPORTATION EFFORT CHAMPIONED BY SEN. STABENOW, BIPARTISAN GROUP OF SENATE COLLEAGUES
  The legislative effort to open the U.S.-Canadian border to the reimportation of prescription drugs received a boost today, when AARP threw its support behind a bipartisan reimportation bill co-authored by Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI). 
   "We made a major breakthrough when this legislation received bipartisan support at its introduction in April, and the new support of AARP should help this bill win passage," Stabenow said. "This endorsement will hopefully help pave the way to lower-priced prescription drugs for millions of Americans."
   Stabenow, who as head of the Senate Democratic Health Care Task Force has been one of the leading advocates in the U.S. Senate for reimportation, said a major hurdle to reimportation has been the FDA's insistence that it did not have a mechanism to ensure the safety of reimported drugs. The legislation authorizes the Food and Drug Administration to regulate the reimportation of FDA-approved drugs from other countries.
   Initially the FDA would begin to register businesses, allowing them to import FDA-approved drugs from several sources, including Australia, Japan and the European Union. Until this system is in place, individuals would be able to legally purchase prescription drugs from Canada.
   "I have long argued that the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs is a major force in the rising cost of health care, hurting not only seniors and families but businesses as well," Stabenow said. "This legislation is part of the solution to this problem, by allowing lower-priced drugs to be imported in the U.S. The benefit of this bill cannot be underestimated."
   Stabenow recently detailed just how much Michigan residents and other Americans could expect to save on commonly prescribed drugs, if reimportation were allowed. For example, Tamoxofin costs one-eighth as much from Canadian pharmacies as they do in the U.S., and Celebrex, Prevacid and Zocor cost half as much. Anyone purchasing Lipitor from Canada might expect to save 40 percent, and with Zyprexa, 30 percent.
   The effort to make lower-priced prescription drugs available has been a major fight in Congress for several years. Although the Senate has twice approved Stabenow-supported versions of bills that would allow reimportation, a recently-adopted Medicare reform package failed to include this provision. The reform bill even expressly prohibited the federal government from using its bulk-purchasing power to negotiate for lower drug prices.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 