SENS. STABENOW, SNOWE INTRODUCE BILL TO ADVANCE HEALTH CARE TECHNOLOGY
  On Wednesday, May 16, Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) introduced the Health Information Technology Act of 2007, or "HealthTech Act," that would provide tax incentives and resources to offset the costs of investing in new health information technology. These technologies reduce medical costs by improving efficiency, quality of care and patient safety.
   "The result of using 19th century technology in a 21st century health care system is higher costs, increased errors and decreased quality of care," said Stabenow. "It's long past time that we fully utilize technology to make health care accessible and affordable for every family and business." 
   "With an estimated 98,000 deaths per year resulting from medical errors caused by the continuing use of outdated technology, it has become obvious that we must bring American medicine up to speed," said Snowe. "Although business has widely adopted new practices and tools, too often medicine remains grossly inefficient, increasing the cost of health care for everyone. Our legislation addresses the needs of hospitals, health care centers and physicians in bringing technology on line quickly to save lives, improve health care delivery, and ultimately reduce costs."
   In its report, To Err is Human, the Institute of Medicine estimates that 44,000 to 98,000 Americans die each year not from their medicinal conditions, but from preventable medical errors. In the United States, 31 cents of every health care dollar pays for administrative costs - nearly twice the rate in other countries. A study by the RAND Corporation suggested savings as high as $81 billion a year through effective use of electronic records. However, high start-up costs and the fragmented nature of our health care systems have prevented wide-spread adoption of computerized health care information systems. 
   The legislation would establish a 5-year, $4 billion competitive grant program for the information technologies and services needed by health care providers such as hospitals, physicians, skilled nursing facilities, community health centers and community mental health centers. At least 20 percent of the funds would be available to rural areas or regions with a shortage of health care professionals. The bill also contains privacy provisions, including a requirement that patients be informed if their personal health record is inappropriately disclosed.
   The HealthTech Act would accelerate depreciation of health IT software and equipment, and increase Medicare payments to providers who use health IT to improve the quality and accuracy of clinical decisions for patients with chronic conditions. 
   The act is supported by numerous health and business groups including the AFL-CIO
   Altarum, American Academy of Pediatrics, American College of Cardiology, American College of Emergency Physicians, American College of Physicians, American Health Care Association, American Heart Association, Ascension Health, Automation Alley, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, Chrysler, Detroit Medical Center, e-Health Initiative, Families USA, Ford Motor Company, General Motors Corporation, Greenway Medical Technologies, Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS), IBM, Marquette General Health System, McLaren Health Care Corporation, Michigan State Medical Society, National Association of Children's Hospitals, National Association of Community Health Centers, National Business Coalition on Health, National Business Group on Health, National Partnership for Women and Families, National Rural Health Association , Oracle, Saint John Health, Saint Joseph Mercy Health System - Ann Arbor, Michigan, Saint Joseph Mercy Oakland - Pontiac, Michigan, Saint Mary's Health Care - Grand Rapids, Michigan, and Trinity Health.
 
 