SEN. STABENOW ISSUES STATEMENT ON PENSION BILL
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow issued the following statement following her vote against the current version of the pension reform bill: 
   "In my home state of Michigan, we have more than 1.3 million workers and retirees - that's one in six adults - who are counting on a pension for their retirement security.  
   "A pension is something workers contribute to, day after day, paycheck after paycheck. And, after 30 or 40 years of hard work, a pension allows workers to retire with dignity in their older years. It is unacceptable that after a lifetime of work, that a promised pension not be there when our workers retire. But that is the situation that too many of our workers and retirees are facing. 
   "We can do better than that.
   "Our goal in pension reform should be to help companies who provide pensions and health care to be able to maintain these critical benefits for families - not force them to eliminate their pension systems to stay in business. We must help our companies that are struggling to protect their employees' pensions during these difficult economic times. And we must protect workers from those companies that would use bankruptcy to dump their pension plans. 
   "The bill we considered today includes some important provisions, such as the amendment I offered with Senator Santorum to protect multi-employer plans and a provision that helps our airlines by giving them the necessary breathing room to gain financial stability and maintain their pension plans for current and future retirees.
   "Unfortunately, this bill has some critical problems that would create burdens for companies that are going through difficult economic times and actually penalize our manufacturers who need the most help right now.
   "Kicking our manufacturers while they are down will not solve our pension problem.
   "The current version of the pension bill would endanger the pensions of workers in Michigan and put the economic future of our manufacturers and the auto industry at risk. That is why I voted against it.
   "I will continue to work with my colleagues to address these issues. It is critical that the problems in this bill be addressed in the conference committee. If so, the conference report will have my support.
   "In America, a lifetime of work and payments into a pension system must be honored. Promises made must be promises kept."
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 