SENATE PASSES BILL TO STOP COUNTERFEIT AUTO PARTS AND MANUFACTURED GOODS
  On the eve of the President's trip to Asia, where counterfeit goods are expected to be a key topic of discussion, the Senate unanimously passed a measure to toughen domestic laws on counterfeit goods, sending a strong message to China that the U.S. treats counterfeiting as a serious crime - whether at home or abroad. The legislation would strengthen penalties against counterfeit goods in the U.S. and would enable the U.S. to demand higher standards of enforcement from other nations, including China, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today.  
   "Counterfeiting of U.S. manufactured goods is big business - and a big job-killer," Stabenow said. "The measure passed by the Senate last week is a key part of my jobs agenda for Michigan, and it is a step in the right direction toward ending illegal trade practices."
   Stabenow is a lead sponsor of the Stop Counterfeiting in Manufactured Goods Act (S. 1699), which adds weight to existing trademark laws by requiring that all machinery, tooling and supplies used to make counterfeit items be destroyed as part of enforcement. In addition, the bill bans the trafficking in labels and other trademark items that can be attached to counterfeit products that misrepresent them as the original, genuine item. The U.S. House earlier this year approved a companion bill, which was introduced by Congressman Joe Knollenberg (R-MI). 
   "We must put a stop to the rampant counterfeiting of American products in China," Stabenow said. "By strengthening our own laws against counterfeit goods, the U.S. will be in a much stronger position to insist that our trading partners impose the same penalties against those who are found to be trafficking counterfeit products." 
   "The global counterfeit market is worth an estimated $350 billion," Stabenow said. "The auto industry alone loses $12 billion annually to counterfeit automotive parts. If we could stop this illegal activity, the auto industry could hire an additional 200,000 workers - in Michigan, that would cut our unemployment rate by nearly two-thirds."
   "When the rules are fair and enforced, the U.S. can compete and win," Stabenow said.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 