SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW REQUEST TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR MICHIGAN
  Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today urged the U.S. Secretary of Labor to grant the State of Michigan's request for about $4.9 million in 2005 Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) funding. The funding is needed to assist workers who have lost their jobs, or who have experienced loss of hours or wages, due to increased imports.  
   "Many Michigan workers have lost their jobs because of a surge of imports coming into our country, and the TAA program is one of the few resources available to help these dislocated workers," Levin said. "Unfortunately, the current allocation of TAA funding is not nearly enough to help all of the eligible workers in the state. We have hundreds of workers who are ready to begin job-training programs, but we simply do not have the money to fund them."
   "Michigan workers have been hit hard with layoffs and their jobs going overseas, and these workers want and need retraining," Stabenow said. "We owe it to these workers and their families to make sure they get the job training and transitional assistance they need."
   The TAA program is administered by the Department of Labor to assist workers who have lost their jobs due to increased imports. Some of the services offered through the program include job training, income support, relocation allowances, and job search allowances. A request for TAA may be filed by a group of three or more workers, or by a union or other group representing dislocated workers.
   Currently, Michigan's TAA allocation for the 2005 fiscal year is $7,447,683, and the state has 1,401 participants enrolled in the program. There are also hundreds of workers who have been approved for the program or who are eligible for the program, but the state would need additional resources to aid these individuals.
   The State of Michigan submitted its request for additional funding to the Department of Labor on November 12, 2004.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 