SEN. STABENOW JOINS SENATE DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP TEAM
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) has been elected by her Democratic Senate colleagues to serve as caucus secretary, the third-highest ranking leadership position in the Senate Democratic Caucus.  
   Stabenow joins Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), who will serve as the new minority leader, and Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL), the new party whip, as the new Democratic leaders. The three posts are the only elected leadership positions in the Senate Democratic Caucus. 
   "Debbie Stabenow brings to this leadership position her years of congressional leadership, a willingness to work across the aisle, and a great knowledge of the important issues facing American families," Reid said. "Her relentless efforts to lower the price of prescription drugs are unmatched. She is an essential part of this leadership team, and I count on her to help ensure that the basic needs and concerns of the American people form the basis of the legislative agenda of Democrats in the U.S. Senate."
   "I look forward to taking on this leadership position which will allow me to more effectively fight for the things that matter most to the people of Michigan and get the job done," Stabenow said. "We have important work ahead of us on critical issues like stopping Canadian trash, making health care and prescription drugs more affordable, protecting our manufacturing economy and creating good paying jobs. I look forward to continuing to lead the fight on these important issues."
   The election of Stabenow to this leadership post is impressive, because she has only served in the Senate for four years, but it is not the first acknowledgement of her leadership skills. She was early on asked to play a key role in the Senate, when she was named to head a task force dealing with the important issues of health care and prescription drugs.
   In her first year in the Senate, Stabenow scored two major legislative victories. She succeeded in getting Congress to approve a ban on drilling for oil and gas in and under the Great Lakes, and she won passage of the USA Act, which fostered thousands of volunteer projects nationwide to honor the victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
   A member of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, Stabenow has also authored new laws that protect corporate whistleblowers and promote financial literacy. She has also taken a leadership role in the Senate in efforts to aid grandparents raising grandchildren and to protect individuals and families from predatory lenders. 
   Stabenow has met with police chiefs, fire chiefs and other first responders across the state of Michigan and - as a direct result of those meetings - has ardently pressed for additional homeland security funding for local communities. She won funding for the installation of inspection equipment at the Michigan-Canadian border, which helps reduce the terrorist threat posed by the hundreds of uninspected Canadian trash trucks entering the state daily.
   The caucus secretary post was held by Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), who served for 10 years before opting to not seek reelection to the leadership job. In a recent letter to her Senate colleagues, Mikulski said, "I want to open the door for someone else . . . just as the door was opened for me 10 years ago."
   Stabenow said, "Senator Mikulski did an outstanding job in this position. I sincerely value her service to the Democratic caucus and look forward to continuing my work with her over the coming years."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 