SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN SECURE MILLIONS IN SENATE-PASSED COMMERCE, JUSTICE, AND SCIENCE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) have secured $6,450,000 for projects throughout Michigan in the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Fiscal Year 2008 Appropriations Bill, which was approved by the Senate earlier this evening. 
   "This bill is critical to our state's ability to compete globally, as well as to provide new scientific breakthroughs and discoveries," Stabenow said. "We've provided our first responders with the means to more effectively and safely respond to emergencies, our law enforcement with the latest technology for solving missing persons cases around the country, and our students with the support they need to pursue their dreams."  
   "This bipartisan bill provides funding to combat illegal counterfeiting, support our domestic manufacturers and train and equip vital law enforcement personnel in Michigan and along our Northern Border," said Levin. "I am particularly pleased that this legislation provides funding for the Technology Innovation Program to build on and improve the Advanced Technology Program, which will promote innovative research across the country and create jobs."
   Western Michigan
   $200,000, Kalamazoo Regional Police, Fire, Medical and Public Transit Safety Training Center (Kalamazoo): The new training center will provide cost-effective educational opportunities, preparing community professionals throughout West Michigan to protect and serve the community in the event of a local or national emergency. 
   $150,000, Grand Valley State University, Western Michigan Science and Technology Initiative (Allendale): The West Michigan Science and Technology Institute's West Michigan Biosciences Research and Commercialization Project is a highly sophisticated laboratory for studying new life science technologies, whether from corporate research, universities and their faculty, research institution investigators, or individual innovators. 
   $200,000, The LOOP After School Program (Grand Rapids): The Office of Children, Youth & Families in the City of Grand Rapids is a unique partnership between the City of Grand Rapids and the Public Schools. The office provides after school resources and services for children. Funding will be used to increase academic performance and provide youth with life skills necessary for the workforce. 
   Northern Michigan
   $2,000,000, Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve (Alpena): The Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve will use the grant to complete permanent displays for the facility's new visitor center. The Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary protects a nationally significant collection of approximately 160 shipwrecks which span over a century of Great Lakes shipping history. 
   $250,000, Michigan Public Safety Communications, International Border Interoperability Communications Enhancement (Sault Sainte Marie): Funding will provide infrastructure for reliable, interoperable communications to the Soo Locks, the International Bridge, and the downtown Sault Sainte Marie area. Because the Sault Sainte Marie area is significant to homeland security, it is imperative that reliable interoperable communications serve federal, state, and local responders in the area. 
   $500,000, Upper Peninsula 15-County Consortium: The Upper Peninsula Fifteen County Consortium will increase the interoperable capabilities of law enforcement communications equipment in the 15 counties, enhancing public safety and service to the citizens of Michigan's Upper Peninsula. 
   Eastern Michigan
   $500,000 Downriver Mutual Aid System Preparedness II: For equipment upgrades for public safety, making the entire region better prepared and equipped to detect, monitor and help prevent disasters.
   $750,000, The City of Flint Police Department, Technology Project: The City of Flint Police Department will provide new in-car computers for one hundred of the city's patrol vehicles. The computers will be hooked to the city's dispatch center, records management system as well as to other patrol vehicles. This will aid responding officers and increase overall safety in the community that they serve. 
   $200,000, Ruth Ellis Center Street Outreach Program (Highland Park): The Ruth Ellis Center Street Outreach Program provides a safe space where gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered youth can heal, socialize and learn. In 2006, this project had almost 15,000 significant contacts with youth, making the Center one of the largest drop-in centers in the country. This year, the Center is on pace to have over 20,000 significant contacts with youth. 
   $250,000, Bridge to Success Transitional Jobs Project (Detroit): The City of Detroit will provide subsidized transitional jobs and housing, counseling and case management services, and job placement support for parolees, technical parole violators, and ex-offenders released from Michigan prisons. 
   $750,000, Public Safety Communications System (Macomb County): Funding will provide interoperable radio communication equipment for police, fire, and EMS emergency first responders. This project is in partnership with the State of Michigan, allowing statewide interoperability. 
   $200,000, St. Clair County 800 MHz. Interoperability Project: St. Clair County will purchase mobile and handheld 800 MHz. radios for public safety agencies. This system upgrade will provide a communication system for all first response agencies in the county. 
   $400,000, Truancy Reduction Initiative (Wayne County): Wayne County will establish a truancy intervention program to improve student attendance, academic performance and parent involvement in the Highland Park School District. The program will provide immediate interventions for students who exhibit behavioral problems in the school setting, as well as resources to reduce school suspension rates in Highland Park middle and high schools, and liaison support for students and their families to connect them with appropriate community resources. 
   Other
   $350,000, Michigan State Police: A DNA profile-matching database will be set up in the Forensic Laboratory of the Michigan State Police. Participating states will send samples from unidentified bodies, or relatives of missing persons, to be tested and compared there, thus helping to solve missing persons cases. 
   $250,000, Court and Law Enforcement Management Information System - Live Scan Project: The Michigan State Police have mandated the electronic submission of arrest records via the Live Scan, which provides an electronic means of obtaining the fingerprints and data on an arrested individual. In turn this information is seamlessly forwarded to the CLEMIS, state and federal law enforcement agencies for a rapid identity check as well as a search for outstanding warrants against the individual in custody. The system is able to reference local, regional and national fingerprint databases and provide identification of subjects within minutes. 
   And also
   $40,000,000 for the Department of Justice (DOJ) Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program: Senators Stabenow and Levin cosponsored an amendment to increase nationwide funding for drug courts from $25 million to $40 million. Drug courts intervene and break the cycle of substance abuse, addiction, and crime. They place offenders under strict court monitoring and community supervision coupled with effective, long-term treatment services.
 
 