SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE $5.9 MILLION GRANT FOR CITY OF WARREN TO HELP DEVELOP INTEGRATED COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM FOR FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that the Department of Justice has awarded $5,864,059 to the City of Warren to develop an integrated communications system that will allow law enforcement, firefighters and emergency medical personnel to talk to one another at the scene of a community disaster.  
   In receiving the grant, the City of Warren is acting as the lead agency to establish a five-county interoperability communications program. The participating counties are Lapeer, Livingston, Macomb, Oakland and St. Clair.
   "Effective emergency response requires that all first responders be able to share vital information by radio in real time, but first responders across the state of Michigan have told me in numerous meetings that their communications equipment is incompatible," Stabenow said. "This grant for Warren will aid the southeast Michigan region, and it will help set standards and resolve problems that will benefit communities across the state and nation."
   "I personally have heard the stories from our first responders in this region who tell of fire captains wearing four different radios around their necks in order to communicate with neighboring responders and agencies," said Levin, who sent a letter in August to Attorney General John Ashcroft and Director of the program Carl Peed, in support of the grant. "This grant will address the glaring lack of communication challenging the region's first responders and as a result will significantly contribute to our security." 
   This Interoperable Communications Technology program grant is being awarded under the auspices of Community Oriented Policing Services, better know as COPS. The grant for Warren is one of 23 grants nationwide to demonstrate how new technologies and operating methods can help communities achieve interoperability. 
   Additional information on this program is available at: www.cops.usdoj.gov.
   Contact: Kathleen Long (Levin), 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon (Stabenow), 202/224-4822.
 
 