SEN. STABENOW JOINS GOV. GRANHOLM IN CALL TO PRESIDENT TO SEEK GAS PRICE ROLL-BACK
  With Michigan families and businesses continuing to suffer record-high gas prices, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) has joined Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm in calling on the president to ask oil companies to lower their gas prices and to cap their exorbitant profits. Stabenow also joined Granholm in asking the president to immediately pursue several lines of investigation into possible price gouging, including an FTC probe that Stabenow herself authored and shepherded to Congressional approval. 
   "Michigan families, Michigan tourism, Michigan manufacturing, have all been hurt by unprecedented spikes in the price of gas," Stabenow said. "I echo the sentiments of Governor Granholm and I urge the president to follow her example by directly addressing the heads of major oil companies and asking them to lower their prices in this time of national disaster." 
   Stabenow's call for the president to take action on gas price relief for the nation caps a busy week in the Senate on the gas price issue. Earlier in the week she cosponsored legislation to give the president additional authority to prevent price gouging, and she won Senate passage of an enhancement to her own FTC initiative - signed into law in August - that directs the agency to investigate possible collusion in setting gas prices.
   "This summer Congress approved my call for the FTC to immediately look into whether the high gas prices we have been paying are the result of legitimate market forces, or whether there was illegal manipulation of the market," Stabenow said. "The Senate has now approved funds for the FTC to expedite and expand this investigation. Delay can only hurt the people of Michigan and the American economy, and I call on the FTC to begin this investigation immediately." 
   Approved as an amendment to the fiscal year 2006 Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations bill, the new language now directs the FTC to determine the reasons for changes in profit levels of wholesale and retail petroleum distributors. The FRC is also asked to study the effects of price increases and price gouging on the economy, and to determine the impact of gas prices on consumer purchasing power.
   Separate legislation, introduced by Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and co-sponsored by Stabenow, would give the president the authority to declare temporary national emergencies and stabilize the wholesale and retail price of petroleum for the duration of the emergency, set initially at 45 days and extended only with the approval of Congress.
   The Federal Response to Energy Emergencies Act, dubbed the FREE Act, would trigger a prohibition, punishable by federal penalties, on price gouging. This part of the bill is similar to legislation now on the books in 13 states
   The FREE Act would also impose on the petroleum industry many of the same constraints now levied on other sectors of the energy industry in time of emergency, including requirements that pricing be transparent, authority for federal officials to obtain industry records, and new bans on price and supply manipulations.
   "Although segments of the petroleum industry were certainly damaged by Hurricane Katrina, we also saw oil companies that do not rely on Gulf Coast refineries raise their prices to unprecedented levels. If this isn't price gouging I don't know what is, and we need to stop it."
   Stabenow noted that since 2001, the top 5 oil companies have reported more than $230 billion in profits, with one company reporting a 44 percent profit increase in just one year. These soaring profits come at the same time that consumers have fewer choices as major gasoline refining and marketing companies have merged over the last decade. 
   "Every American is affected when the petroleum market is manipulated," Stabenow said. "The FREE Act gives the president new tools to deal with disruptions caused by emergencies on a short-term basis, and it gives federal authorities new authority to investigate and punish illegal market manipulation."
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 