SEN. STABENOW, SENATE COLLEAGUES UNVEIL ?SOCIAL SECURITY CALCULATOR' TO REVEAL BENEFIT LOSSES UNDER PROPOSED PRIVATIZATION
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow and several Senate colleagues today unveiled the Social Security Calculator, a Web-based tool that allows any American to quickly and easily calculate what they could lose under the president's proposed privatization plan. 
   "The public debate and discussion over the administration's proposed privatization of Social Security raises an important question: Just how much would each of us lose if some of our Social Security contributions were diverted to a privatized plan?" Stabenow said.
   "The calculator, which can be accessed from my Web site, answers that question, and it couldn't simpler to use," she said. "All you have to do is plug in your income and your year of birth, and you can see a side-by-side comparison of your benefits under the current Social Security system and the president's proposed privatized system."
   Stabenow said the calculator is based on projections provided by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, and it assumes for simplicity that the individual will retire at age 65.
   "Every working American - including me - earns Social Security by working hard all their lives and paying into the system. This calculator shows how every American would lose benefits under privatization - even those who choose not to risk their money in privatized accounts!"
   In addition to cutting each person's Social Security benefits, Stabenow noted that privatization has other negative consequences, including adding an estimated $5 trillion in national debt over 20 years, much of which would be borrowed from countries like China and Japan.
   "We want to develop innovative ways to promote savings so more Americans can save for their future, but first we need to reject privatization schemes and work together to strengthen Social Security," Stabenow said. 
   Visitors to Stabenow's Web site will find another tool in the effort to protect Social Security - an online petition that allows people to tell President Bush that they object to plans to privatize Social Security. 
   "I encourage people to sign my petition," Stabenow said. "Every working American deserves a secure retirement, and, together, we can keep the security in Social Security.
   The calculator and petition can be found at: www.stabenow.senate.gov/socialsecurity
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202-224-4822. 
 
 