SEN. STABENOW INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO ADDRESS EPIDEMIC OF UNINSURED AMERICANS
  In the wake of a report that almost 82 million people under the age of 65 - 80 percent of them in working families - were without health insurance for all or part of a recent two-year period, Sen. Debbie Stabenow has introduced legislation to help small businesses provide a health benefit for their employees. 
   Stabenow, who heads up the Senate Democratic Health Care Task Force, seeks to foster the nation-wide development of local self-insurance pools called "three share," funded jointly by employees, employers and an outside agency that could be a public, private or charitable source.
   "Wednesday's report from Families USA revealed that the number of uninsured may be almost double the number that has long been quoted - 43 million - and it signaled a clear call to action to address this problem," Stabenow said. "Three-share programs in several forms have been successfully established in Michigan, and these models point the way toward a remedy for what can now be seen as a crisis in U.S. health care."
   The Families USA report, based on U.S. Census Bureau data, looked at the number of people who did not have health insurance for all or part of 2002 and 2003, and it revealed that one out of four Michigan residents during that period were uninsured.
   Under Stabenow's proposal, small businesses and their employees would each pay 30 percent of the cost of the coverage plan, and the remaining 40 percent would be paid by a grant. Stabenow said. "Using this model, we can create a voluntary program of health coverage that keeps premiums low and makes health care affordable, while creating no new bureaucracy or imposing any funding mandates on state or local governments.
   "More importantly, this kind of health care plan lends an essential helping hand to small businesses, which- want to be able to provide health insurance for their employees," Stabenow said. "Making health insurance more affordable is a win-win for employers and employees alike."
   As proposed by Stabenow, a community-based entity - either a local government itself or a non-profit organization - would manage the health coverage plan. This agency would negotiate service arrangements with local providers, develop a health benefit package, sign up small businesses in the area that have no health insurance for their employees, and handle claims.
   "The lack of health insurance means that families may skip routine check-ups, mammograms, and other preventive procedures that are cost-effective and essential to sustained good health," Stabenow said. "Under a three-share program employees and employers alike have a stake in their own health, that of their families, and the health of each business itself."
   Senators Carl Levin (D-MI) and Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) are original co-sponsors of the legislation.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 