SEN. STABENOW: CHINA'S UNFAIR TRADE POLICIES COST MICHIGAN JOBS
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today testified at a hearing of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission that China's trade policies are destroying U.S. industries, costing American jobs and hurting our middle class. Sen. Debbie Stabenow called for tough action against China for its violation of trade agreements and to ensure that American manufacturers are competing on a level playing field in the global economy. 
   "We need to act now - Michigan jobs, Michigan's auto industry and Michigan's way of life are at stake," Stabenow said. "We know that China is cheating. Congress and the Administration must stand up and fight for American jobs by forcing China to play by the rules."
   The U.S.-China Commission monitors, investigates and submits to Congress an annual report on the national security implications of the trade and economic relationship between the United States and China, making policy recommendations based on their findings. Today's hearing in Dearborn focused on China's impact on the U.S. Auto and auto parts industries. 
   Failure to enforce our trade agreements has cost the United States millions of jobs over the past 15 years in nearly every sector of the economy, including auto manufacturing. More than 51,000 jobs in Michigan were lost because of China's illegal currency manipulation. China leads the world in cases of piracy, counterfeit auto parts, and currency manipulation. Counterfeit auto parts cost the auto industry $12 billion in lost sales and 200,000 fewer American jobs. 
   Stabenow noted in her testimony that despite China's repeated and widespread violations of World Trade Organization (WTO) rules, the Bush Administration has failed to file a single complaint with the WTO to stop these violations.
   Based in part on previous recommendations by the U.S.-China Commission, Stabenow has introduced bipartisan legislation in the Senate to create a U.S. Trade Prosecutor within the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The U.S. Trade Prosecutor would be given the authority to investigate illegal trade practices by China and other trade partners and recommend the prosecution of cases before the WTO. 
   "When it comes to China violating our trade laws, warnings aren't working," Stabenow said. "We need tough action to put a stop to illegal practices that put American manufacturers out of business. Michigan must also continue to be a leader in innovation and education, so that our products and our workforce remain on the cutting edge of the global economy."
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 