SEN. STABENOW: DREDGING ONTONAGON'S HARBOR IS VITAL TO PROTECT LOCAL ECONOMY, LOCAL JOBS
  The Great Lakes' small harbors like Ontonagon's are critical to the economic life of the community they serve and should be regularly dredged, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today. 
   "We won't let Ontonagon's economy run aground," said Stabenow. Dredging helps protect the community from spring floods and ensures that its largest employer - Smurfit-Stone Container - has a usable harbor to ship its products."
   "I am pleased that we were able to get $300,000 for Ontonagon Harbor dredging in the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations bill and I will continue fighting to maintain this funding when the bill is moves forward this fall."
   Stabenow noted that the harbor will also support shipment of materials for a two-year state and federal highway project, and costs of the materials could rise if materials can't be off-loaded at local docks in Ontonagon.
   The battle to keep Ontonagon's water lifeline open began when the Army Corps of Engineers decided to discontinue dredging lower-usage commercial harbors, and it sparked action in both the U.S. House and Senate. On the House side, U.S. Representative Bart Stupak (D-MI) added language to the Water Resources Development Act that reversed the Corps decision, while on the Senate side, Stabenow led efforts to ensure that $300,000 for the Ontonagon project was specifically written into next year's funding bill.
   "This funding will ensure that the critical needs of the community are met," Stabenow said. "It will help protect local jobs and meet other community needs, like affordable electricity generated from coal shipped into the harbor. We must make sure that our small communities aren't left behind when federal agencies set their priorities."
   Stabenow visited Ontonagon today as part of her August "jobs tour," meeting with local elected officials and business leaders to discuss her ongoing effort to ensure that the Army Corps continues to maintain the harbor.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 