SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE $353,426 IN FIREFIGHTER GRANTS FOR FOUR MICHIGAN COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that four fire departments in the state of Michigan have received $353,426 in grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. These communities will use the funds for vehicle acquisition and for fire operations and firefighter safety programs. 
   "These grants will allow these four fire departments to enhance their ability to respond to fires and other emergencies in their communities," Stabenow said. "This funding makes communities safer, while at the same time improving safety for the firefighters themselves."
   "Our firefighters perform vital and important jobs and they deserve the very best equipment and facilities," said Levin. "This latest round of grants will give these four fire departments the necessary resources to continue their life-saving work."
   Grants for Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety provide firefighters with equipment, training and modifications to facilities. The Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program helps communities buy such vehicles as pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, aerials, fireboats, and multiple feature vehicles known as quints.
   These grants are provided through the Fiscal Year 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, a joint effort of the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Fire Administration.
   * Fire departments receiving grants are:
   Fire Department Name: Charter Township of Gun Plain 
  Community: Plainwell 
  Program Area: Firefighting Vehicle 
  Federal Share: $135,000 
  Fire Department Name: Iron Mountain Fire Department 
  Community: Iron Mountain 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $80,529 
  Fire Department Name: Livonia Fire & Rescue 
  Community: Livonia 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $119,684 
  Fire Department Name: Saranac Community Fire Dept.
  Community: Saranac 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $18,213 
  More information on this grant program is available at: http://firegrantsupport.com.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 