SEN. STABENOW, OTHER SENATORS PLEDGE TO PROTECT FUNDING FOR VETERANS' HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and a group of concerned sens. have asked President Bush to give proper attention and priority to the nation's veterans, when he presents his fiscal year 2006 budget to Congress. 
   The senator's concerns over the president's pending request were prompted by the president's budget from last year, which fell $3 billion short of the amount needed to address the current demand for veterans health care, according to an "Independent Budget" developed by a coalition of leading veterans organizatioins. To address that shortfall, Congress added $1.2 billion to the president's proposal.
   Other red-flag elements in the president's proposed budget last year included a proposed doubling of co-pays and the implementation of a $250 annual user fee. Both changes would have been imposed on middle-income veterans with no service disabilities and were expected to drive an estimated 200,000 veterans out of the Veterans Administration system to effect further savings. The proposals were rejected by Congress.
   "We have a responsibility to ensure that the VA health care system receives full funding - without relying on increased out-of-pocket fees to veterans," Stabenow said. "We owe this to the men and women who have served our nation in the past - and to the tens of thousands of service members who will be returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.
   "We need to give a high priority to providing high-quality primary and specialty care in a timely manner, and we need to provide long-term and mental health care for those who require it," she said. "It is already apparent that both of these services will continue to be in high demand, and we cannot ignore them as we shape the future of VA health care."
   Stabenow said that the legislative effort to ensure that veterans receive the health care they need will be a bipartisan effort.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 