SEN. STABENOW: BUSH MUST RELEASE OIL FROM STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE TO HELP LOWER GAS PRICES
  Concerned about the skyrocketing price of gasoline and its impact on the economy and working Americans, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and other senators have introduced a resolution calling on the president to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for at least 30 days. 
   "We have seen crude oil prices hit 13-year highs and gasoline prices at the pump hit all-time records, without a direct response from this administration to deal with the problem," Stabenow said. "I am calling on President Bush to lower gas prices in this country by releasing at least 1 million barrels of oil a day for a month from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and for another month after that, if necessary."
   Stabenow noted that President Clinton released 30 million gallons of oil from the reserve in the summer and fall of 2000 to help lower the price of gas. In actions that run counter to such positive actions, President Bush is instead adding daily to the strategic reserve, even though it is 94 percent full.
   "We need administration action and an administration policy on oil that reduces pump prices instead of contributing to their rise," Stabenow said. "A failure to act now will mean increasing pain for working families, will badly hurt the tourism and travel industry, and will have a negative effect on not just the U.S. economy but the world economy as a whole."
   In the past year alone, Stabenow noted, the average pump price for gas in Michigan has risen 55 cents, hitting $2.048 on Monday, and rising more than 10 cents per gallon in the past week alone.
   In addition to increasing the domestic supply of oil, Stabenow said, the president needs to take a firm hand with the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, in response to the organization's announced April 1 cut in oil production. Stabenow and other senators had written to President Bush on March 30, urging him to try to head off those production cuts, and today she repeated her call for forceful action.
   "The president should directly confront OPEC and pressure OPEC to immediately increase oil production," Stabenow said. 
   Whatever course of action the president chooses, he needs to act immediately "The precedent of tapping the reserve has been established, and its practical value has been demonstrated. The damage to families and to the economy through inaction is also apparent," Stabenow said. "The president needs to act, and act now."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 