SEN. STABENOW: HEALTH IT BILL SETS THE STAGE FOR LOWER COSTS AND IMPROVED HEALTH CARE QUALITY
  Congress took an important first step in improving the quality and lowering the cost of health care with Thursday's Senate passage of the "Wired for Health Care Quality Act," Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today.  
   "This legislation establishes the groundwork necessary to begin to realize the promises of health information technology," said Stabenow, one of the Senate leaders on the issue. "Among the key benefits will be the reduced cost health care for manufacturers in Michigan and elsewhere, who are struggling to remain competitive in a global market. 
   Stabenow said the next step was to ensure that health care providers had a way to pay for the needed IT equipment and systems. "Creating standards for a nationwide health IT system is a good first step," said Stabenow. "But now we need to put our money where our mouth is. Every dollar invested in Health IT will come back to us many times over in lower healthcare costs for businesses and families."
   Stabenow, along with Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME) is a lead sponsor of a bill that would provide more than $4 billion in grants and tax incentives to help health care providers make the necessary investments in information technology software, hardware, and services. "The Health Information Technology Act of 2005" would provide a variety of incentives including tax advantages, adjustments in Medicare payments, and grants, and give priority to providers serving high percentages of Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP patients.
   An agreement between the original cosponsors of the "Wired for Health Care Quality Act," the Senate Majority Leader, and Senators Stabenow and Snowe will ensure that the issue of funding for implementation of a nationwide health IT system will be debated sometime in 2006. Stabenow also succeeded in adding provisions to the bill addressing issues of privacy, including a requirement that patients be informed if their personal health record is inappropriately disclosed. 
   "I look forward to working with my colleagues to taking this important initiative to the next step by providing meaningful, substantial federal financial incentives to accelerate adoption of life and dollar-saving health information technologies, and ensuring that patient privacy is maintained."
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 