SEN. STABENOW'S BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION WOULD HELP RURAL, PART-TIME FIREFIGHTERS RECEIVE HOMELAND SECURITY TRAINING
  Legislation introduced today by Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) would rewrite current guidelines for homeland security grants that now effectively bar 72 percent of Michigan's firefighters from taking part in anti-terrorism training.  
   Stabenow's concern about the program centers on a rule that states only "overtime" costs can be paid for those attending training. The rule effectively disqualifies volunteers and part-time first responders who rarely, if ever, receive overtime pay.
   "Many part-time and volunteer firefighters in rural and small communities are not attending these terrorism response training courses, because federal guidelines do not allow them to be reimbursed for the time they are away from their full-time jobs," Stabenow said. "The legislation I have introduced simply directs the Department of Homeland Security to allow part-time and volunteer first responders, to receive a reasonable stipend when they participate in these approved terrorism response courses."
   "All first-responders, full-time or part-time, respond to emergencies," Stabenow said. "When Americans call 9-1-1, the fire department doesn't send only their full-time firefighters; they send everyone regardless of their status. Yet, while grants are available to pay for the training of full-time firefighters, we currently expect our rural part-time and volunteer firefighters, most of whom have full-time jobs, to take a leave of absence from their jobs and forgo their pay in order to attend training classes. 
   "These unreasonable ODP guidelines must be changed, and my legislation makes that change."
   For example, Stabenow said, as a result of the current guidelines State Homeland Security Grant funds sit unused in several counties in northern Lower Michigan, because the fire departments in those counties are composed entirely of volunteer or part-time firefighters. 
   "Many of our small, rural communities face the same homeland security challenges as larger cities with more resources," Stabenow said, noting that many of the communities along Michigan's long international border with Canada rely on part-time and volunteer firefighters. 
   "These responders must be capable of protecting these borders against the same terrorist threats that urban areas face," she said. "The federal government should not penalize communities and their part-time or volunteer firefighters from receiving training necessary to respond to a terrorist attack." 
   "On behalf of the more than 800,000 members of the volunteer fire service, I applaud Senator Stabenow's bipartisan effort to ensure our communities are protected and our responders are prepared," said Philip C. Stittleburg, chairman of the National Volunteer Fire Council. "Volunteer and paid-on-call firefighters have full-time jobs and should not have to choose between receiving vital training and taking time off without compensation."
   Stabenow's legislation has bipartisan cosponsorship and is supported by Senators Larry E. Craig (R-ID), Mike Crapo (R-ID), James M. Jeffords (I-VT), Carl Levin (D-MI), and John D. Rockefeller IV (D-WV). A companion bill is being introduced in the U.S. House by Rep. Bart Stupak (D-Menominee).
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 