SEN. STABENOW ANNOUNCES FINANCIAL INFORMATION AVAILABLE THROUGH NEW WEB SITE, TOLL-FREE NUMBER
  As directed by legislation authored by Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and signed into law one year ago, the federal government has launched a new Web site and a new toll-free phone number to help Americans save money, avoid high interest rates, and in general make more-informed decisions about their personal finances. 
   The new Web site and number, operated by the Financial Literacy and Education Commission, will act as a one-stop shop for information that has formerly been offered through a variety of federal programs. Web browsers and callers can now get guidance and background information on a variety of financial issues, including personal debt, home buying, credit card use, and retirement investments.
   "Working Americans struggle to deal with an almost overwhelming array of investment and savings options, even as they face greater challenges in saving for their children's education and for their own retirement," Stabenow said. "The average family doesn't have a financial adviser on the payroll to help chart a path through the maze of financial options, and I strongly encourage people to visit www.mymoney.gov "
   For those who don't have access to the Web, Stabenow encouraged use of the toll free number, 1-888-MY MONEY (1-888-696-6639) to obtain a basic package of brochures, called a financial "tool kit," with information on such topics as credit and savings and instructions on where to turn for more detailed answers to specific question. 
   The Web site includes such topic categories as "Budgeting & Taxes," "Credit," "Financial Planning," "Home Ownership," "Privacy, Fraud & Scams," and "Starting a Small Business." Within each category, individual topics address such concerns as home equity credit lines, dealing with creditors while out of work, how to dispute credit report errors, and I.D. theft. 
   Stabenow said the site is also an important source of information for young people, who, studies have revealed, are demonstrating a diminished understanding of basic financial concepts. "Most young people are faced with their first important financial challenges when they receive their first credit card," she said. "They need to know - before they begin charging - how quickly charges can add up, interest can compound, and financial burdens can disrupt their futures."
   The Web site also provides links to other important federal consumer programs, including the National Do Not Call Registry, a listing of motor vehicle recalls, and a broad range of other general consumer information.
   In winning adoption of the legislation language creating the Financial Literacy and Education Commission, Stabenow was assisted by Sen. Michael B Enzi (R-WY), original Republican co-sponsor, and Sen. Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), a leading financial literacy advocate in the Senate.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 