AT SEN. STABENOW'S REQUEST, SENATE PASSES LEGISLATION TO EXPAND SMALL BUSINESS LOANS
  The Senate on Tuesday gave unanimous approval to legislation that would give lenders more flexibility in expanding loans for small businesses. Sen. Debbie Stabenow had fought hard to finally bring this legislation to the Senate floor for a vote, and, with the assistance of Sen. John Kerry (D-MA) - the top Democrat on the Senate's Small Business Committee - helped gain Senate passage. 
   "Too many of our small businesses are struggling, and this legislation will provide additional capital for investment and job creation," Stabenow said. "This is another victory in our effort to find ways to spur domestic business expansion. 
   The legislation would allow lending institutions designated as Premier Certified Lenders more flexibility in using cash reserves, enabling them to make additional loans. It amends an existing requirement that certain lending organizations, designated Premier Certified Lenders, hold in reserve 1 percent of every loan they make, in order to reimburse the SBA 10 percent for any default. Lenders instead must now maintain at least $100,000 in reserve at all times.
   "This change is more than a bookkeeping change," Stabenow said. "I know of one Premier Certified Lender doing business in Michigan that will have an additional million dollars available to make new loans - loans that help spark business start-ups and expansions and create new jobs.
   "In our overall fight to create U.S. jobs, it was important that the Senate take up this matter as quickly as possible," Stabenow said. "I am pleased that the Senate Finance Committee honored my request and allowed this legislation to come to the floor for a vote as a stand-alone bill, and I thank Senator Kerry for his assistance in bringing this bill to the Senate floor."
   A U.S. House version of the bill was approved in June 2003 and has been awaiting Senate action. The bill now goes to President Bush for his signature.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 