SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW; REP. DINGELL URGE PRESIDENT TO PUSH CANADA TO HALT SHIPMENTS OF WASTE TO MICHIGAN
  As President Bush prepares for his visit to Canada at the end of this month, several members of the Michigan Congressional delegation are asking the President to urge Canada to suspend municipal solid waste shipments into Michigan. In a letter to the President, Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.), Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) and Rep. John Dingell (D-Dearborn) argue that the continuation of the shipments is dangerous and also threatens the positive trade relations and tourism that the U.S. and Canada have long shared. For years, these Congressional members have attempted to get the Bush administration to stop the shipments. 
  "Canada is currently importing thousands of truckloads of waste into Michigan every week, which poses health risks, environmental hazards, and security concerns," Levin said. "As the President prepares for his first official meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Martin, we want to make sure he is aware of the seriousness of this issue to the people of Michigan and we want him to press the Canadian government to stop these shipments until reasonable safeguards have been put in place." 
   "Last year, in a matter of months, more than 165,000 Michigan residents signed my online petition, sending a loud and clear statement that they would like the administration to block these shipments," Stabenow said. "These shipments pose a homeland security threat, hurt Michigan's environment and recycling efforts and jeopardize the states roads and bridges - and they should be a key agenda item when the president meets with the Canadian prime minister."
   "President Bush can stand with Michiganders as we struggle to prevent our state from becoming an international dumping ground, or he can continue to stand idly by as this happens," said Dingell. "It is our sincere hope that we can impress upon the President the seriousness of this situation and that he will finally take action to correct it."
   In their letter, the Congressional members raise concern that the number of truckloads of Canadian municipal waste entering Michigan has more than doubled in the past year, from 180 trucks per day last summer to a current average of 415 truckloads of waste a day. The members point out that these shipments exacerbate environmental concerns due to limited landfill space in Michigan; and they represent a potential security threat because the nature of the cargo does not allow for border inspectors to detect chemical or biological weapons or other anomalies.
   The letter to the President states that in 1992, the U.S. and Canada agreed allowing the shipment of municipal solid waste across the border, but requires notification of shipments (which Canada ignores) and provides that the importing country may withdraw consent for shipments. Levin, Stabenow and Dingell urged the President to press Prime Minister Martin to stop the shipments until there is compliance with the terms of the agreement and the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection is able to adequately inspect these vehicles.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 