INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM, LIBRARY SERVICES HONORS FLINT PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR OUTSTANDING COMMUNITY WORK; LIBRARY WILL RECEIVE $10,000
  Citing the library's innovative programs that service families and help unite the community, the Institute of Museum and Library Services has honored Flint Public Library with its National Award for Museum Service and Library Service, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today. The library will also receive $10,000 as part of the award. 
   "In naming the Flint Public Library as one of six award-winners nationwide, the institute has made a wonderful choice," Stabenow said. "This library and its community programs are a great model for libraries across the state and across the country.
   In announcing its award, the institute cited several special programs at the library, including its special programs on the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday - a day most libraries are closed - and its program that allows middle school girls to meet and learn from successful women.
   "In thousands of community interactions, large and small, the Flint Public Library serves as a vital catalyst for civic engagement and enrichment," the institute said in its award literature.
   "The Flint Public Library clearly merits this award because of its civic engagement, but libraries all across the state are important elements of their communities," Stabenow said. "This award is a reminder to the residents of all communities to celebrate their libraries as an essential resource for a lifetime of learning and personal growth."
   The Institute of Museum and Library Sciences is an independent federal agency with a goal of "creating and sustaining a nation of learners." The institute also works to foster leadership and innovation in the nation's 15,000 museums and 122,000 libraries. 
   The other five winners are the Chicago Botanic Garden in Glencoe, Ill.; the Mayaguez Children's Library Inc., in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico; The Regional Academic Health Center Medical Library of the University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, Texas; Western Folklife Center Inc., Elko, Nev.; and the Zoological Society of San Diego, Calif. 
   The institute last honored a Michigan facility in 1998, when it named the Henry Ford Museum & Greenfield Village in Dearborn as one of its three national winners.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 