BAD NEWS FOR SENIORS: HALF OF SOCIAL SECURITY COLA WILL GO TO RECORD INCREASES IN MEDICARE PREMIUMS
  An government announcement today that should have been good news to seniors - that their Social Security checks will go up by 2.7 percent in January with a cost-of-living adjustment - was made meaningless by the fact that a 17.5 percent increase in Medicare payments will eat up almost half that increase. 
   Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), who has introduced legislation to hold cap Medicare increase at the cost-of-living hike, said today she hopes Congress will take another look at her bill when it returns later this fall to work on intelligence reform.
   "The record increase in Medicare premiums, coupled with increased gas and heating prices, could leave seniors with no cost-of-living increase whatsoever," Stabenow said. "It's time to change the underlying law that allows soaring Medicare premiums to erode the Social Security COLA."
   The 2.7 percent increase announced today will give more than 47 million Americans an average of an extra $25 dollars per month. However, the increase in Medicare premiums announced on Sept. 3 will take $11.60 out of those Social Security checks.
   "This Medicare premium increase is a particularly outrageous burden for seniors," Stabenow said, "because much of it comes from Medicare paying private plans enrollment fees that are more than it actually costs to cover a senior in Medicare. 
   "If we permit a 17.5 percent increase to take effect, Medicare premiums will have climbed 56 percent in the last four years, an unacceptable increase that runs completely counter to our efforts to provide affordable health care for Michigan's seniors."
   Administration officials tried to soften the announcement of the Medicare premium increase through the timing of the announcement. The 17.5 percent increase - the largest in the 40-year-history of the program - was announced in early September late on a Friday afternoon, just as the Labor Day holiday began. The timing of the revelation of the dramatic increase broke a 30-year tradition of announcing adjustments to payments for Social Security and Medicare together in October.
   Stabenow heads the Senate Democratic Medicare and Prescription Drug Task Force.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 