SEN. STABENOW ISSUES STATEMENT ON COMBATING CHILD PORNOGRAPHY
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today addressed Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee during a hearing on "Combating Child Pornography by Eliminating Pornographers' Access to the Financial Payment System." Sen. Debbie Stabenow has long supported efforts to ensure the Internet does not exploit children. The Lincoln-Stabenow Internet Safety and Child Protection Act of 2005 would strengthen regulations on pornography purchases over the Internet. In 2001, Sen. Debbie Stabenow successfully passed an amendment to the Patriot Act, which authorizes financial institutions to maintain records and file reports on suspicious accounts or transactions - a measure that can be used today to fight child pornography, in addition to terrorism. Monitoring financial transactions is key in stopping shipments of illegal products across the country and the globe.  
   An excerpt from Stabenow's opening statement at today's hearing follows:
   "The Internet has for far too long been a distribution mechanism for child pornography, but it can also be used as a vehicle to combat it. Our financial institutions and credit card companies have the ability to trace money going directly to child pornographers and solicitors, and I am happy they have agreed to use this technology to help bring these dangerous criminals to justice.
   "I thank Attorney General Alberto Gonzales for joining us at this important hearing, and for the strides the U.S. Department of Justice has made in stopping child pornographers. But we can, and must, do more to protect the most vulnerable victims, our children.
   "Forming a coalition of financial services industries and Internet service providers, with the leadership of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, to eradicate the commercial child pornography industry is a step in the right direction, and I will continue to support this coalition in any way possible.".
 
 