SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF $11 MILLION FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION AT SELFRIDGE ANG BASE
  Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., announced today that the Senate Armed Services Committee has approved $11,437,000 for two construction projects at Selfridge Air National Guard Base: $9,194,000 for construction of a 65 unit lodging facility and $2,243,000 for consolidation and expansion of a service station and small retail store. 
  "The entire Selfridge community will benefit from these two projects," said Levin. "The new housing facility is urgently needed so that official visitors to Selfridge will be able to stay in conveniently located and up-to-date accommodations. In addition, combining the service station and retail store in one larger location will offer higher quality services and greater choices for military members and their families." 
   "Our National Guard units today play a key role in the nation's military preparedness, and these improvements to Selfridge Air National Guard Base reflect this important role," Stabenow said. "These new facilities are critical improvements for our military families and for others who will come to Selfridge for training, transit or temporary duty."
   The new lodging facility at Selfridge ANGB will provide modern accommodations for in-transit military families, personnel on temporary duty, and official guests. Each room in the new building will include a bath and shower, kitchenette, built-in closet and space for mechanical equipment and information systems. The new facility will have an internal fire detection and sprinkler system. Other features of the facility include a reception area, vending machine area, administrative offices and training room. Construction is scheduled to begin in May 2005 and be completed in April 2006. 
   Currently, guests stay at one of two facilities that were built in 1930 and 1951 and are lacking conveniences such as kitchenettes and elevators. Neither facility is handicapped accessible. 
   Selfridge ANGB will also benefit from a project to consolidate an existing gas station and Class Six beverage store. The new convenience store will incorporate expanded retail space with a single-bay automatic car wash and ten gasoline pumps under a canopy. The retail store will be handicapped accessible, will sell a greater variety of merchandise, and will provide greater efficiency and sales capacity. Site improvements include fire detection, alarm and suppression systems, better drainage, retention walls, curbs and gutters, and a 45-vehicle parking lot. Construction is scheduled to start in February 2005 and be completed in January 2006.
   The existing service station is located in a small and inefficient 60-year old facility with outdated equipment. The existing Class Six store is a 13-year old stand-alone facility with no previous major renovations.
   Funding for these construction projects comes from funds generated by morale, welfare and recreation activities on military bases. The projects are submitted and approved through the House and Senate Armed Services Committees. The House Armed Services Committee has not yet approved these two construction projects. Levin is the senior Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 