SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE RELEASE OF GAO REPORT
  Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., announced today the release of a General Accountability Office (GAO) report on the Great Lakes, Organizational Leadership and Restoration Goals Need to Be Better Defined for Monitoring Restoration Progress. The report concluded that current Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) monitoring does not provide the comprehensive information needed to assess overall conditions in the Great Lakes and that efforts to coordinate basin-wide goals and a monitoring system face many challenges.  
   "This most recent report serves to reinforce what we have known to be true, that we are not getting the comprehensive information needed to assess overall conditions in the Great Lakes," said Levin, co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. "Without knowing how we are doing we can't determine if we are moving in the right direction."
   "This report makes clear that we need to move aggressively forward to establish the necessary coordination and monitoring, so that the resources we spend on restoring the Great Lakes will reach their goals, " Stabenow said.
   The purpose of the report was to determine the extent to which current EPA monitoring efforts provide adequate information for assessing overall conditions in the Great Lakes Basin and what information is provided by other organizations conducting monitoring in the Great Lakes. GAO also tried to identify existing restoration goals and what monitoring is done to track progress toward goals. Major challenges were identified to setting basin-wide restoration goals and developing a monitoring system for the Great Lakes. 
   The report recommends that the EPA develop controls to ensure the Great Lakes monitoring system inventory is complete, accurate and consistent. It also suggests that Congress may want to clarify which agency should lead restoration efforts, and require development of measurable basin-wide goals with a monitoring system for measuring progress. 
   To address this question, in May 2003, Senator Levin introduced and Debbie Stabenow co-sponsored a bill (S.1116) that would direct the Great Lakes National Program Office of the Environmental Protection Agency to develop, implement, monitor, and report on a series of indicators of water quality and related environmental factors in the Great Lakes.
   The report can be found at:
  http://levin.senate.gov/newsroom/supporting/2004/100104GAOgreatlakes.pdf
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 