SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN: AGRICULTURE SECRETARY SHOULD REPUDIATE POLITICAL PLANS FOR NEW MILK TAXES, MILK SUPPORT PRICE CUTS
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) have asked Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman to reject proposals that have been circulating within the Department of Agriculture to impose a new milk tax or cut milk supports after the election. The senators said they also found it deeply disturbing that the USDA was timing the implementation of its plan to ensure it would not cost the president votes in the November election.  
  The Michigan senators' letter to the secretary follows the surfacing of USDA briefing documents from April, in which senior USDA officials outlined a plan to 'maximize votes from major dairy states,' including Michigan and Wisconsin, by postponing deficit reduction actions until after the November presidential election. Those actions included the increased "likelihood of termination" of the Milk Income Loss Contract and "maybe (a) small producer assessment/support price decline."
   "Michigan's dairy farmers look to the USDA to provide farm and business support and to ensure a fair price on their product, not to use tax dollars for partisan purposes," Stabenow and Levin wrote. "It is unacceptable for the USDA to deceive dairy farmers and consumers by implementing harmful policies for political purposes." 
   The peek behind the curtain of USDA policy planning came with the revelation of a set of bullet points prepared for an April conference of the American Dairy Products Institute and American Butter Institute by the USDA's Office of the Chief Economist. The talking points stressed that one of the USDA's "2004 Goals and Objectives" was to "Maximize votes from major dairy states," listed as California, Wisconsin, Minnesota, New York and Michigan.
   "Any effort to maximize votes in certain dairy states at the expense of America's dairy farmers is wrong and counter to the actual goals and objectives of the Department of Agriculture," the senators told Veneman.
   "We urge you to disassociate the USDA with these policy objectives or explain these calls for new milk taxes and milk support price cuts." 
   Milk was Michigan's top commodity in 2003 with cash receipts of approximately $800 million, almost double the receipts of corn, the next top-selling commodity.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 