SEN. STABENOW VISITS PORT HURON TO PROMOTE MICHIGAN LIGHTHOUSE, MARITIME HERITAGE PROTECTION
  As part of a statewide tour of key Michigan lighthouses, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) came to Port Huron today to highlight two important Great Lakes legislative proposals - her bill to protect Great Lakes lighthouses and other maritime resources, and her bill to help communities address local waterfront and Great Lakes problems. 
   Speaking from the historic Huron Lightship, Stabenow outlined her Michigan Lighthouse and Maritime Heritage Act, which has drawn strong bipartisan support from the Michigan congressional delegation. "Michigan has more than 120 lighthouses - more than any other state in the nation! Our efforts to preserve this unique heritage face major problems of funding, planning, and organization," Stabenow said. "My legislation brings local, state and National Park Service officials together to make recommendations to Congress on the best ways to protect and promote all of Michigan's maritime resources."
   She noted Port Huron's own historic preservation efforts in protecting the nearby Fort Gratiot Lighthouse - the oldest surviving lighthouse in Michigan - and in turning the Coast Guard Cutter Bramble into another local maritime museum. Stabenow introduced and championed recent Senate passage of legislation transferring the Bramble to the museum as another Great Lakes historical attraction. "These landmarks are both historical resources and focal points for local tourism development," she said. 
   Stabenow, whose early Senate legislative successes included a federal ban on drilling for gas and oil in the Great Lakes, has also introduced the Great Lakes Community Restoration Act. This bill would provide $100 million annually over four years as grants to local communities to address local Great Lakes problems. Examples of qualifying projects include repair of sewer systems damaged by invasive species, lighthouse restoration, and the local cleanup of water pollution and contaminated sediments.
   "Our local communities are on the front lines of Great Lakes stewardship," Stabenow said. "The Great Lakes contains one-fifth of the world's fresh water supply and provide safe drinking water to 33 million people. All Great Lakes communities have a responsibility to protect and enhance this valuable resource. My legislation gives them tools to undertake this effort. 
   "The Great Lakes are also vital to Michigan's economy, which receives a $1.5 billion per year boost from recreation fishing alone," Stabenow said. To spotlight the importance of boating to the state, she noted that BoatingLife magazine recently named Michigan as the Best Boating State.
   "Michigan must lead in all these preservation efforts," Stabenow said. "No Michigan resident lives more than 85 miles from one of the Great Lakes. Their waters are truly a key part of Michigan's historical and economic lifeblood, and we must make their protection our top priority." 
   To help focus attention on these Great Lakes issues, Stabenow has made earlier visits this month to waterfront sites in Marquette, St. Joseph and Muskegon.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 