SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE $412,655 IN FIREFIGHTER GRANTS FOR FIVE MICHIGAN COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that five fire departments in the state of Michigan have been awarded $412,655 in the latest round of grants from the Department of Homeland Security. These communities will use the funds for vehicle acquisition and for fire operations and firefighter safety programs.  
   "Fitness and safety training, new vehicles, and improved personal protective equipment are among the enhancements to local firefighting units supported by these grants," Stabenow said. "The Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program is an important part of improving the safety and security of all Michigan residents."
   "Our firefighters deserve the best training, equipment and vehicles as they continue to protect our communities," Levin said. "These grants will help to give our firefighters these much needed tools so they can do their jobs more effectively and safer."
   Grants for Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety provide firefighters with equipment, training and modifications to facilities. The Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program helps communities buy such vehicles as pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, aerials, fireboats, and multiple feature vehicles known as quints.
   These grants are provided through the Fiscal Year 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, a joint effort of the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Fire Administration.
   Fire departments receiving grants are:
   * Fire Department Name: Pere Marquette Fire Department 
  Community: Ludington 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $75,870 
  * Fire Department Name Marine City Fire Department 
  Community: Marine City 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $10,800 
  * Fire Department Name: Athens Township Fire Department 
  Community: Athens 
  Program Area: Firefighting Vehicle 
  Federal Share: $178,200 
  * Fire Department Name: Burns Township Fire Department 
  Community: Byron 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $89,172 
  * Fire Department Name: Tamarack City Volunteer Fire Dept. 
  Community: Hubbell 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $58,613 
  More information on this grant program is available at: http://firegrantsupport.com.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822; Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472.
 
 