SEN. STABENOW VISITS MARQUETTE TO PROMOTE MICHIGAN LIGHTHOUSE, MARITIME HERITAGE PROTECTION
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) kicked off a statewide tour of key Michigan lighthouses today to highlight two important Great Lakes legislative proposals - her bill to protect Great Lakes lighthouses and other maritime resources, and her bill to help communities address local waterfront and Great Lakes problems. 
   Visiting the Marquette Maritime Museum and the Marquette Harbor Light, Stabenow outlined her Michigan Lighthouse and Maritime Heritage Act, which has drawn strong bipartisan support from the Michigan congressional delegation.
   "Michigan has more than 120 lighthouses - more than any other state in the nation - and almost half of those are in the U.P.! Our efforts to preserve this unique heritage faces major problems of funding, planning, and organization," Stabenow said. "My legislation brings local, state and National Park Service officials together to make recommendations to Congress on the best ways to protect and promote all of Michigan's maritime resources."
   The Marquette Harbor Light dates originally to 1853. Stabenow noted that Michigan's oldest lighthouse dates back to the 1820s. "These landmarks are both historical resources and focal points for local tourism development," she said. 
   Stabenow, whose early Senate legislative successes included a federal ban on drilling for gas and oil in the Great Lakes, has also introduced the Great Lakes Community Restoration Act. This bill would provide $100 million annually over four years as grants to local communities to address local Great Lakes problems. Examples of qualifying projects include repair of sewer systems damaged by invasive species, lighthouse restoration, and the local cleanup of water pollution and contaminated sediments.
   "Our local communities are on the front lines of Great Lakes stewardship," Stabenow said. "The Great Lakes contains one-fifth of the world's fresh water supply and provide safe drinking water to 33 million people. All Great Lakes communities have a responsibility to protect and enhance this valuable resource. My legislation gives them tools to undertake this effort. 
   "The Great Lakes are also vital to Michigan's economy, which receives a $1.5 billion per year boost from recreation fishing alone," Stabenow said. To spotlight the importance of boating to the state, she noted that BoatingLife magazine recently named Michigan as the Best Boating State.
   "Michigan must lead in all these preservation efforts," Stabenow said. "No Michigan resident lives more than 85 miles from one of the Great Lakes. Their waters are truly a key part of Michigan's historical and economic lifeblood, and we must make their protection our top priority."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 