CONGRESS TO GIVE FINAL APPROVAL OF TRANSFER OF COAST GUARD CUTTER BRAMBLE TO PORT HURON MUSEUM OF ARTS AND HISTORY
  The U.S. Congress will open a new chapter in the long and storied career of the U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Bramble with the approval of legislation introduced by Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) to transfer the vessel to a museum in Port Huron, Mich. The Port Huron Museum of Arts and History plans to convert the ship to a floating maritime exhibit.  
  "For almost half its 60 years of service, the Bramble has made Port Huron its home port, as it performed search and rescue, icebreaking, law enforcement and maintenance of navigational aids," Stabenow said. "In its new role as a piece of living maritime history, the Bramble will continue to serve the community of Port Huron and the people of the Great Lakes for generations to come. The Bramble will also help tourism and spur local economic activity."
   "This proud vessel served our country well for six decades," said Levin. "As the Bramble begins its last tour of duty as a floating exhibit with the Port Huron Museum of Arts and History, its mission has become that of education. Visitors to the Bramble will have the opportunity to learn about its storied past as well as some of the maritime history of the Great Lakes."
   The Bramble is one of 39 180-foot seagoing buoy tenders built between 1942 and 1944. The Bramble and two of its sister ships, the Spar and the Storis, made history in 1957 when they left Miami, passed through the Panama Canal, and completed a transit back to the Atlantic through the Arctic Ocean - thus becoming the first surface vessels ever to circumnavigate North America.
   The Bramble entered Great Lakes service in 1962 and was initially assigned to Detroit. The ship has performed both Great Lakes duties and law enforcement and drug interdiction missions outside the Great Lakes, including deployments to the Caribbean in 1986-87 and 1997-98.
   The senators introduced their legislation authorizing the transfer in April 2003; this legislation is now included in the final version of the bill that authorizes appropriations for the Coast Guard for fiscal years 2004 and 2005. The final conference report is expected to be passed by both the U.S. House and Senate this week and then sent to the president for his signature.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 