SEN. STABENOW: EXTENSION FOR NURSES IS IMPORTANT FOR MICHIGAN'S HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYSTEM
  At the request of Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), the Department of Homeland Security has agreed to a one-year extension of a requirement that certain Canadian health care workers obtain special certification to continue working in the U.S. 
   The extension heads off a nursing shortage that was expected to hurt patient care in Michigan after July 26, when Canadian nurses without certification would have been barred from working in hospitals in the state.
   "The July 26 deadline threatened the delivery of health care in Michigan through a sudden and severe nursing shortage. This deadline also threatened the livelihoods of Canadian nurses who play an important role in the Michigan health care system, and it placed an undue burden on the agency processing these certifications," Stabenow said. "This extension will protect Michigan patients, and it will allow Canadian nurses working in Michigan and their employers to comply with the Department of Homeland Security regulation."
   As outlined in an announcement by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the exemption applies only to Canadian and Mexican nurses who were employed as non-immigrant health care workers before Sept. 23, 2003, and held a valid license from a U.S. jurisdiction before that date.
   In its announcement, USCIS acknowledged paperwork delays, saying "the process of obtaining certification is not an immediate one." The extension "will ensure there is no disruption to the regional health care systems along the Canadian and Mexican borders."
   "This was an important step taken in a timely manner, and it will help to provide the continued availability of trained workers in Michigan's health care system," Stabenow said.
   The extension affects about 3,000 nurses who work in Michigan.
   Because Michigan has long experienced a shortage of trained nurses, Stabenow is an original co-sponsor of the Nurse Reinvestment Act, which provides grants for nurse training and education.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 