SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW: CONGRESS TO AUTHORIZE PERMANENT COAST GUARD AIR FACILITY AT MUSKEGON COUNTY AIRPORT
  Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) announced today the inclusion of a provision in the 2004 Coast Guard Authorization bill that will improve the Coast Guard's Muskegon search and rescue facility. Working with Rep. Peter Hoekstra (R-Holland), Levin and Stabenow secured inclusion of language in the final bill that allows the Coast Guard to enter into a long-term lease with Muskegon County Airport, opening the door for a permanent facility. 
   "A long-term commitment by the Coast Guard to Muskegon County will have a significant impact on the safety and security of the people of Michigan," said Levin. "Our state's coastal areas are a great source of pride for all Michigan residents and they will now be more protected through a first-rate Coast Guard facility on Lake Michigan."
   "Allowing the Coast Guard to commit to a long-term lease will permit Muskegon County to make further investment in this facility, and it will ultimately ensure that the Coast Guard remains in Muskegon," Stabenow said. "This is a win-win arrangement for the county government, for the Coast Guard, and for the people they serve."
   After a merit-based evaluation of several sites, the Coast Guard decided in 1996 to locate an air facility on Lake Michigan at the Muskegon County Airport. At that time, the Coast Guard made a proposal for a permanent hangar at the facility but was unable to make a long-term commitment to the site because it lacked the authority to do so. Since the spring of 1997, the Coast Guard has operated out of a rented hanger and mobile home for employees. Much of the infrastructure needed for a permanent facility was previously constructed by Muskegon County with the hopes of securing a long-term commitment from the Coast Guard. The final version of the 2004 Coast Guard Authorization bill gives the Coast Guard the authority to enter into a long-term lease with Muskegon County, which will lead to significant improvements at the facility. Previously, the Coast Guard only had the authority to enter into one-year leases.
   The 2004 Coast Guard Authorization final conference report is expected to be passed by both the U.S. House and Senate this week and then sent to the president for his signature.
   Contact: Kathleen Long (Levin), 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon (Stabenow), 202/224-4822.
 
 