SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW HAIL SENATE PASSAGE OF BILL TO EXPAND SLEEPING BEAR DUNES LAKESHORE
  Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., hailed Senate passage of a bill to allow the federal government to purchase approximately 104.45 acres from a willing seller for inclusion within the boundary of Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore, including land that contains a pristine stretch of Michigan's Crystal River. Levin and Stabenow sponsored the Senate version of the bill, which has already passed the House of Representatives. It will now go to the President to be signed into law.  
  "For nearly 20 years, several groups have been in dispute over the use of this property, and this legislation will finally resolve the dispute and enable these long-time opponents to work toward a common goal," Levin said. "The solution laid out in the bill not only ends two decades of contention, but it will preserve this pristine land for generations to come."
   "Many people have worked long and hard to preserve this unique portion of Michigan's lakeshore, and I have strongly supported those efforts," Stabenow said. "Expanding the boundaries of Sleeping Bear Dunes has been a cooperative effort by the local community and federal officials, and I am pleased to announce its final passage."
   At issue are 104.45 acres of land in northwest Michigan that conservation groups have worked to preserve for decades. In 1986, a resort owner announced plans to construct a golf course on the property along the Crystal River, but a local conservation group objected to the plan and a legal battle ensued. A decade later, in 1996, the groups considered a proposal to resolve the deadlock by swapping lands within Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore for the property along the river, but the proposal was abandoned due to strong opposition from the public and local conservation groups. Another land swap proposal in 2001 failed for the same reasons.
   In an effort to finally resolve the dispute, the groups began to explore the possibility of the resort selling the land directly to the National Park Service, but current law prevents a private landowner from selling property directly to the government. Levin and Stabenow's bill paved the way for this sale to take place by revising the boundary of Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore and by permitting the Secretary of the Interior to acquire the land from a willing seller.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 