SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE UPGRADES IN MACOMB, ST. CLAIR COUNTIES
  The FY 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill scheduled to be approved by Congress contains $300,000 for St. Clair County and $100,000 for Macomb County for projects that will improve emergency response communications, Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) said today. 
   "In my many meetings all across the state with law enforcement officials and other first responders, I was repeatedly told that radio communication - particularly communication between different agencies - was one of their top concerns," Stabenow said. "This funding for Macomb and St. Clair counties is part of our joint effort to directly address this critical problem."
   "Better and more efficient communication among our first responders is essential if we want to enhance our homeland security efforts," said Levin. "The ability to coordinate more effectively will help prevent and better respond to a disaster."
   The funding will assist Macomb County in establishing a countywide interoperable communications system for first responders. The county's first responders currently operate under 91 different radio frequencies, which makes communications between and among police, fire, and emergency services in the County virtually impossible. Intercounty communications are similarly challenging. 
   In St. Clair County the funding will be used for sheriff's department communications towers and equipment upgrades. There have been instances where emergency calls in St. Clair County have been dropped or have been undecipherable to local police because reception signals are so poor in the area. The remedy is to add two towers to its communications system to enhance the radio signal area currently monitored by the sheriff's department. The funding will also allow the purchase of 800 MHz radio equipment. These new towers and the 800 MHz radio equipment will enhance communications between police forces at the local, state, and federal levels.
   "Our current system is outdated and unreliable," Jeff Friedland, director of Emergency Management for St. Clair County, said today. "This is a benefit to every resident of St. Clair County."
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.  
 
 