SEN. STABENOW URGES FTC TO IMMEDIATELY LAUNCH INVESTIGATION OF GAS PRICE HIKES
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), who has twice won strong bipartisan support for her call for a federal probe of gas price hikes, today asked the Federal Trade Commission to expedite its investigation, especially in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. 
   In a letter today to Deborah Platt Majoras, FTC chairwoman, Stabenow cautioned that any delay by the FTC in looking into the possibility of price gouging over the past couple of months "will only contribute to the current uncertainty of the gasoline supply, and that is unacceptable.
   "As our nation works to help communities in Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi recover from the storm, American consumers need assurance that they are not being preyed upon by unfair and potentially illegal pricing," Stabenow said.
   Stabenow made her first request for an FTC probe of gas prices in June, following severe spikes in the price of gas in Michigan and across the nation. The Senate - and later, the House - agreed with language in a major energy bill that there should be an investigation into whether the major oil conglomerates were artificially manipulating gas prices and gouging consumers.
   With her initial request signed into law, Stabenow returned to the issue last week, winning Senate passage of an enhancement to her original request. The new language, an amendment to the Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations bill, now directs the FTC to determine the reasons for changes in profit levels of wholesale and retail petroleum distributors. The FTC is also asked to study the effects of price increases and price gouging on the economy, and to determine the impact of gas prices on consumer purchasing power.
   Stabenow urged Majoras to begin the investigation immediately.
   "Now, in the light of severe impacts that Hurricane Katrina continues to have on national petroleum supplies and refining capacity, we again strongly urge you to immediately undertake this investigation and submit it to Congress as soon as possible," Stabenow said.
   Stabenow's letter was co-signed by Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Christopher J. Dodd (D-CT), Byron L. Dorgan (D-ND), Richard J. Durbin (D-IL), Russ D. Feingold (D-WI), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Jack Reed (D-RI) and Ken Salazar (D-CO).
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 