SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE $79,441 IN FIREFIGHTER GRANTS FOR MICHIGAN
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that four fire departments in Michigan have received $79,441 in grants under the terms of the fiscal year 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program.  
   "One of the most important roles of our firefighters happens before the fire bell ever rings. Educating the public about the importance of fire safety and prevention is an irreplaceable resource for every community throughout Michigan." Stabenow said. "The four grants we are announcing today will enable Michigan's emergency workers to continue this fight for public knowledge through fire prevention programs."
   "Fire prevention education classes and awareness activities are essential in the battle to keep our communities safe," said Levin. "This funding will help elevate public awareness and allow our firefighters to enhance prevention activities." 
   These grants have been provided through the 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, which funds three areas of support for communities. The Fire Prevention Program focuses on public education and awareness activities, fire code enforcement, fire inspection certification, and purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems.
   Funding has been provided as follows: 
   ORGANIZATION NAME - Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians
  Program Area - Fire Prevention
  Federal Share - $58,116 
  City - Suttons Bay
   ORGANIZATION NAME - Jerome Township Fire Department 
  Program Area - Fire Prevention
  Federal Share - $7,338
  City - Sanford
   ORGANIZATION NAME - Lincoln Charter Township Fire Department
  Program Area - Fire Prevention
  Federal Share - $10,567
  City - Stevensville
   ORGANIZATION NAME - Hartford Fire Department
  Program Area - Fire Prevention
  Federal Share - $3,420
  City - Hartford
   More information on the assistance to firefighters grant program is available at http://www.firegrantsupport.com/.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 