SEN. STABENOW OUTLINES JOBS AGENDA IN MANISTEE
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today discussed her jobs agenda for Michigan and local economic development plans at a meeting with community and business leaders in Manistee. As part of her ongoing fight to keep good jobs in Michigan, Sen. Debbie Stabenow's jobs agenda includes proposals to create a level playing field for American manufacturers, enforce our trade agreements, lower health care costs, strengthen investments in education and innovation and protect workers' pensions. She has also sponsored legislation providing tax incentives to ethanol producers which could benefit the proposed ethanol plant on Manistee Lake.  
   "We are in a fight for our way of life in Michigan," said Stabenow. "As our automakers and manufacturers continue to weather this storm, we need policies that put American jobs and American manufacturers first. That's why I'm fighting every day for a jobs agenda for Michigan."
   Stabenow met with members of the Manistee Community Foundation to discuss efforts at the local, state and federal level to create and preserve good jobs. 
   "There is nothing more critical to Michigan's future than a strong economy, good-paying jobs and investments in innovation," Stabenow said. "I will continue to fight for policies that preserve our middle class way of life."
   Most recently, Stabenow has sponsored the Clean EDGE Act (S. 2829), legislation promoting energy independence, lower gas prices and job creation. The Clean EDGE Act requires oil companies to have alternative fuel pumps at 50 percent of their stations by 2010 and at 100 percent by 2015. To help offset the cost of adding the new fuel pumps, the bill gives a new tax credit to gas stations. The Clean EDGE Act also extends tax credits for small ethanol producers like the proposed plant on Manistee Lake, creating hundreds of new jobs for Michigan. 
   "Last month, I issued a challenge to service station owners and the oil companies to have alternative fuel pumps at 25 percent of Michigan service stations by 2008," said Stabenow. "With communities like Manistee investing in a future of home-grown fuels, I'm confident we will be able to reach our goal, creating new jobs in the process."
 
 