SENATE SET TO PASS SENS. STABENOW-DORGAN AMENDMENT, REQUIRING PRICE-GOUGING INVESTIGATION BY FTC ON GASOLINE PRICES
 The U.S. Senate is on the verge of approving an amendment to the energy bill that would require a formal investigation by the Federal Trade Commission into whether gasoline prices are being artificially manipulated and if drivers are being price gouged.  
   Passage of the amendment authored by Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) is likely to occur later this week as the Senate continues its consideration of the Energy bill. 
   North Dakotans are paying about $210,000 every day - nearly $77 million a year - in higher gasoline prices compared to a year ago, when prices averaged 21 cents a gallon less than they are today.
   "I think we need to know whether the high prices we are paying at the gasoline pump are the result of legitimate markets or, as we saw with Enron in California several years ago, deliberate market manipulation," said Dorgan. "We need some answers, and we need them sooner rather than later."
   Sudden gas price spikes are hitting the pocketbooks of Michigan residents and hitting them hard, Stabenow said. She noted that on Monday morning within a 2 hour span, prices at one station in a mid-state city jumped from $2.10 to $2.35 per gallon. There were also similar reports of huge increases in the price of gas throughout the area.
   "At the same time that rising gas prices are causing Michigan families to think about curtailing their summer vacations, oil companies are announcing all-time record profits," Stabenow said. "A majority of Americans believe these skyrocketing gas prices are not fair. We owe it to the public to investigate and determine whether anti-competitive practices have led to these price hikes."
   Specifically, the legislation directs that the FTC to conduct an investigation to determine whether the price of gasoline is being manipulated by reducing refinery capacity or by any other form of market manipulation or price gouging practices."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 