SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE MICHIGAN PROJECTS INCLUDED IN TRANSPORTATION, HUD APPROPRIATIONS BILL PASSED BY SENATE
  Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., today announced the Michigan projects included in the transportation and housing and urban development appropriations bill for the 2006 fiscal year, which the Senate approved last night by a vote of 93-1. Members of the House and Senate will meet in a conference committee to work out the differences between the two bills. 
   "Projects in this bill respond to the needs of communities throughout Michigan," Levin said. "These funds will be used to improve our transportation systems, expand affordable housing, and spur economic development."  
   "This bill will help rejuvenate neighborhoods in Detroit, Benton Harbor and Saginaw, aid the homeless in Traverse City and help provide housing for people in Benton Harbor. In addition, bus grants in the bill will help people all across the state commute to work, and airport funding will improve Michigan's air service," Stabenow said. "The funds in this bill will aid families and communities, business and industry all across the state."
   The Senate also adopted an amendment cosponsored by Levin and Stabenow that would prevent Delta County Airport in Escanaba and Alpena County Regional Airport in Alpena from losing $850,000 in Federal Aviation Administration Airport Improvement Program (AIP) funds. "Primary airports" - airports with 10,000 or more passenger boardings a year - currently receive $1 million in entitlement funding from FAA's AIP program, but airports with less than 10,000 annual boardings receive only $150,000. For the past two years, because the annual passenger boardings at many airports fell below the 10,000 threshold, Congress allowed those airports to retain their status as primary airports and receive $1 million in funding. The provision adopted by the Senate last night would extend that practice for an additional year. According to the FAA's preliminary data for fiscal year 2006, boardings at Delta County Regional Airport are projected to be 9,977 and at Alpena County Regional Airport to be 8,193.
   TRANSPORTATION APPROPRIATIONS - OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, TRANSPORTATION, PLANNING, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
   Integrated Commercial Vehicle Safety Enforcement Technology Initiative $900,000
   The Michigan Department of State Police will use this funding to equip 50 State Police Motor Carrier Division (MCD) patrol cars with advanced mobile computing and interoperable communications technology. This initial pilot demonstration will be implemented in the MCD districts covering Southeastern Michigan with significant cross-border commercial vehicle traffic flowing to and from Canada. 
   TRANSPORTATION APPROPRIATIONS - TRANSIT
   Bus Replacement and Facilities, Northern Michigan and Upper Peninsula $4,000,000
   Funds would be used to purchase new buses and build new bus facilities.
   Bus Replacement/Expansion for the Rapid, Grand Rapids, Michigan $3,000,000
   The Rapid would use the funds to purchase replacement vehicles and expansion buses. 
   Capital Area Transportation Authority, Lansing, Michigan $3,500,000
   Funds would be used to purchase 10 new fixed route hybrid buses, five rural service buses and 14 paratransit vans. These would have lower maintenance and operating costs and reduce exhaust pipe emissions compared to older vehicles. 
   TRANSPORTATION APPROPRIATIONS - FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
   Detroit Metro Airport, Detroit, Michigan
   The bill directs the Federal Aviation Administration to issue a "letter of intent" to fund $19.05 million for Detroit Metro Airport. 
   In its funding of airport improvement projects across the country, the Senate Appropriations Committee directs the Federal Aviation Administration to give funding priority to these projects at the following Michigan airports:
   Bishop International Airport, Flint, Michigan 
   Land Acquisition for Intermodal Hub. This project will provide a multi-modal freight hub for the region (including required land acquisition, design and construction) and is proposed as a result of a multi-agency regional, state and federal collaborative effort to capitalize on the region's strong industrial productivity, centralized location and desire to promote a stronger economy by enhancing intermodal freight connectivity and global trade for its products and services. This seamless intermodal connectivity is essential for the region to remain competitive in the global marketplace. 
   Capital City Airport, Lansing, Michigan 
   Runway Extension Project. The project is the completion of the extension to the primary runway at the Capital City Airport. The project extends the primary runway to the ultimate length of 8500 feet, providing for the retention and expansion of passenger and cargo services vital to the economic growth and development of the mid-Michigan region. 
   Chippewa County International Airport, Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan 
   Maintenance/Hangar/Cargo/Inspection Complex. The proposed facility draws together many uses, is sized to accommodate existing operations, and provides expanded service available at Chippewa County International Airport. The proposed airport location was selected for the following reasons: (1) to separate general aviation from commercial aviation activities; (2) to maximize use of former military pavements, having load bearing limits which exceed any known gear ratio; and (3) as a means of minimizing airside improvements. 
   Detroit Metropolitan Airport, Romulus, Michigan 
   Deicing Facility and Equipment. This project will design and construct approximately six miles of a 10-inch force main that will connect the Detroit Metro Airport's deicing storage pond to an identified interceptor leading to the Detroit Water and Sewer Department (DWSD). This system will include all manholes, pump stations, valves, cleanouts and associated equipment. 
   Cherry Capital Airport, Traverse City, Michigan 
   Snow Removal Equipment Storage and Maintenance Building. This is the final element for the new airline terminal complex at Cherry Capital Airport in Traverse City. 
   Detroit City Airport, Detroit, Michigan 
   Land Acquisition, Replacement Runway and Airport Modernization. The funds will be used to modernize Coleman A. Young International Airport for utilization as a premier aviation gateway by acquiring land, constructing a replacement runway and anchoring the re-development of the east side of Detroit. 
   Jackson County Airport, Jackson, Michigan 
   Runway Safety Area Project. Develop a new primary runway on a new alignment to a length of 5500 feet, and extend the crosswind runway to the northwest to provide a 4000 foot runway to serve as the primary runway during the construction of the new runway. 
   Manistee County-Blacker Airport, Manistee, Michigan 
   Airport Improvements. The funds will be used for various improvements including terminal upgrades, snow removal equipment and building, and a parking lot.
   Greenville Municipal Airport, Greenville, Michigan 
  New Terminal. Funding will be used for construction of a new terminal.
   HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT APPROPRIATIONS 
   West Riverfront Restoration, Detroit, Michigan $5,000,000 
   These funds will be used to create a pedestrian-friendly West Riverfront Greenway System that will connect the East Riverfront Greenway System to the planned Southwest Detroit Greenway System, including Riverside Park, Clark Park and Historic Fort Wayne. For most of the past century, the Detroit Riverfront was home to shipping docks, factories and railroad yards, and the creation of the greenway system is part of a major effort to re-claim this valuable riverfront and preserve it for the enjoyment of generations to come. 
   Far East Side Development, Detroit, Michigan $600,000 
   Funding to help develop 700 acres of land on Detroit's far East Side, an area marked by urban decay and blight. The City of Detroit would like to transform the land into updated housing stock of varied types. This will ultimately increase the residential population and the quality of life for all in the far East Side. 
   Rebuilding the Community of Northeast Saginaw, Michigan $350,000 
   Funding to assist with a comprehensive revitalization effort in northeast Saginaw. The project includes the demolition and replacement of a severely distressed 94 unit town and garden complex and the use of two parcels of vacant land to create 266 housing units, 80 of which will be public housing.
   The Armory Arts Project, Jackson, Michigan $600,000 
   The Armory Arts Project aims to help transition Jackson's economy from its traditional manufacturing base to a more diversified model that will attract workers, businesses and entrepreneurs. 
   The Arab American National Museum and Cultural Center, Dearborn $600,000 
   The Arab Community Center for Economic and Social Services (ACCESS) has helped to establish a museum dedicated to the history and culture of the Arab American community. The 38,500 sq. ft. museum and cultural center, located in Dearborn, will preserve and document the experiences and accomplishments of Arab Americans in the United States, celebrate and support the work of Arab American artists, and present the cultural heritage of the Arab American community to a wider American and international audience. 
   Focus: HOPE MicroGrid Enhancement, Detroit, Michigan $300,000 
   This funding will be used to renovate, upgrade and expand the existing Focus: HOPE cogeneration capacity to include its entire 40-acre campus by installing a north campus loop (microgrid) and adding 2000 kW of new electric generation capacity. Additionally, the cogeneration facility's computer control system will be upgraded system-wide. The proposed renovation will result in significantly lower operating costs, the ability to continue all campus functions and activities independent of potential power outages and increased cogeneration efficiency. The cogeneration process essentially burns energy once (natural gas), but uses it twice (electricity/thermal) to maximize energy efficiency. Focus: HOPE expects a significant reduction in the cost of its electricity and its overall energy costs as a result of these upgrades. Moreover, the microgrid and its capabilities will serve as a national demonstration site for cogeneration, fuel cell and/or other novel and emerging technologies. 
   Goodwill Inn Homeless Shelter, Traverse City, Michigan $250,000 
   The funding will be used for a new 22,734 sq. ft. facility, the Goodwill Inn Homeless Shelter, the largest homeless shelter in Northern Michigan. The new facility will house 77 individuals with the capacity to house 40 percent more during critical times. The Inn will contain classrooms, training areas, childcare facilities and meeting rooms for case management. The building will house a commercial kitchen for the Meals on Wheels Program, as well as expanded meal options for residents. The new Inn will contain a dedicated Youth Wing, operated in partnership with Third Level Crisis Center, to accommodate the increase in homeless youth in the area. 
   Harbor Habitat for Humanity, Benton Harbor, Michigan $200,000 
   This funding will assist Harbor Habitat for Humanity in constructing 30 new homes in the City of Benton Harbor. Costs to complete this project include asbestos removal costs, sidewalk construction, sewer and water hookups, and tree removal and trimming. 
   Relocation of Michigan Technological University's A.E Seaman Mineral Museum to the Keweenaw National Historic Park Site $300,000 
   The A.E. Seaman Mineral Museum preserves the mineral and mining heritage of the Lake Superior Copper District in Michigan's Keweenaw Peninsula. The funding will help the museum relocate to a new facility within the Quincy Mine unit of the Keweenaw National Historic Park. These historic building were recently restored using HUD Brownfield Economic Development Initiative funds.
 
 