SEN. STABENOW URGES FDIC TO SCRAP PROPOSAL THAT WOULD LIMIT BANK'S REINVESTMENT IN THEIR LOCAL COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, sent a strongly worded letter to the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, urging him to scrap the agency's proposal to take small and medium-sized banks out of the Community Reinvestment Act. Such a move, she said could "dramatically diminish" the obligation of banks to reinvest in their local communities. 
   The letter targets a proposal by the FDIC that would exempt more than 900 banks from their neighborhood and community investment obligations. In effect, the change could mean the loss of hundreds of millions of dollars in loans, investments and other services.
   "The CRA has been one of the most successful community revitalization programs in our history," Stabenow said. "It has provided over $1.5 trillion dollars for developers and nonprofit groups to increase homeownership, enhancing economic development, and expanding small business in communities that would have been ignored if not for the CRA."
   Waiving the obligation of 36 banks in Michigan and 900 nationwide to reinvest in their local communities, she said, "would harm many, especially in rural areas, small cities and the nation's minority, immigrant and moderate income communities."
   Stabenow has sponsored bipartisan legislation to ease the path for first-time home-buyers, and she made clear today that the FDIC's ruling would likely be counterproductive to the important goal. Stabenow has also been a long-time and outspoken foe of predatory lending practices, and she expressed concerns that the FDIC's action could weaken oversight of the lending practices of many banks.
   The FDIC's proposed rule change affects banks with assets of $250 million to $1 billion. 
   Stabenow urged individuals and groups likely to be affected by the rule change to call the FDIC at 877-ASK-FDIC (877-275-3342) or offer their comments at the FDIC's Web site at www.fdic.gov and click on the link that discusses a comment period for the CRA proposal.
   The comment period ends Oct. 20.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 