SEN. STABENOW: CONGRESS SHOULD HAVE ADDRESSED NATION'S TOP NEED ? ENHANCED HOMELAND SECURITY ? BEFORE IT ADJOURNED
  Congress had some essential legislation it needed to pass to enhance the security of all Americans, and it shouldn't have adjourned until these critical Homeland Security bills were approved, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today. 
   "It was only two weeks ago that Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge outlined new and grave terror threats to America's homeland, and yet important legislation to help counter these threats is not being presented to senators for a vote," Stabenow said. "Given those threats and today's release of the 9/11 Commission report, I and other members urged the Republican leadership to let us vote on the Homeland Security Appropriations Act and other important homeland security measures before Congress adjourned this week for its traditional August recess."
   In addition to funding the Department of Homeland Security (S.2537), bills awaiting action include the Transit Security bill (S.2453), the Port Security Act (S.2279), the Rail Security Act (S.2273), and the Chemical Security Act (S.157).
   "All these bills have been reported out of committee with bipartisan support, and they have awaited only the decision of the Senate leadership to schedule them for a floor vote," Stabenow said.
   Underfunding - or failing to act to fund - the nation's own protection has become a chronic problem in Congress. Almost exactly one year ago, Stabenow went to the Senate floor to try to win additional funding for America's first responders. She based her request on the report of a blue-ribbon task force, headed by former Republican Senator Warren Rudman, which recommended an additional $98 billion be spent over five years for such purposes.
   "Despite the critical warnings and urgent recommendations in the Rudman report, titled 'Emergency Responders: Drastically Underfunded, Dangerously Unprepared,' the Republican leadership still has not made this funding a priority," Stabenow said. "Spending $20 billion a year on our nation's own protection doesn't seem too much to ask, when we stop to consider that we are spending approximately that much in just four months to protect the people of Iraq,"
   "Our failure to adequately fund first responders is now compounded by our failure to pass other pending legislation that has bipartisan support," Stabenow said. "The American people expect us to give the highest priority to the defense of the homeland, and we should be acting now - not six weeks from now - on this vital legislation. When Congress returns to Washington in early September, this has got to be our top priority."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 