SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE $97,596 IN GRANTS FOR THREE MICHIGAN COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that three fire departments in the state of Michigan have received $97,596 in grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.  
 The grant recipients are Pittsford Jefferson Fire/Rescue, Hickory Corners Fire Department, and the city of Niles Fire Department.
   "The grants we are announcing today will allow these three fire departments to enhance their ability to respond to fires and other emergencies in their communities," Stabenow said. "This funding makes communities safer, while at the same time improving safety for the firefighters themselves."
   "This most recent round of grants will provide firefighters in two southwestern Michigan communities with additional funds in order to better protect those they serve," said Levin. "Continued support of our first responders is crucial to the safety and security of the people of Michigan."
   These grants have been provided through the 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, a joint effort of the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and U.S. Fire Administration.
   Grants for Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety provide firefighters with wellness and fitness training, equipment - including personal protective equipment - and modifications to facilities.
   The grants were awarded as follows:
   Fire Department Name: Pittsford Jefferson Fire/Rescue 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety
  Fed Share: $27,000.00
  Fire Department Name: Hickory Corners Fire Department
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety
  Fed Share: 50,976.00
   Fire Department Name: City of Niles Fire Department
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety
  Fed Share: 19,620.00
  More information on this grant program is available at: http://www.usfa.fema.gov.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 