SEN. STABENOW HONORED BY NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS WITH ITS '2005 DEFENDER AWARD'
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) has been honored by the National Association of Community Health Centers with the "2005 Community Health Defender Award" for her outstanding leadership in expanding health care access to millions of uninsured and medically underserved Americans.  
   The award is given each year to members of Congress who have worked to successfully increase the number of Community, Migrant, Public Housing and Homeless Health Centers around the country. These centers provide quality health care to uninsured and medically underserved people. 
   "Senator Stabenow should be commended for her active support of America's Community Health Centers," said NACHC President and CEO Tom Van Coverden in announcing the award. "Her leadership and hard work on Capitol Hill have immeasurably helped the 15 million people who rely on health centers for their health care and the millions more who need them." 
   The award reads: "For your strong efforts in the Second Session of the 108th Congress to strengthen America's Health Centers and preserve access to vital health care services for more than 15 million uninsured and medically underserved Americans."
   The federally-funded Community Health Centers program was established 40 years ago to help low-income and medically underserved Americans gain access to quality health care. Today, health centers serve as the family doctor for 15 million low-income children and adults in over 3,600 communities across the country - including more than 380,000 people in Michigan. The Community Health Defender Award is presented to select members of Congress during NACHC's annual Policy and Issues Conference. The conference, which is attended by thousands of local and national leaders, health care experts and policy-makers, doctors, nurses and patients, was held last week in Washington. 
   Stabenow has also been honored by the Michigan Primary Care Association as a Champion of the Medically Underserved in recognition of "her tireless effort on behalf of Michigan's Federally Qualified Health Centers."
   "Senator Stabenow has been a tireless champion for Community Health Centers," Kim Sibilsky, MPCA's executive director, said of Stabenow's receipt of both the national and the Michigan awards. "Rather than just paying lip service to the issue, she understands the important role these Centers play in providing quality health care for mothers, children and the uninsured. We greatly appreciate her ongoing, steadfast leadership and commitment."
   Stabenow, who with Sen. Christopher S. Bond (R-MO) is leading a bipartisan effort for expanded funding for Consolidated Health Centers in the fiscal year 2006 budget, acknowledged the awards and said she remains committed to the Health Center concept.
   "I'm so grateful to the National Association of Community Health Centers and the Michigan Primary Care Association for their recognition," Stabenow said. "They do invaluable work and I'm proud to be partners in the effort to effectively ensure that millions of Americans have access to quality health care. Health care has been - and will continue to be - a top priority for me in the Senate and I'll continue to fight for health care access and to support programs like this."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 