CONGRESS AGAIN APPROVES EXTENSION OF SEN. STABENOW'S BAN ON GREAT LAKES DRILLING
  The U.S. Congress has approved another two-year extension of the ban against drilling for oil or gas in or under the Great Lakes, originally enacted at the request of Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) in November 2001 and renewed in January 2003. The latest extension will remain in effect until Oct. 1, 2007.  
   "This is a great victory for the 33 million people who depend on the Great Lakes for drinking water, for recreation, for fishing and for tourism," Stabenow said today. "I am extremely pleased my colleagues recognize the value of guarding these great national treasures from those who would exploit them for short-term financial gain."
   Stabenow's original legislation, which placed a two-year ban on Great Lakes drilling, was added as an amendment to the FY2002 Energy and Water Appropriations Act and approved by the Senate in November 2001. The legislation requires renewal every two years as the parent legislation to which it is attached expires. An amendment to the FY2003 Omnibus Appropriations bill extended the Stabenow drilling, and an amendment to the FY2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill will again extend it. 
   Stabenow said her drilling legislation is only a single - but a very important - step in protecting the Great Lakes.
   "We must address the problem of invasive species, the threat of bulk sale or diversion of Great Lakes water, and the clean-up of known contamination sites in the Great Lakes," Stabenow said.
   Stabenow is also sponsor of the Great Lakes Community Restoration Act, which would provide $100 million annually over four years as grants to local communities to address local Great Lakes problems. Examples of qualifying projects include repair of sewer systems damaged by invasive species, lighthouse restoration, and the local cleanup of water pollution and contaminated sediments.
   "The economic and recreational role played by the Great Lakes is too important - not only in Michigan but throughout the region - to jeopardize their future health for such an insignificant and short-sighted gain as drilling for gas and oil," Stabenow said.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 