UNDER PRESSURE FROM SEN. STABENOW, HOMELAND SECURITY CHANGES RULES, ALLOWS VOLUNTEER, PART-TIME FIREFIGHTERS TO BE COMPENSATED FOR TRAINING
  Under pressure from Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has revised its training compensation guidelines that had effectively barred 72 percent of Michigan's firefighters from taking part in anti-terrorism training. The change caps a six-month effort by Sen. Stabenow to win the change, an effort that includes her introduction last week of bipartisan legislation that would have mandated the revision 
   The rule change centers on language that had stated only "overtime" costs can be paid for those attending training. Under the new revised rules, volunteers and part-time first responders who rarely, if ever, receive overtime pay, will now be able to receive compensation for lost pay for homeland security training.
   Stabenow had sought this rule change, because the earlier restriction affected firefighters in communities all across Michigan. Stabenow wrote Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge last May, asking that the rule be modified, but the department denied her request in June. Stabenow then won Senate approval of an amendment to the Homeland Security Department appropriations bill, which allowed compensation for training for part-time and overtime firefighters, but this provision was stripped from the bill by House conferees in a House-Senate conference on the legislation.
   Stabenow responded last week by introducing stand-alone legislation with bipartisan support to mandate the rule change. In the wake of that action, state agencies across the nation, including the Michigan State Police, learned today that part-time and volunteer firefighters will be eligible for compensation.
   "Many part-time and volunteer firefighters in rural and small communities have not attended terrorism response training courses, because federal guidelines have not allowed them to be reimbursed for the time they are away from their full-time jobs," Stabenow said. "I am extremely pleased to learn today that the Department of Homeland Security has responded to my concerns and the concerns of firefighters and fire departments across the state of Michigan. Part-time and volunteer first responders will now be able to receive a reasonable stipend when they participate in Homeland Security terrorism response courses.
   "All first-responders, full-time, part-time or volunteer, respond to emergencies," Stabenow said. "When Americans call 9-1-1, the fire department doesn't send only their full-time firefighters; they send everyone regardless of their status. Yet, although grants were being made available to pay for the training of full-time firefighters, we were expecting our rural part-time and volunteer firefighters, most of whom have full-time jobs, to take a leave of absence from their jobs and forgo their pay in order to attend training classes.
   "I am pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has responded to my concerns and the concerns of fire departments across Michigan and the nation by changing its unreasonable guidelines regarding compensation for training," Stabenow said. 
   A companion bill was introduced in the U.S. House by Rep. Bart Stupak (D-Menominee).
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 