SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE $4 MILLION FOR ENVIRONMENTALLY-FRIENDLY PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM IN TRAVERSE CITY
  Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that the spending bill that Congress approved yesterday includes $4 million for the Bay Area Transportation Authority (BATA) to be used to upgrade the public transportation system in Traverse City. The new system would replace the current diesel engine fleet with a fleet of hybrid electric buses that are environmentally-friendly and energy efficient.  
   "The Grand Traverse area has often been a leader in implementing 'green' technologies, which are good for the environment and good for the health and safety of people in the community," Levin said. "This bus system will meet the transportation needs of the residents and tourists in the area while protecting the air and environment of the Traverse City area. Additionally, hybrid electric vehicles help to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil, a goal which will enhance both our national security and our economic security."
   "This funding allows BATA to honor its long-standing commitment to the community to make its bus fleet more environmentally-friendly," Stabenow said. "This improved fleet is an important step for the region, and I am pleased to have been able to help obtain this funding."
   The population of Traverse City, which is approximately 150,000, swells to nearly 250,000 during summer months, and this influx of tourists puts strains on the local infrastructure. The traffic congestion and related pollution has increased the demand for a public transportation system that does not increase diesel emissions or noise in the community. 
   BATA's proposal would replace the current diesel buses with clean, 22-foot hybrid electric buses. The buses would be equipped with an auxiliary generator powered by a small turbine engine that runs on biodiesel fuel, the emissions of which compare to those of compressed natural gas. Additionally, BATA would use a new wind turbine electric generator to supply zero-emission electricity for nightly recharging of the buses' batteries.
   BATA serves 1,000 square miles of Grand Traverse and Leelanau Counties in northwestern lower Michigan.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822
 
 