SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN WIN COMMITMENT FOR MORE FUNDING TO FIGHT EMERALD ASH BORER
  Working on the principle that it's better to try to prevent a disaster than clean up after one, Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) have convinced Senate appropriators to more than double federal funding to fight the emerald ash borer. At their request, Senate members of the joint House-Senate conference on the fiscal year 2006 Department of Agriculture appropriations bill will accept the House-approved total of $14 million to fight the pest, up from the $6 million originally included in the Senate bill. 
   "I'm very pleased that Senate appropriators have agreed to increase funding to fight the emerald ash borer, although I am disappointed that they did not follow the president's recommendation of $32.6 million," Stabenow said. "As the emerald ash borer spreads to neighboring states, it will become increasingly clear that this infestation is more than just a Michigan problem - it is really a national problem, requiring a national effort to combat it."
   "Some of our state's best experts are working tirelessly to conduct research on ways to kill the bug while saving our ash trees, but a lack of funding is hampering these efforts," Levin said. "Whatever funding is available must be balanced between research efforts and eradication and containment. We cannot hold back the spread of the ash borer without additional resources."
   Stabenow and Levin said the steady spread of the emerald ash borer across Michigan has not garnered widespread national public attention, although they have been keeping their colleagues in Congress aware of the problem - and the threat to their own forests. 
   "If a strong wind had blown through parts of Michigan in a single night and destroyed 15 million ash trees, the nation would have recognized this as an ecological and economic disaster, as well as a great social disaster for the affected communities," Stabenow said. "And yet, that's exactly the damage the state has sustained since 2002 because of the emerald ash borer. Unfortunately, the damage in Michigan shows us the fate that may await ash trees across the nation, unless we eradicate this pest.
   "This means that every dollar spent now spares us many dollars spent later," Stabenow said. "I will continue to fight for full funding to stop the spread of the emerald ash borer."
   The emerald ash borer is believed to have been introduced to Michigan in the summer of 2002 through wooden shipping pallets from China in Detroit. The only known method for controlling the pest is to destroy known infected trees and neighboring trees that may be infected.
   Stabenow and Levin announced last week that USDA released an additional $2.1 million for Michigan in current fiscal year funding to combat the emerald ash borer. The funding will be used for eradication, tree removal, and research. 
   Announcement of the additional funding came on the heels of the state's announcement that an infestation site had been found across the Straits of Mackinac in the U.P. The state has moved to clean up the infested site, which is located in Brimley State Park in Chippewa County.
   Stabenow and Levin's effort to increase funding received bipartisan support from Great Lakes Senators Richard Lugar (R-IN), Evan Bayh (D-IN), Mike DeWine (R-OH), and George V. Voinovich (R-OH).
 
 