CANTON TOWNSHIP COUPLE NAMED BY SEN. STABENOW AS ANGELS IN ADOPTION
  Colleen and John Moriarty, a Canton Township couple who have adopted Russian twins and have helped build playgrounds at Russian orphanages, were selected by Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) as Angels in Adoption for the year 2004. The Moriartys will be honored Thursday at a national ceremony in Washington, D.C., held by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute.  
   "After adopting twins, Jenna and James, from a Russian orphanage in 1999, the Moriartys continued to hold a place in their hearts for the children of Russia still in need of loving homes," Stabenow said. "They joined with the founders of Natasha's Story Adoption Agency, a licensed agency in Oklahoma that seeks homes for Russian orphans, and with the help of local churches in Russia they made their dream of building playgrounds at the Russian orphanages a reality."
   The Moriartys' organization, Freedom Swings Russia, has now built playgrounds at three Russian orphanages, a project and program that has given children a place to interact and have fun and has brought Americans and Russians together in the construction work.
   "The Moriartys have now adopted another beautiful daughter named Danae, and have watched four other Freedom Swings volunteer families begin the process of adoption," Stabenow said. "Their story is a wonderful example of how one family can make a difference in the lives of others. The Moriartys are truly Angels in Adoption and well deserving of the 2004 award."
   The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute is a non partisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to raising congressional and public awareness about the tens of thousands of foster children in this country and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes and to eliminating the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their need of a family. The Angels in Adoption program was created in 1999 to raise public awareness of the many different ways that committed individuals can help children and families through adoption. 
   The Moriartys are among 150 individuals chosen this year by members of Congress to be honored for their efforts in adoption.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 