SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE $1.25 MILLION IN FIREFIGHTER GRANTS FOR MICHIGAN
  Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., announced today that 18 Michigan communities have received $1,253,940 in grants from the Department of Homeland Security through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program.  
   "Day in and day out, our firefighters stand ready to save lives and protect property," Levin said. "This grant program helps fire departments across Michigan carry out their vital mission of protecting their community." 
   "These FEMA firefighter grants allow communities all across Michigan to address their own local needs, such as expanding prevention programs, enhancing firefighting skills, or replacing essential firefighting vehicles," Stabenow said. "In this way, local fire departments are made stronger and our communities safer." 
   The Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration manages the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, which awards one-year grants directly to fire departments. The fire departments agree to match a percentage of the federal grant. Fire departments that serve communities of 50,000 or fewer provide a cost-share of 10 percent; fire departments for jurisdictions over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share.
   Fire departments can apply for grants in one of three program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety; Fire Prevention Program; and Firefighting Vehicles Acquisition Program. The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program includes training, equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The Fire Prevention Program focuses on public education and awareness activities, fire code enforcement, fire inspection certification, and purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems. The Firefighting Vehicles Acquisition Program allows departments to purchase vehicles such as pumpers, brush trucks, rescue vehicles, ambulances and fireboats. 
   Funding has been provided as follows:
   Table omitted (The document can be viewed at http://stabenow.senate.gov/press/2005/022305FirefighterGrants.htm)
   More information on the grant program is available at http://www.firegrantsupport.com/. Fire departments can also call the fire grants help desk toll free at 1-866-274-0960 or e-mail firegrants@dhs.gov.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822. 
 
 