SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE $261,589 IN FIREFIGHTER GRANTS FOR THREE MICHIGAN COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that three fire departments in the state of Michigan have received $261,589 in grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. 
   "These FEMA firefighter grants allow communities all across Michigan to address their own local needs, whether they include enhancing firefighting skills or replacing essential firefighting vehicles," Stabenow said. "In this way, local fire departments are made stronger and our communities safer."
   "Providing Michigan firefighters with the latest and safest equipment and training will better prepare them for the dangers they encounter" said Levin. "These grants will help ensure that these three fire departments are ready for the emergencies they face each day."
   These grants have been provided through the 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, a joint effort of the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and U.S. Fire Administration. Grants for Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety provide firefighters with equipment, training and modifications to facilities. The Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program helps communities buy such vehicles as pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, aerials, fireboats, and multiple feature vehicles known as quints.
   Fire departments receiving grants are:
   * Fire Department Name: Watervliet Fire Department  
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety
  Fed Share: 20,700
   * Fire Department Name: Galesburg-Charleston Fire Department  
  Program Area: Firefighting Vehicle 
  Fed Share: 175,500
   * Fire Department Name: Memphis Volunteer Fire Department
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety  
  Fed Share: 65,389
   More information on this grant program is available at: http://www.usfa.fema.gov.
   Contact: Kathleen Long (Levin), 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon (Stabenow), 202/224-4822.
 
 