SEN. STABENOW AGAIN ASKS BUSH: URGE CANADA TO STOP FLOW OF TRASH INTO MICHIGAN
  Another news story about Canadian trash - a spill of human waste across an entire block of a Michigan community - demonstrates in explicit detail why President Bush must ask the Canadian prime minister to halt shipments of municipal solid waste into Michigan, Sen. Debbie Stabenow said today.  
  Stabenow again called on the president to raise the matter with Prime Minister Martin, as the two meet at the president's Texas ranch today. Stabenow's call echoes earlier appeals made from Michigan congressional delegation members to Bush, prior to today's meeting and his earlier meeting with Martin last fall.
   Today's trash incident occurred in Flat Rock, Mich., early today, closing southbound lanes of a local major road and bringing the response of hazmat crews from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality. The Canadian trash truck, one of 415 that enter the state daily, was hauling its shipment of waste to a landfill in Sumpter Township in Wayne County.
   "Earlier this month I joined my colleagues, Senator Carl Levin and U.S. Representatives John Dingell and Bart Stupak, in calling on the president to give voice to the concerns of the people of Michigan about the skyrocketing volume of municipal waste streaming into Michigan from Canada," Stabenow said. 
   In their letter, the delegation members cited reports from Customs and Border Patrol saying that the number of trash trucks from Canada has more than doubled from 2003's average of 180 per day to a current average of 415 truckloads of waste per day, and that annual trash totals have risen to 11.5 million cubic yards - a 23 percent increase in the past year alone. 
   The loads of municipal solid waste are more than just a nuisance, the delegation argued. "These shipments continue to pose significant risk to the health and safety of our citizens, and they decrease Michigan's limited landfill space," the Michigan delegation members wrote. 
   Stabenow said today's report of the waste spill, like stories of these trash trucks striking passenger vehicles or trying to smuggle drugs or medical waste into the country, highlight the health and safety hazards of these shipments.
   "It's time to move forward on this issue, and I again ask the president to take a strong stand for Michigan by urging Canada to immediately suspend municipal solid waste shipments into our state," Stabenow said.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 