SEN. STABENOW TARGETS OUT OF CONTROL GAS PRICES
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that she will introduce comprehensive legislation to hold oil companies accountable for skyrocketing gas prices. Sen. Stabenow joined Sam Hamade, owner of the Southfield Service Center at his gas station today to call for an end to policies that allow oil companies to charge record prices while reaping record profits.  
   "Gasoline is not a luxury for Michigan families - it is a necessity," Stabenow said. "It is outrageous that oil companies rake in billions in profits each year while families pay $40 or more every time they fill up the gas tank. We need to make sure that we stop rewarding the oil companies and get some relief to taxpayers who are feeling the pain of high gas prices."
   Gas prices in Michigan currently average $2.82 per gallon, a 29 percent increase over the average a year ago. Already, a tank of gas costs an average of $10 more than it did in April 2005. The Energy Information Administration (EIA) projects that gas prices will rise over $3.00 a gallon over the summer months.
   At the same time, the largest oil companies continue to post record-breaking profits. ExxonMobil recently reported an annual profit of $36 billion - the largest profit for any company in U.S. corporate history. The total combined profits for the big 5 oil companies were $111 billion last year. 
   This week, Stabenow will introduce the Oil Company Accountability Act. The bill would repeal $5 billion in tax breaks for oil companies and give an immediate $500 tax rebate to families to offset high energy costs. Families earning up to $119,950 would be eligible for the one-time tax rebate. 
   "Out-of-control gas prices hurt Michigan families and our economy. Instead of rewarding oil companies with tax breaks and penalizing consumers at the pump, my bill will put money back in the pockets of Michigan taxpayers."
   Last week, Stabenow, along with 14 Senate colleagues, sent a letter to President Bush, urging him to support the enactment of strong provisions to protect American consumers from price gouging before the summer driving season begins.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 