SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW URGE INDIVIDUALS, BUSINESSES TO APPLY FOR DISASTER RELIEF
  Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) announced today that the deadline to apply for disaster assistance from the May 20th to June 8th storms, tornadoes, and flooding is Monday, August 30, 2004. All individuals and business owners who suffered losses in the 23 disaster-declared counties are able to apply for disaster assistance by calling the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) toll-free registration line at 1-800-621-FEMA or TTY 1-800-462-7585. Phone lines are open Monday through Saturday between 8:00am and 6:00pm.  
   "I encourage all residents who are eligible for this funding to apply for it and to spread the word, said Levin. "Tell your neighbors, friends and family members who also might need assistance that the deadline is near and to call FEMA now."
   "Many Michigan residents and businesses sustained losses in the violent storms that struck the state in the late spring," Stabenow said. "In the wake of a disaster declaration, we must make every effort to ensure that everyone is aware of the assistance that is available to help people repair or rebuild their homes, their businesses and their lives."
   The Disaster Recovery Center at the Detroit City Airport will continue to provide assistance to those wishing to apply for help until Friday, August 27, 2004 from 9:30am to 7:00pm. Residents can speak face-to-face with recovery specialist and loan officers, and mitigation experts. In addition, representatives from the U.S. Small Business Administration will be available at the Detroit City Airport to provide assistance with low-interest disaster low applications for homeowners, renters, and business owners. 
   The 23 disaster-declared counties include, Barry, Berrien, Cass, Eaton, Genesee, Gladwin, Ingham, Ionia, Jackson, Kent, Livingston, Macomb, Mecosta, Muskegon, Oakland, Ottawa, Saginaw, Sanilac, Shiawassee, St. Clair, St. Joseph, Washtenaw, and Wayne. To date, more than $37.5 million in grants and more that $6 million in SBA loans have been approved for Michigan homeowners, renters and businesses.
   Contact: Kathleen Long (Levin), 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822. 
 
 