SEN. STABENOW, COLLEAGUES PASS LEGISLATION TO MAKE COLLEGE MORE AFFORDABLE FOR STUDENTS, WORKING FAMILIES
  U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced Senate passage of the Higher Education Access Act of 2007 and the Higher Education Amendments of 2007, legislation that will provide over $17 billion in increased funding for college aid nationwide and over $680 million in new tuition grants for students in Michigan over the next five years. With college costs tripling in the past 20 years, these pieces of legislation are crucial steps in ensuring students have access to a college education. 
   "Michigan families have a proud history of working hard so their sons and daughters can get a quality education. But we have moved beyond asking families to make reasonable sacrifices," said Stabenow. "They are now being asked to break the bank to send their children to college, and that isn't good for our families, our communities or our country. In today's world education policy is economic policy, and by making sure that more students can afford to go to college we will help keep America on the cutting edge of innovation as we compete in a global economy."
   After years of Pell Grants failing to keep pace with rising tuition, this legislation would increase the maximum Pell Grant from the current level of $5,100 annually to $5,400 by 2011, while simplifying the financial aid process for low-income students. It would also cap federal student loan payments at 15 percent of a borrower's discretionary income, bringing relief to those new graduates burdened by excessive loans.
   "Michigan is blessed to have a number of world renowned universities that serve to open doors and create opportunities for thousands of graduates each year," said Stabenow. "We need to be making it easier, not harder, for working families and students to afford those opportunities and achieve the American dream."
   Rising college debt also means limiting career choices for new graduates. These bills would forgive the debt of borrowers who continue in public service careers such as nursing, teaching, or law enforcement for 10 years. 
   In Michigan, the maximum Pell Grant covered only 30% of the average four-year college tuition, fees, room and board in 2005 to 2006, down from 44% in 1986 to 1987. Meanwhile, 60% of Michigan students that graduated from four-year institutions in 2004 to 2005 graduated with debt; the average student owing $18,942. 
   The House passed a similar measure earlier this month. The legislation will now go to a Conference Committee for reconciliation.
 
 