SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE SIGNING OF LEASE TO CREATE VISITORS CENTER AT THUNDER BAY NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY, UNDERWATER PRESERVE
  Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., are pleased to announce the signing of a lease that will allow for the construction of a visitors center for the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve. The visitors' center will be built at the site of the old Fletcher Paper Mill and is intended to be the cornerstone of redevelopment efforts on that section of the Alpena riverfront.  
   "The Thunder Bay Sanctuary is important to the people of Michigan and the community of Alpena," said Levin. "The signing of this lease will initiate a redevelopment initiative that will greatly benefit the sanctuary and the community."
   "This facility will provide ample space for shipwreck exhibits, an important element in promoting visitors to the Sanctuary. It will also offer space for research and educational programs for the local community," Stabenow said. "This is an important step forward for the Sanctuary and for redevelopment in Alpena."
   A 20-year lease was signed yesterday with Alpena Marc LLC as the first phase of a multi-million dollar redevelopment of the former Fletcher Paper Mill. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration will provide an initial $2.5 million to renovate the former coating plant. 
   Once built, the center will be a 20,000 square foot facility and will include exhibits on Thunder Bay shipwrecks, an auditorium to view films and live footage from shipwrecks, an archaeological conservation lab, space for hosting school programs, research facilities, and office space. The Sanctuary is expected to move into its new office space in summer 2005. 
   Thunder Bay is a 448-square mile sanctuary and underwater preserve that protects an estimated 116 historically significant shipwrecks. For more information, please contact Jeff Gray, manager of the Sanctuary, at 989-356-8805 ext. 12 or via email at jeff.gray@noaa.gov.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 