SEN. STABENOW: GAS PRICE GOUGING INVESTIGATION NEARLY COMPLETE
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), and Mark Pryor (D-AR) today responded to President Bush, Sen. Frist, and Speaker Hastert's call for an investigation into price gouging at the pump - a step Democrats took last summer. Last August, a group of Democratic Senators called upon the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to investigate possible gas price gouging. The Sen. Stabenow amendment to the energy bill passed, an investigation was launched, an interim report has been released, and the final report is on schedule to be completed in May. (See attached timeline) 
   "I was pleased to lead the fight for a comprehensive investigation into price gouging at the pump, and I am working with my colleagues to get the results the American people need and deserve," said Stabenow. "The President's action today is too little, too late."
   Last week, Stabenow, along with 14 Senate colleagues, sent a letter to President Bush, urging him to support the enactment of strong provisions to protect American consumers from price gouging before the summer driving season begins.
   "Now is the time for the President to stop standing-up for Big Oil, and to start standing-up for families by enacting tough anti-price gouging laws," added Stabenow.
   Gas prices in Michigan currently average $2.89 per gallon and are as high as $3.10 per gallon in some areas. Already, a tank of gas costs an average of $10 more than it did in April 2005. The Energy Information Administration (EIA) projects that gas prices will rise over $3.00 a gallon over the summer months.
   At the same time, the largest oil companies continue to post record-breaking profits. ExxonMobil recently reported an annual profit of $36 billion - the largest profit for any company in U.S. corporate history. The total combined profits for the big 5 oil companies were $111 billion last year. 
   Today, Stabenow introduced the Oil Company Accountability Act, a bill that would repeal $5 billion in tax breaks for oil companies and give an immediate $500 tax rebate to families to offset high energy costs. Families earning up to $119,950 would be eligible for the one-time tax rebate.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 