SEN. STABENOW INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HELP CUT PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES UNDER MEDICARE
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow has introduced legislation to lower the costs of prescription drugs for seniors and the disabled. The legislation would give the Secretary of Health and Human Services the authority to negotiate a bulk purchase price for prescription drugs provided under Medicare.  
   Stabenow's legislation could significantly lower the price of prescription drugs for all seniors and disabled individuals in the Medicare drug benefit plan; additionally - in light of new projections for higher health care costs released this week - her bill would help maintain the financial health of Medicare itself. 
   While states, Fortune 500 companies, large pharmacy chains and the Veterans' Administration - all can use their bargaining clout to obtain lower drug prices for the patients they represent, the 2003 Medicare law currently prohibits the HHS secretary from negotiating directly with pharmaceutical manufacturers on behalf of seniors and the disabled to get the lowest possible prices. The Kaiser Foundation estimates that 41 million people are currently enrolled in Medicare, 1.4 million in Michigan. All these individuals will be eligible for the Medicare drug benefit when it becomes available in 2006. 
   "At a time when so many Americans struggle to pay for the prescription drugs they need, we must look for ways to lower the price of those drugs," Stabenow said. "It just doesn't make sense to prohibit the secretary from using the clout of our 41 million seniors to secure the lowest and best possible prices on prescription drugs. My legislation will give the government the freedom to practice what every smart consumer knows about the marketplace: the more you buy of anything, the better deal you get."
   Stabenow noted the success of the Veterans' Administration in bargaining for lower prices - as much as 65 percent - despite recent claims by the Administration that direct price negotiations by the secretary of HHS would be unlikely to get better prescription drug discounts than those attained by assorted private drug plans. 
   "Former HHS Secretary Thompson said as he left office that he would have liked to have had the opportunity to negotiate lower drug prices," Stabenow said. "My legislation will ensure that the new HHS secretary has the tools and the authority to make this happen - for our seniors, for the disabled, and for the viability of the Medicare program itself."
   The vital need for Stabenow's legislation was dramatized by a report this week from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which states that within a decade half the nation's medical bills will be paid by the federal government, primarily because of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. In real dollars, the government's annual tab for health care may total approximately $1.8 trillion by 2014. The senator's legislation, which allows negotiation for drug prices, could help hold down these costs by greatly reducing the price of drugs in Medicare.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 