SEN. STABENOW ANNOUNCES KEY ADDITIONS TO COMMUNICATIONS STAFF
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced the appointment of Karen Finney as deputy chief of staff for communications and Nanette Wilkin as deputy communications director. Finney will lead the newly expanded communications team, overseeing communications with the media and long term strategic communications. Dave Lemmon will continue as communications director and Bob Meissner as press secretary.  
   "I am extremely pleased that Karen Finney and Nanette Wilkin have joined my staff. Each brings a wealth of experience and talent to their roles," Stabenow said. "Working together with Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, this team will be invaluable as I continue to fight for the things that matter most to Michiganians: better jobs, affordable health care that includes low-cost prescription drugs, keeping the security in Social Security and protecting the Great Lakes." 
   Karen Finney most recently served as communications director for Elizabeth Edwards on the Kerry-Edwards campaign. A veteran of politics and strategic communications, Finney has worked in both the public and private sectors, serving as director of communications for the New York City Board of Education, press secretary for U.S. Senator Hillary Clinton's successful Senate bid in 2000. Finney also served in the Clinton Administration and worked on the California field staff of former U.S. Senator Alan Cranston (D-CA). 
   Dave Lemmon has served as Stabenow's communications director since 2000. Prior to that Lemmon was communications director for Senator Richard Bryan (D-NV) and press secretary to Representative Ellen Tauscher (D-CA). He first came to the Hill in 1991 as press secretary to Bill Orton (D-UT).
   Bob Meissner has served as Stabenow's press secretary since August 2002. A Michigan native and resident of Michigan's Upper Peninsula, Meissner came to Capitol Hill in 1995 as press secretary for U.S. Representative Bart Stupak (D-MI). He was earlier employed as a writer and editor at a small Michigan daily newspaper. Meissner is a graduate of Michigan State University.
   Nanette Wilkin, who joins the staff as deputy communications director, previously worked for four and one-half years with U.S. Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL), coordinating message and rapid response for the Democratic leadership on the Senate floor. Prior to that, she was a speechwriter at the U.S. Department of Transportation during the Clinton Administration.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 