SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE NEARLY $550,000 FOR FIRE SAFETY IN MICHIGAN
  U.S. Senators Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that ten Michigan organizations have been awarded $549,012 through the fiscal year 2007 Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). The funding will be used to support operations and firefighter safety and to purchase firefighting vehicles.  
   "These federal dollars will help purchase the firefighting vehicles and personal protective equipment that Michigan's first responders need to do their jobs safely and effectively," said Levin. "Communities throughout Michigan depend on the protection they provide, and this funding will help them prepare for the dangers they face on a daily basis."
   "Our first responders put their lives on the line to protect our communities," said Stabenow. "These brave men and women deserve nothing less than the very best training and equipment."
   The AFGP awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to improve the effectiveness of operations and health and safety programs, to purchase protective equipment and response vehicles, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. Grants are awarded competitively through an application process. More information can be found at http://www.firegrantsupport.com/.
   Individual grant awards can be found in the table below.
   Organization Location Program $Amount
   Bruce Crossing Volunteer Fire Department Bruce Crossing Operations and Safety 6,175
   Kochville Township Saginaw Vehicle Acquisition 175,750
   North Adams Fire and Rescue North Adams Operations and Safety 28,652
   Wayland Area Emergency Medical Service Wayland Vehicle Acquisition 77,400
   Saugatuck Township Fire District Saugatuck Operations and Safety 60,221
   Salem Township Fire Department Burnips Operations and Safety 35,055
   Dryden Township Fire Department Dryden Operations and Safety 28,500
   Pinconning-Fraser Fire Department Pinconning Operations and Safety 60,032
   Drummond Island Fire and Rescue Drummond Island Operations and Safety 47,144
   Southwestern Michigan Community Ambulance Service Niles Operations and Safety 30,083.
 
 