SENATE APPROVES SENS. COLEMAN-STABENOW MEASURE TO EASE TRAVEL TO CANADA
  The U.S. Senate today approved a measure sponsored by Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) to ease travel requirements set to take effect for Americans traveling to and from Canada. The Western Hemisphere Travel Facilitation Act was cosponsored by Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and was included in comprehensive immigration legislation passed by the Senate.  
   "Michigan families, boaters, businesses and school groups frequently travel to and from Canada," said Stabenow. "Our economy is closely linked to Canada, and new federal requirements could have unintended negative consequences on Michigan businesses and workers. That's why I have concerns about the unnecessary expense and bureaucracy of these new rules to restrict that travel. The bill passed by the Senate today will protect our security without putting the squeeze on American travelers."
   Congress passed intelligence reform legislation in 2004 that included a provision requiring Americans to present a U.S. passport when re-entering the United States, including when returning from Canada. Regulations by the U.S. State Department created "passport cards" as an alternative document to expedite travel to and from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda. 
   The Coleman-Stabenow legislation will ensure that the new passport cards will be affordable and easy to obtain for workers and families, requiring that fees for the cards are limited to a maximum of $24 - half the amount that has been proposed by the State Department. Children under the age of 18 would receive passport cards free of charge, so that travel to Canada will be affordable for families. Special exemptions are also made for student groups and community service organizations. 
   To ensure there is adequate time to implement requirements that will impact thousands in Michigan, the Coleman-Stabenow amendment extends the deadline for the new travel rules to June 1, 2009. 
   The Coleman-Stabenow measure has the support of the Detroit Regional Chamber of Commerce. 
   "I am committed to working with the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department to ensure our borders are secure from terrorists without creating an undue burden for Michigan citizens wishing to travel to Canada," Stabenow said.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 