SEN. STABENOW DELIVERS MAJOR VICTORIES FOR MICHIGAN
  U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that the Senate Committee on Agriculture has, for the first time, recognized the importance of fruits and vegetables by creating a new specialty crops subtitle and has approved over $3 billion to fund specialty crops provisions. Specialty crops- the fruits, vegetables and other crops that keep America healthy- make up half of the nation's agricultural cash receipts, but have traditionally received little recognition in previous farm bills. This legislation is of particular importance to Michigan, which grows more diverse crops than any other state except California and is a national leader in the production of numerous specialty crops, including blueberries, apples, cherries, asparagus, and celery. 
   "This is a big win for Michigan growers and producers," said Stabenow. "For too long, the Farm Bill has not included proper support for this important agricultural sector. Agriculture remains Michigan's second largest industry, creating jobs throughout our state, and I am pleased to have been able to lead the fight in the Agriculture Committee to deliver for our state's farmers and families." 
   The Senate Farm Bill also places a high priority on alternative energy, conservation, rural development and nutrition policies. From provisions to assist in the research and production of cellulosic ethanol to loans to encourage the building of biofuel refineries, the Farm Bill will serve to assist Michigan as the state continues to emerge as a leader in alternative fuel production.
   Also included are numerous provisions encouraging environmental stewardship, investing in our rural communities, and improving our nutrition programs to provide healthier alternatives to those in need. Stabenow provisions in the bill include reauthorization of a program to protect the Great Lakes by controlling soil erosion and a "Buy American" provision directing the United States Department of Agriculture to enforce current law, which states that all federal funds and all purchases for use in the National School Lunch and Breakfast programs must be from American farmers and growers. 
   "This Farm Bill is not only crucial to rural communities," said Stabenow. "The effects of this legislation touch every part of our state. From increasing our production of alternative fuels, to protecting our environment, Michigan families stand to benefit from every aspect of the bill we have crafted."
   Stabenow has served on agricultural committees in all four legislative bodies in which she has served, including the Michigan House, Michigan Senate, U.S. House and currently, the U.S. Senate. She is also the first Senator from Michigan to serve on the Senate Agriculture Committee since Senator Phil Hart from 1959 to 1962.
   A full Senate vote on the Farm Bill is expected in the upcoming weeks.
   Stabenow Specialty Crop Provisions Included in the Farm Bill
   $270 million for the State Block Grants for Specialty Crops program:
   Will help support state programs encouraging the consumption of fruits, vegetables and other specialty crops and enhance the competitiveness of the specialty crop industry.
   $200 million for pests and disease prevention:
   Will direct the United States Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to create a program determining and prioritizing foreign threats to specialty crops' production, such as bio-terrorism and will help protect the specialty crop industry from pests and diseases.
   $120 million for tree removal assistance:
   Will help increase payments to qualifying growers for tree removal and replacement as a result of damage caused by natural disaster. Current payments do not reflect the actual costs for removal and replacement.
   $20 million for a National Clean Plant Network:
   Will establish the National Clean Plant Network, which will help ensure that nurseries provide safe virus-free plant materials to orchards, vineyards, and other growers. Plant materials such as apples, peaches, and grapes are particularly vulnerable to viruses.
   $19 million for trade assistance:
   Will help boost specialty crop exports by facilitating the removal of specialty crop trade barriers.
   $27 million for organic crops:
   Will aid growers to transition to organic crops.
   $15 million for Asparagus:
   Will help support domestic asparagus producers in Michigan, Washington, and California who were hurt by the Andean Trade Preference Act. The market loss program will compensate these growers to help them plant new acreage and invest in more efficient planting and harvesting equipment.
   $30 million for farmers' markets:
   Will provide federal grants to support direct farmer-to-consumer marketing activities and transactions such as farmers' markets, roadside stands, on-farm markets, and community supported agriculture.
   $7 million for healthy food:
   Will help support an infrastructure that serves healthy, affordable food to low-income communities.
   $1.133 billion for the School Snack Program:
   Will help support the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, which helps increase children's access to healthy food options, reducing their risk of obesity and improving their overall health. 
   $50 million for the Community Food Projects Competitive Grants Program:
   Will help support innovative community food projects and promote a wide variety of community-based solutions to local food system and food security problems.
   $50 million for the Seniors Farmers Market Nutrition Program:
   Will provide coupons to low-income seniors for the purchase of fresh, unprepared foods at farmers' markets and other community based agriculture programs.
   $80 Million for Specialty Crop Research - $80 million
   Establishes a specialty crop priority focused grant program, awarding grants to eligible public and private entities to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of U.S. specialty crop producers.
   $80 Million for Organic Research
   Provides for organic agriculture research and extension, to enhance the ability of organic producers and processors to grow and market organic food, feed, and fiber.
   $94 million Market Access Program
   Aids domestic specialty crop growers who have not benefited from reduced trade barriers, and develop a strategy plan to increase exports of specialty crops.
   $850 million for Specialty Crop Growers in the Disaster Relief Trust Fund:
   Currently, ad hoc agriculture disaster relief packages often get to farmers too late - sometimes years after the disaster. This delay can mean the difference between maintaining production and losing a farm for good. Michigan has received about $260 million in disaster relief from 1995 to 2006. This fund will ensure Michigan farmers can get these payments faster and easier.
 
 