SENS. STABENOW, BROWN, LEVIN, CASEY: GET UNSAFE CHINESE TIRES OFF ROAD
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Carl Levin (D-MI) and Robert Casey (D-PA), today sent a letter to President Bush urging him to investigate how defective and dangerous Chinese-made automobile tires were sold in the United States and to direct the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to take immediate steps to recall these defective tires. 
   According to a report on the front page of today's Wall Street Journal, "About 450,000 Chinese-made tires sold in the U.S. - and possibly many more - may lack an important safety feature."  
   "This is more than just a trade issue, this is a safety issue," said Stabenow. "For too long, Chinese companies have completely disregarded U.S. safety laws, and this administration has stood by and done nothing."
   "Our first priority is to ensure the safety of American drivers, and that is why this investigation is so important," Brown said. If these tires are in fact defective, they are the latest in a string of dangerous products entering our country from China. Consumers can't afford the administration's head in the sand approach to our trade policy with China."
   Full Text of the Letter Follows:
   June 26, 2007
   George W. Bush
   The President
   The White House
   Washington, DC 20500-0003
   Dear Mr. President,
   We are writing to urge you to investigate how defective and dangerous Chinese-made automobile tires were sold in the United States. Additionally, we urge you to direct the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to take immediate steps to recall these defective tires. 
   As many as 450,000 Chinese-made tires sold in the U.S. lack the "gum strip," a key safety feature consisting of a thin layer of rubber between the steel belts that increases durability. These tires were manufactured by China's Hangzhou Zhongee Rubber Co. and distributed in the U.S. by Foreign Tire Sales, Inc. (FTS) under the brand names Westlake, Telluride, Compass, and YKS. Without the gum strip, tires treads are more likely to separate, which can have tragic consequences. At least one fatal accident, in which two passengers were killed, has raised serious questions about the safety of these tires.
   Amazingly, the NHTSA has not pushed for an immediate recall of these defective products. Instead, it is currently squabbling with FTS over whether FTS has the funds to pay for the recall. With lives potentially at stake, the NHTSA must take an aggressive stance and ensure that a recall goes forward without delay. Part of the delay has reportedly been caused by the failure of the Chinese manufacturer to provide the identification numbers of the affected tires. We urge you to push Chinese leaders to have such information made available immediately.
   These defective tires are the latest in a string of dangerous products coming from China. From melamine-tainted pet food that killed hundreds of animals nationwide to lead paint on children's toys and poison in toothpaste, Chinese companies have too often demonstrated a flagrant disregard for U.S. safety laws. Mr. President, your administration must investigate how all of these dangerous products made it into the U.S. market and make enforcement of these safety laws a top priority. Finally, you must demand that the Chinese government take action to ensure that Chinese companies are not peddling dangerous products to our citizens.
   Sincerely,
   Senator Debbie Stabenow
   Senator Sherrod Brown
   Senator Carl Levin
   Senator Robert Casey.
 
 