SEN. STABENOW TO DELPHI CEO MILLER: 'WE NEED TO STOP THIS RACE TO BOTTOM'
 Responding to reports of Delphi Corporation's latest offer to its workers, including wages as low as $9 per hour and reductions and eliminations of benefits, Sen. Debbie Stabenow today sent the following letter to Delphi CEO Chairman Robert S. "Steve" Miller:  
   "Dear Mr. Miller:
   "I am writing in follow-up to our meeting last week on the future of Delphi and our jobs in Michigan. I was stunned to see that Delphi's first offer to its workers calls for an unprecedented elimination of health care and pension benefits, and wages as low as $9 an hour.
   "I appreciate the difficult job ahead of you but I strongly believe that this is the wrong strategy for Delphi and all American manufacturers. We need to stop this race to the bottom with cuts in wages and benefits for American workers, in an attempt to compete with cheap labor in countries like China and Mexico. Instead, we need to address the failed policies that have created this terrible situation and are threatening to destroy our middle-class way of life. 
   "I strongly urge you to abandon this strategy and work with me and my colleagues to change these failed policies. This is a fight for our American way of life, a way of life that is the very heart and soul of Michigan, and we need to stand together to save it. I urge you to join with me to fight for legislation to lower the cost of health care for businesses, protect workers' pensions and stop unfair trade practices by countries like China and Japan. I have introduced specific legislation to address these issues, as have other colleagues. The solutions are there. Your leadership is needed to help us create the political will to get it done.
   "In light of President Bush's trip to China and Japan this November, I urge you to call on the President in the strongest possible terms to take a strong stand against unfair trade practices by these countries. As you know, currency manipulation and counterfeit goods such as auto parts are costing our manufacturers billions of dollars and eliminating American jobs. 
   "We cannot win a race to the bottom without losing our middle-class way of life. American manufacturers like Delphi are the backbone of our economy and are the leaders in innovation and research in the global marketplace. I hope you will continue this leadership and join me in fighting for policies that will strengthen American manufacturers and protect American jobs."
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 