SEN. STABENOW BILL EASES HEALTH CARE COSTS FOR MANUFACTURERS
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced legislation creating a flexible tax credit to help Michigan automakers and manufacturers with some of their highest health care costs. Sen. Debbie Stabenow's Manufacturers Tax Credit Act will help keep American manufacturers competitive in a global economy with a new tax credit to offset a portion of health care costs for current or retired employees between the ages of 55 to 65. Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI) cosponsored the legislation.  
   "I'm fighting to keep good-paying American manufacturing jobs here at home," Stabenow said. "To stop outsourcing and reward companies that are doing the right thing, we need to help businesses with crippling health care costs. My bill creates a new, flexible health insurance tax credit that will help keep American manufacturers in business and American workers in their jobs."
   In 2004, Congress passed the JOBS Act, which included an immediate phase-in of $6 billion in tax credits authored by Senator Stabenow for manufacturers that create jobs in the U.S. However, thousands of American manufacturing companies, including American auto companies, cannot currently take advantage of this tax credit because it only applies to companies that make a profit that year. Stabenow's legislation would allow those companies currently ineligible for the JOBS Act tax credit to receive a new tax credit to apply to part of their health care costs for retirees. 
   Often, high health care costs are what prevent American manufactures from being profitable. One of the most expensive groups for American manufacturers to insure are workers and retirees age 55 to 65 who are not yet eligible for Medicare. As a result, many people in this age group are being dropped from their health insurance plans and some companies are scaling back health coverage for everyone. 
   The Stabenow bill would allow manufacturers to annually claim either the JOBS Act tax credit or the new health insurance tax credit. The health care tax credit would equal ten percent of a company's health insurance premiums or costs paid for retirees aged 55 to 65. 
   The Manufacturers Tax Credit Act has been referred to the Senate Finance Committee.
 
 