SEN. STABENOW LEADS NEW FIGHT TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM INTERNET PORNOGRAPHY
  Because the pornography industry continues to exploit children through the Internet, Sen. Debbie Stabenow will lead a national fight to block their efforts and protect children, while placing the cost of the new protections on the pornography industry itself.  
   The Internet Safety and Child Protection Act of 2005, cosponsored by Stabenow and Sen. Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) and unveiled today, would tighten age controls on access to Internet pornography sites and would aid law enforcement in combating Internet and pornography-related crimes against children. The law enforcement effort would be funded by a 25 percent excise tax on Internet pornography transactions.
   "The Internet has become part of the daily life of most Americans, but, unfortunately, there are those who use the Internet to prey on children," Stabenow said. "It is increasingly clear that we need new technology and new regulations to address the threat to our children posed by the Internet. This legislation provides the tools and the funding to address this growing problem."
   Statistics cited by Stabenow highlight the seriousness of the problem. Nine out of 10 children ages 8-16 have viewed pornography on the Internet. Pornographers lure children by using words like "Teletubbies" and "Pokemon" to make their sites come up in Web searches. Only three percent of pornographic Web sites require age verification that goes beyond the honor system.
   "The facts about Internet pornography and children are shocking," Stabenow said. "This is a war for the welfare of our children against an aggressive criminal element that exploits and manipulates children and even uses children in child pornography on the Web.
   "Sadly, under current Federal Trade Commission regulations, there is little that parents can do to shield their children from internet pornographers, but we help create a barrier by strengthening FTC regulations, mandating age verification to access these Web sites," Stabenow said. "In addition, we can give law enforcement additional resources to investigate and prosecute those who lure or exploit children with pornography. 
   A nationally-recognized child advocate, Stabenow helped lead the fight in the Michigan legislature to make possession of child pornography a crime in Michigan. In other Michigan efforts on behalf of children, she sponsored the Children's Trust Fund to prevent child abuse, and she spearheaded reforms that made Michigan a national model for improved child support, custody and visitation regulations.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 