SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN URGE BUSH TO STAND UP FOR AMERICAN JOBS
  Michigan Sens. Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin today sent a letter to President Bush urging him to demand a level playing field for the American manufacturing industry when he meets with Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi later this week. Japan's unfair trade practices, including currency manipulation, have created a U.S. - Japan trade deficit of $82.7 billion - the second largest in the world.
   "For too long trade has been a one-way street against our U.S. auto manufacturers," said the Senators in the letter. "To put it more simply, our trade agreements are trading away American jobs. It is time to demand a level playing field." 
   The full text of the letter follows:
   June 27, 2006
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
  President of the United States 
  The White House 
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   This Thursday's meeting with Prime Minister Koizumi presents an opportunity for you to stand up for U.S. manufacturers at a time when we are losing jobs every day because of unfair trade practices. In fact, this lack of trade enforcement has contributed to one of the largest trade deficits in U.S. history - the U.S.-Japan trade deficit of $82.7 billion is the second largest in the world. It is clear to us that something must be done to stop unfair trade practices like currency manipulation and demand that Japan plays by the rules. 
   The deliberate actions of Japanese officials to maintain an undervalued yen is not a new problem. In the past, Japan has utilized manipulative financial tools to intervene with currency markets. In dollar terms, the Japanese government spent more than $400 billion to keep the yen weak between 2000 and 2004. These actions resulted in a $3,000 to $7,000 per vehicle subsidy for their exports, giving them an unfair advantage against U.S. automakers. More recently, the Japanese government has instituted a more subtle approach to intervention by commenting when the yen rises to a certain level. The end result is just the same - manipulative trade practices that unfairly punish American manufacturers. 
   Just last month, government leaders stepped in when the yen began to strengthen against the dollar following a G7 meeting. A number of very senior Japanese officials immediately responded by making pointed comments about "rapid fluctuations," and other similar statements. Although Undersecretary Adams responded by clarifying the U.S. and G7's opposition to Japan's verbal intervention, Japan's Finance Minister Taginaki continued to intervene by commenting that a weak yen is necessary for Japan's export-oriented industries, and more specifically, that a yen below 110 could damage the profits of export-oriented Japanese companies. This type of verbal intervention blatantly defies our trade laws and undermines the value of our trade agreements.
   A strong U.S auto industry is critical to our nation's economy and our middle-class way of life. U.S. auto companies employ 350,000 workers and purchase 80 percent of their auto parts from American manufacturers. That means for every assembly job a U.S. automaker creates, eight other jobs are produced. In total, 4.5 million U.S. jobs are linked to the auto industry. The importance of our domestic auto industry is certainly evident in these numbers and we urge you to consider the impact of Japan's currency intervention on the 4.5 million jobs that benefit from a healthy auto industry.
   It is also important to remember that the mandate of our trade agreements is to open market access for both countries. Unfortunately, for too long trade has been a one-way street against our U.S. auto manufacturers. To put it more simply, our trade agreements are trading away American jobs. Mr. President, I call on you to do the right thing and stand up for American businesses and American workers. It is time to return to the mandate of our trade agreements and demand a level playing field.
   Sincerely,
   U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI)
  U.S. Senator Carl Levin (D-MI)
 
 