SEN. STABENOW PUSHES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF 9-11 RECOMMENDATIONS, APPLAUDS INTEROPERABILITY GRANT PROGRAM
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), speaking at a press conference supporting the implementation of the 9-11 Commission's recommendations on better securing America, announced on Wednesday, Feb. 28 that the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee has included the authorization of a grant program dedicated to improving communication between first responders, at the local, regional, state and federal level in the recently approved Improving America's Security Act of 2007. 
   "Because of the communications failures on 9-11, too many police and firefighters ran into the Twin Towers when they should have been running out," said Stabenow, a leading advocate in the Senate on the issue of interoperability. "Over five years after these attacks it is shameful we have made so little progress to solve this problem. The 9-11 Commission has made clear what needs to be done, and I'm proud that this legislation will help to secure the updated, compatible equipment America's first responders need to keep our communities safe and respond to threats."
   A June 2004 U.S. Conference of Mayors survey found that 94% of cities surveyed do not have interoperable capability between police, fire and emergency medical services, and 60% of cities do not have interoperable capability with their state emergency operations center. The same study found that 80% of cities don't have interoperable communications with the Department of Homeland Security or the Department of Justice.
   "This is a problem that requires dedicated and focused attention that only specific funds for interoperable radio equipment can achieve," said Stabenow. "This grant program is a good first step, but I will continue this fight until first responders across Michigan and through out our entire country have the equipment they need and the ability to communicate effectively and reliably when emergencies happen."
   Section 301 of the Improving America's Security Act of 2007, Dedicated Funding to Achieve Emergency Communications Operability and Interoperable Communications, authorizes the following for the first five years of the program: $400 million in 2008, $500 million in 2009, $600 million in 2010, $800 million in 2011, and $1 billion in 2012.
 
 