SEN. STABENOW: PROVISION IS AN IMPORTANT STEP TOWARD ALLOWING MICHIGAN COMPANIES TO COMPETE WITH FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES
  A provision included in an appropriations bill pending in the Senate would be an important step toward allowing Michigan manufacturers to compete head-on with Federal Prison Industries Inc. in markets currently closed to private industry, Sen.  
 Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today. 
   Stabenow wrote this week to Sens. Richard C. Shelby (R-AL) and Patty Murray (D-WA), chairman and ranking member of a Senate appropriations subcommittee, thanking them for including the provision in the bill to fund the Department of Transportation.
   "The inability of U.S. manufacturers to fairly compete with the FPI for federal contracts has exacerbated an already difficult economic situation in Michigan," Stabenow wrote. "Enabling American businesses to compete will provide a much needed shot in the arm at a time when we see many of our jobs moving overseas."
   U.S. manufacturers aren't seeking a competitive advantage over FPI or trying to keep FPI from competing for federal contracts, Stabenow said. "They are only requesting that they be able to compete fairly and on equal footing for federal contracts the FPI now monopolizes."
   "I thank you for working to level the playing field between U.S. manufacturers and the FPI to enable fair competition for federal government contracts," Stabenow said. 
   Specifically, the legislative provision prohibits any federal agency from purchasing products offered by FPI unless the agency determines it is the best value.
   Stabenow termed the provision "an important first step" in allowing fair competition between U.S. manufacturers and the FPI. She also urged appropriators to fight to keep the provision in the appropriations bill approved for final House and Senate passage, after conferees from both bodies meet to resolve differences between their respective versions of the bill.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 