SEN. STABENOW HONORS DETROIT AS HOST CITY FOR SUPER BOWL XL
 Speaking from the Senate floor, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today honored the city of Detroit for hosting Super Bowl XL this weekend. Her statement:  
   "Mr. President, I rise today to cheer not for the Pittsburgh Steelers or the Seattle Seahawks, but for the City of Detroit and the State of Michigan which will host Super Bowl 40 this weekend. A bright spotlight is shining on Detroit, Michigan and I am confident the city and my home state are ready for their close up this weekend.
   "The State of Michigan and City of Detroit are honored to play host to the most watched sporting event in our country. I am sure that Detroit will shine as it has before when it has hosted the Stanley Cup Finals, the World Series and the Major League Baseball All-Star Game. 
   "Ford Field is a beautiful stadium that will be an ideal setting for the Seahawks and the Steelers and Cobo Hall will play host to the NFL Experience, a football "theme park" where children and their parents can enjoy over 50 interactive football-themed games and displays.
   "We are expecting over 100,000 visitors to downtown Detroit. I was there last week and I saw that many people had gotten there early to enjoy all that the city offers. Not only will visitors have the chance to experience Detroit's restaurants and nightlife but they can go to the Henry Ford Museum and see the bus where Rosa Parks made her historic stand, and visit the African American Museum. This weekend's visitors will see all of the wonderful things Detroit and the State of Michigan have to offer.
   "Detroit is the home of Motown and I am thrilled that Stevie Wonder will perform before the game and that Aretha Franklin will sing the national anthem. On Saturday Motown's music heritage will be on display when the Four Tops, the Miracles, the Contours, the Dramatics, the Former Ladies of the Supremes, Freda Payne, Brenda Holloway, Martha Reeves and the Vandellas, the Velvelettes and Paul Hill play at the Masonic Temple. 
   On Friday and Saturday night Kid Rock plays The Joe before a sold out house proving that Detroit is the Rock City.
   "This weekend Detroit will also welcome home two of its native sons, Jerome Bettis and Larry Foote, both members of the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
   "Larry Foote, a graduate of Pershing High, is at the beginning of a promising NFL career, while Jerome Bettis is near the end of a Hall of Fame career where he has displayed the character and toughness of a Detroit native. 
   "Bettis, a.k.a "The Bus" graduated from MacKenzie high in the late eighties, entered the NFL in 1993 and has since been mowing down defenses on his way to ranking fifth on the NFL's all time rushing list.
   "The Super Bowl will give Detroit and the State of Michigan the region an economic boost but it will also provide a more important opportunity for the city to shine. I am proud of Michigan's history and excited about our future. I'm sure that on Sunday night those who visited Detroit and those who watch the game will be excited too.
   "I yield the floor."
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 