SEN. STABENOW: MEDICARE DRUG CARDS DON'T PROVIDE REAL SAVINGS
  Under the new Medicare card plan, seniors will be paying 60 percent more for such commonly-used and important drugs as Lipitor than if the federal government were allowed to negotiate prices for Medicare recipients, just as the Department of Veterans Affairs is allowed to do, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow said today. 
   "Those of us who believe that Medicare has been one of our great American success stories have been fighting to update Medicare with a prescription drug benefit, and two elements are central to that plan - allowing Medicare to negotiate for 42 million participants to reduce drug prices and allowing reimportation of prescription drugs from Canada," Stabenow said.
   "The phenomenal power of federal bulk purchasing has been proven by the Veterans Administration, but those crafting the Medicare bill yielded to the influence of the pharmaceutical industry and blocked Medicare from using its large pool of beneficiaries to negotiate good deals.
   "It's clear from the figures we are presenting today that this action may represent improved drug company profits, but it comes at the expense of seniors," Stabenow said.
   In addition to savings on Lipitor, Stabenow noted that the VA model shows how seniors would save on the price of other commonly-prescribed drugs - as much as 46 percent for another popular cholesterol-controlling drug, Zocor; 56 percent on Prevacid, which is used in the treatment of acid reflux; 65 percent on the blood-pressure medicine, Norvasc; and an astounding 221 percent on acid-reflux treatment medicine, Protonix.
   Figures for the same drugs show seniors could benefit from significant savings under reimportation from Canada alone - paying even less for a 30 day prescription of Lipitor, or Prevacid than they would pay under the VA bulk purchasing plan.
   "By allowing bulk purchasing by Medicare or opening the borders to Canada, seniors would save significantly on their own drug costs," Stabenow said. "This must remain our goal to make prescription drugs a true benefit under Medicare."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 