SEN. STABENOW ANNOUNCES AVAILABILITY OF FREE CREDIT REPORTS FOR MICHIGAN RESIDENTS
  In the wake of recent news stories spotlighting new risks to personal consumer privacy, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) is urging everyone to obtain a free credit report, a financial tool now available to consumers through Stabenow's effort in Congress. 
   Stabenow, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, has long been concerned about identity theft and the protection of private financial information of the American consumer, and she was able to add provisions to the Fair Credit Reporting Act in 2003 that provides consumers with a free credit report each year.
   "As of March 1, these free credit reports are available from the nation's three major credit reporting companies - Equifax, Experian and TransUnion," she said. "I want to strongly urge Michigan residents to obtain a report to verify the accuracy of the information and to look for suspicious financial activity suggesting they may be the victim of identity theft."
   Stabenow said it was important to verify the accuracy of the information on the report, even if there was no hint of suspicious transaction, because an error on the report could still adversely affect individuals or couples when it comes time to get a loan.
   Bank of America recently reported that it lost computer tapes containing the personal information of 1.2 million federal employees who use their credit cards to pay for work-related expenses. 
   In another recent development, ChoicePoint, one of the nation's largest information services firm, began warning more than 100,000 people across the country that they could become victims of fraud after the company inadvertently sold personal and financial records to a group who was apparently intent on using the information in a massive identity theft scheme.
   As part of a national phase-in of the free credit report program, residents of Michigan and 11 other central U.S. states are eligible for the reports this week. Copies of a personal credit report are available by calling (877) 322-8228 or at: https://www.annualcreditreport.com. 
   In the battle against identity theft Stabenow claimed another victory today, when Sen. Richard C. Shelby, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, announced that he would hold hearings on consumer privacy and identity theft. Stabenow had called for the hearings this week, following the revelations of the problems of ChoicePoint, Bank of America, and other financial systems.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 