SEN. STABENOW JOINS CALL FOR BANKING COMMITTEE TO HOLD HEARINGS ON IDENTITY THEFT, CONSUMER PRIVACY PROTECTIONS
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today joined a growing chorus of consumer advocates in calling for immediate hearings in the U.S. Senate on identity theft and consumer privacy protections. As a member of the Senate Banking Committee, Stabenow voiced her concerns about the need both for stronger consumer protections against identity theft and fraud as well as the need to ensure that individuals are informed when their information has been compromised. 
   "Identity theft and the protection of the private information of American consumers should be one of the top priorities of the Senate Banking Committee," Senator Stabenow stated. "Consumers need to have confidence that their personal and financial information will be protected by the organizations they do business with. That is why I am calling on the chairman of the committee to schedule hearings on these issues as soon as possible."
   Stabenow, who has been a long-time champion and advocate of protecting the personal and financial information of America's consumers, was instrumental in adding important new protections to the Fair Credit Reporting Act including a provision that will finally provide consumers with a free annual credit report. "This simple step gives consumers an inexpensive tool in protecting their own personal financial information, and I urge everyone to take advantage of this added protection." Stabenow has also been instrumental in securing a number of other important protections against identity theft including new requirements to verify customer identities and addresses, new rules requiring credit card receipts to be truncated so they can't be used by thieves to gain vital personal information, and even the creation of an anti-identity theft public education campaign to provide consumers with yet another tool in the protection of their personal and financial information.
   In recent weeks there have been a number of high-profile incidents that could have threatened the confidential information for millions of American consumers. Most recently, Bank of America reported that it lost computer tapes containing the personal information of 1.2 million federal employees who use their credit cards to pay for work-related expenses. In another recent development, ChoicePoint, one of the nation's largest information services firm, began warning more than 100,000 people across the country that they could become victims of fraud after the company inadvertently sold personal and financial records to a group who was apparently intent on using the information in a massive identity theft scheme. In yet another recent example, stockholders of a company learned they were the victims of identity theft after several computers containing their personal and financial information were stolen from the company's offices.
   Unfortunately, most victims of identity theft often don't learn that they've been victimized until their social security or bank account numbers have been used to fraudulently establish credit or make a purchase. "Identity theft can happen to anyone and the effects can be devastating - ruining people's credit, wreaking havoc on their finances and possibly exposing them to unlawful actions taken by others in their name. Unfortunately, these recent examples show just how vulnerable every American is to financial fraud and identity theft. That's why I am urging the Senate Banking Committee to start hearings as soon as possible," Stabenow said.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 