SEN. STABENOW FIGHTS FOR HEALTH CARE COVERAGE FOR ALL
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today marked the kickoff of the fourth annual Cover the Uninsured Week, a non-partisan effort to make health care coverage a legislative priority for Congress. The week of events, sponsored by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and other prominent health organizations across the country, aims to draw awareness to the nearly 46 million Americans who lack health coverage and the need for a national solution. 
   "Providing health care for families fulfills a moral and economic commitment," said Stabenow. "No one in America who gets up in the morning and goes to work should go to sleep at night fearful that an illness or injury in the family could wipe out everything they have worked hard for."
   There are more than 1 million people without health insurance in Michigan, which equals about 11% of the state's population, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. And the Michigan Hospital Association reported that Michigan hospitals provided nearly $994 million in uncompensated care in 2002. It is a common misconception that uninsured Americans are unemployed, but more than 80 percent of uninsured Americans are part of working families, and almost half work for small businesses.
   Earlier this year, Stabenow introduced "three share" legislation, based on a successful insurance premium payment model used in communities nationwide, including many in Michigan. Under this plan, premiums are shared between the employer who pays 30 percent, the employee who pays 30 percent, and the community which covers the remaining 40 percent of the cost. Stabenow's Health Care Access for Small Businesses Act would encourage growth of this innovative program to communities across the country.
   "It is critical that we make health care more affordable for all Americans," said Stabenow. "From greater use of health information technology to promoting generic drugs, there are a number of ways we can lower the cost of health care and create a unique, truly American health care system that works for everyone."
   Stabenow has received numerous awards for her work to help those who lack health insurance. In March, Stabenow was named the 2006 Distinguished Community Health Champion by the National Association of Community Health Centers, an honor she has been extended in previous years as well. Stabenow was also selected as a Champion for the Medically Underserved by the Michigan Primary Care Association, in 2005.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 