SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN: OVER $329,000 COMING TO MUNSON HOME CARE
  U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) today announced that Munson Home Care in Traverse City will receive $329,494 to help monitor and manage more patients who are being treated at home throughout 32 counties in northern Michigan. Munson Home Care will install computers and medical equipment in the patients' homes, which will help chart vital signs, take weights, and track medications. Patient information will then be regularly transmitted back to a health center that will be actively monitoring the patients, allowing healthcare providers and nurses to respond if necessary. This grant will also help Munson Home Care create electronic records for 8,000 patients by 2010. The funds will be awarded under the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program. 
   "We know the promise health information technology holds for lowering our nation's sky-high health costs and providing better care for patients," said Stabenow. "I'm so pleased that this funding will help Munson Home Care expand their already extensive technological medical network to reach more patients who otherwise could not receive urgent care. Such networks are critical to bringing affordable, quality care to rural communities across our state and across the country."
   "These federal dollars will help Munson Home Care to provide northern Michigan with agile and efficient health care," said Levin. "Providing an affordable, reliable health care system in rural regions can be a challenge and I am hopeful that this funding will help to ensure that challenge is met."
   Munson Home Care is a non-profit Community Health Accreditation Program which operates four branch office locations in Traverse City, Gaylord, Manistee and Reed City and provides home health care services to residents located throughout a 32 county service area of 17,468 square miles and a total population of 945,965. Munson Home Care is designated by Medicare as a 100% rural care provider. 
   The primary goal of the USDA Rural Development Distance and Learning and Telemedicine Grant program is to fund projects which deliver critically needed educational and medical services in rural areas, which would not be available otherwise. The grant will help fund the costs of acquiring and installing medical hardware in patient homes and a telemedicine system which covers long distances.
 
 