SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN: HOMELAND SECURITY DEPT SELECTS SELFRIDGE AS NORTHERN BORDER AIR WING SITE, ASKS AIR FORCE FOR FINAL APPROVAL
 Sens. Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow, both D-Mich., today announced that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has selected Selfridge Air National Guard Base as the location for a Northern Border Air Wing and has asked the Air Force for final approval of the decision. For several years, Levin and Stabenow have urged DHS to select Selfridge as the site for the air wing, citing its easily-accessible location and exceptional facilities.  
   "This is good news, not only for Michigan, but for the security of our northern boarder and our nation," said Stabenow. "Selfridge Air National Guard Base already plays a critical role in the preparedness of our military, and I'm proud that the Department of Homeland Security, with the urging of myself and Senator Levin, has recognized Selfridge as an ideal location for a Northern Border Air Wing."
   "I'm thrilled that DHS has officially chosen Selfridge," Levin said. "I believed that Selfridge would be the best site for the air wing because it is close to three of our nation's busiest border crossings and can be accessed by air, water, rail and interstate highway. I'm hopeful that the Air Force will approve this quickly so that the air wing can get to work, keeping our border safe and secure."
   In 2004, the Department of Homeland Security announced it would establish five air wings in northern states in an effort to improve security along the Northern Border; if approved by the Air Force, Selfridge would be the fifth Northern Border Air Wing. The mission of the air wing is to "protect the American people and the Nation's critical infrastructure through the coordinated use of integrated air and marine forces to detect, interdict and prevent acts of terrorism and the unlawful movement of people, illegal drugs and other contraband toward or across the borders of the United States." 
   The air wing will enhance law enforcement, surveillance and response capabilities along the border. The new air wing should also spur the deployment of new homeland security technologies and improve coordination among the National Guard, Customs and Border Protection, and federal, state and local law enforcement personnel already deployed along the Northern Border. 
   According to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP), the Detroit sector is responsible for 863 miles of U.S. land and water border with Canada. Approximately 100 people will be assigned to the Michigan wing. DHS anticipates a dedication in spring/summer 2008.
 
 