MICHIGAN LAWMAKERS URGE BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTION TO PREVENT FUTURE CHEMICAL SPILLS IN ST. CLAIR RIVER
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) and Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) are urging Secretary of State Colin Powell to coordinate with the Canadian government in developing and implementing a plan that would prevent future chemical spills into the St. Clair River.  
   The letter, which calls for swift action to head off future spills, follows a letter the Michigan lawmakers sent Powell earlier this year, which detailed several major spills of contaminants into the Great Lakes waterway from Canadian companies. Responding to the Michigan lawmakers' initial call for action, the Canadian government studied the problem and issued a report and a proposed cleanup timetable, but the lawmakers are urging the Bush administration to ensure that the Canadian government follows through on the report's recommendations.
   The text of the letter:
   "We are writing in follow-up to the August 9, 2004 report issued by the Ontario Ministry of Environment, urging the development of an action plan in response to a number of industrial chemical spills along the St. Clair River. We urge that you personally raise this issue with the Canadian government and underscore the importance of swift implementation of the report's recommendations.
   "As you know, we also wrote to you on March 10, 2004 regarding the numerous chemical spills by Canadian industry into the St. Clair River. Over the past year, Canadian industry has spilled 650 pounds of vinyl chloride monomer, and 42,000 gallons of methyl ethyl ketone and methyl isobutyl ketone, polluting the drinking water supply and posing serious health concerns to downstream communities in Southeast Michigan.
   "The Ontario Ministry of Environment has taken action to prevent future spills. The Industrial Pollution Action Team's report and recommendations call for a timetable and development of an action plan in five main areas: spill prevention, spill detection on- and off- site; spill response and notification; human and ecosystem health impacts; and communications. 
   "The St. Clair River is the source of drinking water for approximately five million citizens of the United States and Canada. Meetings have been conducted between local, state and provincial officials in the United States and Canada, and it is imperative that the Bush Administration take immediate action to prevent any future spills.
   "We appreciate your attention to this matter and we look forward to your prompt response."
   The Canadian government's report is available at: http://www.ene.gov.on.ca/techdocs/4771e.pdf.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822; Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472.
 
 