SEN. STABENOW HELPS LEAD COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE
  U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), along with the other members of the Senate Committee on Finance, today approved the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008. The Act includes tax rebates for millions of Americans, including seniors and disabled veterans, an extension of unemployment insurance to immediately boost the economy and business tax provisions to encourage investment in and creation of middle-class, American jobs.  
   "A bipartisan group of economists and financial experts agree that extending unemployment insurance is one of the fastest, most effective ways to stimulate our economy, while allowing individuals more time to search for a job in a difficult market" said Stabenow. "I appreciate my colleagues working with me and recognizing that for any stimulus package to be effective, we must provide support to Michigan's struggling economy."
   Individual Rebate:
   The package would provide a $500 rebate to millions of Americans, including 21 million seniors living on Social Security and 250,000 disabled veterans left out by the House legislation. An additional $300 will be provided to families for each child who qualifies under the current child tax credit rules. 
   Unemployment Compensation:
   The legislation includes provisions authored by Senator Stabenow that would extend federal unemployment insurance in all states by 13 weeks, with an additional 13 week extension in states like Michigan that are experiencing high unemployment. 
   Without an extension, 72,000 Michigan workers would loose their benefits in the first six months of this year alone. Stabenow's provision also ensures that those who have filed for unemployment within the last two years would be eligible for the extension of compensation in the package. 
   Energy Tax Provisions:
   Stabenow also pushed a provision extending important alternative energy production tax credits providing crucial investment in the production of green technologies, including investments in companies that produce energy efficient appliances, such as Benton Harbor based Whirlpool. 
   Other production credits include investment in solar and fuel cell production, the building of energy efficient commercial buildings and retrofitting of existing homes in order to make them more energy efficient. 
   Business Tax Incentives
   For companies that are struggling in this economic downturn, the package includes a provision allowing businesses to apply excess net operating losses to tax returns from prior profitable years. This provision is particularly helpful to auto suppliers and home builders. 
   The package also includes bonus depreciation which rewards companies for investing in domestic production. Stabenow included a provision that ensures all companies would benefit from this incentive, including businesses that are struggling because of this economic downturn.
 
 