SEN. STABENOW: COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS DESERVE OUR SUPPORT
  U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced the Community Health Center Capital Investment Act of 2007, which will help community health centers make critical infrastructure upgrades and expand their facilities to better meet the needs of more underserved patients. 
   "The fact that community health centers are unable to take full advantage of programs that provide necessary funding and support just doesn't make sense," Stabenow said. "Community health centers serve as the family doctor to many in our state who are struggling to pay for health care. This bill is a critical step toward providing quality, affordable health care to all Americans." 
   Created under federal law in 1965, federally-qualified community health centers provide access to quality, affordable health care to everyone, regardless of their ability to pay, and serve as the family doctor and health care home for more than 15 million people. Unfortunately under current law, community health centers cannot use their current grant dollars for construction, modernization, or expansion of facilities and the majority of health centers have difficulty accessing capital to make critical investments. 
   "The majority of Michigan's 34 Community Health Center organizations were founded in the middle and late 1970s, and many of their 160 community-based sites are located in facilities that require renovation to meet the changing health care needs of their communities," said Kim Sibilsky, Executive Director of the Michigan Primary Care Association. "More readily available renovation dollars will assist Michigan Health Centers in improving access to quality health care for Michigan residents."
   The Stabenow legislation will allow community health centers to take advantage of a program at the Department of Housing and Urban Development that will empower health centers to leverage private capital through federally-guaranteed mortgage insurance.
   Stabenow has been recognized as a tireless advocate for community health center funding in the Senate. Earlier this year, her contributions were recognized when the National Association of Community Health Centers presented her with the 2007 "Distinguished Community Health Champion," a top award given each year to lawmakers who have led the fight for health care for the poor and uninsured.
 
 