SEN. STABENOW MEETS WITH STATE'S AGRICULTURE LEADERS
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) this week held meetings with key agriculture leaders across the state to discuss the nation's Farm Bill which will be rewritten by Congress this year. As a member of the U.S. Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Rural Revitalization, Conservation, Forestry and Credit, Sen. Debbie Stabenow will play a pivotal role in drafting this legislation which will affect farmers and consumers across Michigan. The Farm Bill was last rewritten in 2001. In addition to representing Michigan on the Agriculture Committee in the U.S. Senate for the past six years, Sen. Debbie Stabenow also served on the Agriculture committee for four years in the U.S. House of Representatives and for six years while serving in the Michigan Legislature.  
   "Agriculture is Michigan's second largest industry contributing billions to the state's economy each year," said Stabenow. "From cherries, apples and asparagus to forestry, alternative fuels, sugar and milk production, agriculture impacts every local economy in our state."
   The Farm Bill has broad implications for Michigan's diverse agricultural industry and the potential to spur critical economic growth in the state. It also has sweeping impact on our energy, conservation, rural development and nutrition policies. The Farm Bill will play a critical role in Michigan's emergence as a leader in alternative fuel production, which would create new jobs and bolster the state's economy. 
   "The Farm Bill serves as an opportunity to show our commitment to alternative fuels," said Stabenow. "We need to provide American consumers with a real energy choice - it is a matter of national security and environmental responsibility."
   Another major component of the Farm Bill will be language addressing specialty crops - the fruits, vegetables and other crops that are of particular importance to Michigan. Michigan grows more diverse crops than any other state besides California and leads the nation in the production of numerous specialty crops. Stabenow has authored specialty crop legislation with U.S. Senator Larry Craig (R-ID) that is expected to serve as the framework for a new specialty crop title in the 2007 Farm Bill. The bill would open up international markets, allowing American farmers to more freely compete in the global marketplace, as well as provide them with the resources they need to stay on the cutting edge of scientific research and development.
   Yesterday, Senator Stabenow met with local agriculture leaders in East Lansing and Frankenmuth and today held a meeting in Muskegon.
 
 