SEN. STABENOW: JOB CREATION REMAINS TOP LEGISLATIVE GOAL
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow was in town today to talk about her legislative efforts to spark the creation of high-tech businesses and good-paying jobs and to spotlight $2 million in funding for Michigan Tech included in a major transportation bill approved by Congress last week. 
   Stabenow's visit here today included a visit to Michigan Tech's School of Forestry and a tour of the Michigan Tech EnterPrise SmartZone, one of Michigan's 11 collaborations between universities, local industry, research organizations, and other institutions to foster business growth and job creation. 
   Stabenow noted the role that Michigan Tech plays in fostering innovation and helping pave the way to a brighter economic future. "The students at this tremendous institution are tomorrow's innovators and entrepreneurs," she said. "Our investments in education today will result in greater opportunities and jobs tomorrow."
   She said that the SmartZone project is a good example of what local governments can do to encourage job creation and she outlined some of her efforts in the Senate to help spur the creation of more good jobs. "My top priority is creating and protecting good-paying jobs for the people of Michigan, and we've had success," Stabenow said. "I'm very pleased that I was able to win passage of a $6 billion tax cut to companies that create jobs in the U.S. I am also proud to have successfully led the effort to make sure that federal government contracts are only given to companies that create American jobs instead of shipping them overseas." 
   Stabenow also pointed to a number of her other efforts to address the problem of Michigan's high unemployment and increase good employment opportunities for the people of Michigan.
   "We need to fully fund research manufacturing programs, such as the Manufacturing Extension Partnership and the Advanced Technology Program," Stabenow said, "and I am proud I was able to restore funding for manufacturing technology and research programs in this year's appropriations bills."
   Stabenow also highlighted her leadership in the effort to provide a permanent tax credit for entities that increase their research activities, including private companies, universities and think tanks.
   "We need every tool at our disposal to reinvigorate our economy," Stabenow said today. "We in Michigan and across the nation face unique challenges, but we can rise to meet them. We need to act to stimulate job growth and then get out of the way and let our entrepreneurs do what they do best - create jobs."
   Stabenow visited Sault Ste. Marie earlier today as the first stop on a month-long "jobs tour" of the Upper Peninsula and the rest of the state.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 