SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE $454,698 IN FIREFIGHTER GRANTS FOR SEVEN MICHIGAN FIRE DEPARTMENTS
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has awarded $454,698 in grants to seven Michigan fire departments under the terms of the fiscal year 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program.  
   "Fitness and safety training, new vehicles, and improved personal protective equipment are among the enhancements to local firefighting units supported by these grants," Stabenow said. "Michigan firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect people and property in their communities, and we must ensure that they have the best equipment and training available. "
   "Through this funding, our fire departments will be able to update equipment, provide necessary training and offer public education on fire prevention," said Levin. "This grant program helps to ensure that our firefighters, who risk their lives to protect our communities, have the necessary tools and resources to do their jobs."
   These grants have been provided through the 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, a joint effort of the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and U.S. Fire Administration. The Operations and Firefighter Safety programs provide firefighters with equipment, training and modifications to facilities. The Fire Prevention program includes such activities as fire code enforcement, the purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems, and arson prevention and detection. The Firefighting Vehicle acquisition program allows departments to purchase vehicles, such as tankers, rescue vehicles, foam units and ambulances. 
   To view list on grant recipient, go to: http://stabenow.senate.gov/press/2005/020305FirefighterGrants.htm.
   The most current information on the 2004 Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program is available at: www.firegrantsupport.com.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822. 
 
 