SEN. STABENOW HONORED BY MICHIGAN POLICE CHIEFS AS ?LEGISLATOR OF THE YEAR'
  The Michigan Association of Chiefs of Police will honor Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) as the organization's "2004 Legislator of the Year" at their Mid-Winter Training Conference and Exposition in Grand Rapids tonight.  
   The award recognizes Stabenow for her work preserving COPS funding, extending funding for bulletproof vest grants, supporting legislation to create local block grants for Homeland security funding, and helping communities secure funding for emergency communications equipment.
   The Association also praised Stabenow for her leadership in getting the Department of Homeland Security to change a rule that prevented part-time and volunteer first responders from getting reimbursed when they attend critical Homeland Security training.
   Bloomfield Township Chief of Police Jeffrey D. Werner, MACP president announced the award on behalf of the organization and said, "Senator Stabenow has long been a friend to Michigan's law enforcement community. She listens and she works hard to get us the federal resources we need to combat crime and to provide safe and secure communities." 
   Jackson Chief of Police Ervin Portis, MACP Legislative Committee Chairman, is scheduled to present the award this evening and added, "The MACP appreciates Senator Stabenow. We recognize her commitment to creating a body of laws that enhances the profession of law enforcement, hold criminals accountable, and provides justice to victims of crime."
   Stabenow said she was honored to receive the award and grateful for her close working relationship with the MACP and other state police organizations.
   "I'm so honored to receive this award," Stabenow said. "I have a personal appreciation and understanding of the work that you do and the risks that you take every day to ensure that all of us are kept safe. I also want to acknowledge the sacrifices that your families make on all of our behalf. That's why I will continue to fight to ensure that you have the resources you need to get the job done."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 