SEN. STABENOW APPLAUDS COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF FEDERAL PRISON REFORM LEGISLATION ALLOWING PRIVATE SECTOR COMPETITION FOR FEDERAL CONTRACTS
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow today applauded Wednesday's vote by the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, which sent to the full Senate a bill that allows Michigan businesses to compete against Federal Prison Industries for federal contracts in areas that FPI now monopolizes. 
   "Under current law, if Federal Prison Industries wants a contract to supply a specific product, private companies are prohibited from selling that product to their own government - even if their product is better than that offered by the prison industry," said Stabenow, a co-sponsor of the bill. "It is time to give the private sector access to a level playing field and let them compete fairly for federal contracts the prison industry now monopolizes.
   "This bill will ensure that businesses in Michigan have the opportunity to compete for contracts with their own government."
   Stabenow said the legislation, S.346, is especially important to Michigan businesses, which have been beset both by massive job losses and an expansion of FPI manufacturing into the traditional Michigan markets of automotive parts and furniture.
   In her testimony before the committee on the legislation in April, Stabenow noted that FPI's involvement in the automotive components industry grew by 216 percent in 2002 and its expansion into the furniture market went up 24 percent in the same year. Movement into the furniture business comes at an especially trying time for Michigan furniture manufacturers, who are facing their worst economic recession ever. "Over the last three years the office furniture manufacturing industry has had to lay off approximately 30,000 employees," she said.
   The Senator told subcommittee members she was not opposed to the original 1934 law that created FPI and its goal of managing, training and rehabilitating inmates.
   "Our manufacturers are not asking for an advantage or to exclude FPI from competing. All they want is the opportunity to compete fairly and on equal footing for these contracts," Stabenow said. "We must continue to level the playing field between private companies and the prison industry to enable fair competition for federal government contracts.
   "We should not allow a prison work program to take away jobs from hard-working Americans," Stabenow said. "I urge the Senate to take up and pass this legislation as soon as possible."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 