SEN. STABENOW'S 'HEALTH TECH' LEGISLATION WOULD CUT COSTS, IMPROVE PATIENT CARE
  Bipartisan legislation introduced by Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) would spur the use of new information technologies that would reduce paperwork costs and improve the quality of care given to the patients. The use of these emerging technologies could save as much as $300 billion annually to the nation's health care system. Titled the Health Information Technology Act or the Health-Tech Act, the legislation was unveiled at a news conference today at the Detroit Regional Chamber of Commerce Mackinac Policy Conference on Mackinac Island.  
   "The skyrocketing cost of health care threatens American jobs by adding to manufacturing costs, making American businesses less competitive in the international marketplace. These costs also directly threaten our families by making basic care and health insurance more expensive," Stabenow said. "We can eliminate or reduce many of these costs by streamlining the flow of information among doctors and nurses, hospitals and other community health centers. This legislation is designed to remove financial obstacles that have prevented some health care providers from using new technologies that will ultimately not only reduce costs, but also improve patient care." 
   The health care industry has generally lagged behind other industries in the use of informational technology. Stabenow's legislation would encourage greater use of information technologies through a program of grants, a restructured schedule of Medicare reimbursements, and tax incentives. This financial assistance would promote computer hardware and software upgrades, the installation of enhanced computer storage and communications, and personnel training. 
   Stabenow's legislation would eliminate paperwork and duplication of procedures and potentially hazardous situations, such as bad drug interactions. It would promote the use of new technologies such as electronic health records and automated pharmacy dispensing, and it would stimulate sharing this data securely among all agencies that have treated an individual patient.
   "An estimated 31 cents of each health care dollar is spent on administrative costs," said Stabenow. "Our legislation will give providers the tools they need to reduce those costs while providing the best possible care for patients."
   Among those participating in today's news conference were Tom Anderson of southeast Michigan's Automation Alley, Carla Smith of the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, and Sebastian Wade of the Detroit Regional Chamber of Commerce.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 