SEN. STABENOW, 44 SENATORS PRESS FOR FUNDING FOR MANUFACTURING EXTENSION PARTNERSHIP
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) is leading a bipartisan group of 45 senators in an effort to restore funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, which was cut by almost 60 percent in the budget proposed by the president last month. In a letter to the Senate Budget Committee leadership, Stabenow, who serves on the Budget Committee, urged that $112 million in funds be restored to the MEP in fiscal year 2006. The MEP has long been recognized as a critical program that successfully helps small and medium-sized manufacturers stay competitive and succeed. 
   "At a time when we are losing manufacturing jobs in this country, we should be doing everything we can to help our manufacturers stay competitive," Stabenow said. "They are the backbone of our economy."
   Stabenow noted that manufacturing is essential for economic growth, producing 13 percent of the Gross National Product and an astounding 89 percent of export revenue. What makes the MEP even more important, Stabenow said, is the fact that small and medium manufacturers - the very group aided by the program - comprise about 97 percent of all manufacturing firms and employ about half of all manufacturing employees.
   "Those utilizing the expertise offered by the program experience productivity increases four times greater than comparable non-MEP clients," the senators said in their letter. "In fiscal year 2004, the MEP's clients reported sales of $4.12 billion, 50,315 new or retained workers, $686 million in cost savings, and $912 million invested in new plant and equipment as a direct result of their MEP projects.
   "Without strong federal support, MEP will not be able to maintain its mission of serving American manufacturers, and its benefits will be lost to our economy," they wrote. "At a time when economic recovery, supply chain reliability for consumer and defense goods, and global competitiveness are national priorities, MEP is a truly wise investment."
   Among the services provided to their clients, MEP can guide manufacturers toward developing products tailored to specific markets, shape marketing plans for those products, and connect the manufacturer with distributors and agents to sell the products. 
   "Clearly this program more than pays for itself in increased economic activity," Stabenow said.
   Earlier this year Stabenow introduced legislation, "Expanding Economic Opportunity", that among other things would help ensure America continues to create jobs today and for the future by investing in infrastructure programs, high-tech and supporting research and development activities. She also authored the MORE JOBS bill, which was enacted into law by the Senate in the last session of congress, and provides $2 million in immediate tax relief for manufacturers who keep jobs in the U.S. rather than shipping them overseas.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 