SEN. STABENOW INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HELP MICHIGAN FARMERS
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) has introduced the bipartisan Specialty Crops Competition Act of 2006, comprehensive legislation to address challenges faced by specialty crop farmers. Specialty crops include fruits, vegetables and ornamental plants. The Sen. Stabenow bill would provide important tools for specialty crop farmers, who face unique challenges.  
   "Michigan is a state that makes things and grows things," said Stabenow. "We are famous for our automobiles, and we are also known for our cherries, apples, blueberries, asparagus, and other specialty crops. This bill would give critical support to this Michigan industry that provides more than half a million jobs in our state."
   Agriculture is a driving force in Michigan's economy. Farms contribute $37 billion annually to the state economy. Specialty crops alone generate nearly $1.3 billion every year - making Michigan second only to California in the variety of crops grown.
   As a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Stabenow has been a staunch advocate for Michigan agriculture and has gotten the job done for the state's specialty crop growers. She led the effort which, for the first time, gave specialty crops greater priority in the 2002 Farm Bill and passed legislation in 2004 to provide more resources and support to this job-creating industry. 
   The Specialty Crops Competition Act would provide millions of dollars to support research, production, nutrition, food safety and inspection, and other measures to enhance the competitiveness of this critical agricultural sector. The bill would also increase federal purchases of fruits and vegetables for use in nutrition programs benefiting Michigan growers, as well as children, families and seniors.
   Stabenow has received numerous awards for her leadership on agriculture issues, including two Golden Triangle Awards from the National Farmers Union and a Leadership Award from the United Fruit and Vegetable Association, among others.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 