SEN. STABENOW: PENSION BILL WILL HELP EMPLOYERS KEEP PROMISE TO WORKERS
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today said that pension reform legislation passed by the Senate last night contains important protections to ensure Michigan families will have the pensions they are counting on for retirement.  
   "This is a victory for Michigan workers and for businesses doing the right thing for their employees," Stabenow said. "People who have worked their whole lives and paid into a pension deserve every penny that was promised them. These reforms will ensure those pensions will be there for the families that earned them."
   "GM has long supported pension reform and we applaud Senator Stabenow's leadership and Congress for passing legislation that is balanced, protects employee pensions, and allows companies to make reasonable predictions into the future," said Ken W. Cole, General Motors' Vice President of Government Relations.
   "On behalf of the 73,000 participants in Northwest Airlines' pension plans, and the families that depend on them, we thank Senator Stabenow for her steadfast support," said Doug Steenland, President and Chief Executive Officer of Northwest Airlines. 
   "Thanks to Senator Stabenow's help, yesterday's vote was an important victory for our 10,000 pension plan participants in Michigan, and a key milestone in the restructuring of our company," said Steenland. "We believe that fully honoring these commitments is the right thing to do, and now look to the President to bring our three year effort to a successful conclusion."
   Stabenow successfully worked to remove provisions in the bill that would unfairly punish manufacturers with well-funded pension plans, including Michigan's auto industry, due to the unrelated issue of their credit ratings. 
   "In Michigan alone, millions of families are counting on their pensions for retirement security," Stabenow said. "Every day this bill was delayed it added new uncertainty and insecurity for workers and retirees who worried their pensions wouldn't be there for them. That's why it is so critical for the President to sign pension reform into law immediately. This is about more than just pensions - it's about America keeping its promise to the middle class."
 
 