SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN CALL FOR INCREASE IN PILT PAYMENTS TO $255 MILLION FOR FISCAL 2005
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) are calling for a 10 percent increase in funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program over the Department of the Interior's request of $226 million in fiscal year 2005 for the PILT program.  
   In a letter sent today to Sens. Conrad Burns (R-MT), chairman of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, and Byron Dorgan (D-ND), ranking member on the subcommittee, Stabenow and Levin outlined the importance of the program and the need for the increase.
   "As you know, the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program provides payments to local communities to compensate them for losses to their tax bases that result from the presence of significant amounts of untaxable federal land in their counties," Stabenow, Levin and other senators wrote. "These funds are critical to the budgets of local governments, which supply many essential services such as search and rescue, law enforcement, and road maintenance."
   In addition to the regular residents of public land counties, the senators said, millions of Americans who visit national parks, forests, and other public lands rely on county governments to provide high-quality services and a clean and safe environment. "The PILT program makes this possible," they said.
   The senators requested that $255 million be provided for PILT for fiscal year 2005. 
   "The Interior Department's request of $226 million fails to provide funding sufficient for the federal government to keep its commitment to public land counties. This places an undue financial hardship on our counties, who are mandated by law to provide many critical public services."
   Stabenow and Levin have each year sought increases in PILT payments to try to reach the authorized level of funding, which currently stands at $340 million. This program is especially important to states like Michigan, which has large, sparsely populated areas - with large swaths of federal property - already struggling to provide basic services like law enforcement and road maintenance.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 