SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE $364,280 IN FIREFIGHTER GRANTS FOR FIVE MICHIGAN COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., announced today that five fire departments in the state of Michigan have received $364,280 in grants from the Department of Homeland Security. Each community will use the funds for fire operations and firefighter safety programs. 
   "The brave men and women who work every day to protect our homes and families deserve the best training and equipment," said Levin. "Providing this funding will help keep our firefighters and our communities safe from fire and other disasters." 
   "The FEMA firefighter grant program is an important partnership between the federal government and local communities to enhance the safety of residents and property, " Stabenow said. "Michigan firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect people and property in their communities, and we must ensure that they have the best equipment and training available. "
   These grants have been provided through the 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, a joint effort of the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and U.S. Fire Administration. The fire operations and firefighter safety programs assist firefighters with equipment, training, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness and modifications to facilities. 
   Fire departments receiving grants are:
  *Fire Department Name: Algoma Township Fire Dept. 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Fed Share: $129,954 
  *Fire Department Name: Argentine Township Fire and Rescue Dept. 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Fed Share: $51,336 
  *Fire Department Name: Linden Michigan Fire Dept. 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Fed Share: $98,210 
  *Fire Department Name: Lowell Area Fire Dept. 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Fed Share: $30,780 
  *Fire Department Name: Whittemore Vol. Fire Dept. 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Fed Share: $54,000 
  More information on the assistance to firefighters grant program is available at http://www.usfa.fema.gov.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822. 
 
 