SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN: DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR GROWERS STRUCK BY FIRE BLIGHT SHOULD BE RELEASED IMMEDIATELY
  In a letter to the Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman, Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) strongly stated their concern over the fact that the department has disbursed only about 10 percent of the $9.7 million approved for Michigan apple growers hit by fire blight, and they asked that the balance of the funds be disbursed immediately.  
   The disaster relief funds, approved by Congress ten months ago, are intended to assist growers for tree losses and replanting efforts under the Tree Assistance Program. The Michigan Farm Bureau estimates that from 350,000 to 450,000 apple trees have been killed and 1,550 and 2,300 acres of orchards lost since 2000 to fire blight, an insect-borne disease so named because it seems to 'spread like fire.' 
   "For our Michigan fruit growers whose orchards have been ravaged by fire blight, aid delayed is effectively aid denied," Stabenow said today. "USDA's delays continue to hurt our growers, and this aid should be made available immediately to Michigan's apple growers to avert further financial hardship." 
   "Fruit growers in Michigan have been devastated by fire blight losses, and Congress approved funding to bring them some relief," Levin said. "There is no excuse for the Agriculture Department's delay in making these funds available to Michigan's hard-hit fruit growers, and we urge Secretary Veneman to make these funds available immediately."
   In their letter, the senators noted that congressional approval of relief spelled promise, but USDA action has fostered disappointment.
   "This assistance was welcome news to our growers, who have suffered terribly from the fire blight problem that has wreaked havoc on so many orchards," the senators wrote. "However, long delays in disbursing these funds continue to hamper Michigan's apple farmers' recovery efforts.
   "Apples play a vital role in Michigan's agricultural economy. Our apple community is urgently in need of this relief, and the delayed dispersal of these funds places many farmers in a difficult financial situation," Stabenow and Levin said. "We urge you to release the remaining $8.6 million immediately."
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 