SEN. STABENOW: MICHIGAN COUNTY CLERKS CAN CONTINUE TO ISSUE PASSPORTS
   U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that Michigan County Clerks will be able to continue to accept passport applications. The announcement comes after Stabenow received a response to a letter she sent the State Department earlier in July questioning a ruling that would prevent individuals from applying for a passport at the same agency that issued their birth certificate.
   "This is good news for residents across our state," said Stabenow. "With such a large back log in the system, it just doesn't make sense to eliminate a convenient way for individuals to apply for passports."  
   "Since the Michigan County Clerks issue birth certificates from state-maintained and locked-down databases, they meet the requirements to continue to accept passport applications," wrote Jeffrey Bergner, Assistant Secretary of Legislative Affairs for the State Department.
   In many cases, individuals rely on County Clerks offices for assistance with birth certificates and voter registration issues. Enabling these offices to accept passports will only expand their already crucial service to the public. 
   The full letter from Jeffrey Bergner, Assistant Secretary of Legislative Affairs for the State Department follows: 
   Dear Senator Stabenow:
   Thank you for your letter of July 6 regarding the Michigan Association of County Clerks. We appreciate the opportunity to address the concerns of the County Clerks and explain the rationale for the change in passport acceptance requirements for facilities that accept applications and issue birth certificates.
   Post 9/11, the Department of State initiated an internal review to identify and take steps to safeguard against potential fraud vulnerabilities involving identity and citizenship documents. One outcome of that review was the decision to cease designating any new governmental entities to accept passport applications if they also issued birth certificates (citizenship documentation). Those already designated that also issued birth certificates were "grandfathered" pending future action.
   During this review period, the Department of State decided that many "grandfathered" facilities had been in the program for decades and were among the most responsible of service partners. There was, however, a significant fraud case involving a facility that accepted passport applications based upon birth certificates that the same facility has issued. Passport Services cancelled this office's designation and suspended acceptance nationally of the birth certificates it issued.
   As a consequence, the Department of State decided that in order to eliminate a serious vulnerability, acceptance facilities that issue birth certificates would no longer be permitted to accept birth certificates issued by their own jurisdictions for passport application purposes. Instead, the customer would be required to provide a state-issued birth certificate or would have to apply for a passport at another facility.
   Regional passport agencies were advised of this change and asked to implement the self-certification of "grandfathered" facilities by July 15, 2007. In order to allow more response time, the implementation date was later extended to January 1, 2008. We apologize for the initial short notice given to the Michigan County Clerks offices that serve as passport acceptance agents.
   Local jurisdictions/acceptance facilities that issue birth certificates from state-maintained and locked-down databases, (so that the local jurisdiction cannot create or amend a birth certificate), are issuing birth certificates acceptable for passport application purposes. The policy intends to regulate only those facilities that have the ability to create or edit birth record information at the local level. Since the Michigan County Clerks issue birth certificates from state-maintained and locked-down databases, they meet the requirements to continue to accept passport applications, and should submit the Certification of Program Compliance to the Chicago Passport Agency no later than January 1, 2008. The Passport Agency will be sending the Michigan County Clerks a letter of clarification stating that they may accept applications for as long as they continue to meet the above requirements and submit the Certification by its due date.
   Preserving the integrity of passport issuance is the priority of the Department of State, and we must maintain highest possible standards for ourselves and our partners across the country to prevent fraudulent claims of identity and citizenship.
   We hope this information is helpful in addressing your concerns. Please feel free to contact us further on this on any matter of concern to you.
   Sincerely,
   Jeffrey T. Bergner
  Assistant Secretary
  Legislative Affairs
   The full letter from Senator Stabenow's Office to the U.S. State Department on July 6 follows:
   Dear Madam Secretary,
   I am writing on behalf of the Michigan Association of County Clerks, who contacted me about the recent directive they received from the Department of State requiring Passport Acceptance Facilities to stop accepting applications from individuals to whom they are also issuing birth certificates.
   The county clerks sent the attached letter to the Chicago Passport Agency outlining their concerns and questions about this new ruling. I share their concerns about the short notice that was given for compliance and the impact this will have on both the public and the clerks' offices.
   I would appreciate your response to the following questions that have been raised and your strong consideration of postponing this policy change until offices have the opportunity to respond.
   * Why was there such a short notice given for compliance (4 days notice) and no public comment period?
   * What is the threat or security concern that prompted this decision?
   * If all the birth records are issued from a statewide system and corrections can only be done through the Michigan Department of Community Health, why would there be a potential for fraud or abuse?
   Thank you for your prompt attention to this important issue. Please contact Greg Chaney in my Washington D.C. office should you have additional questions or concerns.
   Sincerely,
   Debbie Stabenow
  United States Senator
 
 