SEN. STABENOW APPOINTED TO FARM BILL CONFERENCE COMMITTEE
  U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), today announced her appointment to the Farm Bill Conference Committee. The Farm Bill Conference Committee is tasked with merging the Senate Farm Bill and the House of Representatives' version. The Committee is made up of six Senate Democrats and five Senate Republicans, along with members from the House. This is the first time a senator from Michigan has served on an agriculture conference committee in over 40 years. 
   "Agriculture remains Michigan's second largest industry, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs throughout our state," said Stabenow. "I have fought at every turn to ensure that the Farm Bill will be a victory for Michigan's families, farmers and growers, and I am pleased to have gained this seat on the Farm Bill Conference Committee, where I can continue this important fight."
   The Senate Farm Bill, which passed the Senate late last year, for the first time recognized the importance of fruits and vegetables by creating a new specialty crops subtitle and approving over $3 billion to fund specialty crops provisions. Specialty crops- the fruits, vegetables and other crops that keep America healthy- make up half of the nation's agricultural cash receipts, but have traditionally received little recognition in previous farm bills.
   This legislation is of particular importance to Michigan, which grows more diverse crops than any other state except California, and is a national leader in the production of numerous specialty crops, including blueberries, apples, cherries, asparagus, and celery.
   The Senate Farm Bill also places a high priority on alternative energy, conservation, rural development and nutrition policies. From provisions to assist in the research and production of cellulosic ethanol to loans to encourage the building of biofuel refineries, the Farm Bill will serve to assist Michigan as the state continues to emerge as a leader in alternative fuel production, boosting the economy and creating jobs.
   In addition to Senator Stabenow, other Senate Farm Bill Conferees include Senators Tom Harkin (D-IA), Max Baucus (D-MT), Kent Conrad (D-MT), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Richard Lugar (R-IN), Charles Grassley (R-IA), Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Pat Roberts (R-KS).
   Stabenow has served on agricultural committees in all four legislative bodies of which she has been a member, including the Michigan House, Michigan Senate, U.S. House and currently, the U.S. Senate. She is also the first Senator from Michigan to serve on the Senate Agriculture Committee since Senator Phil Hart from 1959 to 1962.
 
 