SEN. STABENOW: CARLOS GUTIERREZ ?THE RIGHT MAN FOR THE JOB' OF COMMERCE SECRETARY
  Carlos Gutierrez, former chairman and chief executive officer of Michigan-based Kellogg Co., is the right man to serve as commerce secretary and help address the problem of job losses in Michigan and across the nation, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) will tell a Senate confirmation panel today.  
   Stabenow is scheduled to introduce Gutierrez to the Senate Commerce Committee and testify in support of President Bush's nomination of Gutierrez, who spent his entire career at Kellogg before being tapped by the president in November to join his cabinet. 
   In her prepared remarks, Stabenow will recap the career of Havana-born Gutierrez, who joined Kellogg at age 20, became general manager of Kellogg's Mexican operations at age 30, and after a transfer to Battle Creek took over the reins of the company in 1999.
   Stabenow in her statement will focus on her long-standing concern over the tremendous loss of manufacturing jobs in Michigan and across the country. The following are excerpts of her scheduled remarks in support of the Gutierrez nomination:
   "Mr. Gutierrez has been an effective and visionary leader at Kellogg. When he began his leadership, sales were flagging. He turned things around. He reduced the company's debt and increased net sales by 43 percent - helping to make Kellogg the number-one cereal maker in the United States.
   "Now more than ever, our nation needs a strong leader to create jobs here at home. The loss of 2.8 million U.S. manufacturing jobs and increased outsourcing continue to hurt millions of American families.
   "We need his help in Michigan, where we have lost 225,000 jobs over the last four years. That number puts Michigan near the top of the list of states in the country with the highest number of recent job losses.
   "With his experience, Mr. Gutierrez is without a doubt the right man for the job.
   "His journey from the bottom of the corporate ladder to the top shows how big dreams can triumph over traditional barriers. And he draws on the lessons of his journey to help create new opportunities for America's next generation of leaders.
   "Mr. Chairman, I support the nomination of Carlos Gutierrez. I hope the Committee and the full Senate will confirm him expeditiously."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 