SEN. STABENOW ISSUES CHALLENGE TO BOOST ALTERNATIVE FUELS IN MICHIGAN
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today challenged service station owners and the oil companies to install pumps dispensing homegrown biofuels at 1,250 Michigan service stations by 2008. Sen. Debbie Stabenow issued her challenge during a visit to Michigan Ethanol in Caro.  
   "Yesterday, we celebrated Independence Day, and many families are feeling the pinch of high gas prices as they return home from their July 4th celebrations," Stabenow said. "As we look to the future, we need to fight for our nation's independence from foreign oil." 
   "Michigan is a leader in producing home-grown fuels like ethanol, and our auto industry is making FlexFuel vehicle production a priority," said Stabenow. "Now we need to build on that leadership and add more alternative fuel pumps to Michigan service stations. That's why I'm issuing a challenge today - to have at least 25 percent of Michigan service stations selling alternative fuel by 2008. Working together, Michigan businesses, farmers, consumers and elected officials can help us reach this goal."
   Stabenow is a sponsor of the Clean EDGE Act (S. 2829), legislation promoting energy independence, lower gas prices and job creation. The Clean EDGE Act requires oil companies to have alternative fuel pumps at 50 percent of their stations by 2010 and at 100 percent by 2015. To help offset the cost of adding the new fuel pumps, the bill gives a new tax credit to gas stations. 
   Stabenow's challenge would make sure Michigan is halfway to the standard set by the Clean EDGE Act by 2008. Michigan is making steady progress, with E85 now available at 12 locations in the state, more than double the number of stations selling E85 just two months ago. 
   In addition, the Clean EDGE Act extends tax credits for small ethanol producers and farmers with biofuel production. As a result of these incentives, Michigan will have five new ethanol plants running by the end of this year, refining 279 million gallons of corn-based fuel and creating hundreds of new jobs.
   Michigan's automakers are at the forefront of the effort to make alternative fuels more available. Last week, the CEOs of the Big Three sent a letter to Congress announcing their commitment to double their production of FlexFuel vehicles by 2010 and to create additional incentives for alternative fuel production and pump installation. 
   "To really make progress on the road to energy independence and job creation, we need to take bold steps," said Stabenow. "As more Michigan drivers learn about the benefits of alternative fuels like E85, I am confident we will be able to reach our goal."
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 