SEN. STABENOW: HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT GUIDELINES MUST BE CHANGED TO PERMIT REIMBURSEMENTS TO VOLUNTEER FIRST-RESPONDERS
  The Office of Domestic Preparedness needs to rewrite its guidelines for homeland security grants, because its current rules effectively bar 77 percent of Michigan's firefighters from being reimbursed for taking part in anti-terrorism training, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) told the Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge today. 
   Stabenow's concern about the program centers on an ODP rule that states only "overtime" costs can be paid for those attending training. The rule effectively disqualifies volunteers and part-time first responders who rarely, if ever, receive overtime pay, and Stabenow told Ridge the rule should be changed to allow these personnel to be reimbursed for the training time.
   "Most emergency responders in rural Michigan are volunteers who respond to emergencies and train at a flat hourly or fixed rate. In fact, most have full-time jobs they must leave in order to participate in these training courses," Stabenow said. "The Michigan State Police estimates that 77 percent of the firefighters in Michigan will not be able to participate in these courses because ODP's grant guidance requires that only 'overtime' costs can be paid for those attending."
   Stabenow noted the problem is particularly harmful to the many rural, all-volunteer emergency responders. For example, she said, at the beginning of the year the Michigan State Police distributed between $20,000 and $80,000 from the ODP's State Homeland Security Grant Program to 17 counties in northern lower Michigan. These counties, however, will be unable to use these funds to reimburse their rural, all-volunteer responders for the time they spend at these important training courses because of the "overtime" reimbursement rule.
   In order to resolve this disparity, Stabenow said, the ODP should review and modify its guidelines to allow agencies with part-time emergency responders to use ODP funds to pay these responders for attending training courses. In addition, she said, agencies should also be able to use these grants to pay normal wages to substitutes covering for responders away at training courses.
   Stabenow said she looked forward to working with Ridge to ensure that 77 percent of Michigan's volunteer emergency responders "have the same opportunity to train for terrorist attacks as their counterparts in urban areas."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 