SEN. STABENOW CONTINUES FIGHT FOR MICHIGAN FARMERS, CONSUMERS
  U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced Senate Finance Committee passage of the Heartland, Habitat, Harvest and Horticulture Act of 2007. This legislation will serve as a portion of the broader Farm Bill package. Remaining titles are still to be considered in the Senate Agriculture Committee, of which Stabenow is also a member. The Heartland, Habitat, Harvest and Horticulture Act acts as a good first step in recognizing the contributions our fruit, vegetable, and other specialty crop farmers make to the health and well-being of consumers, while also encouraging the production and use of alternative fuels, like ethanol and biodiesel.  
   "Specialty crops are vital to our economy and to our way of life," said Stabenow. "They provide staples for a healthy diet and provide approximately half of the cash receipts in our agricultural markets. This bill is an unprecedented step in recognizing the importance of this sector of our agriculture economy and expanding the role that fruits and vegetables play in the larger Farm Bill. Additionally this bill will assist Michigan in continuing its emergence as a leader in alternative fuel technology, such as ethanol and biodiesel, providing jobs and eliminating our dependence on foreign oil."
   Provisions in the bill pushed by Senator Stabenow include:
   Permanent Agricultural Disaster Assistance Trust Fund: Currently, ad hoc agriculture disaster relief packages often get to farmers too late - sometimes years after the disaster. This delay can mean the difference between maintaining production and losing a farm for good. Michigan has received about $260 million in disaster relief from 1995 to 2006. This fund will ensure Michigan farmers can get these payments faster and easier.
   The Pest and Disease Management and Disaster Prevention Program: Stabenow introduced this provision to provide the Department of Agriculture (USDA) with funding to partner with States to survey and prevent new pests from destroying fruit, vegetables and other specialty crops. Invasive species can be devastating to these crops that are essential to the health and well being of all Americans. 
   Tree Assistance Program: With Stabenow's urging, the bill renews the successful tree assistance program, which provides assistance to specialty crop farmers whose tress, bushes and vines are lost due to a natural disaster. Such unexpected disasters are particularly devastating to family-owned orchards and vineyards, due to the high costs of removal and replanting.
   Small Producer Credit for Cellulosic Ethanol: This Stabenow amendment will encourage the production of cellulosic ethanol facilities, which develops fuel from non-traditional foodstuffs and waste. The extension of this credit will help Michigan's emergence as a leader in alternative fuel technology. 
   Increased Incentives to Build New Cellulosic Ethanol Plants: Provides tax incentives for the construction of new cellulosic ethanol plants.
 
 