SEN. STABENOW INTRODUCES BILL TO HELP MICHIGAN BUSINESSES WITH CRIPPLING HEALTH CARE COSTS
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today introduced new legislation to help Michigan automakers, manufacturers and small businesses with the high cost of health insurance. The Keeping America Competitive Act creates a public-private partnership to lift part of the burden of the most expensive health care cases from insurance plans offered by employers. 
   "These are tough times for Michigan," said Stabenow. "Anyone who reads the newspapers knows that our manufacturers are struggling. The way America funds health care makes it extremely difficult to stay competitive in a global economy while preserving American jobs."
   Stabenow's bill targets "catastrophic" health care costs - medical expenses that exceed $50,000 for one person. For example, a cancer diagnosis can drive health care costs for a single worker into the tens of thousands. According to the National Association of Manufacturers, less than one percent of workers have catastrophic health care costs, but these workers account for more than 20 percent of the average employer's overall health care costs. 
   This issue is especially urgent for Michigan. The Big Three automakers paid $10 billion in health care costs in the U.S. in 2003. For every vehicle General Motors produces, it pays more than $1,500 on health care costs. Japanese and other foreign competitors pay about two-thirds less for health care than American auto manufacturers.
   The Keeping America Competitive Act would create a health care tax credit for large employers to cover some of their highest costs. Health insurers who cover small businesses and individuals could apply for a tax credit that would be used to reduce their premiums for all of their customers. In return, employers and health insurers would agree to offer preventative health benefits to help avoid chronic illnesses and reduce future costs.
   "We need to level the playing field for American automakers and other businesses," Stabenow said. "Rather than letting health care costs drive American companies out of business or shipping American jobs overseas, we need to take action to create a partnership between business and government to fund health care."
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 