SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE OVER $850,000 FOR FIRE SAFETY
  U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that ten Michigan organizations have been awarded $856,031 through the Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). The funding will be used to support operations, improve firefighter safety and purchase firefighting vehicles.  
   "First responders protect our neighbors and families when disaster strikes," said Stabenow. "I'm pleased this funding will help supply Michigan's first responders with the necessary equipment to do their jobs safely as they serve their community in this vital role." 
   "Firefighters are essential to the safety and security of our local communities," said Levin. "We owe it to these men and women to provide them with the best possible training and equipment so they can effectively do their jobs and protect Michigan families."
   The AFGP awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to improve the effectiveness of operations and health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. Grants are awarded competitively through an application process. More information can be found at http://www.firegrantsupport.com/. 
   Individual grant awards can be found in the table below.
   Organization Location Program $Amount
  Stanton Community Fire Department Stanton Operations and Safety $67,543
  Porter Fire Department Union Vehicle Acquisition $195,178
  City of Fenton Fire Dept. Fenton Operations and Safety $9,025
  Hiawatha Twp. Vol. F. D. Manistique Operations and Safety $22,824
  Grattan Township Fire Department Belding Operations and Safety $47,785
  Galien Township Fire Department Galien Operations and Safety $97,139
  Lake Township Fire Department Houghton Lake Operations and Safety $28,158
  Speaker Township Fire Dept. Melvin Vehicle Acquisition $221,350
  East Tawas Fire Department East Tawas Operations and Safety $37,069
  Gaines Township Fire Department Gaines Operations and Safety $129,960
 
 