SEN. STABENOW PRESSES AGRICULTURE SECRETARY NOMINEE FOR HELP IN BATTLE AGAINST BOVINE TB
  With northern Michigan facing a growing human health threat and financial devastation from bovine tuberculosis, Sen. Debbie Stabenow used today's confirmation hearing for the president's nominee for agriculture secretary to press for increased federal aid to combat the disease. 
   Stabenow's remarks to Secretary-designate Mike Johanns came in the wake of today's announcement that health officials in Michigan have confirmed a very rare case of bovine TB infection in a human. The individual is a hunter who is believed to have contracted the disease while dressing a deer in Michigan's Alcona County.
   The county is located in the northeast portion of Michigan, an agricultural area and a region heavily dependent on hunting for the local economy. It is estimated the region has lost an estimated $25 million since bovine TB was diagnosed in 2000.
   "Michigan has struggled with the presence of Bovine TB in our cattle as well as our wildlife, namely free roaming deer. Today, we are learning that a human case of Bovine TB has been discovered in Northern Michigan," Stabenow said. "While there is no immediate concern about the human spread of the disease, Michigan farmers and hunters are continuing to face the devastating impact of this disease." 
   Stabenow noted that Michigan was designated with "split-state" status last year, requiring farmers in northeast Michigan to undergo additional compliance testing which has further harmed them financially. 
   "Last year, I submitted a request for $5 million to assist farmers complying with this additional testing, and my request was denied," Stabenow said. "It is urgent, particularly in the wake of this newly-diagnosed human infection, that we move forward on this matter, and I will resubmit my request.
   "Today's bovine TB announcement underscores the need for more resources and greater assistance for testing in Michigan. I will continue to work with the new secretary to address this serious problem for farmers and hunters throughout Michigan," Stabenow said.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 