SEN. STABENOW APPLAUDS APPROVAL OF HOMELAND SECURITY LEGISLATION TO ENHANCE PUBLIC TRANSIT SAFETY
  The Senate Banking Committee today unanimously approved legislation, co-sponsored by Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), that would aid public transit systems in protecting passengers from terrorist attacks.  
   "As a representative of a bus state and a border state, I am particularly concerned about the transit security needs of cities like Detroit," Stabenow told her colleagues at today's committee hearing, which focused on a markup of the Public Transportation Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. "Unfortunately, buses and trains are a common target for terrorists around the world. Addressing homeland security needs to be one of our very top priorities, and we need to give Michigan's transit agencies all the help we can offer."
   The legislation would transfer responsibility for public transit security from the Federal Transit Administration in the Department of Transportation to the Department of Homeland Security, and it would create several grant programs for transit agencies to improve security of their own systems.
   Stabenow said that Michigan faces unique challenges in making sure that public transportation remains safe.
   "In Detroit, we are fortunate enough to have two of the busiest border crossings in the country, with more than 40 percent of all U.S.-Canadian trade passing through the Michigan-Canadian border," she said. "But with these open borders, comes an added responsibility to ensure that Michiganians are well-protected, including making sure our buses and bus stations are safe and secure."
   Grant programs available under the bill would address a variety of potential threats, and include funding for tunnel and perimeter security, chemical and biological detection equipment, surveillance and communications equipment, vehicle locater systems, security training, public awareness campaigns, and research into new security technology.
   "The need to protect our nation's major subway systems in cities like New York and Washington D.C. is obvious. However, we cannot ignore the same urgent transit security needs for our nation's bus systems," Stabenow said.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 