SEN. STABENOW SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO PROTECT, ENHANCE ?SPECIALTY CROPS'
  A bipartisan bill introduced today by Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Larry E. Craig (R-ID) seeks to protect specialty crop growers from subsidized foreign competition, open foreign markets to production, and expand government purchases of specialty crops for federal nutrition programs. 
   Titled the Specialty Crop Competitiveness Act of 2004, the legislation would also fund expanded specialty crop research and enhance efforts to eradicate the spread of invasive species threatening domestic production.
   "This legislation recognizes that a secure domestic food supply is essential to national security, and it addresses the many challenges - from trade barriers to invasive species - that threaten this supply," Stabenow said. "Although we call them 'specialty crops,' these everyday fruits and vegetables are essential to both the well-being of the American people and the health of the U.S. economy."
   Stabenow noted that U.S. federal agriculture programs have not included fruits and vegetables, ranging from apples to zucchini, with traditional "program" crops - corn, soybeans, wheat, cotton and rice. 
   "It is increasingly difficult for U.S. specialty crop producers to compete against heavily-subsidized foreign fruits and vegetables in both domestic and foreign markets," Stabenow said. "I am introducing this legislation, because I believe that improving these areas of our agriculture policy can promote increased consumption of domestic produce and increase the competitiveness and efficiency of specialty crop producers."
   Among other provisions, the legislation would:
   Support research: The bill would requires $470 million in Commodity Credit Corporation funds to be used for specialty crop block grants to state agriculture departments to support production-related research, commodity promotion, nutrition, food safety and inspection, and other competitiveness-enhancing programs. In addition, $30 million in Commodity Credit Corporation funds would be used, through a competitive grant program, to support the National Specialty Crops Development Initiative, a long-term program to improve efficiency and competitiveness of specialty crops in world markets.
   Increase federal purchase of specialty crops: As noted by Stabenow, the USDA has for more than two years disregarded language in the 2002 Farm bill saying that at least $200 million must be spent annually on the purchase of fruits and vegetables over and above purchases under current law or otherwise made by the USDA. 
   "Unfortunately, instead of adding $200 million to baseline spending, the USDA eliminated the baseline spending. In 2002 it did not even spend a minimum of $200 million on fruits and vegetables for our children," Stabenow said. "This legislation ensures the USDA spends an additional $200 million on specialty crop purchases."
   Expand exports: The bill requires the USDA's Animal Plant Health and Inspection Service to reorganize its existing resources and establish a new division to more effectively handle industry petitions on sanitary and phytosanitary barriers to specialty crop exports.
   The bill also increases USDA funding for the Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops (TASC) program from $2 million to $10 million per year, and it supports studies of the expected and actual effects of recent trade agreements and a proposed strategy for specialty crop producers to more effectively benefit from international trade opportunities. 
   Ensure plant and food safety: The legislation would establish an emergency response fund for invasive pest and disease eradication activities by APHIS, funded at $75 million, and it would authorize industry funds collected under marketing orders and agreements to be used to implement food safety programs.
   Expand assistance for farmers and growers: The legislation would double the cap for each farm eligible to receive assistance under the Tree Assistance Program from $75,000 to $150,000. It would also raise the limit on direct operating loans from $200,000 to $500,000 for producers of specialty crops, and it would increase the limit on direct operating loans from $700,000, adjusted annually for inflation, to $1.5 million for those farmers and growers.
   Encourage investment and streamline oversight: The bill would establish an office within the USDA to encourage the development and protection of plant intellectual property rights and represent U.S. growers' interests in international bodies addressing these issues. The bill would also improve timeliness, consistency, and effectiveness of USDA procedures and standards for oversight and enforcement of specialty crop inspection, grading, and other marketing activities.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 