SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW: $29.3 MILLION FOR MICHIGAN MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN SENATE-PASSED FUNDING BILL
  As the Senate approved a bill funding military construction projects and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for fiscal year 2008 by a vote of 92-1, Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., hailed inclusion of $18.5 million for a new Ground Systems Power and Energy Laboratory at the Detroit Arsenal in Warren and $10.8 million for other military construction projects in Michigan. Additionally, Stabenow and Levin secured passage of an amendment to name the VA Clinic in Alpena after Lieutenant Colonel Clement C. Van Wagoner, Michigan's most decorated soldier of World War II. 
   "The development of alternative energy sources is critical to our national security, industrial base and environment" said Levin, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "The new power and energy laboratory at the Detroit Arsenal will enable the Army to more rapidly develop and field new power and energy solutions, and its location in Metro Detroit will ensure continued collaboration with the auto industry." 
   "These projects will enable Michigan to develop more alternative energy sources and help reduce our dependence on foreign oil," said Stabenow. "I am pleased the Detroit Arsenal will receive the funding necessary to carry out their laboratory construction and research while still preserving and protecting our environment. These projects will allow Michigan to continue its long and proud tradition of helping to keep America safe, strong and secure."
   In total, the bill funds $29.3 million for four military construction projects in Michigan.
   $18.5 million for the construction of a new Ground Systems Power and Energy Laboratory at the Detroit Arsenal in Warren. This project will increase the available laboratory space for development of engines, fuel cells and energy storage devices, as well as enable the Arsenal to expand its power and energy program. The new structure will attach to the existing dynamometer laboratory, sharing infrastructure and negating the requirement for new administrative space. This requirement matches the Army's vision for power and energy that, in turn, is consistent with the vision of the automobile industry as we move toward a hydrogen/alternative fuel infrastructure and the large-scale use of hybrid-electric ground combat and tactical systems.
   $4.3 million to continue renovations of a 62,000 square foot warehouse facility in Lansing to house U.S. Property and Fiscal Office (USPFO) personnel, multiple National Guard units, and a Marine Corps Reserve unit in a single complex. The USPFO is the primary point of contact for matters relating to federal funds and property in the possession of the Michigan National Guard. Additionally, this project will significantly improve the space available to the Joint Forces Headquarters Readiness Center by providing new supply rooms, equipment storage and latrines.
   $4.0 million for a Marine Corps Reserve Training Center at Selfridge Air National Guard Base (ANGB) in Mt. Clemens. These funds will pay for the construction of a vehicle maintenance facility and storage warehouse for the 1st Battalion, 24th Marine Regiment. The unit is in the process of relocating to Selfridge ANGB and is currently forced to share space in existing facilities. The new facilities will provide adequate space for vehicle maintenance, administrative functions and storage of tools and other equipment.
   $2.5 million to construct a new infantry and convoy training course at Camp Grayling. This new training course will improve the readiness of infantry units by providing realistic training at the platoon level and will enable National Guard units to train in an environment more similar to Iraq and Afghanistan by incorporating training in the detection of improvised explosive devices and convoy tactics.
   The House passed the military construction and Veterans Affairs spending bill in June. The legislation will now be sent to a House-Senate conference committee to reconcile the differences between the two bills.
 
 