SEN. STABENOW-REP. CAMP BILL TO PRESERVE MICHIGAN LIGHTHOUSES PASSES HOUSE
Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Rep. Dave Camp (R-Midland) today announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has passed their legislation to preserve and promote Michigan's lighthouses and maritime heritage. The Michigan Lighthouse and Maritime Heritage Act (S. 1346, H.R. 3532) will create a federal, state and local partnership to restore lighthouses in Michigan and promote the maritime culture of the Great Lakes. The bill was passed by the Senate earlier this year, and will now go to the President to be signed into law. 
 "Michigan's lighthouses are central to our heritage and our economy, drawing thousands of tourists to our state every year," said Stabenow. "This new law will strengthen communities throughout Michigan by preserving our rich history and creating jobs for our future. It has been a particular pleasure to work with Congressman Camp on this issue, and I appreciate him shepherding this bill through the House of Representatives."
 "This is a great day for Michigan, our lighthouses, and our maritime history," said Camp. "These lighthouses are an important part of our heritage and are a significant part of our tourism industry. Passing this legislation was no easy task, and I want to thank Senator Stabenow for her hard work on this bill. By working together, we have been able to take a significant step forward in protecting Michigan lighthouses for future generations."
 With 120 lighthouses lining its shores, Michigan is home to more of these national treasures than any other state in the nation. The Stabenow-Camp legislation will require the National Park Service to work with the State of Michigan and local communities to make recommendations to Congress on the best ways to protect Michigan's lighthouses and increase tourism, including the creation of a Michigan Lighthouse Trail. The bill also directs the National Parks Service to identify sources of funding available to Michigan communities for the preservation and restoration of their local lighthouses. 
 In addition to lighthouses, the bill will examine Michigan's many shipwreck sites and maritime museums, taking the first steps toward coordinating all elements of Michigan's maritime heritage.
 The legislation was co-sponsored by U.S. Senator Carl Levin (D-MI) and in the House by Reps. Thad McCotter (R-Livonia), Candice Miller (R-Harrison Township), Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak), Vern Ehlers (R-Grand Rapids), Bart Stupak (D-Menominee), John Conyers (D-Detroit) and Dale Kildee (D-Flint).
 
 