SEN. STABENOW ENCOURAGES PEOPLE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF NEW TAX BENEFIT EXTENSION FOR CONTRIBUTION TO TSUNAMI RELIEF EFFORT
  Anyone who wants to make a contribution for the relief of victims of the December tsunami in the Indian Ocean has been given a tax incentive to do so during January 2005, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today. 
   "I was pleased to be able to join with my congressional colleagues in prompt passage of this tax measure, which will benefit those who wish to contribute - or contribute more - for the relief of victims of this terrible disaster," Stabenow said.
   The legislation, approved by both the U.S. House and Senate and sent to the president for his signature, would treat contributions made in January 2005 as though they had been made before Dec. 31, 2004, allowing them to be claimed on this year's tax forms.
   Stabenow cautioned first-time contributors to research their donations or consult with a tax advisor to ensure that the charitable organization to which they contribute is recognized by the IRS. Among other rules, she noted that contribution to a charitable organization that provides overseas assistance qualifies for a deduction only if the U.S. organization has full control of the use of its funds.
   In addition, according to IRS rules, the benefit can only be claimed by individuals who itemize their deduction, she said. 
   Stabenow today also cautioned potential contributors that a variety of scam artists are seeking to prey on individuals who want to contribute to disaster relief. Among other resources, the legitimacy of an organization can be checked online at www.guidestar.org/ or, in Michigan, through the office of the attorney general. Information on the ongoing relief effort is available through a link at Stabenow's Web site, http://stabenow.senate.gov/
   "People of the United States are a generous, giving people, and this tax incentive is important to spur donations that are urgently needed now in response to this monumental tragedy," Stabenow said. "I encourage individuals who wish to support this relief effort with a cash contribution to take advantage of this new tax benefit."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 