MICHIGAN TO RECEIVE NEARLY $3.5 MILLION IN HOMELAND SECURITY GRANTS
  Michigan Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) today announced that Michigan will receive $3,498,000 in fiscal year 2006 federal grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The Detroit area is also eligible for additional DHS transportation and port security funding. 
   "There is no issue more important than keeping our citizens and neighborhoods safe, and these grants will help meet the security challenges of a post-9/11 world," said Stabenow. "I am especially pleased Secretary Chertoff responded favorably to the letter we sent him last year noting the importance of the Port of Detroit, the unique security risks this busy border community faces, and the need for federal support."
   "This federal funding is a solid step towards securing some of Michigan's most vulnerable areas," said Levin. "These important grants will help state and local authorities to protect the people of Michigan from a wide range of potential dangers."
   Chemical Sector Buffer Zone Protection Program: Michigan will receive $1,553,000 to secure sites identified as key targets for chemical attacks. With this funding, Michigan will develop plans to protect the areas directly around these sites, as well as the surrounding communities. The list of award sites within Michigan will remain classified for security purposes.
   Buffer Zone Protection Program: Michigan will receive $1,945,000 to secure sites identified as critical infrastructure and key resources by developing measures to make it more difficult for terrorists to conduct surveillance or launch attacks near these potential targets. The list of award sites within Michigan will remain classified for security purposes.
   Transit Security Grant Program: Three Michigan transportation systems are eligible to apply for grants to secure public transit systems: the Detroit Department of Transportation and Suburban Mobility Authority for Regional Transportation (SMART) for intra-city bus systems; and rail system funding for the City of Detroit. The grant awards are expected to be announced later this year. 
   Port Security Grant Program: The Port of Detroit is eligible to apply for federal grants to enhance the security of the nation's most critical seaports as identified by the United States Coast Guard. The grant awards are expected to be announced later this year.
 
 