GAO INVESTIGATION UNCOVERS PROBLEMS IN ST. CLAIR - DETROIT RIVER CORRIDOR
  Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) announced the results of a new study by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that identified a number of serious concerns about the accuracy of the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) data concerning oil and chemical spills in the St. Clair River/Lake St. Clair/Detroit River corridor as well as deficiencies in the Environmental Protection Agency's procedures to prevent and respond to spills. 
   The three lawmakers asked GAO to investigate how many oil and hazardous chemical spills greater than 50 gallons had occurred within the corridor from 1994 to 2004, the processes used for notification of spills, and the extent of EPA and Coast Guard spill prevention efforts and enforcement activities. 
   A key finding of the GAO report released today is that EPA's spill data are unreliable. The GAO report noted that EPA "does not remove all duplicate spill reports, or update its data after investigating spills" and so, unlike the Canadian spill data, the U.S. data contain multiple reports of the same spill. As a result, GAO concluded "EPA's spill data set is of limited use." According to the flawed data available, there were 991 spill reports from the U.S. side of the corridor while Canadian authorities reported only 157 spills. However, GAO noted that "these reports do not accurately portray the actual number or volume of spills."
   "This GAO report demonstrates that the Environmental Protection Agency simply doesn't have the accurate data needed to assess the impact and severity of spills in the St. Clair - Detroit River corridor," Sen. Levin said. "EPA needs to address this crucial first step of collecting reliable data and move to correct the other shortcomings described in the GAO report."
   "The quality of our waterways is critical to Michigan's economic viability and quality of life for our families," said Sen. Stabenow. "This GAO study reveals serious issues that must be addressed by the Environmental Protection Agency in order to respond to and prevent oil and chemical spills in this vital waterway."
   Rep. Levin said, "The GAO report revealed serious problems with EPA's spill prevention efforts. EPA doesn't even have a clear idea of what specific facilities it is supposed to be inspecting under its spill prevention program. EPA needs to bring more resources to bear on spill investigations, spill prevention inspections, and basic record keeping." 
   GAO also found that spill notification on both sides of the corridor is largely dependent upon reporting by parties responsible for the spill, and that many spills likely go unreported by responsible parties. The report noted that while EPA has the authority to address spill prevention for both oil and hazardous chemicals, the EPA Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC) program address only oil spills. Even then, the GAO report noted, "EPA is uncertain of which specific facilities are subject to regulation under its spill prevention program." 
   Further, EPA conducts only a handful of inspections within the corridor every year. The report indicated that EPA relies on only three inspectors to conduct all inspection and compliance activities for six states. GAO stated that "according to [EPA] officials, with current SPCC resource constraints, they could only inspect facilities once every 500 years or more." The report noted that the EPA inspections that had occurred often disclosed "significant and numerous spill prevention deficiencies," yet EPA issued only four fines from 1994 to 2004.
   In a letter sent today to EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson, Senators Levin and Stabenow and Congressman Levin wrote, "The situation described in the GAO report is simply not acceptable. There is a longstanding problem with oil and chemical spills in the corridor, but no one is keeping track of the number of spills or their severity. Further, the regulated facilities within the corridor are largely left to their own devices when it comes to reporting spills and implementing spill control and prevention measures."
   The lawmakers called on EPA to immediately gather information on which facilities are currently regulated under its current spill prevention program. They also urged EPA to undertake a rulemaking to address spill prevention from hazardous substances. Currently, EPA's spill prevention program addresses only oil. Finally, they called on EPA to significantly increase funding for inspection and compliance activities within the corridor. 
   The lawmakers complimented Michigan for investing over $1 million to install spill detection monitoring systems that will be operational in the St. Clair and Detroit Rivers in 2007. These systems are based on the successful Ohio River Valley Sanitation Commission's (ORSANCO) spill detection and notification system that was established in 1978 to protect drinking water intakes on the Ohio River from chemical contamination.
   Contact: Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 