SEN. STABENOW CALLS ON USDA TO MOVE MORE QUICKLY TO STOP SPREAD OF EMERALD ASH BORER
  The U.S. Department of Agriculture needs to move more aggressively against invasive pests like the emerald ash borer, particularly if the nation is going to open its borders under the terms of any new trade agreements Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today. 
   "The USDA is not moving fast enough right now in fighting the emerald ash borer, which has killed millions of trees in Michigan," Stabenow said today. "The risk of new infestations - and the USDA's response to them - is clearly a key concern as we move forward in considering any new trade agreements and a new wave of imported goods."
   Stabenow's comments came today as part of her testimony during a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing on the proposed Dominican Republic and Central American Free Trade Agreement. The hearing focused on agriculture aspects of the treaty, and Stabenow used the occasion to spotlight the threats to America's health and environment posed by invasive pests and diseases that may arrive on or with imported items.
   The senator, who has helped lead the fight against the ash borer, has continued to press the USDA to take strong and early action to combat the spread of the insect. The ash borer is believed to have originally arrived in Detroit in a shipping pallet from China. It was discovered in the Detroit area in 2002, in Ohio in 2003, and in Indiana in 2004. 
   Stabenow has been critical of a recent USDA policy shift, in which it rejected the advice of its own Science Advisory Panel to use Michigan as the key battleground against the ash borer and try to block its spread beyond the state. A federal agency, however, is proactively collecting ash tree seeds for reforestation, if all regional ash trees are killed off by the ash borer.
   "We can expect an explosion of costs if the ash borer is allowed to spread across North America," Stabenow said. "I will continue to work to win the release of emergency funds to combat the emerald ash borer in Michigan, which remains on the front lines in this battle."
   In today's hearing the senator also:
   * Called attention to the need for a special trade prosecutor, who would work to ensure that all countries that are parties to trade agreement with U.S. adhere to those agreements. Stabenow and U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) have introduced legislation to create the post of Chief Trade Prosecutor.
   * Expressed concern over the impact of trade agreements on U.S. jobs, noting that the North American Free Trade Agreement has cost U.S. workers a million jobs and has led to a drop in wages in both the U.S. and Mexico.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 