SEN. STABENOW INTRODUCES BILL TO STOP FOREIGN CURRENCY MANIPULATION, PROTECT AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Jim Bunning (R-KY) on Wednesday, March 7, introduced legislation to stop the unfair trade practice known as currency manipulation that is currently taking place in countries like China. The Fair Currency Act of 2007 would provide U.S. manufacturers with the legal means to fight back against those companies whose governments manipulate their currency. The bill is co-sponsored by Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI), among others.  
   "American manufacturers and workers can compete with anyone in the world when the playing field is level," said Stabenow. "It's time for our government to hold countries like China accountable for currency manipulation and stop making our companies compete with one arm tied behind their backs. We need to make sure we have the tools we need to fight back when we are being cheated, and this bill will do just that."
   "Currency manipulation by foreign governments like China and Japan costs Americans jobs and hurts our economy. It is nothing short of a government subsidy that makes foreign exports artificially cheap and U.S. products more expensive," said Levin. "The Fair Currency Act of 2007 would give American companies and manufacturers the tools to fight back against unfair currency manipulation. It recognizes that American companies are not just competing against foreign companies but against entire foreign countries, and it puts our government squarely on their side."
   "The UAW is pleased with the introduction of this legislation and we hope it receives the prompt attention from Congress that it deserves," said Alan Ruther, Legislative Director of the UAW. "Currency manipulation has a very detrimental effect on American jobs and this bill takes important steps toward addressing that serious problem."
   "We are pleased that Senators Stabenow and Bunning have taken this action to help American manufacturers," said Mark Lukacs, NewPage-Escanaba Vice President and Mill Manager. "Application of the countervailing duty law to China will help make trade in the paper industry fairer and help preserve high quality papermaking jobs in Michigan, and elsewhere."
   The Fair Currency Act of 2007 removes subjectivity from determinations on currency valuation, injecting transparency and objectivity into this important process. Currently, there is no objective method for protecting American companies from countries such as China who cheat by devaluing their currency in an effort to artificially lower the cost of their exports. This practice creates an unfair trade advantage that makes it nearly impossible for American manufacturers to compete in the free market. The Fair Currency Act of 2007 would provide U.S. companies that suffer due to the impact of undervalued currency with the ability to seek countervailing duties, a key enforcement tool to fight back against companies whose governments seek to create an artificial advantage.
 
 