SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN FIGHT PROPOSED TOLLS ON GREAT LAKES SHIPPING
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) today led the effort to defeat President Bush's proposal to levy new tolls on commercial ships passing through the St. Lawrence Seaway. The proposed tolls would cost Great Lakes shippers an estimated $8 million in the first year alone, doubling to $16 million the following year, and increasing each year thereafter.  
   In a bipartisan letter to the Senate Budget Committee, Stabenow, Levin and others expressed their strong concerns that the proposed tolls would result in the loss of jobs in Michigan. The proposed toll would make goods and raw materials shipped through the Great Lakes more expensive, deny Michigan farmers access to foreign markets and drive commercial shipping away from the Great Lakes.
   "We should be doing everything we can to bring jobs to Michigan," Stabenow said. "This new tax being proposed by the President would take us in the wrong direction. New tolls for shipping on the Great Lakes would hurt Michigan's economy and should be rejected."
   The President's proposal would drive business and jobs out of our state at a time when Michigan is struggling to create more economic opportunity," Levin said. "The tolls would unfairly target Great Lakes shippers as well as the countless Michigan businesses that depend on the St. Lawrence Seaway to ship their products."
   In their letter, Stabenow and Levin noted that shippers on the Great Lakes already pay a user fee to support the operation and maintenance of the St. Lawrence Seaway. Revenue from that tax is deposited into the Harbor Maritime Trust Fund, which now has a $3 billion surplus. The President's proposed commercial toll would be an additional tax on the Great Lakes shipping industry - one that is not being proposed for shippers in any other region in the United States.
   In his budget last year, President Bush proposed commercial tolls for shipping on the St. Lawrence Seaway, but the new tolls were rejected by Congress. Stabenow and Levin called on the Senate Budget Committee to reject the proposed tax again this year.
 
 