CONGRESS AUTHORIZES FUNDS TO BUILD BARRIER TO STOP ASIAN CARP FROM ENTERING GREAT LAKES
  Things won't be going swimmingly for the Asian carp soon and that's exactly the point. 
   The Senate last night approved legislation to authorize additional funding for the construction of a permanent barrier in the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal in order to prevent Asian carp from invading the Great Lakes. The new electric dispersal barrier would reinforce a temporary barrier that is beginning to deteriorate. Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., worked to add the needed legislative language authorizing an additional $1,825,000 in federal funds for the dispersal barrier project to the spending bill for the District of Columbia.  
   "Invasive species like the Asian carp are an enormous threat to the health of the Great Lakes," said Levin. "Because the Asian carp can undermine the years of work that have gone into protecting and restoring the fisheries in the Great Lakes, it is crucial that this barrier be constructed as quickly as possible."
   "Asian carp are fast-breeding, voracious fish that can grow to more than 100 pounds. If this species finds its way into the Great Lakes, there are valid fears it could become the dominant species in the lakes and dramatically alter the ecosystem," Stabenow said. "It is imperative that a new barrier be built as quickly as possible to keep this predator out of the Great Lakes." 
   Completed in 1900, the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal connected the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River, allowing aquatic species to move freely between the two watersheds. Asian carp are an invasive species introduced into Louisiana catfish farms in the 1970s to control snails and vegetation. In the mid 1990s, flooding allowed the Asian carp to escape from fish farms in Louisiana and Mississippi. They have been swimming steadily up the rivers of the Mississippi River basin, devastating the food resources and habitats of native and sport fish populations. 
   A temporary electric dispersal barrier installed in the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal in 2002 has effectively stopped other exotic aquatic species from entering the Great Lakes watershed and is expected to stop the Asian carp as well. It is estimated that Asian carp are about 20 miles from the dispersal barrier. However, this barrier is nearing the end of its service life, and the second barrier needs to be completed as early as February to prevent any exotic species from reaching Lake Michigan. 
   The Army Corps of Engineers and the State of Illinois began work on a permanent barrier earlier this year, but the construction costs rose beyond the authorized $5 million for federal expenditures. In order for construction to continue uninterrupted, Congress must authorize the additional funds this year.
   Working with their Senate colleagues from other Great Lakes states, Levin and Stabenow successfully added a legislative provision to the appropriations bill for the District of Columbia. The provision authorizes the Army Corps of Engineers to spend the maximum amount of $6,825,000 in federal funds to complete the construction of the electric dispersal barrier. The House and the Senate both passed the DC appropriations bill last night. It now goes to the President for his signature.
   Levin and Stabenow are members of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Levin serves as co-chair of the bipartisan, bicameral organization that works to enhance the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes. Levin and Stabenow have been leaders in Congress in addressing the problem of invasive species in the Great Lakes, and have authored legislation that seeks to block the introduction of such species by, among other provisions, regulating the ballast discharge from commercial vessels entering the lakes.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 