SEN. STABENOW, COLLEAGUES PASS LARGEST INCREASE IN STUDENT AID SINCE G.I. BILL
  U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced passage of the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007, legislation that will provide over $20 billion in increased funding for college aid nationwide and $676 million in new tuition grants for students in Michigan over the next five years. The bill now goes to the President for his signature. With college costs tripling in the past 20 years, this piece of legislation is a crucial step in ensuring students have access to a college education. 
   "A college education is more important than ever to achieve economic success and the American dream," said Stabenow. "We need to be making it easier, not harder, for working families and students to afford college. America wins when we invest in education, and I urge the President to do the right thing and sign this bill into law" 
   After years of Pell Grants failing to keep pace with rising tuition, this legislation would increase the maximum Pell Grant by $500 next year and to $5,400 by 2012, while simplifying the financial aid process for low-income students. It would also cap federal student loan payments at 15 percent of a borrower's discretionary income, bringing relief to those new graduates burdened by excessive loans. 
   For example, a social worker with one child in Michigan earning $45,000 with an average student debt of $19,000 would have their monthly payments reduced by 12%. 
   "Increasing access to higher education will help keep Michigan's workforce competitive in the global market," said Stabenow. "In today's world, education policy is economic policy, and by making sure that more students can afford to go to college, we will help keep America on the cutting edge of innovation as we compete in a global economy."
   Rising college debt also means limiting career choices for new graduates. This bill would forgive the debt of borrowers who continue in public service careers such as nursing, teaching, or law enforcement for 10 years. 
   In Michigan, the maximum Pell Grant covered only 30% of the average four-year college tuition, fees, room and board in 2005 to 2006, down from 44% in 1986 to 1987. Meanwhile, 60% of Michigan students that graduated from four-year institutions in 2004 to 2005 graduated with debt; the average student owing $18,942.
 
 