SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE OVER $800,000 FOR FIRE SAFETY IN MICHIGAN
  U.S. Senators Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) today announced that twelve Michigan organizations have been awarded $803,431 through the Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). The funding will be used to support operations and firefighter safety.  
  "Firefighters are essential to the safety and security of our local communities," said Levin. "We owe it to these men and women to provide them with the best possible training and equipment so they can effectively do their jobs and protect Michigan families."
   "Michigan's first responders work tirelessly every day to keep our neighborhoods and families safe," said Stabenow. "I'm pleased this funding will help provide our firefighters with the equipment necessary to protect themselves and our communities."
   The AFGP awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to improve the effectiveness of operations and health and safety programs, to purchase protective equipment and response vehicles, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. Grants are awarded competitively through an application process. More information can be found at http://www.firegrantsupport.com/.
   Individual grant awards can be found in the table below.
   Commerce Township Fire Department-Commerce Twp.-Operations and Safety- $234,540
   Chassell Volunteer Fire Department-Chassell-Operations and Safety- $18,623
   Algonac Fire Department-Algonac-Operations and Safety- $84,556
   Somerset Township Fire Department-Somerset Center-Operations and Safety- $9,500
   Grant Township Fire Department- Jeddo- Operations and Safety- $35,592
   Deerfield Township Fire Department-North Branch-Operations and Safety- $10,735
   Parma-Sandstone Fire Department-Parma- Operations and Safety- $65,546
   London-Maybee-Raisinville Volunteer Fire Department-Maybee-Operations and Safety- $98,119
   South Branch Township Fire Department-Wellston-Operations and Safety- $30,139
   Wayland Area Emergency Medical Service-Wayland-Operations and Safety- $35,613
   Hamlin Township Fire Department-Ludington-Operations and Safety- $30,685
   Ann Arbor Township Fire Department-Ann Arbor-Operations and Safety- $149,783
 
 