SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW, REP. DINGELL ASK PRESIDENT BUSH FOR TIMELINE IN STOPPING TRASH SHIPMENTS INTO MICHIGAN
  Three members of the Michigan congressional delegation, who urged President Bush to use his November trip to Canada to halt municipal solid waste shipments into Michigan, today asked the president for an update on his talks on the issue and a timeline to end the shipments.  
   U.S. Senators Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and U.S. Representative John Dingell (D-Dearborn) wrote Bush in advance of his scheduled meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin, to point out that the problem of trash coming into Michigan was growing worse.In fact, they noted, the number of truckloads of municipal solid waste more than doubled in the past year from 180 trucks per day to a current average of 415 truckloads per day.
   The president was asked to "take a strong stand for Michigan by urging Canada to immediately suspend municipal solid waste shipments into Michigan," and now the members are asking the president for an accounting of his talks on this issue.
   "We would like to know if this (Canadian trash) issue was raised in your discussions with Prime Minister Martin, and what actions the Canadian government and your administration plan to take to stop the Canadian trash shipments," they wrote today. "In addition, we request that you provide us with a timeframe for when these shipments will be stopped."
   "More than 165,000 Michigan residents signed my online petition last year, sending a clear statement that they would like the administration to block these shipments," Stabenow said. "These shipments pose a homeland security threat, hurt Michigan's environment and recycling efforts and jeopardize the states roads and bridges - and I truly hope the recent U.S-Canadian meeting marks the beginning of the end of this dangerous nuisance."
   "Canada's weekly importation of thousands of truckloads of trash into Michigan is a potential threat to our environment, health and security,' Sen. Levin said. "This issue is of great concern to many Michiganders, and President Bush had an opportunity to address this issue with the Canadian government face-to-face. We would like to know if he took the opportunity to press Canada to stop these shipments until reasonable safeguards have been put in place."
   "Prior to his meeting with Prime Minister Martin, we asked that President Bush stand with Michiganders as we struggle to prevent our state from becoming the Continent's premier dumping ground," Dingell said. "I am anxious to hear whether or not he finally understands the seriousness of this issue and if he took decisive action to correct it."
   The members of Congress requested a response prior to the beginning of the 109th Congress in January.
   Contact: Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472; Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 