SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE USDA TO PURCHASE UP TO 8 MILLION POUNDS OF RED TART CHERRY PRODUCTS
  Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) will buy up to 8.1 million pounds of tart cherry products for donation to its Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) program. Michigan produces more red tart cherries than any other area in the world.  
   "Michigan cherries serve as a healthy supplement for our nation's nutrition programs, including our school lunch programs," said Stabenow. "In the new legislative year, I will continue to lead the effort to provide consumers with more of the fresh fruits and vegetables that keep our nation healthy. The Farm Bill that passed the Senate late last year was a big win for our state's farmers and families, and today's announcement from the USDA is more good news for our state." 
   "This is good news for Michigan's cherry farmers," said Levin. "The USDA's purchases will reward hard-working Michigan families and provide millions of Americans with a healthful and delicious addition to their diet."
   Philip J. Korson, President of the Cherry Marketing Institute said, "Today's announcement that USDA will purchase up to 8.1 million pounds of tart red cherries is welcome news for the cherry growers and handlers in our state. On behalf of the entire tart cherry industry, we know this purchase will have a positive effect and will translate into better prices for our growers and is an important investment in Michigan's agricultural economy. We remain grateful for the leadership within the Administration and in Congress who value our healthful Michigan product and support it by including it in important federal feeding programs, such as the National School Lunch Program."
   The FNS program supports a wide variety of national food assistance initiatives, including school breakfast and lunch programs, nutrition programs for the elderly and emergency food assistance services for victims of natural disasters. The USDA's Agriculture Marketing Service (AMS) will now publicly invite bids to provide the total amount needed, which will be determined by an FNS survey of potential recipients.
 
 