SEN. STABENOW: SENATE APPROVES LEGISLATION THAT WILL ENHANCE BOTH COMMUNITY SAFETY, PERSONAL SAFETY OF POLICE OFFICERS
  Legislation co-sponsored by Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and passed by the Senate late Wednesday will give off-duty or retired law enforcement officers the right to carry concealed weapons across state lines, a measure widely supported by national organizations representing law enforcement. 
   "Law enforcement officers are never really 'off-duty," said Stabenow, who is an original co-sponsor of the bill. "They must they be able to respond to a call to duty at any time and in any place, and - sad to say - they must be able to defend themselves at any time and in any place from criminals seeking retribution for past arrests."
   Stabenow said the legislation, which has already passed the U.S. House and is headed to the president for his signature, grants carrying authority to retired or off-duty officers but does not supersede state laws where firearms may be prohibited on private property or on certain state or local government property.
   The law also sets standards for officers who would be allowed to carry concealed weapons, including the requirements that they be authorized to use a firearm by their parent agency, carry photo identification, and not be subject to any disciplinary action.
   "This legislation enhances the personal safety of law enforcement officers, and it also enhances the safety of the communities where these officers live and serve," Stabenow said. "At its heart, the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act is an extension of the concept of community policing, because it adds to the number of law enforcement officers who able to respond quickly to developing situations in their communities."
   The legislation was strongly supported by the Fraternal Order of Police, Michigan Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Organizations, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the International Brotherhood of Police Officers, the Law Enforcement Alliance of America and the National Law Enforcement Council.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 