SEN. STABENOW: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY TO PUT SUMMER FOCUS ON HOMES FOR MICHIGAN FAMILIES
  Habitat for Humanity volunteers in Michigan will build more than 200 homes in 76 communities across the state, with 55 of these new homes going up in Benton Harbor and Metro Detroit, Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) said today. A long-time, hands-on Habitat for Humanity volunteer, Stabenow will work on a Benton Harbor home. 
   "The week of June 19 is important, because that is the week we will help create housing for many Michigan families," Stabenow said. "Realizing the dream of homeownership is one of the greatest moments in a lifetime, and the Jimmy Carter Work Project is an important path to home ownership."
   Stabenow said the project is especially important in Michigan, where home ownership is out of reach for too many working families. "In Michigan, half a million households earn less than half the nation's median income, and, because housing is so expensive, many families would never own a home without this tremendous program." 
   Stabenow noted that this year's Jimmy Carter Work Project is unique, because every member of Michigan's congressional delegation has pledged to take part in the building effort - the first time an entire state's delegation has been involved.
   Stabenow has participated in Habitat for Humanity projects for a number of years, and she was named "Public Official of the Year" by Habitat for Humanity of Michigan in 2003. 
   In addition to hands-on tasks like filling drywall seams on a Fenton project and putting up siding on a Marquette home, Stabenow has worked in Congress to ensure that funding continues to be available to support Habitat for Humanity. A key success came this spring, when she worked with a bipartisan group of senators to restore funding for the Community Development Block Grant Program, which provides funding to Habitat and other community-based organizations.
   Stabenow will also introduce legislation this week to help facilitate homeownership nationwide. The First Time Homebuyers' Tax Credit Act of 2005 will help home buyers with upfront expenses like down-payments and closing costs. 
   Details of the 22nd Annual Jimmy Carter Work Project were unveiled at a news conference today in the nation's Capitol.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 