SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN INTRODUCE BILL TO KEEP LONG-TERM CARE PATIENTS SAFE
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI), joined by Sens. Herb Kohl (D-WI), Pete Domenici (R-NM), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) and Hillary Clinton (D-NY), today introduced the Patient Safety and Abuse Prevention Act of 2007. The bill would prevent those with criminal histories from working within long-term care settings by establishing a nationwide system of background checks. 
   "Protecting the health and safety of our most vulnerable citizens should be a top priority," said Senator Stabenow. "I am proud that much of this legislation is modeled after a successful Michigan pilot program and working together we can expand on its progress."
   "We have a critical responsibility to ensure the safety of our most vulnerable citizens," Senator Levin said. "By permitting employers to perform background checks on nursing home employees and applicants, we can help to cut down on abuse in facilities for disabled and elderly people. Michigan is fortunate to have been the site of a pilot program that has proven very successful, and we are hoping to be able to expand this program across the country."
   Under the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has been conducting a pilot program in seven states, including Michigan, to implement efficient, equitable systems that cost-effectively screen out certain applicants for employment in long-term care facilities. Applicants excluded are those whose backgrounds include findings of substantiated abuse and/or a serious criminal history.
   The results from the pilot programs are thus far very impressive. Among the seven states, Michigan boasts the only statewide system and also the most thorough data in terms of the system's results. In the first year of operation, Michigan excluded more than 3,000 people with records of abuse or a disqualifying criminal history. As of April 30, 2007, 625 of these were excluded through a fingerprint check. Twenty-five percent of these exclusions were identified through an FBI check only, a fact that state officials believe indicates that these individuals committed crimes in other states, or have been avoiding prosecution within the state.
   This bill would implement a new system that would coordinate abuse and neglect registries with state law enforcement registries, and also add a federal component to the background check by cross-referencing potential employees with the FBI's national database of criminal history records. Under the disorganized, patchwork system of background checks that exists today, employers trying to hire caregivers cannot always determine which applicants have records of abuse or a history of committing violent crimes. As a result, predators are sometimes hired to take care of our most vulnerable citizens, working in situations where they can cause enormous harm.
 
 