SENS. STABENOW-LEVIN BILL TO STOP CANADIAN TRASH MOVES IN HOUSE
  Legislation introduced in the U.S. Senate today by Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) would give each state the authority to ban imports of Canadian trash on their own until the Environmental Protection Agency implements national regulations on such shipments.  
   The new bill, titled the International Solid Waste Importation Act is based on legislation that Stabenow and Levin introduced in 2003 and legislation introduced in the U.S. House and scheduled for a vote today by the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Environment and Hazardous Materials.
   "Michigan residents don't want this trash, and more than 165,000 of them told me so by signing my online petition. This bill will give the Michigan legislature the authority to act on this concern and ban these shipments," Stabenow said. "I have pressed the EPA for more than two years to act on its existing authority and ban municipal solid waste shipments from Canada, and yet the number of daily truckloads has doubled to 415 since 2003."
   "As the flow of Canadian trash trucks into Michigan continues, urgent action is needed," said Levin. "Our environment, health, and security are all at stake and until proper federal regulations ensuring these issues are addressed, Michigan must be permitted to enact laws and regulations limiting the receipt and disposal of foreign trash in the state."
   Among other provisions, the Stabenow-Levin bill allows Michigan to prevent trash from entering the state and would give Michigan residents the protection they are entitled to under the bilateral treaty with Canada. The bill would also give the EPA the authority to implement and enforce this treaty, and would create civil penalties for those who ship waste in violation of the treaty. In addition, it would create criteria for the EPA's determination of whether or not to consent to a shipment, such as the state's views on the shipment's impact on landfill capacity, air emissions, public health, homeland security and the environment. Ultimately, these waste shipments should no longer be accepted without an examination of how it will affect the health and welfare of Michigan families.
   Stabenow and Levin noted that the hundreds of daily shipments of municipal waste are more than just a nuisance. These truckloads of trash continue to pose significant risk to the health and safety of our citizens, and they decrease Michigan's limited landfill space, they said.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822.
 
 