SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE $1 MILLION FOR BENTON HARBOR POLICE DEPARTMENT
  Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., announced today that the Department of Justice has awarded $1,000,000 to the Benton Harbor Police Department for the hiring of eight police officers to work in area schools. The grant was awarded as part of the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) in Schools program.  
   "Benton Harbor schools will be well served with the addition of eight new officers," said Levin. "The officers are able to provide our kids with additional safety and positive role models. They are able to teach classes, serve as coaches, and assist students through mentoring programs. They can offer advice on creating a safer school environment and help administrators with school policies related to criminal activity and school safety." 
   "COPS in Schools is an important part of community-oriented policing, putting police officers into schools, where they have an opportunity to meet and work with school staff, teachers and students," Stabenow said. "This close working relationship has short term benefits in crime prevention and long term benefits in helping to break down barriers between young people and law enforcement. This is a win-win for the schools and the community."
   The COPS in Schools Program puts police officers into schools to act as teachers and mentors, as well as law enforcement officers. While their primary role is to keep students safe, the officer may teach programs such as crime prevention, substance abuse awareness, and gang resistance classes. In addition, the officer may assist troubled students through mentoring programs. The program seeks to build mutual respect and understanding between officers and students. 
   The program provides a maximum of $125,000, over a three-year period, to cover the salary and benefits of the new officer. School safety training is also provided for the officer. In addition to the standard training, officers will receive instruction on terrorism prevention, emergency response, and the role of schools in community preparedness and disaster recovery. 
   To date, the COPS in Schools program has provided over $747.5 million to fund and train more than 6,567 officers nationwide. For more information visit www.cops.usdoj.gov.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822; Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472.
 
 