SEN. STABENOW INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HEAD OFF LARGEST MEDICARE PREMIUM INCREASE IN HISTORY
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) is introducing legislation that will place a cap on Medicare premiums, which would otherwise jump 17.5 percent in 2005.  
   "Those seniors who need health care assistance the most are the ones who would be most severely hurt by this increase, but all seniors face a cut in their Social Security cost-of-living increase to cover this premium hike," Stabenow said. "Congress has intervened in the past to hold down Medicare premium increases, and - faced with the largest Medicare premium increase in the program's history - we clearly need to act again."
   The latest increase is particularly outrageous, Stabenow said, because it is being foisted on seniors under the terms of the 2003 Medicare bill to help pay directly for subsidies to HMOs, even though most seniors are not in HMOs.
   "Although 89 percent of seniors are in traditional Medicare - either because they prefer to be or because they don't even have an HMO available to them - a full 15 percent of this new proposed premium hike goes to insurers to encourage them to offer private plans," Stabenow said. "As if we need another example, this again makes clear that last year's Medicare overhaul was written to favor HMOs and insurers, not the seniors the program was designed to serve. 
   "If we permit a 17.5 percent increase to take effect, Medicare premiums will have climbed 56 percent in the last four years, an unacceptable increase that runs completely counter to our efforts to provide affordable health care for Michigan's seniors."
   Stabenow's legislation would hold the premium increase to the level of inflation rather than allowing it to climb 17.5 percent. Although a final annual inflation figure won't be available until October, federal cost-of-living adjustments have averaged 2.4 percent over the past four years.
   The administration announced the latest Medicare increase - the largest in the 40-year-history of the program - late Friday afternoon, just as the Labor Day holiday began. The timing of the revelation of the dramatic increase broke a 30-year tradition of announcing adjustments to payments for Social Security and Medicare together in October.
   "Seniors find themselves working through dozens and dozens of prescription drug cards, trying to save a little bit on the cost of their health care, and then they are hit with this dramatic increase," Stabenow said. "It's outrageous that they should be socked with a 17 percent premium increase that makes a mockery of those efforts to save a little on the cost of their health care."
   Stabenow heads the Senate Democratic Medicare and Prescription Drug Task Force.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner 202/224-4822.
 
 