SENS. STABENOW, LEVIN ANNOUNCE $1.17 MILLION IN FIREFIGHTER GRANTS FOR NINE MICHIGAN COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Carl Levin (D-MI) announced today that nine fire departments in the state of Michigan have been awarded $1,174,700 in the latest round of grants from the Department of Homeland Security. These communities will use the funds for fire operations and firefighter safety programs.  
   "The fire departments receiving these grants have demonstrated a clear need for funding assistance and have articulated specific benefits that this funding will achieve for their communities," Stabenow said. "These grants for nine Michigan fire departments will play an important role in improving the quality of fire protection."
   "Firefighters perform a needed and dangerous job and they deserve to have the very best equipment and training possible," said Levin. "These grants will give the firefighters at these departments the necessary resources so that when they put their life on the line to save others, they will know they have the proper tools to do the job."
   Grants for Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety provide firefighters with equipment, training and modifications to facilities. These grants are provided through the Fiscal Year 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, a joint effort of the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Fire Administration. 
   Fire departments receiving grants are:
   * Fire Department Name: Charlotte Volunteer Fire Department 
  Community: Charlotte 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $29,700 
   * Fire Department Name: Dexter Area Fire Department 
  Community: Dexter 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $35,136 
   * Fire Department Name: Grand Rapids Charter Township Fire Dept. 
  Community: Grand Rapids 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $10,260 
   * Fire Department Name: Lawton Fire Department 
  Community: Lawton 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $48,918 
   * Fire Department Name: Hazelton Twp Fire Dept 
  Community: New Lothrop 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $64,728 
   * Fire Department Name: Marshall Fire Department 
  Community: Marshall 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $750,000 
   * Fire Department Name: Blackman Township Fire Department 
  Community: Jackson 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $50,400 
   * Fire Department Name: Grosse Pointe Woods Dept. of Public Safety 
  Community: Grosse Pointe Woods 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $18,399 
   * Fire Department Name: Roseville Fire Department 
  Community: Roseville 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $167,159 
   More information on this grant program is available at: http://firegrantsupport.com.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822; Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472.
 
 