SEN. STABENOW URGES MICHIGAN CONSUMERS TO REPORT HIDDEN CHARGES IN DEBIT CARD USE
  At the request of Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and the Senate Banking Committee, the Federal Reserve System is looking into the hidden fees levied by some banks on the use of debit cards for retail purchases. Anyone who wishes to comment on this issue needs to contact the Federal Reserve by July 23, Stabenow said. 
   The problem arises for some consumers when - at the checkout counter or gas pump - they choose the debit feature and enter a PIN number instead of choosing the credit option; only when consumers receive their monthly statement do they realize they have been charged for the transaction.
   Stabenow noted that consumers now are clearly warned of any processing or point of service fees when they use an ATM, but no such warning or protection is afforded at a store. "Card-holders should be advised at the time of purchase that a fee will be charged, giving them the right to cancel the transaction or use the credit option, if they choose not to pay the fee," Stabenow said.
   "I would strongly urge any Michigan consumers who are being charged a hidden fee for using their debit cards at the checkout counter to immediately contact the Federal Reserve and add their voice to this investigation," she said.
   Stabenow said the Federal Reserve will accept comments for its study through July 23 at its Web site, by e-mail, by mail or by fax, and she encouraged Michigan consumers to share any experiences with hidden charges.
   "Before I and other Banking Committee members can act to address this problem legislatively, we and the Fed need to know the true scope and nature of this problem, and I encourage consumers to report any unexpected fees they have been charged when using the debit option of their debit cards."
   Web: Go to http://www.federalreserve.gov/generalinfo/foia/ProposedRegs.cfm and scroll down to Study on Disclosures of Debit Card Fees
   E-mail: Send e-mails to regs.comments@federalreserve.gov and include "Docket No. OP-1196" in the subject line.
   Fax: Send comments to (202) 452-3819 or (202) 452-3102 and include docket number.
   Mail: Send to Jennifer J. Johnson, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th The Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20551.
   The Federal Reserve is expected to report the results of its survey to Congress in November.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 