GREAT LAKES MARITIME TASK FORCE NAMES SEN. STABENOW 'GREAT LAKES LEGISLATOR OF THE YEAR'
  Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) has been named Great Lakes Legislator of the Year by Great Lakes Maritime Task Force, the largest coalition representing the Great Lakes maritime community. The award is presented annually to legislators who best advance the interests of the Great Lakes economy in Congress.  
   "Perhaps no other Senator has ever made more contributions to Great Lakes shipping in their first term than Debbie A. Stabenow," said Daniel L. Smith, President of Great Lakes Maritime Task and National Vice President, Great Lakes, American Maritime Officers. "She has actively supported funding for a second Poe-sized lock at Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan and the Great Lakes/St. Lawrence Seaway System Study that will determine the waterways' future needs."
   "Senator Stabenow has also been a leader in the effort to stop the introduction of non-indigenous species into the Great Lakes from ocean-going vessels," said James H. I. Weakley, 1st Vice President of GLMTF and President of Lake Carriers' Association. "She has authored legislation and sought funding to find a solution to this worldwide problem."
   "Michigan is the hub of Great Lakes shipping," said John D. Baker, 2nd Vice President of GLMTF and President of the International Longshoremen's Association's Great Lakes District Council. "The State boasts more deep-draft ports than the other seven Great Lakes States combined. Senator Stabenow understands that what's good for Great Lakes shipping is good for Michigan and has worked to foster policies that benefit both."
   "Senator Stabenow believes that free trade must be fair trade," said Patrick J. O'Hern, 3rd Vice President of GLMTF and Vice President and General Manager of Bay Shipbuilding Company. "She supports fair trade in steel, but expects the Federal government to react quickly to illegal dumping. She has stood with American shipyards in their effort to limit the leasing of foreign-built ships to one year. Long-term leases are denying American shipyards the opportunity to build vessels for the Navy."
   "I am pleased and proud to be recognized by the Great Lakes Maritime Task Force for my legislative efforts on behalf of the Great Lakes economy," Stabenow said. "The Task Force represents a broad constituency with a great stake in ensuring that we not only use the Lakes wisely, but that we also bolster commerce in the Great Lakes and create jobs. Our most recent challenge is to head off tolls on Great Lakes shipping, and I know we will continue to work together to bring commerce and jobs to our Great Lakes ports."
   The Great Lakes Maritime Task Force was founded in Toledo, Ohio, in 1992 to promote domestic and international Great Lakes shipping. It is the largest coalition to ever speak for the Great Lakes shipping community and draws its membership from both labor and management representing U.S.-flag vessel operators, shipboard and longshore unions, shipyards, and other Great Lakes interests. Its goals include construction of a second Poe-sized lock at Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan; preserving the domestic steelmaking infrastructure; protecting the nation's cabotage laws; maximizing the Lakes overseas trade; increasing funding for annual dredging of ports and waterways; and opposing exports and increased diversions of Great Lakes water.
   Stabenow, who will given her maritime award in a ceremony in DC on Wednesday, has received other significant national recognition in 2005. Stabenow was honored earlier this year by the Michigan Association of Chiefs of Police as the organization's "2004 Legislator of the Year," by the National Association of Community Health Centers with the "2005 Community Health Defender Award," and by the Michigan Primary Care Association as a "Champion of the Medically Underserved."
   Contact: Dave Lemmon and Bob Meissner, 202/224-4822.
 
 