SENS. LEVIN, STABENOW ANNOUNCE EXCITING OPPORTUNITY FOR MICHIGAN HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
  Sens. Carl Levin, D- Mich., and Debbie Stabenow, D- Mich., announced today that the United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP) is accepting applications from Michigan high school students to participate in its 43rd Annual Washington Week. This program is open to all high school juniors and seniors who have been elected to officer positions for the 2004-2005 academic year. Special consideration will also be made for students elected or selected to district, regional or state-level civic or educational organization positions.  
   The USSYP was created in 1962 through Senate Resolution 324. More than 4,200 students have participated in this program since its inception. Each year the USSYP selects two students from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity to go to Washington, D.C. and get an inside look at the federal government. The 104 students selected will meet with senators, cabinet officers, government leaders and policy makers. 
   "This is a unique and exciting chance for young leaders to experience government in a whole new way," said Levin. "A firsthand look at the governing process can positively influence young leaders lives." 
   "Almost everyone who comes to Washington, D.C., leaves with a clearer picture of the three branches of government as living, breathing entities that have a direct impact on their lives," Stabenow said. "This program is intended to broaden and deepen that understanding for our young leaders of today and our potential leaders of tomorrow."
   Along with the opportunity to observe the federal government in action each student will also receive a $5,000 college scholarship. Funding for this program comes entirely through the William Randolph Hearst Foundation.
   The deadline for selection is October 22, 2004. The names of the two students selected will be announced in mid-December. Any interested students who meet the qualifications should contact their principal or the selection administrator listed below:
   Mr. David F. Mills
  Education Consultant
  Michigan Department of Education
  608 West Allegan Street
  John A. Hannah Building, 4th Floor
  Lansing, MI 48909
  (517) 373-4213
  millsD@michigan.gov
   For more information regarding this program please visit www.ussenateyouth.org.
   Contact: Dave Lemmon, 202/224-4822; Kathleen Long, 202/224-2472.
 
 