SEN. DAYTON DEMANDS CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT ON RECENT DISCOVERY OF SECRET CIA 'BLACK SITE' PRISONS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today called on Congress to use its oversight authority to investigate reports that the Central Intelligence Agency has established secret prisons for individuals who, it suspects, are involved in terrorism. Dayton's floor statement, during the Senate's consideration of the Department of Defense authorization bill, was in response to a November 2nd Washington Post article that reported the CIA four years ago had set up the covert prisons in up to eight countries.  
   Dayton is a cosponsor of an amendment (S. Amdt. 2507) offered by Senator John Kerry (D-MA), to require the Defense Secretary and the Director of National Intelligence to give a detailed report regarding this serious matter. Dayton said he was disappointed that some Republican leaders have demanded an investigation of the leak of the classified information, instead of an investigation of the secret prisons themselves. 
   Dayton said, "I say that the Republican Leaders have the right idea but the wrong focus. There ought to be a Congressional investigation; but it ought to be on the existence of those secret prisons, on who was being held there, why, for how long, and how are they being treated, and whether torture is being used, and why these Black sites are being hidden from Congress... 
   "...Yes, there should be a Congressional investigation into how unelected people, with no accountability to the American people or to the civilized world, can usurp the powers and the responsibilities which are this Congress's by law, and why this Congress has let them get away with it and continues to look the other way while they blacken America's great name, debase our good values, and endanger our national security with their depravity." 
   Below is Dayton's full statement. 
   "Mr. President, I want to take this opportunity to also address briefly a related area, one vital to our national security. Last week the Washington Post reported that the CIA is operating secret prisons in up to eight other countries, including one in a former Soviet gulag in Eastern Europe. They are so-called black sites, where, reportedly, the CIA's 'enhanced interrogation techniques,' some of which are prohibited by U.N. convention or by U.S. military law - in other words, torture - are being used against unidentified subjects for indefinite periods of time. They're reportedly being denied lawyers or any opportunities to defend themselves against whatever charges of wrongdoing have brought them there. 
   "At the same time, the Vice President has reportedly given 'one of the most impassioned pitches he has ever delivered' to Republican Senators at last week's Caucus lunch, opposing the McCain amendment, which passed the Senate by a vote of 90-9, that would prohibit of use of torture against detainees. The President has reportedly threatened to veto the entire 2006 Defense Appropriations bill, if it contains Senator McCain's amendment. And the Vice President was reportedly urging that the prohibition against torture be stricken, or at least an exception be given to the CIA. 
   "Now we know why the President and the Vice President are so adamantly opposed to the Senate's ban on the use of torture or want an exemption for the CIA. It's because the CIA is operating secret prisons in other countries where torture is allegedly being used. Why else would they be against prohibiting torture, if they weren't doing it or intending to do it? 
   "In response to the Post's story, the Republican Congressional Leaders sent a letter to the Chairman of the Senate and House Intelligence Committees, requesting them to 'immediately initiate a joint investigation into the possible release of classified information to the media alleging that the United States government may be detaining and interrogating terrorists at undisclosed locations abroad.' As you know, if accurate, such an egregious disclosure could have long-term and far-reaching damaging and dangerous consequences and will imperil our efforts to protect the American people and our homeland from terrorist attacks. 
   "Well, with all due respect, I say that the Republican Leaders have the right idea but the wrong focus. There ought to be a Congressional investigation; but it ought to be on the existence of those secret prisons, on who was being held there, why, for how long, and how are they being treated, and whether torture is being used, and why these Black sites are being hidden from Congress. I know that my colleague, the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts, Senator Kerry, has just proposed an amendment to this legislation that would require disclosure of these secret sites, and I ask, Mr. President, unanimous consent that I might be added as a cosponsor. 
   "The oversight responsibilities of Congress have, tragically, been emasculated by this Administration, and too many members of Congress have acquiesced. They've bowed to this Administration's wishes or demands that it be able to do whatever it wants, wherever it wants, and to whomever it wants. And then, if they're caught doing it, they say that it's part of the war against terror. Or that it's essential to our national security. 
   "Well, you don't defeat terror with terror. You don't stop those inhuman beings who would commit atrocities by committing atrocities against them. And you don't make our citizens more secure by taking away other people's brothers and sisters, mothers and fathers to secret gulags and holding them and torturing them for months or years. 
   "And what of those torture victims themselves? If you release them, does anyone suppose that they won't be filled with hatred and revenge toward the United States of America? After they've been tortured, do you keep them secretly locked up forever, so they can't torture Americans in return? 
   "These are not only hideous, horrible, and inhuman practices; they are stupid policies. Shortsighted, misguided, and immoral policies which, if not illegal, should be. And which, to use the CIA's term, will blow back or boomerang against our own citizens in the years ahead. 
   "Yes, there should be a Congressional investigation into how unelected people, with no accountability to the American people or to the civilized world, can usurp the powers and the responsibilities which are this Congress's by law, and why this Congress has let them get away with it and continues to look the other way while they blacken America's great name, debase our good values, and endanger our national security with their depravity."
 
 