SEN. DAYTON ANNOUNCES OVER $3 MILLION FOR HIGHER EDUCATION IN MINNESOTA
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced over $3 million in federal funds for St. Olaf College, in Northfield, and the Minnesota Higher Education Services Office. These funds have been made available through the Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP), a discretionary grant program designed to prepare low-income students to enter and succeed in postsecondary education.  
   In May, Dayton, along with five Senate colleagues, wrote a letter urging the Senate Appropriations subcommittee which funds education initiatives, to increase funding for GEAR UP. In addition to Dayton, the letter was signed by Senators Hillary Clinton (D-N.Y.), John Kerry (D-Mass.), Carl Levin (D-Mich.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.). 
   "GEAR UP is helping to close the gap between students from low-income families and those from more affluent families, by making essential educational resources available for students who need them the most," said the Senators in the letter. "GEAR UP is an effective program that impacts individual students as well as whole families, schools, districts, and communities." 
   "Through the collaboration of all partners (St. Olaf College, target schools, and community partners), the GEAR UP Program has helped open the eyes of students who otherwise would not have thought college was possible," said Julia Seper, director of GEAR UP at St. Olaf College. "We are excited to be able expand our program to build on the success of the 1999 St. Olaf GEAR UP program" 
   The St. Olaf College GEAR UP program will use its $552,500 to expand its mentoring and tutoring services to more students in the region. The grant will specifically serve 850 low-income students at three St. Paul middle schools (Battle Creek, Hazel Park, and Humboldt Junior High) and two high-need feeder high schools (Humboldt Senior High and Harding). 
   The Minnesota Higher Education Services Office will use the $2.5 million in funds to launch a state-wide GEAR UP program, providing services to low-income parents and students in elementary school through high school. Those services include: information about college options, required courses, and financial aid; academic tutoring and mentoring; programs to increase parental involvement; and ongoing staff training, and professional development for teachers, counselors, and principals. 
   Dayton has long supported the GEAR UP program and has co-sponsored legislation to increase its funding.
 
 