SEN. DAYTON SEEKS EXTENSION OF MILC PROGRAM; URGES PRESIDENT TO HONOR HIS COMMITMENT TO MINNESOTA'S DAIRY FARMERS
  Sen. Mark Dayton, along with a bipartisan group of his Senate colleagues, sent a letter to President Bush today urging him to honor his election-year pledge to America's dairy farmers by actively supporting an extension of the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) Program. The MILC Program is set to expire on September 30, 2005. In their letter, the Senators also called on the President to demonstrate his support by adequately funding the program in his Administration's FY 2006 budget.  
   "I am hopeful that President Bush recognizes the importance of the MILC Program and will honor his commitment to Minnesota's 5,920 dairy farmers," said Dayton, who is a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. "Extending this important safety net for another two years will benefit our dairy farmers at a time when milk prices are on the decline." 
   In October, 2004, during a campaign stop in Wisconsin, President Bush vowed to support reauthorization of the MILC Program, stating that, "Dairy farmers all across the country can count on the support they need." 
   Additionally, several multi-state dairy cooperatives made appeals to President Bush regarding his support for the MILC Program. This includes the Associated Milk Producers Incorporated (AMPI), which is comprised of 5,000 member dairy farmers in Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wisconsin. 
   "Dairy producers need the MILC counter-cyclical payment to coincide with the Farm Bill," said AMPI General Manager Mark Furth. "At $9.90, the dairy price support program alone is inadequate." A copy of Senator Dayton's letter to President Bush is attached below: 
   January 10, 2005 
   The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   We are writing to commend your strong statements during the Presidential Campaign in support of the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program. Your pledge to work toward reauthorization so that "dairy farmers all across this country can count on the support they need," is critical. 
   Under current law the MILC program is set to expire at end of September of 2005, two years prior to other farm bill programs. We are seeking a two-year extension of MILC to bring it in line with other agriculture support programs. To allow MILC's expiration would eliminate a critical safety net for dairy farmers at a time when milk prices are on the decline. 
   We greatly appreciate your expression of support for extension of the MILC program and look forward to seeing that commitment reflected in your Fiscal Year 2006 budget. We hope to work closely with your Administration in active support of the MILC extension legislation in the coming months. 
   With best wishes, 
   Sincerely, 
   Arlen Specter - United States Senator, Herb Kohl - United States Senator, Mark Dayton - United States Senator, Patrick J. Leahy - United States Senator.
   Contact: Matt Davison, 202/228-3263.
 
 