SEN. DAYTON PRAISES FIX FOR TEMPORARY WORKER VISA PROGRAM
  Today, Sen. Mark Dayton voted in support of the Iraq/Afghanistan Supplemental Appropriations bill, which includes a provision to address the shortages in seasonal workers, suffered by many northern Minnesota businesses, due to the unavailability of H-2B temporary worker visas. The bill, which is expected to be signed into law by the President soon, will provide relief to Minnesota's tourism, construction, manufacturing, and forestry industries, which rely heavily on workers who hold seasonal jobs under the H-2B visa program.  
   Many Minnesota employers, seeking to hire short-term, foreign employees in the summer when American workers are not available, have been unable to obtain the necessary employee visas, because applications earlier in the year from other states have already exceeded the national cap. This legislation will cap the number of H-2B visas at 33,000 for the first six months of the year and reserve 33,000 slots for the remaining six months of the year, benefiting Minnesota businesses in need of seasonal workers. The legislation will also exempt foreign workers from the H-2B visa cap, if they have previously participated in the program. 
   "I am thankful that, today, Congress has recognized the unique circumstances of U.S. employers along the Canadian border," said Dayton. "Minnesota companies are committed to hiring qualified American workers; however, in many sparsely populated regions in the northern part of our state, those workers simply do not exist. To stay in business, many employers are left with no choice but to rely on temporary workers from Canada. If those seasonal workers were not able to return to those companies, it could have a lasting, damaging effect on communities in northern Minnesota and the region's economy." 
   Since the visa shortage was first recognized, in early 2004, Dayton has urged his Senate colleagues to address the situation and provide a solution to northern Minnesota's businesses.
   Contact: Erin Utzinger, 202/224-2333. 
 
 