SEN. DAYTON: WILLMAR TO RECEIVE $150,000 FOR NEW DENTAL CLINIC TO SERVE WEST CENTRAL, SOUTHWEST MINNESOTA
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that Rice Memorial Hospital, in partnership with the University of Minnesota's School of Dentistry, will receive $150,000 in federal assistance to help establish an innovative dental health care institution. The Rice Regional Dental Clinic will provide dental care to underserved patients and for dental and dental hygiene students to receive training and the opportunity to practice in West Central and Southwest Minnesota. The funding, provided by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service, is one of several government and private grant sources needed to fund the initiative.  
   "I am delighted that the Rice Memorial Hospital funding will improve the quality and availability of dental health care to rural Minnesotans," said Dayton. "I applaud the hospital, the University of Minnesota, and others in the community who are dedicated to the success of this project." 
   "If we can get all of the necessary pieces in place, this collaborative effort will greatly increase access to dental care and improve oral health in the region," said Lawrence Massa, CEO of Rice Memorial Hospital. "It will also improve prospects for recruiting more dentists to the region." 
   The new Rice Regional Dental Clinic will serve a 12-county area including Big Stone, Chippewa, Kandiyohi, Lac Qui Parle, Lyon, McLeod, Meeker, Pope, Redwood, Renville, Swift, and Yellow Medicine Counties. 
   The proposal to create a dental clinic and training site for dental health professionals was conceived out of an identified need for dental access to underserved patients and the growing shortage of dental professionals in the area. In 2003, Minnesota was identified as the number one state experiencing a negative percentage change in dentists to the population ratio. The average dentist-to-population ratio for Minnesota is 1 to 1,637. 
   The lack of dental care access is magnified in rural areas of the state. Eight of the twelve counties in the service area are federally designated Dental Health Professional Shortage Areas. The dentist-to-population ratio falls significantly below the state average, 1 to 3,385, for some counties, such as Swift County.
 
 