SEN. DAYTON OUTRAGED BY SENATE'S FAILURE TO SUPPORT EMERGENCY HEALTHCARE FUNDING FOR IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN VETERANS
  Today, Sen. Mark Dayton voted to provide the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs with $1.9 billion in emergency funding to cover healthcare costs for veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. The legislation, which failed to pass on a party line vote of 46 to 54, would have expanded mental healthcare services for service members and would have helped local veterans' facilities to cover budget shortfalls, purchase much-needed equipment, and make necessary capital improvements.  
   "It is absolutely outrageous that we are not providing our brave men and women in uniform with quality health care, after their devoted service to our country, and it is astonishing that Republicans do not recognize this as an emergency," said Dayton. "It is an emergency to the Minneapolis VA Medical Center, which has been designated as one of the primary recipients for those soldiers most severely injured returning from the war in Iraq, and yet has received absolutely no additional resources to treat those veterans. 
   "It seems incredible to me that people can say that they support our troops, as we all do, and yet those same individuals oppose providing soldiers, some of whom have returned home with life-altering physical and mental health problems, with the resources necessary, everything they need, to resume healthy and normal lives." 
   This year, both the Minneapolis VA Medical Center and the St. Cloud Medical Center are running nearly $7 million and $4 million budget shortfalls, respectively. 
   Below please find the text of a floor speech Dayton gave earlier today. 
   U.S. Senator Mark Dayton 
   Floor Speech on Veteran's Healthcare Amendment 
   4/12/05 
   Mr. Dayton: thank you, Mr. President and I thank my colleague from Washington state. I thank her for her leadership on this very, very important amendment. And I share her dismay and astonishment that the other side doesn't recognize this as an emergency. It is an emergency in Minnesota. It is an emergency to the Minneapolis Veterans' Hospital which has been designated as one of the primary recipients for those returning home injured from the war in Iraq and which does not have the money even to meet the needs of veterans already in Minnesota, much less this additional demand. 
   It seems to me incredible that anyone can say that they support our troops, as we all do, but then when they come home injured, wounded, even maimed, that we're not going to provide them with the resources necessary, everything that they need, to resume healthy and normal lives. This is a fundamental question of priorities for this body and for the administration. 
   If we don't believe that sending soldiers over to Iraq constitutes an emergency, if we don't believe that supplying them and equipping them - as we will vote to do as I have supported every time and will again here - constitutes an emergency outside of the normal budget processes, but this instance now where we talk about providing health care to those most in need in the most emergency-type situations of their lives, of anyone's life imaginable, that this is not an emergency expenditure that should be approved unanimously by this body, then I frankly really don't see how we can say with any integrity that we support our troops. 
   We do support our troops. We support them in Iraq. Now we need to support them when they return home, and this amendment from the senator from Washington will accomplish that, and I would be astonished if anybody in this body could oppose it. Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the Senator from Washington.
   Contact: Erin Utzinger, 202/224-2333. 
 
 