SEN. DAYTON ANNOUNCES OVER $500,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDS FOR ART EDUCATION IN MINNESOTA
  Sen. Mark Dayton announced today that Duluth Independent School District 709 and the Perpich Center for Arts Education in Golden Valley have been awarded $218,230 and $290,813, respectively, to expand and improve education in the arts. The funding, provided through the U.S. Department of Education's Professional Development for Arts Educators Program, will be used to implement an interdisciplinary art education program at a Duluth magnet school and to improve fine arts curricula for elementary and secondary schools throughout the state.  
   "Congratulations to Duluth School District 709 and the Perpich Center for winning a U.S. Department of Education grant for their innovative arts programs," said Dayton. "As a former teacher, I know that different students have different ways to learn. I salute these teachers and school administrators for their innovative approaches to better education." 
   Duluth Independent School District 709 will collaborate with the Duluth Art Institute and the Grant Communications School Collaborative to implement the "Leonard Bernstein Artful Learning School Reform Model" at Grant Language and Art Magnet School in Duluth. The program uses art and music as tools to teach the core curricula of traditional subjects, such as language arts, math, science, and social studies. The Perpich Center for Arts Education will implement a program called "Quality Teaching in the Arts: The Minnesota Arts Education Network" to improve curricula and evaluation standards for music, dance, drama, media arts, and visual arts in high poverty schools throughout Minnesota. 
   "It is exciting to me to see community and school staff working within the system to create a reform model for public education," said Keith Dixon, Superintendent of Duluth School District 709. "This grant is a testimonial to the wonderful things going on in our district." 
   "It's a real validation of the work of teachers in all arts education across Minnesota," said Byron Richard, Education Research Coordinator for the Perpich Center for Arts Education.
 
 