SENATE PASSES SENS. DAYTON-LUGAR ETHANOL VEHICLE AWARENESS AMENDMENT TO HELP AMERICANS FUEL THEIR VEHICLES WITH E85
 Today, the Senate passed a groundbreaking amendment introduced by Sens. Mark Dayton (D-MN) and Richard Lugar (R-IN), which would require all automakers to display decals inside the gas tank covers and windshields of vehicles that have the capacity to run on the 85 percent ethanol-based fuel known as E85, beginning in model year 2007. With gas prices reaching record highs, the legislation would make it easier for car owners, who are often not aware that their vehicles are E85 compatible, to fill-up with the cheaper renewable fuel. Motorists now must cross-reference their owner's manual with the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) to find out if their car or truck can use E-85.  
   "Increased use of ethanol as a substitute for gasoline is an economic and environmental grand slam for America," said Dayton. "Obviously, anyone would jump at the chance to save 45 cents per gallon at every fill-up. Unfortunately, most of the people who already own one of the five million flex-fuel vehicles on the road are not aware that their vehicles are capable of running on E85. My legislation will solve this problem and remind consumers that they have the option to buy cheaper fuel." 
   Currently, Minnesota is the only state that requires every gallon of regular gasoline to contain at least 10 percent ethanol. This amount will go up to 20 percent by 2013, due to legislation signed into law on May 3, 2005, in Minnesota. 
   The Dayton-Lugar Ethanol Vehicle Awareness amendment is supported by the National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition, the National Farmers' Union, the Governors' Ethanol Coalition, the National Corn Growers' Association, and the Renewable Fuels Association. Cosponsors of the amendment included Senators Richard Lugar (R-IN), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Chuck Grassley (D-IA), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Ken Salazar (D-CO) and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM). 
   Dayton also became a cosponsor of an amendment introduced by Barack Obama, which passed in the Senate today, (D-IL) to provide a tax credit to encourage gasoline stations to install/convert pumps to offer E-85 ethanol.
   Contact: Erin Utzinger, 202/224-2333. 
 
 