SEN. DAYTON PUSHES DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY TO IMPROVE NORTHERN BORDER SECURITY
  Sen. Mark Dayton today called on Department of Homeland Security Secretary, Michael Chertoff, to correct drastic inadequacies in funding for security along the U.S.-Canada border. Chertoff appeared before the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, of which Dayton is a member, to address the nation's homeland security needs over the next five years. 
   "I think the American people expect?that we will do everything that's feasible, as rapidly as feasible, in order to provide maximum, optimal homeland security," said Dayton, addressing the Secretary. "And if we're not doing that, I think we need to be candid with one another-you and Congress, and then with the American people-why it is that we are not fiscally capable of undertaking that priority."
   Last month, Dayton toured both national borders to assess and compare security procedures and resources. He today relayed the concerns of Minnesota law enforcement that the northern border lacks enough patrol agents. He urged Chertoff to support his legislation, approved by the full Senate in July, to fund the hiring of an additional 236 agents along the northern border. He also urged the Secretary to visit northern Minnesota, to see the security gaps and speak with law enforcement on the ground.
   "It's hard to assess from the legislative branch what is sufficient funding; that's where we have to defer to you," said Dayton. "But I worry that the Office of Management and Budget is defining our funding commitment to homeland security, rather than yourself or rather than what the imperative is."
   The Dayton measure, which would provide $44 million, currently awaits approval by the joint House-Senate conference committee, before it goes to the White House for the President's signature. Dayton has written a letter to the conference committee members, cosigned by eight of his bipartisan colleagues, urging them to keep the funding in the final version of the 2007 homeland security spending bill.
   The northern U.S. border, which stretches across 18 states and 5,525 miles, currently has 950 patrol agents - with only 250 guarding the border at any one time. By contrast, the southern U.S. border currently has 10,000 agents. Despite a federal mandate to increase the number of northern border agents during the past two years, the number of agents there has actually declined from 996 to 950.
 
 