SEN. DAYTON URGES SECRETARY RICE TO REFER DEVILS LAKE OUTLET PROJECT TO INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION
  Sen. Mark Dayton urged Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to refer the Devils Lake outlet project to the International Joint Commission immediately. Dayton opposes the project, because it may degrade water quality and cause unforeseeable environmental damage in northwestern Minnesota.  
   "The Devils Lake project would bring numerous risks to Minnesota including directing poor-quality water from a lake, which has been landlocked for almost a thousand years, into the Red River," said Dayton. "Also, there is a significant chance that this project would cause unforeseeable damage to Minnesota's and Canada's environments." 
   A copy of Dayton's letter is below. 
   June 10, 2005 
   The Honorable Condoleezza Rice 
  The Secretary of State 
  U.S. Department of State 
  Washington, D.C. 20520 
   Dear Madam Secretary: 
   I strongly support the Government of Canada's request that the Devils Lake outlet project being constructed by the State of North Dakota be immediately referred to the International Joint Commission. Without the concurrence of the Canadian government, the outlet will seriously damage the relationship between the United States and Canada. Allowing any state to act unilaterally in its own interest in violation of the commitments the governments of the United States and Canada have made to resolve cooperatively their differences would destroy the integrity and reliability of those agreements. 
   The intended Devils Lake outlet project is strongly opposed by the Governments of Minnesota and Canada, because it will direct poor-quality water from a lake, which has been landlocked for almost a thousand years, into the Red River. Water from Devils Lake could transfer new species, microbes, or contaminants into the Red River, which could irreparably damage Minnesota's and Canada's water systems. The State of North Dakota intends to ignore those risks and Canada's and Minnesota's expressed objections. 
   The Boundary Waters Treaty of 1909 established the International Joint Commission to resolve disputes over the boundary waters of the United States and Canada. I support the Canadian government's expressed position that the Commission must immediately assert its jurisdiction over this project. Once it begins to discharge its water into the Red River, the effects will be irreversible, as will its damage to the relationship between the two countries. 
   Thank you for your consideration of my request. I look forward to your reply. 
   Sincerely, 
   Mark Dayton 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Erin Utzinger, 202/224-2333.
 
 