SEN. DAYTON: MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS TO RECEIVE NEARLY $790 K FOR COUNSELING PROGRAMS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that St. Paul ($389,787) and Minneapolis ($399,804) public schools will collectively receive $789,591 in federal funding this year, under the Elementary and Secondary School Counseling Demonstration Program. The grants, provided through the U.S. Department of Education, will be used to support and expand counseling programs for at-risk students in elementary schools, and will provide professional training and staff development for teachers.  
   "The Elementary School Counseling Demonstration Program is critically important," said Dayton. "With the aid of these funds, Twin Cities schools will be able to continue providing essential counseling services, which help students succeed both in and out the classroom." 
   "We are thrilled to receive this funding from the U.S. Department of Education," said Sarah Snapp, Director of Funded Programs for Minneapolis Public Schools. "This grant will expand services to four Minneapolis elementary schools, delivering pro-social skills curriculum and providing counseling for students with problem behaviors. We will also be able to provide professional development for classroom teachers to increase their skills in classroom management and working effectively with children from diverse backgrounds." 
   The grant will be used to expand counseling services at six Minneapolis-metro area K- 8 schools, including: Jefferson Elementary School, Lincoln Elementary School, Lucy Craft Laney Elementary School, Sullivan Communications Center, Aquila Elementary School and Peter Hobart Elementary School. In addition, funding will be used towards staff development for elementary teachers and towards professional training in collaboration with the University of Minnesota for students who are studying to become school counselors. 
   The grant to St. Paul public schools will be used to pilot a new elementary school counseling model, which will provide full-time school counselors to three elementary schools, Eastern Heights Elementary School, Homecroft Elementary School and Jackson Elementary School. 
   The Elementary and Secondary School Counseling Program is a discretionary program administered by the U.S. Department of Education. The program provides competitive grants to school districts that demonstrate the greatest need for new or additional counseling services, the greatest potential for replication or dissemination, or propose the most innovative programs.
 
 