VA SHELVES IDEA OF CONTRACTING OUT SERVICES AT TWIN PORTS CLINIC
  Four weeks after the Veterans' Administration (VA) indicated that they were exploring the possibility of ending VA operations at the Twin Ports outpatient veterans clinic, the head of the Minneapolis VA Medical Center has informed the area Congressional leaders that the VA has dropped the idea. Sen. Mark Dayton (D-MN), Rep. Dave Obey (WI -7), Rep. Jim Oberstar (MN - 8), Sen. Herb Kohl (D-WI), Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI), and Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) joined together to raise concerns about the proposal and they are uniformly pleased by the VA's decision to keep the clinic open. 
   On April 27, the Congressional leaders sent a joint letter to Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony Principi regarding the VA's initial announcement asking for details and justifications for the proposal. As local officials raised public awareness and expressed their support for the clinic, the delegation continued to work with Congressional VA oversight committees and with the VA itself to highlight the clinic's importance and the significance of possibly contracting out its services. 
   "This is a great win for area veterans," said Dayton. "The privatization of the only official VA facility within hundreds of miles of many veterans living in the Twin Ports area would be devastating. I was greatly relieved to learn that the clinic will remain open and the over 5,600 veterans who use the clinic each year can continue to depend on it. Our veterans have certainly earned this benefit, after their selfless service to our country."
   "We're pleased that the VA has listened to our request to keep the clinic as a VA facility. The care that it provides is an important asset for the community. I'm also happy for the involvement of Rep. Jim Oberstar and the members of the Wisconsin and Minnesota delegations who worked together to achieve this for area vets and the 45 employees at the clinic," said Obey. 
   "It is critical that the clinic continues caring for veterans, just as it has done for many years. The clinic's medical staff understands veterans' needs, and they provide excellent care to those who have served this country in the armed forces," Oberstar said. "We owe our veterans access to good health care, and I am thankful to Rep. Obey for his leadership and to my other colleagues who have worked so hard to keep the clinic going."
   "We are pleased that the VA recognized and responded to the concerns of the veterans in the area, and will continue to provide the outstanding service that they expect and deserve. These men and women served our country with honor and made untold sacrifices, and we will continue to work to ensure that they have access to convenient, quality care," Kohl said.
   "The swift and strong opposition to this plan from the community is evidence of the importance of this clinic to local veterans and their families, who have come to rely on the services provided at the Twin Ports facility, and who have forged relationships with the clinic staff." Feingold said. "This decision will ensure that this quality care continues."
   "I'm thrilled Secretary Principi has decided to keep the doors of the Twin Ports VA clinic open," Coleman said. "The Twin Ports VA facility provides thousands of Minnesota and Wisconsin veterans each year with the quality health care they deserve. Considering the Twin Ports facility regularly receives high marks from its patients, I did not understand why the VA was considering contracting these services out. I'm pleased to see that option is no longer on the table."
   Scores of veterans, community leaders and the Congressional delegation of the area fought hard to get the facility established in 1989. The local community spent nearly $850,000 to build the facility for the VA to lease at a reduced price. According to the VA, some 5,600 veterans use the clinic annually recording more than 23,000 patient visits and it receives high marks for its performance.
 
 