SEN. DAYTON ISSUES STATEMENT ON IDEA IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2003
  Floor Statement of Senator Dayton on IDEA Improvement Act of 2003.
   I thank the Senator from Massachusetts. He has been such a dedicated champion for the needs of special education throughout the country for all these years. I wish his dedication were reflected fully in this legislation on which we are going to be voting shortly.  
   In an era when we are talking so much about accountability in education, the teachers, administrators, and local school boards throughout our country who are supposed to be accountable for results, for "making acceptable progress" and improving student test scores, we, too, in the Senate have a role and responsibility to aid and assist them in making that progress. 
   I regretfully believe this legislation falls seriously short of our responsibility to them and, to the students they are helping and supporting and without our full involvement and aid, are less likely to succeed. 
   In this important area of special education, we in the Senate, the Congress, and the Federal Government have very special responsibilities because it was Congress who established these rights for every American child to a quality public education a quarter century ago and mandated every school district with the responsibility to provide it. 
   I was not here when that legislation passed, but its language implied that schools would be reluctant, perhaps even resistant, to assume their responsibilities. That was over a quarter century ago. 
   I speak from my personal knowledge about Minnesota, and I assume it is true throughout our country; our public schools, teachers, administrators, support personnel, and policy makers are the legislation's allies. In Minnesota, our educators are fully committed and deeply dedicated to providing the best possible special education to every student with special needs and in fact every student who comes through their doors. They are doing so, as I have personally witnessed in hundreds of special education classes throughout Minnesota, with amazing skills, heartwarming personal devotion, and often extraordinary success. They are doing so increasingly in spite of, not because of, the Senate. 
   This legislation fails our responsibility to the students of this Nation with special needs, to their dedication and to their cause, which is our cause. Yesterday an amendment failed which would have fulfilled in 6 years a promise the U.S. Congress made over a quarter century ago when it passed the initial legislation to fund 40 percent of the costs of special education. 
   In the year 2001, when we had all of these surpluses we were told would exist throughout the decade, the Senate did pass such an amendment, but the House of Representatives and the administration refused to accept it, and so it was not put into that law. 
   I have tried 5 times in the last 3 years, with amendments, to have us realize our long-broken promise in 1 year, in a succeeding fiscal year, and those amendments have failed. 
   I was shocked and appalled that this body rejected Senator Harkin's amendment to bring us up to that promised 40 percent level in 6 years. Today it is less than half of that promise. That costs Minnesota schools $250 million a year. That is money that is badly needed to fulfill their responsibilities to children with special needs, and it is money then that often has to be taken out of regular school programs because they have a legal responsibility and liability to provide those special education services. So it means all of the students in Minnesota get shortchanged because this Senate will not keep its promise. The majority decided to provide an additional $39 billion over the next 10 years in tax advantages to companies for their foreign operations, tax preferences to expand their foreign businesses and take more jobs away from the United States and put more overseas. That was deemed worthy of $39 billion. 
   At that same time, where there is $39 billion around somewhere for giant corporations and wealthy investors who do not need it, there is not a willingness to provide even in 6 years the promised 40 percent level for students with special needs. It is not that we do not have the money; we do not have the right priorities; we do not have the will. It is terribly unfair for us to be telling the school districts they have to run tests every year and include children with special needs and be measured and publicized and in some cases publicly embarrassed because they are not making acceptable progress toward goals that have been established when we do not provide the money to enable them to do it. Shame on us, not them. It is irresponsible and it is inexcusable. This money is badly needed in Minnesota, and I assume elsewhere in the country. 
   In terms of reform, the paperwork that burdens the reporting requirements is driving Minnesota teachers out of special education and out of the classroom entirely. Those who remain spend less than half of their time actually working with students because they are so busy filling out the forms the Federal Government has imposed on them, as well as some by the State and the school districts, for sure. I commend Senator Santorum for offering a pilot program for 15 States, but it is the job of the Senate to determine those reforms. I have heard for over 3 years the reason we are not providing money for special education is because we have to "reform it first". So now we are passing a bill that has minimal reforms and a pilot program and no additional money. 
   I think it is a terrible disservice to No Child Left Behind, which is being proven once again to be a nice phrase but with no real meaning or commitment behind it. I think we will regret that.
 
 