SEN. DAYTON: $2.2 MILLION FOR 12 MINNESOTA VALUE-ADDED AGRICULTURE PROJECTS
  Sen. Mark Dayton announced today that 12 Minnesota companies have been awarded a total of $2,268,736 in grants from the United States Department of Agriculture's Value-Added Agricultural Product Market Development (VAPMD) program . The grants will help to create new economic opportunities for Minnesota farm families, by providing capital investment for new, value-added enterprises owned and operated by farmers.  
   "Value-added grants are key to getting innovative programs off the ground," said Dayton. "These grants are highly competitive nationwide, and I am delighted that 12 Minnesota farmer-owned businesses have received this funding that will ultimately help improve their profit margins." 
   The Value-Added Producer Grants program was authorized in the 2002 Farm Bill to encourage independent agricultural producers to develop new value-added businesses or marketing initiatives to increase their customer base. 
   Grant recipients include: 
   $300,000 for Dew Ag-Rite, Belview, to expand the market for premium Minnesota pork in Asian markets. 
   $300,000 for Pepin Heights Orchard Inc., Lake City, to market, pack and ship a new super-premium grade of Honey-Crisp Apples. 
   $300,000 for Six Point Berkshire LLP, Cottonwood, to create markets for the unique Berkshire breed of hog and to develop domestic markets for processed Berkshire meats that are of comparable size to their foreign markets. 
   $300,000 for Pastureland Cooperative, Minneapolis, to diversify dairy product mix, increase sales and marketing capacity, expand customer base within and outside of their existing geographic markets and improve administrative and operating efficiencies. 
   $300,000 for Page & Hill Forest Products Inc., Big Falls, to market its new water borne, chemonite preservative treatment of a variety of northern Minnesota wood species in order to meet the increasing demands of its customers for an environmentally safe treated wood product. 
   $250,000 for Morris-Walkers Ltd, Belle Plaine, to expand sales of Emma Krumbee's brand baked goods. 
   $200,000 for Vine Ripe Inc., Owatonna, to expand markets for greenhouse fruits and vegetables. 
   $200,000 for Mississippi Valley Fruit Co. LLC, Elgin, to brand region-specific apple varieties. 
   $43,736 for Lynn Brakke, Moorhead, to expand value-added markets for organically grown and processed beef. 
   $25,000 for Bongards Creameries Cooperative, Bongards, to expand the cheese market in Middle Eastern countries. 
   $25,000 for Deer Lake Orchard LLC, Buffalo, to use towards preparation, processing, packaging and shipping of Honey Crisp apples. 
   $25,000 for Alexis Bailley Vineyard, Inc., Hastings, to use towards expenses associated with marketing a blended wine under the brand name Voyaguer.
 
 