SEN. DAYTON JOINS IN REINTRODUCING DRU'S LAW TO CREATE FIRST-EVER NATIONAL SEX OFFENDER REGISTRY
  Today Sen. Mark Dayton joined with Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.) and others in introducing legislation for the second time to create the first-ever national sex offender registry. Current federal law requires each state to maintain such a registry, but no national database exists to link the state lists together. By establishing the National Sex Offender Public Database, this legislation would authorize the federal government to create, manage, and make the registry available to all states and the general public via the Internet. Last November, this legislation, known as Dru's Law, passed the Senate by unanimous consent, but House Republican Leadership refused to bring the bill up for consideration. 
   "It is terrible that we do not have a federal registry to track some of the most dangerous people in our society," said Dayton. "We, as elected officials, are duty bound to protect our communities. The National Sex Offender Public Database would help track people known to be repeat offenders. With this legislation, Minnesotans would know when these potentially dangerous people move into our neighborhoods." 
   Dru's Law would also strengthen the rules monitoring high-risk sex offenders by requiring correctional facilities to immediately notify the state attorneys general about the planned release of any high-risk sex offender. An attorney general could then determine the worthiness of the offender's case for a legal proceeding to determine if he/she is fit to return to society. Additionally, states would be required to transmit information regarding all sex offenders to the national database. 
   The move to create the National Sex Offenders Registry was occasioned by the case of Dru Sjodin, who was abducted in Grand Forks, North Dakota, in November, 2004. Dru's suspected kidnapper and killer, a convicted rapist in Minnesota, classified as a Level III sex offender and flagged as a potential repeat offender in the state, was, however, not monitored by state authorities. He will be tried in federal court and faces the death penalty; jury selection is set to being in March, 2006. 
   Dayton said, "My heart goes out to Dru Sjodin's family and other Minnesota families whose lives have been changed because of inadequate laws and supervision of Level III sex offenders. I am going to continue to do all I can to ensure states are able to share information amongst themselves, and with the public, to keep our communities safe."
 
 