SEN. DAYTON/DEMOCRATS CALL ON BUSH TO PROVIDE HONEST DIALOGUE ON IRAQ WAR STRATEGY
  Sen. Mark Dayton, along with 41 of his Senate colleagues, today in a letter to President Bush, urged the President to present both Congress and the American people with a tangible, realistic strategy for successful completion of the mission American troops are carrying out in Iraq. Last month, the Senate passed a resolution that would require the Bush Administration to give a progress report to Congress every three months on the Administration's strategy in Iraq and its plan to bring U.S. troops back home.  
   "Since the beginning of the Iraq War, the U.S. Senate has provided every dollar requested for defense authorizations, appropriations, and supplementals, with overwhelming bipartisan support," said Dayton. "Despite this support, the Bush Administration has repeatedly failed to outline an effective strategy for winning the war." 
   In recent weeks, President Bush has made a series of speeches on Iraq, that all lack specifics regarding the plan for victory and eventual troop withdrawal. Today's letter addresses this concern of both Democrats and the American people, alike. 
   The full text of the letter follows: 
   December 14, 2005 
   The President The White House Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   All Americans recognize the historic nature of the elections for a permanent, democratic government in Iraq on Thursday. We salute our courageous men and women in uniform, who are serving proudly in Iraq under enormously difficult circumstances, and whose dedication and sacrifice are making these elections possible. 
   Like you, we hope the elections will proceed peacefully and the Iraqi people will succeed in electing a legitimate government that is capable of uniting the Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish people. We know that successful elections can play an important part in defeating the insurgency and hastening the day when Iraqis can govern themselves without outside assistance. 
   We also know that the work of the Iraqi people to build the kind of Iraq we would all like to see does not end with these elections. The four month period after the Iraqi elections, when the new government will attempt to finalize a Constitution, is perhaps the most critical time for the Iraqis and our troops. That is why 79 members of the Senate, including 41 Republicans, voted last month for an amendment that said, "calendar year 2006 should be a year of significant transition to full Iraqi sovereignty, with Iraqi forces taking the lead for the security of a free and sovereign Iraq, thereby creating the conditions for the phased redeployment of forces from Iraq." A strong bipartisan majority of the Senate believes Iraqis must now step forward in the months ahead take the lead in defending and governing their own country. 
   We believe your leadership will be essential toward achieving this objective. As was stated in the bipartisan amendment that passed the Senate, "the [Bush] Administration should tell the leaders of all groups and political parties in Iraq that they need to make the compromises necessary to achieve the broad-based and sustainable political settlement that is necessary for defeating the insurgency....within the schedule they set for themselves." Your leadership will also be needed to ensure that we leverage the influence of the international community and Iraq's neighbors to push for a sustainable political compromise and that we stand up sufficient numbers of capable Iraqi security forces so that our troops can begin standing down. 
   Finally, we also believe that you must engage in a frank and honest dialogue with the American people and our troops about the road ahead in Iraq. As the bipartisan amendment stated, "the [Bush] Administration needs to explain to Congress and the American people its strategy for successful completion of the mission in Iraq." While we appreciate your recent speeches on this issue, we regret that the American people have still not been presented with a plan that identifies the remaining political, economic, and military benchmarks that must be met in order to facilitate the phased redeployment of U.S. forces and a reasonable schedule to achieve them. We hope you will use Wednesday's speech to finally provide a detailed explanation of your strategy for the successful completion of the mission in Iraq. 
   The window of time to get things right in Iraq may be rapidly closing. A successful completion of our mission in Iraq is possible only through the hard work of the Iraqi people and leadership from your Administration. We stand ready to work with the Iraqi people and your Administration in the days ahead. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senator Daniel Akaka Senator Max Baucus Senator Evan Bayh Senator Joe Biden Senator Jeff Bingaman Senator Barbara Boxer Senator Robert Byrd Senator Maria Cantwell Senator Tom Carper Senator Hillary Clinton Senator Jon Corzine Senator Mark Dayton Senator Chris Dodd Senator Byron Dorgan Senator Dick Durbin Senator Russ Feingold Senator Diane Feinstein Senator Tom Harkin Senator Daniel Inouye Senator Jim Jeffords Senator Tim Johnson Senator Ted Kennedy Senator John Kerry Senator Herb Kohl Senator Mary Landrieu Senator Frank Lautenberg Senator Patrick Leahy Senator Carl Levin Senator Blanche Lincoln Senator Barbara Mikulski Senator Patty Murray Senator Barack Obama Senator Mark Pryor Senator Jack Reed Senator Harry Reid Senator John Rockefeller Senator Ken Salazar Senator Paul Sarbanes Senator Chuck Schumer Senator Debbie Stabenow Senator Ron Wyden
 
 