SEN. DAYTON CELEBRATES ACHIEVEMENTS OF UNIQUE CONSTITUENT SERVICE; HEALTH CARE HELP LINE HAS ASSISTED OVER 2,000 MINNESOTANS IN DISPUTES WITH INSURERS
  Sen. Mark Dayton, in a press conference today at the Minnesota State Capitol in St. Paul, celebrated his unique constituent service, the Health Care Help Line, which has assisted over 2,000 Minnesotans in resolving their problems with health insurers. Instituted in 2000, Dayton's Health Care Help Line is staffed by full-time advocates who intercede for Minnesotans who need doctor-prescribed medical services which their insurance companies or health maintenance organizations will not pay for. To date, the Health Care Help Line has recovered almost $1.5 million for Minnesotans who were denied payment by insurance companies for health care they received.  
   "The Health Care Help Line was designed to help Minnesotans caught in a system where their life-altering medical decisions are being made by insurance companies and HMOs instead of doctors," said Dayton. "What these families have gone through to get the benefits to which they are entitled is simply unacceptable. We should be able to agree that the first priority of health care dollars is to provide health care, not corporate profits." 
   Dayton was joined at the press conference by several Minnesota families who have received assistance from the Health Care Help Line, including: a school-bus driver who suffered hearing loss and received a cochlear implant free of charge; the mother of a three-year-old who needed therapy for autism; a 15-month-old with Type 1 diabetes who needed an insulin pump; and the father of a five-year-old with a speech impairment who was in need of speech therapy. Also participating in the press conference was an ambulance billing representative who has referred numerous Minnesotans to the Health Care Help Line, after their health insurers denied payment for their ambulance transport bills. 
   Reacting to the stories of the families who were denied benefits by their insurance companies, Dayton said, "The whole health care question should be handled with two words, 'Doctors decide.'" 
   Asked if he ever personally stepped in and pressed foot-dragging insurance providers, Dayton laughed and said, "No. My staff has been so effective that I don't have to. But I call on whoever succeeds me to continue this vital service. 
   "In fact, after I leave office, I might just call myself, to make sure they're getting the job done."
 
 