SEN. DAYTON PRESENTED WITH BIODIESEL LIFETIME ACHIEVEMENT AWARD
  The National Biodiesel Board (NBB) today presented Sen. Mark Dayton (D-MN) with the Biodiesel Lifetime Achievement Award for his commitment to renewable biodiesel and domestic energy security. Thanks in large part to his efforts, biodiesel has become a commercial success nationally and in Minnesota.  
   "I am very honored to receive the Biodiesel Lifetime Achievement Award," said Sen. Dayton, who has announced he will not seek another term. "I will continue to do everything I can to promote greater use of biodiesel, while I am a United States Senator and after I leave office." 
   During his time as senator, Dayton has been a key supporter of the fuel. He was influential in creating the Biodiesel Education Program, a national program administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to raise awareness and spur development of the fuel. He is also a founding member of the Senate Biofuels Coalition, and his strong support of the federal biodiesel tax incentive led to its successful passage. 
   "Senator Dayton became a champion of biodiesel before he even took office, when a lot of people still hadn't heard of it," said Ed Hegland, a farmer leader from Appleton, Minnesota and a director of NBB. "He's stood behind biodiesel in office, even when it meant making some political sacrifices. The biodiesel industry thanks him for his support and wishes him well as he leaves office." NBB presented the award during its board meeting underway in Washington. 
   Biodiesel can be used in any diesel engine in pure form or blended with petroleum diesel. It can be made from any fat or vegetable oil, such as soybean oil, and reduces emissions. 
   "Biodiesel, like ethanol, is an immediately available but tragically underutilized alternative to oil-based fuels," Sen. Dayton said. "Increasing our use of these alternative fuels benefits our nation's farmers, our environment, our energy independence, and our rural economies. Biodiesel is key to our energy future."
 
 