PRESCRIPTION DRUG FIASCO
  Last year, I reluctantly voted against the final Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage bill, after I had earlier voted for the Senate-passed version. I did so, because I regretfully concluded that the bill might do more harm than good. I knew that it would not provide anywhere near the coverage and the financial relief that so many senior citizens desperately need. 
   Thus far, the new bill has been a failure. Absurdly, the actual program will not begin until January 2006. Until then, seniors and others on Medicare are supposed to benefit from drug discount cards, which are expected to provide savings of up to 25 percent.
   Instead, most seniors have received more confusion than cash! In Minnesota, there are reportedly 48 different Medicare-approved drug discount cards from which participants are allowed to choose only one. Consumers are stuck with that card for the rest of this year, even though the card's coverage and its discounts can change during that time. That is ridiculous!
   Imagine going into a restaurant and receiving a menu listing 48 different entr?es. After you make your selection, the waiter tells you that the meal you receive might be different from what you ordered, and its price might change too! However, you are not allowed to change your order!
   Government programs, like good restaurants, should benefit their customers. Unfortunately, these drug discount cards favor the providers, who can change their cards' coverage and discounts; however, consumers cannot change their cards! It is unfair and wrong!
   That is why I am introducing legislation, which I call the "Unshackle Seniors Act"! My bill would authorize senior citizens and others on Medicare to purchase as many drug discount cards, as they desire. They could also return any card, if its coverage or discounts change, and receive a full refund of any initial or annual fees.
   This is the second piece of legislation I have introduced to correct some of the deficiencies in last year's legislation. My other bill, the "Right Rx for Seniors Act" (S. 2487), would eliminate coverage gaps in the permanent program, which begins in January 2006. Senate bill 2487 also includes my "Taste of Our Own Medicine" amendment, which would prohibit Members of Congress from receiving prescription drug coverage any better than what they provide seniors and others through Medicare.
   Although my "Taste of Our Own Medicine" amendment was removed from the prescription drug bill that became law, I recently eliminated my own prescription drug coverage until January 2006, when the Medicare prescription drug benefit takes effect. If all Members of Congress were required to live with a drug discount card instead of their comprehensive coverage, I guarantee that they would be much more sensitive to the fiasco they have created and far more willing to do something about it!
   I am also cosponsoring legislation that would permit Americans to purchase lower priced prescription drugs abroad and bring them into the United States. By now, everyone is well aware that most prescription drugs are cheaper abroad than they are in the U.S. But seniors and others are currently not legally allowed to tap into that money-saving marketplace.
   Since 1988, drug reimportation has conveniently been allowed only for pharmaceutical manufacturers, permitting them to cheaply produce drugs abroad and reimport them to the U.S. - where prices are then significantly marked up. Last year, when we had the opportunity to rectify this inequity and make reimportation of prescription drugs available and legal for all Americans, pharmaceutical lobbyists went to work and made sure that the Administration and Congressional Leadership did not let that provision make it into the final prescription drug bill that narrowly passed Congress and became law last fall.
   Since then, the expressions of outrage by many voters have caused some Members of Congress to proclaim that they are now supporters of drug reimportation. It could be that they see an election looming! But I have yet to see Members of Congress undo something, even when it is obviously the right thing to do and is widely supported by the public; so I remain skeptical. Let's just say that "actions speak louder than words." Bipartisan legislation now before Congress, which I cosponsored, gives us a chance to make the recently passed prescription drug law a better piece of legislation for everyone - not just for pharmaceutical manufacturers.
   Minnesotans should not have to drive to Canada to save money on prescription drugs. The best source would be neighborhood pharmacies, throughout our state and our nation that could sell prescription drugs at prices comparable to those in the rest of the world. That solution, which is in the bipartisan bill I co-sponsored, would require a Congress and an Administration on the side of the American people, instead of on the side of the pharmaceutical industry. As we enter summer and the beginning of another election season, I remain hopeful but skeptical that Congress will reverse itself and do the right thing for Minnesota and for the rest of the country. I hope that this can be a first - after all, it is an election year!
 
 