SEN. DAYTON: BUDGET SHORTCHANGES VETERANS HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Mark Dayton today continued his fight to protect veterans from harmful new fees and co-payments and to boost the federal investment in veterans' care and services. Dayton cosponsored an amendment to the FY 2007 Budget Resolution, which would have increased funding for veterans healthcare by $1.5 billion. The measure failed today by a vote of 46-54. 
   "It is deplorable that, while thousands of our young men and women are serving our nation in Iraq, we are drastically cutting promised funding to our nation's veterans," said Dayton. "We need to fully support our men and women in uniform by providing them with the health care benefits they need after their military service. Our veterans deserve no less."
   Last month, President Bush submitted a Fiscal Year 2007 budget proposal that would double the cost of prescription drug co-payments and charge an annual enrollment fee for middle-income veterans. Both of these measures would apply only to Priority 7 and 8 veterans, whom the Administration has been billing as "higher-income." The reality is, however, that many of these veterans can be making as little as $26,902 per year.
   According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the President's plan would discourage more than 200,000 veterans from accessing care and would discourage another 1.1 million from enrolling in the VA healthcare system at all.
   "Why must this Administration continue to make it so hard for veterans to get the health care they need and deserve?" asked Dayton. "We support our troops, we support them in Iraq. Now we need to support them when they return home."
   The amendment would also address some of the biggest challenges facing America's veterans including transition assistance for Iraq and Afghanistan War veterans and increased assistance for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and other mental health challenges.
   Additionally, Dayton, along with 18 Senate colleagues, sent a letter last week to the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Committee on the Budget, urging them to reject the Administration's budget cuts for the health and well-being of America's veterans.
 
 