SEN. DAYTON HAILS PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION THAT PROMOTES RENEWABLE ENERGY
  Today Sen. Mark Dayton praised the Senate's passage of the JOBS Act, a bipartisan bill that includes several renewable energy provisions including tax incentives for the production of ethanol, biodiesel, and wind energy. The bill would also bring an end to European trade sanctions on some U.S. exports and encourage American manufactures to keep their jobs in the U.S. rather than ship them overseas. The bill now goes to the House of Representatives, which is considering its own version of the bill. 
   The bill includes a provision - originally developed by Dayton - which provides a tax credit to promote the production of biodiesel, which is a combination of diesel fuel and soyoil. 
   "The biodiesel tax incentive is win-win-win," Dayton said. "It will boost demand for biodiesel; it will promote a clean, renewable energy source; and, through increased prices for Minnesota's farmers, it will save the American taxpayer money in farm payments. America needs more renewable energy, and we need it now! I am very pleased that this important provision has been included in this legislation and is one step closer to passage."
   His support of the JOBS bill is the latest chapter in Dayton's long history of promoting renewable energy. The biodiesel tax incentive was one of the first pieces of legislation Dayton introduced after arriving in the Senate in 2001. The Senate's 2002 and 2003 Energy Bills included the biodiesel provisions, as well as a Dayton amendment which required the federal fleet to use biodiesel fuel whenever available. 
   In addition to the biodiesel tax credit, the JOBS Act includes the following energy provisions:
   Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit (VEETC). The JOBS Act repeals a provision in current law which penalizes Minnesota for our nation-leading levels of ethanol production. Eliminating the ethanol penalty will benefit Minnesota enormously, resulting in an additional $1.5 billion in highway funds over six years. 
   Extension of the Wind Power Production Tax Credit. The wind tax credit expired on December 31st; the JOBS Act extends the credit for an additional 10 years. This extension will not only benefit the environment, but will also help revitalize Minnesota's farm economy.
 
 