SEN. DAYTON EXPRESSES CONCERN OVER FDA CONFISCATION OF MEDICATIONS, BEING SHIPPED BY REPUTABLE CANADIAN PHARMACY TO MINNESOTA SENIORS
  Sen. Mark Dayton joined with Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-ND) in sending a letter to U.S Food and Drug Administration Acting Commissioner Lester M. Crawford, D.V.M., Ph.D., expressing concern about FDA's recent detainment of more than 300 packages of prescription drugs destined for 150 Minnesota seniors. The medicines, which were interrupted and held in Miami, were being shipped by a reputable Canadian pharmacy that has an established record of safely supplying thousands of American seniors with affordable medicines.  
   "Rather than scaring Minnesota seniors and taking their affordable prescription drugs, FDA should focus its resources on working with Congress to create legislation that would facilitate safe and legal drug importation," said Dayton. "We should be confiscating only those packages that come from unknown or questionable sources or contain suspicious substances, not medicines sent to America's seniors from reputable Canadian pharmacies."
   Dayton's Office has heard from more than two dozen Minnesota seniors whose medicines were included in the confiscated CanadaRX shipment. Below please find a sampling of the comments Dayton's office received:
   "I have no health insurance, and using CanadaRX cuts my prescription costs in half, which makes things a lot easier for me. Now I have had to get my prescriptions from my doctor, and they are almost twice as expensive." - Grand Rapids, MN
   "My prescriptions cost $7,000 per year in the U.S. and $3,500 per year in Canada. That is a significant savings for us. Since our medicines were seized, we have had to get prescriptions from our doctor, and they charge full price." - Goodland, MN
   "The detention of the drugs affects me physically. When I don't receive my medications, I can't sleep, and I can't work. The drug I take costs $3 per pill in the U.S. and $0.98 in Canada, and I take one per day." - Minneapolis, MN
 
 