SEN. DAYTON SENDS LETTER TO PRESIDENT URGING IMMEDIATE INVESTIGATION INTO FAILURE TO ORDER ARMOR FOR TROOPS
  Today Sen. Mark Dayton sent a letter to President Bush, urging him to immediately request an investigation into why the proper armor and equipment was not ordered and distributed to U.S. troops stationed overseas. Recent published reports, quote the manufacturers of armored vehicles and armor retrofit kits claiming that they have had the capacity to produce more of this equipment during the past year, but never received orders from military commanders to do so. Senator Dayton will be in Iraq over the holidays to meet with Minnesota troops and military leaders to discuss this problem further.  
   Please find the full text of Dayton's letter attached: 
   December 15, 2004 
   The President The White House Washington, DC 20050 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   During the past eighteen months, Senate Committee on Armed Services Chairman John Warner has held public hearings and non-public briefings on the shortages of armored vehicles for our military forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a member of the Committee, I have attended those meetings. 
   The most recent of them was a classified briefing, held on November 10th. Committee members repeatedly asked the presenting military officers and Pentagon officials whether everything possible was being done to retrofit unarmored vehicles already in Iraq and Afghanistan, and to produce new armored vehicles for those theaters. 
   Again and again, we were assured that everything possible was underway, and that Congress had provided all of the funding necessary to fill those terrible deficiencies as rapidly as possible. 
   Now, however, there are published reports, which quote the manufacturers of those armored vehicles and of the armor retrofit kits that they have had the capacities to produce more of them during the past year, but have not received the orders to do so. Those disclosures directly contradict what we had been told repeatedly by Department of Defense representatives during that time. Courageous American soldiers, who could have been protected if the additional orders had been placed, have been maimed or killed as a result of that negligence. 
   I respectfully urge you to order an immediate investigation into the disastrous failures to order and distribute the maximum possible numbers of armored vehicles and armor retrofit kits since the war in Iraq began. I also urge you to obtain the resignations of everyone responsible for those failures. 
   Sincerely, 
   Mark Dayton 
  United States Senator
 
 