SEN. DAYTON FIGHTS TO PROTECT PROGRAM THAT BOOSTS MINNESOTA MANUFACTURING WITHIN GLOBAL ECONOMY
  Sen. Mark Dayton today urged the Senate Appropriations Committee to increase funds for the Advance Technology Program (ATP), which sends funds to Minnesota manufacturers to develop breakthrough technologies crucial to giving the U.S. an edge in competition against foreign rivals. Dayton and his Senate colleagues from both political parties sent the Committee a letter requesting $146 million for the ATP in fiscal year 2006. The program received $136.5 million for Fiscal Year 2005. From 1990-2004, Minnesota received 22 ATP awards, totaling $62 million. The state ranks 11th in the nation in number of ATP grants received.  
   "Unfortunately, today, many Americans employed in manufacturing and technology are in danger of losing their jobs to less expensive, foreign competition," said Dayton. "The Advance Technology Program, which, in 2004 alone, brought $3 million to our state, is a vital part of keeping those high-quality jobs in Minnesota." 
   In previous years, the Minnesota manufacturing sector used ATP funds for a wide range of purposes. In 1994, Minnesota manufacturers developed a new polymer-film coating to replace paint on aircraft exteriors, which extends lifetimes and reduces maintenance. The film surpasses U.S. requirements on emissions, ozone-depleting chemicals, and generation of hazardous waste associated with aircraft stripping and painting operations. 
   Minnesota manufacturers have also used ATP funds to create better sensors and room motion detectors to safeguard American seniors from potentially hazardous situations in their homes. The sensors transmit a voice over a loud speaker, flash a message on the resident's television, and, in the most urgent cases, place a phone call to a neighbor. 
   Currently, there are just over 347,000 manufacturing jobs in Minnesota, accounting for 12.7 percent of all jobs in the state. Congress created the ATP in the late 1980s to enhance U.S. competitiveness by increasing development, commercialization, and application of promising technologies, and by improving manufacturing techniques of small and medium-sized manufacturers.
 
 