SEN. DAYTON CALLS FOR HEARING ON MERCURY'S IMPACT ON PUBLIC HEALTH
  Today, Sen. Mark Dayton joined with his Senate colleagues in sending a letter to the Democratic Policy Committee Chairman, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), requesting a hearing on the effects of mercury pollution on human health and the environment.  
   The Senators' action is in response to the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) final mercury rule, which fails to adequately protect public health. The new rule will establish a cap-and-trade system of negotiable pollution allowances for mercury, a known toxic pollutant. 
   Last July, Dayton invited Scott Sparlin, a sportfisherman from New Ulm, Minnesota, and also the Director of the New Ulm Area Sportfisherman, to testify before the Senate Democratic Policy Committee regarding the harmful effects of mercury on public health in the United States. Specifically, Sparlin described how many of Minnesota's lakes and rivers are under fish advisories and outlined the resulting impact on the state's fishing industry and entire economy. 
   "Minnesota is one of 48 states that has issued fish consumption advisories for mercury," said Dayton. "Once mercury reaches our waterways, it is highly toxic and builds up in the fish we eat. It is shameful that this Administration continues to ignore scientific facts and, instead, allows mercury pollution to jeopardize our health and way of life in Minnesota. Mercury emissions will continue to harm the environment and to endanger the health of children and pregnant women, until this Administration puts public health before politics." 
   Last week Dayton joined with several of his Senate colleagues in urging the EPA to strengthen its proposed rule on mercury emissions. The Senators cited new reports, from the EPA Inspector General (IG) and the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), which emphasize serious flaws in how the EPA analyzed the impacts of mercury on the health of children and women of childbearing age. In Minnesota alone, more than 5,000 babies are at risk of developing learning and behavioral disorders from exposure to mercury.
   Contact: Semonti Mustaphi, 202/228-3263. 
 
 