SEN. DAYTON AMENDMENT URGING PENTAGON TO HONOR REENLISTMENT BONUS PROMISE PASSES UNANIMOUSLY
  Sen. Mark Dayton, along with Sens. Patty Murray (D-WA) and Susan Collins (R-ME), introduced a Sense of the Senate resolution to the Defense Authorization bill (S. 1042), which calls on the Pentagon to keep its promise to pay reenlistment bonuses to some full-time members of the Army National Guard. The National Guard Bureau authorized the payment of reenlistment bonuses for mobilized Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) and Military Technicians (Dual Status), or MilTechs, of the Army National Guard in January. Many of the bonuses, meant to provide $15,000 to those who reenlisted for six years, remain unpaid. The resolution, which urges the DoD to immediately pay those soldiers as promised, passed as part the Defense Authorization bill by a vote of 98-0.  
   In April, the DoD ordered the bonuses to be stopped, claiming they duplicated other programs, therefore violating DoD policy. Due to multiple inquiries from Dayton, Murray, and Collins, however, the DoD has agreed to pay the bonuses to MilTechs; there has been no word as to the funds promised to AGRs. 
   In response to this amendment, the National Guard Bureau has reported that this issue is currently being resolved within the Department of Defense, with word that the Miltechs will be repaid. However, there has been no word on the reenlistment bonuses owed to the AGRs. 
   "This isn't about numbers," said Dayton. "It's about addressing the disparity in treatment between National Guard Reserve and their active-duty component. We want to make sure that all members of the military are treated equally, and that includes keeping our promises to them in terms of reenlistment bonuses." 
   AGRs are full-time members of the Selected Reserve who provide training and support to reserve units. AGRs typically qualify for active-duty reenlistment bonuses, which can be worth up to $60,000. However, the Army Guard authorized the $15,000 reserve bonuses to eligible AGRs. MilTechs are currently excluded from reenlistment bonuses because of their status as civilians. Since they are deployed with the units that they support, they argue that they should be paid the bonuses, as well. 
   The resolution also recognizes the important roles that AGRs and MilTechs play in the Armed Forces. 
   Dayton has been named as a Conferee on the Defense Authorization bill, along with all other members of the Senate Armed Services Committee. He will fight to keep this provision, and other important measures, in the final version of the bill.
 
 