SEN. DAYTON AMENDMENT TO PROVIDE $60 MILLION FOR MILITARY FAMILIES, NATIONAL GUARD SOLDIERS PASSES UNANIMOUSLY
  The U.S. Senate today approved the Defense Authorization bill (S. 1042), which includes an amendment offered by Sen. Mark Dayton that targets the needs of military families. Dayton's amendment authorizes $50 million in additional funds for child care for the families of Armed Forces members and $10 million for military Family Assistance Centers, which help military families with financial, legal, and other problems that arise from deployment. The Defense Authorization bill passed by a vote of 98-0.  
   "This funding is especially critical, because so many of these family members are being deployed for 12 or 18 months, leaving their spouses as single parents, financially strapped, needing to work and, therefore, needing quality child care more than ever before," said Dayton. 
   In September, Dayton offered a similar amendment to the FY 2006 Defense spending bill (H.R. 2863), which the Senate passed unanimously, adding $60 million to child care for families of the Armed Forces and military Family Assistance Centers. Some 38,000 military children currently do not have access to child care, due to the lack of available spaces, according to the Office of the Secretary of Defense. 
   Families in Minnesota pay some of the highest child care costs in the nation, up to $12,000 per year. This is a significant burden for families of military personnel, namely reservists and Guard members, who often take a significant pay cut when they are deployed. Family Assistance Centers are a crucial resource, particularly for the National Guard and reserve, whose members are sometimes given only a few days' notice to prepare for deployment. 
   Dayton has been named as a Conferee on the Defense Authorization bill, along with all other members of the Senate Armed Services Committee. He will fight to keep this provision, and other important measures, in the final version of the bill.
 
 