SEN. DAYTON FIGHTS TO PROTECT NORTHWEST AIRLINES FLIGHT ATTENDANT JOBS FROM OUTSOURCING
  Sen. Mark Dayton and 12 Senate colleagues today sent a letter to Doug Steenland, President and CEO of Northwest Airlines in Eagan, Minnesota, urging him to reconsider the proposal to replace American flight attendants with foreign workers on all international flights. The decision would cost a reported 2,600 American jobs and could affect air safety and security, since foreign flight attendants are not subject to the same security screening and background checks as American employees.  
   "I strongly urge Northwest Airlines to reconsider its proposal to replace flight attendants on international flights with foreign nationals," said Dayton. "Such a move could be devastating for the more than 2,500 Americans who would lose their livelihoods, and for their families, as well as for the safety of the flying public." 
   Karen Schultz, Communications Coordinator for the Professional Flight Attendants Association said, "The almost 10,000 NWA flight attendants, represented by the Professional Flight Attendants Association, are immensely grateful to Senator Dayton for his leadership in protecting American jobs and helping ensure the security of our airline and skies." 
   According to PFAA, NWA laid off 900 flight attendants on October 31st. Flight attendants have also taken $117 million in temporary pay cuts, approximately 30 percent per flight attendant. On January 17th, a New York bankruptcy court will begin to review the company's request to dismiss Northwest Airlines' existing union contracts. 
   Text of the Senators' letter to Doug Steenland is below: 
   December 16, 2005 
   Mr. Doug Steenland President and Chief Executive Officer Northwest Airlines 2700 Lone Oak Parkway, Department A1030 Eagan, Minnesota 55121 
   Dear Mr. Steenland: 
   We are writing to express our concern over recent reports of Northwest Airlines' intention to outsource flight attendant positions on international flights to foreign nationals. We strongly urge you not to transfer those U.S.-based, safety-critical flight attendant positions to other countries. 
   Implementation of this proposal would reportedly mean the loss of up to 2,600 U.S.-based flight attendant jobs with negotiated protections and benefits. In addition to the devastating effects those lay-offs would have on Northwest families, we are concerned about the impacts on the safety and security of the U.S. passenger aviation system. Post-9/11, it is critical that any flight attendants hired be properly subjected to meaningful security and background checks, as are conducted for all U.S. flight attendants. 
   We believe that retaining a U.S.-based flight crew will also help to ensure safe and effective communication between in-flight cabin crew and pilots in a serious in-flight emergency. 
   Again, we respectfully urge you keep these good jobs in the United States and not outsource them to other shores. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senator Mark Dayton (D-MN), Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Senator John Kerry (D-MA), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY), Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Senator Carl Levin (D-MI), Herb Kohl (D-WI), Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR), Senator Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Senator Daniel Akaka (D-HI), and Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD).
 
 