SEN. DAYTON PUSHES FOR EXPANDED USE OF E-85 PUMPS
  In an effort to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil, Sen. Mark Dayton (D-MN) today introduced legislation that would expand the use of renewable fuel pumps at retail and federal fleet gas stations. Renewable fuels, like E-85, are cheaper and American-made from corn and other crops. Dayton's bill, the Renewable Fuels Promotion Act, would prohibit reported tactics by oil companies to limit or block the installation of these renewable fuel pumps at retail gas stations. 
   "We must stop the ban on renewable fuel pumps at local gas stations, so that cheaper alternatives to gasoline, like E-85, are available to consumers," Dayton said.
   Although auto manufacturers are selling more "flex-fuel" cars and trucks, which can either use renewable fuel or petroleum, less than one percent of the nation's gas stations provide E-85. Renewable fuels have been around for years, but there are reports that most oil companies prohibit franchise gas stations from installing renewable fuel pumps, or they are only allowed to if the pumps are outside the canopy bearing the company name, making the pumps either inconvenient for the customer to use or too costly for the gas station owner to install. Dayton's bill would make those oil company directives illegal.
   Dayton's bill also demands that the federal government do more to meet its own mandate to use less gasoline by installing a renewable fuel pump at every federal fleet fueling station.
   According to the Department of Energy, many of the "flex-fuel" vehicles the federal government has bought in recent years are still operating on gasoline. This is in direct conflict with a 2000 Executive Order that requires the federal fleet to reduce its petroleum use by 20 percent. The federal fleet has cut it down by only 0.6 percent.
   Part of the problem may be the lack of access to renewable fuels at federal fleet stations. Only 40 of them provide E-85, and there is no known effort by this Administration to increase that number.
   "How can the American people believe that the Administration is serious about energy independence when it won't even invest in enough renewable fuel for the federal government's fleets?" Dayton said.
   Summary of the Dayton Renewable Fuels Promotion Act:
   * Bans existing or future oil company directives or franchise contract provisions that prohibit installation of renewable fuel pumps anywhere on the gas station premises.
   * Requires every federal fleet fueling station to make available at least one renewable fuel pump and authorizes the funds to install them.
   * Requires the President to report to Congress at the end of each fiscal year its progress in complying with: the bill's federal fleet renewable fuel pump mandate; the 2000 Executive Order that mandated a 20 percent reduction in petroleum consumption; and the 1992 Energy Policy Act requirement that 75 percent of all new federal fleet vehicle purchases be alternative fuel vehicles.
 
 