SEN. DAYTON PUSHES TO RESTORE $1.6 BILLION IN GRANTS FOR LOCAL FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sen. Mark Dayton voted late yesterday in support of an amendment, which he cosponsored, that would have restored $1.6 billion in funds for first responders. The President proposed sweeping cuts to numerous first-responder programs including the Byrne Grant Program which helps local law enforcement combat the manufacture and use of meth; the COPS grant program which fosters community policing activities; and the Firefighter Assistance Grants Program on which fire departments rely to buy new equipment. The amendment failed in a vote of 46-54.  
   "Every day, Minnesota's police officers and law enforcement officials emphasize how important federal funding is for programs like Byrne Grants and COPS," said Dayton. "This funding is crucial to fighting the meth plague that is infiltrating our communities; yet, the President insists on cutting this support. I will continue to fight to restore the funding that our law enforcement agencies so desperately need." 
   The amendment would have provided: 
   $537 million to the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program to help local law enforcement to combat the use of meth and intervene in meth-related situations. The President's budget provides no funding for this program. In 2003, more than 500 meth labs or dumping sites were discovered in Minnesota, nearly three times the number found in 2000. Last year, Minnesota received $8.2 million to deal with the methamphetamine problem. 
   $485 million to the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Grant Program to help police departments and local communities hire more law enforcement officers and acquire new technology. The President's budget cut the program by 96 percent, or $477 million. Since 1994, when the COPS program was created, over $120 million in COPS grant have been awarded to law enforcement agencies in Minnesota, and over 1,400 additional police officers and sheriff's deputies were hired for community policing and crime prevention activities. 
   $226 million to the Firefighter Assistance Grants Program to help fire departments hire additional personnel, buy new fire trucks, radios, and other equipment, and establish general fire-prevention programs. The President's budget cut the program by 30 percent. Last year, Minnesota received $17 million from this program. 
   $298 million to the State Homeland Security Grant Program and $79 million to the Urban Area Security Initiative Program to make up for the cuts that the President has proposed to last year's funding levels.
   Contact: Semonti Mustaphi, 202/228-3263.
 
 