SEN. DAYTON SECURES OVER $45 MILLION FOR MINNESOTA FLOOD CONTROL, CONSERVATION PROJECTS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today secured $45.8 million in federal funds for Minnesota flood control and environmental conservation projects. The projects are included in the final FY2006 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act (H.R.2419), which passed the Senate today by a vote of 84 to 4. The bill will now go to the White House for the President's signature.  
   Said Dayton: "Many Minnesotans have been devastated in recent years by severe flooding. This funding is critically important to protect their communities from future destruction." 
   The following projects receive funding in the FY 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. 
   $40 million for East Grand Forks/Grand Forks flood control. The funding that Dayton secured will be used to construct levees and a floodwall, forming three "rings" of flood protection around both communities. Additionally, funds will be used to help stabilize an existing dam, to remove a former railroad bridge, and to construct a new diversion channel. $1,125,000 for Red River of the North flood control in Breckenridge. The City of Breckenridge's current flood control plan, as recommended by the Army Corps of Engineers, consists of a high-flow diversion channel located to the north of the Ottertail River and entering into the Red River (Stage 1) and two separable permanent levee reaches to protect all of Breckenridge (Stage 2). This funding will be used to repay the debt incurred by Breckenridge when constructing the Stage 1 diversion channel and to design and begin construction of the Stage 2 levees. 
   $658,000 for Montevideo ongoing flood control. Montevideo, located at the confluence of the Chippewa and Minnesota Rivers, is often subject to severe flooding. The funding that Dayton secured will be used to begin construction of a flood barrier to protect the 1969 Levee and Highway 212 areas, which are most at-risk for floods. 
   $119,000 for Roseau ongoing flood control. The funding will be used to complete a feasibility study of flood control measures, as determined by the Army Corps of Engineers. The study will determine the most cost-effective flood plan for the city of Roseau. 
   $100,000 for Wildrice Watershed ongoing flood control in Ada. The funding will be used to complete a study to determine the feasibility of permanent flood control measures along the banks of the watershed. The feasibility study began after the city of Ada suffered severe flooding in 1997 and again in 2002. 
   $60,000 for Red Lake River ongoing flood control in Crookston. The funding will be used for the pre-design, design, and construction of emergency riverbank protections and erosion control measures for the safety of residential and commercial areas. 
   $1,225,000 for Mille Lacs Regional Wastewater Facility Tie Line and Connectors Project. The funding will be used to install trunk mains, tie lines, and sewer mains to connect the Mille Lacs Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant to the surrounding localities--completing the final phase of the project. Once installed, these will allow the treatment plant to operate at full capacity, thus eliminating its reliance on the area's patchwork of septic tanks and the Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe Reservation's overloaded lagoon system. The system will also protect local drinking water supplies. 
   $1,125,000 for Laurentian Energy Authority Biomass Project in Virginia. This project seeks to apply the science of biomass--creating energy from plant materials--to existing power plants. When completed, the project will produce renewable steam energy for 3,600 municipal customers, while creating 150 new jobs. The funding that Dayton secured will support the 640 acres of plantations and nurseries that are used to create this energy. 
   $1,000,000 for the Augsburg College Center for the Natural and Behavioral Sciences and Mathematics in Minneapolis. The funding will be used to further plan an advanced science education center for all students, regardless of major, at Augsburg College. Once completed, the Center will provide more space for student-faculty research and better-equipped teaching labs. $250,000 for Big Bend Church Emergency Streambank or Shoreline Protection Project in Hagen. The erosion of soil along the streambank of the Chippewa River threatens to jeopardize numerous grave sites. The funds secured by Senator Dayton will be used to stabilize the eroding streambank, preventing the graves from falling into the Chippewa River. 
   $500,000 for the Minnesota Center for Renewable Energy at Minnesota West Community and Technical College and Minnesota State University in Mankato. The funding will support wind energy research, to reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil through the development of renewable fuels. The funds will also be used to provide professional training for personnel in the ethanol production and wind energy fields. 
   $250,000 for the Science Center at Maltby Nature Preserve in Cannon Falls. The Preserve is a non-profit organization that provides science education for students in preschool through grade 12. The funding that Dayton secured will be used to construct the first phase of a new Visitors' Center. $300,000 for Minnehaha Creek Painter Creek Watershed Feasibility Study in Minneapolis. The funding will be used to complete the federal investigation, started in 2003, of the Painter Creek watershed section of Minnehaha Creek. The study will determine projects, to be completed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, which would benefit the creek's aquatic ecosystem. $80,000 for the Minnesota River Basin, Blue Earth River Ecosystem Restoration Feasibility Study. The funding will be used to conduct a thorough environmental assessment of the Blue Earth River, which may result in the removal of the Rapidan Dam. The study will examine the environmental, economic, social, and engineering considerations of two options: rehabilitating the dam and removing it. Both options would include ecosystem enhancements for the reservoir and flowage lands.
 
 