SEN. DAYTON: CONGRESS TURNS ITS BACK ON LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
  Sen. Mark Dayton denounced passage of a spending bill Wednesday night that guts local law enforcement grant programs that help fund the fight against the methamphetamine scourge that has gripped the Midwest. The final version of the 2006 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations bill (H.R.2862) slashes the Byrne-Justice Assistant Grant program from $900 million to $416 million, which is 34 percent less than the previous year. Dayton voted against the bill, which passed the Senate by a vote of 94 to 5.  
   Dayton, a longtime advocate for this funding, had offered an amendment with Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and others to restore the funding in the original Senate bill, from $625 million to the 2003 level of $900 million. The amendment, which had the support of major law enforcement groups, passed unanimously. Dayton said the final version of CJS bill deals a double blow to state and local law enforcement. 
   "That money is seriously needed, and the Senate increased funding for Byrne. For it to come out of Conference with a 1/3 reduction from the previous year is just shameful and unfortunately, you cannot amend the Conference Report. This drastic unwarranted action against local law enforcement is disgraceful." 
   The Byrne Grant program targets the demand and supply of illegal drugs, including methamphetamine, by allowing local law enforcement agencies to acquire new personnel, equipment, training, technical assistance, and information systems. It also helps fund the state's 21 regional drug task forces, which target the epidemic of meth trafficking and production. This year, Byrne provided $7.5 million to Minnesota; the 34 percent cut will likely be reflected in the amount MN receives for FY 2006. Rural communities are especially dependent upon Byrne Grants; over 75 percent of all meth labs in Minnesota are located in rural or semi-rural areas. 
   The cuts to the program began earlier this year, when the President requested no funding for Byrne grants. The House spending bill included only $348 million for the Byrne grant program. 
   "Here we have an Administration and a House that preaches national security but won't fund it at home. It's an Administration that preaches the war against terrorism but won't fund the war against drug dealing and drug pushing terrorists on our streets and in our schools. How mistaken, how shortsighted, how wrong-directed can anyone be?" Dayton said. 
   Also cut were local grants under the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. COPS was cut one-third from $606 million to $416 million, with no money for hiring additional law enforcement agents, which was the original purpose of the grant program. 
   The Dayton amendment was supported by the Minnesota Sheriffs Association and the Minnesota Police and Peace Officers Association, as well as several national law enforcement organizations, including the Fraternal Order of Police.
 
 