SEN. DAYTON JOINS COLLEAGUES IN URGING ADMINISTRATION TO TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTION TO CURB GLOBAL MERCURY POLLUTION
  A bipartisan group of nine Senators, including Sen. Mark Dayton, today introduced a Senate resolution which urges the Bush Administration to take the lead on collaborating with international partners to swiftly reduce global mercury pollution and mercury use. The Senators are calling on the Administration to present, at the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Governing Council meeting next week, a comprehensive strategy to produce a binding international agreement for the global reduction of mercury pollution.  
   The UNEP considers countries' recommendations for international agreements to limit mercury use, trade, mining, and pollution. To date, the Bush Administration has taken no position on any potential treaty. 
   "Minnesota is one of 48 states that has issued fish consumption advisories for mercury," said Dayton. "Once mercury reaches our waterways, it is highly toxic and builds up in the fish we eat. It is shameful that this Administration continues to ignore scientific facts, and instead allows mercury pollution to jeopardize our health and way of life in Minnesota. Mercury emissions will continue to harm the environment and to endanger the health of children and pregnant women, until this Administration puts public health before politics. 
   "We need an international reduction plan that will be comprehensive, sensible, and feasible to protect America's families, as well as families across the globe, by substantially reducing the threat mercury poses to our health." 
   The Senators introducing the resolution include: Mark Dayton, James Jeffords (I-VT), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Susan Collins (R-ME), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ). 
   In particular, the Senators advocate development of a U.S. strategy which would lead to international negotiations on a binding agreement for mercury reduction. Such an agreement would call for all nations which contribute significantly to the global pollution problem to share responsibility for corrective action. Since mercury pollution can travel the globe, international cooperation is vital to protecting public health and the environment.
 
 