SEN. DAYTON PUSHES FOR GREATER USE OF ETHANOL, BIODIESEL IN NATION'S GASOLINE
  Today, Sen. Mark Dayton joined with a bipartisan group of his Senate colleagues to introduce the Renewable Fuels Standard bill, which would double - to at least eight billion gallons per year - the amount of ethanol and biodiesel in the nation's fuel supply, by 2012. Minnesota, one of the nation's leading producers of corn-based ethanol, stands to benefit greatly from this legislation, which would help create new jobs and increase sales for this local, billion-dollar industry.  
   "Right now, Minnesota is the only state that requires every gallon of regular gasoline to contain at least 10 percent ethanol," said Dayton. "Rural Minnesota communities are thriving because of ethanol production. This Renewable Fuels Standard would be a boon to local economies, creating jobs, increasing the tax base, and improving prices for corn. 
   "The federal government needs to take whatever actions are necessary to increase the use of alternative fuels, such as ethanol. Widespread use of ethanol and soy-diesel would help to reduce the United States' dependence on foreign oil and to promote investment in rural communities across the country." 
   Under the legislation introduced today, the minimum of renewable fuel levels would increase over seven years, beginning with four billion gallons per year in 2006, and rising to eight billion gallons per year in 2012.
   Dayton noted that many of the new biofuels plants will be farmer-owned entities, bringing tremendous added value to rural economies. According to a recent study, each ethanol plant built in the United States creates 700 jobs, expanding the local economy by over $140 million, and increasing the local corn price by five to ten cents a bushel. In 2004, Minnesota's 13 operating ethanol plants provided 5,300 jobs and a total economic impact to the state in excess of $580 million. 
   Dayton continues to be a leader in the push toward increased production and use of ethanol and biodiesel. Just last week, he introduced the Freedom from Foreign Oil Act of 2005, a bill which would require that any vehicle produced after the model year 2007 be equipped with a flexible fuel engine, to be able to operate on both gasoline and alternative fuels.
   Contact: Erin Utzinger, 202224-2333. 
 
 