SEN. DAYTON CRITICIZES REPUBLICAN SENATE LEADERSHIP'S RUSH TO SEND MEMBERS HOME WITH ABUNDANCE OF ESSENTIAL BUSINESS LEFT UNDONE
  Today Sen. Mark Dayton called on Senate Republican Leader Bill Frist to have the Senate remain in session until more of Congress' pending business is complete. The Senate has several important projects, including the much-anticipated completion of the Energy Bill, Transportation Authorization, intelligence reform legislation, and Cabinet member confirmation hearings, which will remain unfinished this legislative session if the Senate rushes to adjournment at the end of the week.  
   "We shouldn't be rushing out of town," said Dayton. "There is a war going on, we have not passed a Transportation Authorization Bill and we need to hold confirmation hearings on several vacant seats in the President's Cabinet. We shouldn't make the Administration sit in limbo until we return in January."
   The full text of Dayton's letter to Senator Frist is below.
   November 17, 2004
   The Honorable Bill Frist
  Majority Leader
  United States Senate
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Mr. Leader:
   I am dismayed by the apparent rush to conclude Senate work so quickly and adjourn with important legislation left unfinished. We are evidently scheduled to vote this afternoon on an enormous increase in the federal debt limit, without adequate explanation or even a reliable forecast of when that new limit will be exceeded.
   Similarly, nine separate appropriations bills are reportedly being hastily thrown together into one omnibus measure, which will total some $388 billion. We will then be required to vote this enormous expenditure either up or down, without sufficient time to examine it, much less discuss it.
   Other important legislation which, I am told, will be left unfinished includes:
   * the six-year Transportation Authorization legislation
   * Energy legislation
   * a Constitutional amendment to prohibit the burning or desecration of the American flag
   * possibly, intelligence reform legislation
   The Transportation Bill, which the Senate passed last March, would provide Minnesota with over $2.2 billion more for essential highway construction projects during the next six years. Due to the opposition of the House Leadership and the Administration, conferees were unable to reach agreement before the recent elections. Surely, this post-election environment would be an optimal time to resolve those differences in the best interests of our nation's transportation infrastructure. We need to pass this important legislation before adjourning, so that Minnesota and other states can plan for next year's highway-improvement projects.
   The Senate-passed Energy Bill is of similar importance to Minnesota, and the Constitutional amendment to prohibit the burning or desecration of the flag is of great importance to the entire country, as is Intelligence reform.
   In addition, necessary Senate Committees should swiftly hold confirmation hearings on
   Dr. Condoleezza Rice, President Bush's nominee for Secretary of State, and on Mr. Alberto Gonzales, the President's nominee for Attorney General. If, as I assume, the Committees approve those nominations, the Senate should vote upon them before our adjournment this year, to give the President and the American people their deserved continuity in our leadership.
   Mr. Leader, the American people elected all of us to complete this legislative agenda, and they are paying us full-time salaries to do so. It would be a violation of their trust and our responsibilities to adjourn before this and any other important, unfinished Senate business is completed.
   Sincerely,
   Mark Dayton.
   cc: The Honorable Tom Daschle
  Democratic Leader.
 
 