SENS. FRIST, REID, COLEMAN, DAYTON LEAD BIPARTISAN DRIVE ON CAPITOL HILL TO ASSIST IN RESTORING THAI FISHING ECONOMY DEVASTATED BY TSUNAMI
  A Dear Colleague letter is being sent around Senate offices authored by Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN), Harry Reid (D-NV), Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Mark Dayton (D-MN) urging senators and staff to assist in restoring the Thai fishing economy through the Minneapolis based American Refugee Committee's Fishing Boat Project, which is helping replace fishing boats in Thailand destroyed by the Tsunami.  
   Fishing is a major component of the Thai economy. With many of the fishing boats destroyed by the December Tsunami and that nation too impoverished to help replace them, thousands of fisherman are without work and unable to feed and cloth their families. Replacing the fishing boats will help Thailand begin its long term economic recovery. 
   ARC's Fishing Boat Project is seeking to raise enough money to replace the fishing boats in 13 coastal villages in Thailand. Replacing a single boat by itself costs only $500. With nets and other fishing supplies, the total cost of each boat is around $1,000. With the replenishment of as few as 200 boats, it is estimated that more than one quarter of the entire fleet lost in Thailand to the Tsunami could be replaced. 
   "The tsunami shattered the lives of thousands of people, leaving behind broken communities whose economic infrastructure was literally washed into the sea," said Senator Frist. "This is a critical step towards rebuilding the lives of those who were most affected by this unprecedented natural disaster. By aiding in the restoration of these fleets, we can empower communities with the ability to sustain themselves and help restore economic vitality to this devastated region." 
   "In today's world, there is no such thing as an isolated event," Senator Reid, the Senate Democratic Leader, said. "We are all connected like never before. We are all affected by this catastrophic loss. We all share the anguish of the mothers who have lost a child, and we feel the bewilderment and fear of a child who has lost her parents. And we all want to help. Through our response to this tragedy, we have an opportunity and an obligation to show the people in the affected region and the world that the United States cares; that our great military strength is matched by our compassion; and that our penchant to help those in need knows no color, no race, no religion or creed. Americans have shown overwhelming generosity and this Fishing Boat Project is one more way we can help." 
   "I know I speak for all Minnesotans when I say that the humanitarian tragedy caused by the tsunamis broke my heart and left me resolute to do something to help," Coleman said. "There are many worthy ways America can come to the aid of those still suffering from the tsunamis, but I think one especially direct way we can help is to assist in restoring the Thai fishing industry, a major component of that nation's economy and the source of livelihood for thousands of families there. We can do that through the Fishing Boat Project, which by replacing boats destroyed by the waves allows families to once again put food on the table and feed themselves." 
   "The Minnesota-based American Refuge Committee is one of the world's best disaster relief organizations," said Dayton. "I am very pleased to work with the Senate Leadership and with Senator Coleman to help ARC replace the fishing boats in Thailand which were destroyed by the recent tsunami. I thank all Minnesotans who are working for or contributing to helping the victims of this terrible disaster." 
   The American Refugee Committee (ARC) based in Minneapolis, Minnesota works for the survival, health and well being of refugees, displaced people, and those at risk, enabling them to rebuild productive lives of dignity and purpose, striving always to respect their values. More information on the ARC can be found at www.archq.org.
 
 