SEN. DAYTON, BIPARTISAN GROUP OF SENATORS PUSH TO GIVE GAS STATIONS E85 TAX CREDITS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today joined with nine of his colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter to Treasury Secretary John Snow, urging him to quickly implement a tax credit for gas station owners who install or convert existing gas pumps to E-85 pumps. The credit would give the owners more incentive to install E-85 pumps and, in turn, provide more motorists with flexible-fuel vehicles the chance to use low-cost ethanol.  
   Dayton cosponsored the Alternative Fuels Infrastructure Tax Credit, which Senator Obama (D-IL) offered as an amendment to the Energy Bill (H.R. 6) that passed Congress last August. It gives gas station owners a tax credit of 30%, up to $30,000, of the cost of installing an E85 pump or converting an existing pump to be used for E85. 
   "The sooner the IRS implements Senator Obama's important tax credit legislation, the sooner motorists across the country can start to feel relief at the gas pump," said Dayton. 
   Minnesota currently has 142 E-85 fueling stations, nearly half the country's total. Of the over five million flexible-fuel vehicles on America's roads, only an estimated 50,000 have ever been fueled with E-85, largely because E85 is not yet widely available or well-known to drivers. 
   To make motorists aware that their vehicles can use the low-cost ethanol, Dayton introduced legislation to display decals on the gas tanks and windshields of E-85 compatible vehicles, showing their capability for running on alternative fuel. Last July, Congress passed a similar version of Dayton's E-85 labeling amendment in the Energy Bill. 
   Text of the letter to Secretary Snow is below: 
   January 18, 2006 
   The Honorable John W. Snow 
   Secretary 
   United States Department of the Treasury 
   1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Room 3134 
   Washington, D.C. 20220 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   We are writing to urge swift implementation by the Internal Revenue Service of the Alternative Fuels Infrastructure Tax Credit that was included in the recently enacted Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   The demand for greater access to alternative fuels such as E-85 ethanol and B20 biodiesel has increased significantly among the American public in recent months. Given that this tax credit became effective for properties placed into service January 1, 2006, we urge you to issue preliminary guidance or rulemaking on this new provision as soon as possible. Many stakeholders, including fuel station owners and feedstock suppliers, require certainty for business planning purposes and will benefit from expedited guidance from the Internal Revenue Service regarding this tax credit. 
   We appreciate your assistance with this matter and request a briefing with your staff on this issue and to answer additional questions that we have. Thank you for your attention to this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senators Barack Obama (D-IL), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Evan Bayh (D-IL), Dick Lugar (R-IL), Jim Talent (R-MO), Ken Salazar (D-CO), and Sam Brownback (R-KA).
 
 