SEN. DAYTON LAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF STEM CELL LEGISLATION
  Together with his Senate colleagues, Sen. Mark Dayton today approved legislation (63 to 37) to increase the number of human stem cells eligible for federally-funded medical research. Scientists say current limitations on this promising form of research, imposed by the Bush Administration in 2001, could be impeding the development of new, lifesaving treatments. The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R.810) lifts a ban on federally funded research of new stem cells, derived from embryos at fertility clinics that would otherwise be destroyed. The measure, approved by the House in May, now heads to the President, who has vowed to veto the bill. 
   "This legislation opens the door to new cures and treatments for devastating diseases, such as diabetes, epilepsy, and Alzheimer's, while it also protects the sanctity of human life," said Dayton. "I applaud the Senate's bipartisan effort to put medical fact ahead of political rhetoric, ultimately leaving medical decisions in the hands of doctors and ethicists, not politicians."
   On August 9, 2001, the Bush Administration implemented a policy that only those stem cells already in existence would be eligible for federally-funded research. While the President said that 78 embryonic stem cell lines would qualify, the actual number now available to scientists is only 21.
   Today's bill directs the Department of Health and Human Services to conduct and support research on new stem cells--consistent with strict ethical guidelines--derived from frozen embryos at fertility clinics, which would never be implanted in a woman and would otherwise be destroyed. The measure requires embryo donors to provide their informed consent in writing, and prohibits donors from receiving any financial compensation.
   Dayton has also signed a bipartisan letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, urging him to meet with the Speaker of the House to stress the importance of the stem cell bill and the need to secure enough votes (a 2/3 majority is required) to override the President's veto. The letter also asks the Majority Leader to secure the necessary votes from Senate Republicans, should the Senate be given the opportunity to override the veto.
   More than 150 national medical associations, research centers, and universities have expressed strong support for the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. Among the strongest advocates is the University of Minnesota, which, in 1999, established the world's first interdisciplinary institute dedicated to stem cell research.
 
 