SEN. DAYTON SECURES OVER $12.3 MILLION FOR MINNESOTA TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING PROJECTS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today secured $12.325 million in federal funds for Minnesota transportation and housing projects. The projects are included in the final FY2006 Transportation Appropriations bill, which is expected to pass the Senate today. The $137.6 billion appropriations bill provides federal funding for roads, transit, and housing.  
   "Our state's highways, bridges, mass transit systems, and rail lines are in terrible condition and are getting worse every day," said Dayton. "It is imperative that we start searching for a large-scale, statewide solution to Minnesota's current transportation crisis and that we provide the necessary funding to get improvement projects under way. 
   "I have spent the last year fighting for these funds, which are desperately needed to rebuild and expand our current system to meet our state's growing needs." 
   The following projects receive funding in the FY 2006 Transportation Appropriations bill. 
   $2 million for the Central Corridor. The Central Corridor is the 11-mile link that connects St. Paul, Minneapolis, and the University of Minnesota. This funding will support preliminary engineering for either light rail or bus rapid transit in the corridor. 
   $2 million for the Northstar Corridor Commuter Rail Project. Funding will be used for Phase I (40 miles) of the 82-mile commuter rail corridor from downtown Minneapolis to Big Lake, as well as for the connection to the Hiawatha Light Rail Transit line in downtown Minneapolis. 
   $1 million for Trunk Highway 610/10. Funding will be used to complete the 4.5-mile segment of the highway that runs between Brooklyn Park and Maple Grove, which will help reduce congestion, spur economic growth, and address safety concerns. 
   $1 million for Trunk Highway 23. Funding will be used to construct a 4-lane highway around the City of Paynesville, which would help spur economic growth. 
   $1 million for Greater Minnesota Transit Capital. Funds will be used to purchase new buses and for the construction of transit facilities in Greater Minnesota. 
   $1 million for I-35W Bus Rapid Transit, 46th Street Transit Station. Funds will be used to construct the 46th St. Transit Station along I-35W. 
   $750,000 for Cedar Avenue Bus Rapid Transit Capital. Funding will be used for bus rapid transit facilities, including transit hubs, park and ride facilities, and dedicated bus shoulders from 251st Street in Lakeville to the Mall of America in Bloomington. 
   $500,000 for rehabilitation of the Minnesota Valley Regional Rail Authority railroad track. The funds will be used to upgrade a section of the 94.3 mile long short-line railroad in southwestern Minnesota. 
   $500,000 for Terminal Pavement/Aprons Project at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. Funds will be used for pavement/apron construction and ancillary facilities, for the multi-gate expansion of the Hubert H. Humphrey Terminal. 
   $250,000 for the Pelzer Street Reconstruction. Funding will be used to expand Pelzer Street from two to four lanes and to construct a highway bridge over the Canadian Pacific Railroad. 
   $50,000 for the University Enterprise Labs (UEL) Bus Stop, on the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Transitway. Funding will be used to construct a transit stop with full passenger amenities, shelters, lighting and full disability access, on the University of Minnesota campus. 
   $500,000 for Hennepin County Community Works. The goal of the Hennepin Community Works program is to build livable communities using public infrastructure and transit investments. The continued availability of this funding is critical if Hennepin County is to continue the development of new models for interactive planning between communities and public agencies focused on investments in transit, parks and open space, and traditional infrastructure programs. 
   $500,000 for the Minneapolis American Indian Center. Funds will be used for the renovation and rehabilitation of the Minneapolis American Indian Center facility at 1530 Franklin Avenue. The project will provide long-overdue maintenance to the facility and greater energy efficiency. 
   $300,000 for construction of a Community Activity Center for seniors in Mora, which will be an affordable housing development for seniors who are considered very low income. The activity/social center for area seniors will include a large dining area of 3,000 square feet to use for the daily lunch program for all seniors, bingo and card games, and for special programs. The facility will also include a small meeting room and nursing room where volunteers will provide blood pressure checks, hearing tests, exercises, counseling, social interaction and meeting area for transportation by mini-bus to local shopping and doctors. 
   $300,000 for Supportive Housing for Homeless Youth. Funding will support services for homeless children and teens. Homeless youth with mental illness and chemical dependency have the potential to become homeless adults, requiring emergency services and various types of intervention their entire lives at great cost to state, local, and federal governments. Early intervention can be effective in diverting this population from lives of homelessness. 
   $275,000 for the Northside Residents Redevelopment Council in Minneapolis for construction of multi-use facilities. 
   $200,000 for the Material Recovery/Waste to Energy Facility in Lamberton. Funding will be used to further develop waste processing and recycling to produce renewable energy in the form of steam. Solid waste may be collected from up to nine counties in Southwest/South central Minnesota. 
   $200,000 for the Chicanos Latinos Unidos En Servicio (CLUES) in St. Paul. Funding will be used to construct a 20,123 square foot, two-story office building to provide employment, education, mental health, and chemical health services.
 
 