SEN. DAYTON SECURES $18.3 MILLION FOR MINNESOTA MILITARY, VETERANS PROGRAMS
  Sen. Mark Dayton, who sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee, today secured $18.3 million in federal funds for Minnesota's service members. The funding, which is part of the final Senate Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006, is expected to pass the Senate Friday and be sent to the President soon.  
   The funds include $6.5 million for the 148th Fighter Wing of the Duluth Air National Guard Base, to be used to complete the next phase of a fire station that will serve both the Duluth International Airport and the Guard Station. Since Dayton's election to the Senate in 2000, he has delivered over $40 million to the Duluth Air National Guard Base. 
   "The Duluth Air National Guard Base is vital to our national defense," said Dayton. "I have made its renovations a top priority during my four and a half years on the Senate Armed Services Committee. I am extremely pleased by the approval of these funds to continue construction of a new fire station, which will serve both the Guard's base and the Duluth International Airport." 
   The $6.5 million will finance an addition to the Joint FAA/Air National Guard Fire Station Facility, currently under construction, to provide space for all fire operations at the airfield. The new addition will include a control room, training and administrative spaces, facilities for personnel who are on call for 24/7 operations, and eight apparatus bays. Upon completion of the new Air National Guard Fire Station Facility, the existing old "main fire station" will be used to support the organization's security forces squadron. 
   Major General Larry Shellito, Adjutant General of the Minnesota National Guard, said, "Congress' support of our expanded fire fighting facility at the 148th Fighter Wing is great news! The project will not only benefit the Minnesota Air National Guard, but also the Duluth community since the Air Guard provides emergency service support for the Duluth International Airport." 
   The additional funding secured by Senator Dayton went to the Minneapolis-St. Paul National Airport Composite Maintenance Complex with $8.8 million, and the remaining $3 million to the Air Force Reserve Minneapolis-St. Paul Airport Joint Use Small Arms Range. The project for this funding represents a significant savings opportunity for several key national security assets. The 934th Airlift Wing, 133rd Airlift Wing, DHS, TSA, US Marshals and the Secret Service will no longer need to spend operational dollars to rent out county facilities in the Minneapolis/St. Paul area to maintain firearms proficiency.
 
 