SEN. DAYTON MEASURE TO CLOSE TAX LOOPHOLE ON CORPORATE JETS PASSES SENATE
  The U.S. Senate late Thursday night unanimously passed a measure by Sen. Mark Dayton to force executives to pay taxes on the real value of their personal travel on corporate jets versus the artificially low rates they pay now. Currently, the excessive personal use of private corporate jets costs company shareholders and American taxpayers millions of dollars each year. Dayton's amendment to the Tax Reconciliation bill (S.2020) closes this loophole for executive personal travel. It would raise $95 million in federal tax revenues over the next ten years.  
   Speaking from the Senate floor last night, Dayton said: "Working men and women have to value their benefits properly for tax purposes, and they get penalized if they don't. Certainly, the wealthiest people in America should also have to value their luxury perks properly." 
   Dayton's amendment was in response to a recent Wall Street Journal article (10/1/05) that detailed the practice of using corporate jets for personal recreation, largely untaxed. For example, according to the article, one C.E.O. made eight weekend round-trips last winter on company jets from his Pittsburgh office to his $5 million home in Naples, Fla., where he played golf at his private club. 
   "If the directors and shareholders of that company want to provide that personal luxury perk to an executive already paid $4 million a year, I guess that's their business," said Dayton. "But these executives should pay taxes on what are clearly personal benefits. And they should pay taxes on the actual values of those benefits, not on some artificially low fictional cost." 
   The way the current regulations work: companies usually cover the costs of personal travel on corporate jets for CEOs and other executives, although those executives are required to pay some taxes on those trips. However, under current IRS regulations, companies are not required to factor the added expenses of travel, such as crew salaries, maintenance charges, and the purchase price of the plane. Thus, executives pay taxes on only a fraction of the actual costs of their personal travel. Dayton's amendment closes this loophole.
 
 