SEN. DAYTON URGES FIX FOR TEMPORARY WORKER VISA PROGRAM, CRUCIAL TO NORTHERN MINNESOTA COMPANIES
  Today, Sen. Mark Dayton joined with a bipartisan group of his Senate colleagues to support an amendment to the Iraq/Afghanistan Supplemental Appropriations bill that would address shortages in seasonal workers. The amendment passed the Senate 94-6.  
   Many northern Minnesota employers who rely on temporary and seasonal help suffer employee shortages, due to the limited availability of H-2B temporary visas by the time summer arrives. Seeking to hire short-term employees in the summer for jobs that are difficult to fill with American workers, these businesses have been unable to attain the appropriate visas because applications from other states earlier in the year had already exceeded the national cap. This legislation would exempt foreign workers from the H-2B visa cap, if they have played by the rules in the past. 
   "It is extremely important for Congress to recognize the unique circumstances of U.S. employers along the Canadian border," said Dayton. "Minnesota companies are committed to hiring qualified American workers; however, in many sparsely populated regions in the northern part of our state, those workers simply do not exist. To stay in business, many Minnesota employers are left with no choice but to rely on temporary workers from Canada. If those seasonal workers were not able to return to those companies, it could have a lasting, damaging effect on the economy and communities in northern Minnesota." 
   The legislation, which would be in effect only during the next two years, is intended to be a short-term solution to the H-2B visa shortage. More comprehensive reforms to immigration law are anticipated to fix the long-term problem. 
   Ever since the visa shortage was first recognized in early 2004, Dayton has urged his Senate colleagues to address the situation and, thus, provide immediate relief to Minnesota's manufacturing, tourism, construction, and forestry industries.
 
 