SEN. DAYTON BLASTS EPA AT SENATE HEARING ON MERCURY EMISSIONS; NEW RULE FAILS TO PROTECT PUBLIC HEALTH
  Sen. Mark Dayton spoke out against the actions of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at today's Democratic Policy Committee hearing on the EPA's recent mercury emission rule. On March 15, 2005, the EPA created the final mercury rule, which establishes a cap-and-trade system of negotiable mercury pollution allowances. In Minnesota alone, more than 5,000 babies are at risk of developing learning and behavioral disorders from exposure to mercury, a known toxic pollutant.  
   Last month, Dayton joined with his Senate colleagues in sending a letter to the Democratic Policy Committee Chairman, Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND), to request the hearing. The Senators' action is in response to allegations that the EPA omitted from public documents key studies, which showed the health benefits of mercury reductions to be far greater than those reported by the EPA. Both the EPA's Inspector General and the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office have criticized the methodology behind the new mercury rule, which fails to adequately protect public health. 
   "Putting polluters ahead of people is incomprehensible," said Dayton. "There is absolutely no benefit to the people of Minnesota by delaying action on the mercury rule. Our state presently has a fish consumption advisory that warns pregnant women and children to limit their intake of fish from our state's lakes and rivers. The solution should not be to avoid eating fish. The solution is adequate regulations." 
   In July, 2004, Dayton invited Scott Sparlin of New Ulm, Director of the New Ulm Area Sportfisherman, to testify before the Senate Democratic Policy Committee regarding the harmful effects of mercury on public health in the United States. Specifically, Sparlin described how many of Minnesota's lakes and rivers are under fish advisories and outlined the resulting impact on the state's fishing industry and entire economy.
 
 