SEN. DAYTON SCORES OVER $24 MILLION FOR ROSEAU FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION IN SENATE-PASSED WATER RESOURCES BILL
  To help the community continue its recovery from devastating floods, Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that he has secured $24,420,000 for the City of Roseau. The funding was approved as part of the Water Resources Development Act (S.728), which passed the Senate today. 
   "Citizens and businesses in Roseau are still recovering from the 2002 flood, which ravaged more than 80 percent of the city," said Dayton. "While I am pleased to have secured this urgently needed funding, it is not enough. There is a pressing need for permanent flood control in the Red River Valley, and I will continue to fight for it."
   Due to Roseau's flat geography, the city is highly vulnerable to flood damage. Once waters exceed the banks of the Roseau River, often caused by melting snow in the spring, flooding can span out for miles. Over the past 10 years, the City of Roseau has fought eight major floods, most recently in 2006.
   The city currently relies on a series of temporary emergency levees, which, in the past, have been only moderately effective. The city's most devastating flood, in June of 2002, overflowed the city's emergency levee system and flooded most of the area. All of the structures in town, with the exception of the high school and several manufacturing buildings, were damaged or destroyed. An estimated $50 million in damages occurred to city and hospital buildings, streets, and public utilities. More than 50 homes, many owned by low-income families, had to be demolished. The Roseau County Museum, Interpretive Center, City Hall, and Library also needed to be demolished. Total damages caused by the June, 2002 flood have been estimated at more than $120 million.
   Additionally, Dayton announced $9,000,000 in the Water Resource Development Act for the Duluth Harbor. The funding will be used to expand public access and recreational facilities, including parking facilities, pedestrian walkways, and boating and fishing access facilities.
 
 