SEN. DAYTON: ST. PAUL PUBLIC SCHOOLS TO RECEIVE OVER $200K FOR REFUGEE ADULT EDUCATION PROGRAM
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that St. Paul Public Schools will receive $209,676 in federal funding under the Unanticipated Arrivals Program. The funding, administered by the Department of Health and Human Service's Office of Refugee Resettlement, will be used to provide immigrants and refugees with adult educational services including basic literacy, English for non-native English speakers, and high school equivalency/adult diploma programs.  
   "I am delighted that this federal funding will help St. Paul Public Schools continue their efforts to assist newly arrived refugees," said Dayton. "Education is critical in helping newcomers better prepare to become self-sufficient citizens in our communities." 
   "St. Paul Public Schools play a vital role in educating newcomers to the country arriving in St. Paul," said Willie Nesbit, Executive Director of Community Education for Saint Paul Public Schools. "It's imperative they have access to educational services to develop language skills, obtain high school graduation certification, and help them become productive members of the workforce. This money goes a long way toward helping us cover the costs associated with educating an unexpectedly large number of newcomers needing our services this year." 
   The Unanticipated Arrivals Grant Program provides additional resources to communities where the arrival of refugees is unexpected. The program is also available for communities that are unable to provide adequate or appropriate services. 
   The Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) assists refugees and other special populations in obtaining economic and social self-sufficiency in the United States. ORR oversees several programs which assist refugees in integrating in the United States; provides aid to victims of torture and trafficking; and helps care for and place unaccompanied alien children in appropriate settings.
 
 