SEN. DAYTON DEFENDS DECISION TO CLOSE CAPITOL HILL SENATE OFFICE
  Your Dayton's Account - Closure of My Washington, D.C. Office
   I understand the heavy criticism I have received in Minnesota for my decision to close my Capitol Hill Senate office. The threats there look very different from 1000 miles away. We all want to believe that the terrorist atrocities of September 11, 2001 were once-in-our-lifetimes exceptions to the historic rule of our national invulnerability from enemy attacks. I, too, hope and pray that belief will prove true. However, I am not willing to bet the lives of the young people who work for me on a hope. 
   Last June 9th, just four months ago, the Capitol complex was evacuated for the third time during my four years in the Senate. (The first two were on 9/11 and a few weeks later, when letters containing the lethal biological agent, anthrax, were sent to two Senators' offices.) Last June, a private airplane without an identifying transponder entered Washington's restricted airspace. Despite the additional protections and precautions established after 9/11, this airplane was not detected or intercepted by air defenses. Capitol police told people in the Capitol to take off their shoes and run for their lives, because they believed the plane would strike the building in less than a minute.
   Fortunately, the plane was not an enemy attack. However, it was a grim reminder of the continuing vulnerability of our nation's Capitol. The 9/11 Commission determined that the fourth airplane hijacked on that terrible day was headed to strike the Capitol, until it was brought down in Pennsylvania by the heroism of Minnesota native, Thomas Burnett, Jr., and other passengers. They saved many lives that day by their incredible courage. Yet, almost three years later, no one stood between an unauthorized airplane and possible disaster.
   Three months later, Senate Republican Leader, Bill Frist, brought to Senators' attention a top-secret Intelligence Report, which an officer of the Senate called "the most declarative statement" he had seen from the national intelligence community in his thirty years in intelligence and law enforcement. While no one can predict the future, and this document did not purport to do so, it raised the specter of an unacceptable threat prior to our national election.
   Two weeks ago, CNN reported that Al Qaeda's number two operative issued a statement on his Islamic website, calling for attacks on United States and British interests. His similar proclamation preceded Al Qaeda's bombings in Madrid, just before Spain's election.
   Meanwhile, Senator Frist closed down, or adjourned, the Senate. We are scheduled to return two weeks after the election to complete our unfinished business. Most Senators, including myself, work in their home states during Senate recesses, leaving their Washington staffs in their Capitol Hill offices.
   I felt it would be irresponsible and immoral for me to leave Washington for the relative safety of Minnesota and leave my staff exposed to a very serious threat, of which they were unaware. Minnesotans, who would visit my office, would also be unknowingly exposed to what I consider a real and unacceptably high risk.
   Some have said, from their own safety many miles from Washington, that my action sends the wrong "message." My staff are not messages. They are people, named Jack, Chris, and Laura. Their lives are precious, and they are my responsibility.
   If Senators believed it necessary to send a message to Al Qaeda, the nation, or the world, we should have remained in session and in Washington ourselves through the election. We have plenty of unfinished work, including energy and highway funding bills. Leaders lead from in front during times of danger, not from the rear.
   During this time, my Senate operations will continue uninterrupted. Telephone calls are being forwarded to my main Minnesota office in the Fort Snelling federal building, where much of my constituent service work normally occurs. Many members of my Washington staff are Minnesotans, who will return home temporarily to work in the Fort Snelling office. Others will continue to work off Capitol Hill. There will be no additional cost to taxpayers from this temporary relocation.
   I hope and pray that my precaution proves unnecessary. If so, I will accept the judgments made with perfect hindsight. I know that if I had left my staff exposed to danger, I could not have faced them, their families, or myself.
 
 