SEN. DAYTON INTRODUCES ANTI-GAS PRICE-GOUGING BILL
  Sen. Mark Dayton today introduced legislation to protect Americans from steep oil and gas price increases during national emergencies. The Oil and Gas Price Gouging Prevention Act of 2005 would make it a felony to raise oil or gas prices by more than 15 percent during natural disasters and other emergencies, and would give the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and states attorneys general the authority to prosecute violators. In Minnesota, gas prices rose by 46 cents per gallon, or 18 percent, in the three-day period from August 29 to September 1, following Hurricane Katrina's landfall.  
   Speaking from today's Democratic Policy Committee oversight hearing on gas prices, Dayton said: "I propose legislation that has been introduced that would go after this price-gouging matter and give the federal government authority to investigate and then to prosecute these instances of price-gouging. This is legalized stealing. This is immoral, and it should be illegal. And, unfortunately, right now, under federal law, it's not." 
   Dayton's anti-gas price-gouging provisions would go into effect upon the declaration of a major disaster or emergency, designated by the President. The legislation creates an exception--therefore, the FTC would not prosecute--cases in which a price increase is directly attributable to additional costs incurred by the seller. Dayton's bill would also require the Energy Information Administration to update its website daily with average gas prices for major metro areas in every state, allowing consumers to monitor gas price trends throughout the country. 
   Earlier this month, Dayton urged Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to investigate price-gouging at the pump following Hurricane Katrina. In his letter, the Senator cited President Bush's remarks from September 1, 2005: "There ought to be zero tolerance of people breaking the law during an emergency such as [Hurricane Katrina], whether it be looting, or price-gouging at the gasoline pump, or taking advantage of charitable giving, or insurance fraud." Wrote Dayton: "I agree with the President, and I urge your Department to investigate the sudden increase in gasoline prices in Minnesota and elsewhere in the country."
 
 