SEN. DAYTON: WHITE BEAR LAKE FIRE DEPARTMENT AWARDED $60,000
  Sen. Mark Dayton announced today that $60,000 is coming to the White Bear Lake Fire Department to purchase Stove Top Fire Stop automatic fire extinguishers. The funds are being awarded through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).  
   "I am delighted that $60,000 in federal funding is coming to the White Bear Lake Fire Department," said Dayton. "The extinguishers will help vulnerable residents safeguard against a fire occurring in their home." 
   "The number one cause of structural fires in our district over the past 10 years has been stove top fires," said Tim Vadnais, Fire Chief City of White Bear Lake. "This project will go a long way toward reducing dollar loss and increasing life safety in our community." 
   The fire extinguishers will be targeted toward the 2,200 seniors living independently in the White Bear Lake community and to the 800 high risk apartment units in the city. The extinguishers use a magnet to mount underneath the vent hood of stoves. When a cooking fire grows out of control the Stove Stop Fire Stop extinguisher will discharge and extinguish the fire. When the extinguisher is discharged, a 146-decibel alarm is also triggered to alert the residents. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is conducted under the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness, in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The program awards grants on a competitive basis directly to local rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States to prepare for emergencies and acts of terrorism. 
   Due to the additional burden on local agencies since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, many Minnesota fire departments rely on funds from FIRE Act and state formula grants to hire additional personnel, buy new fire trucks, radios, and other equipment, and establish general fire-prevention programs.
 
 