SEN. DAYTON JOINS COLLEAGUES IN CALLING FOR FARMERS' DISASTER ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Mark Dayton today joined six of his Democratic colleagues at a press conference to call for nationwide disaster assistance for farmers, who have suffered devastating losses this year from the recent hurricanes and other natural disasters. This year in Minnesota, severe storms and flooding in the northwest have resulted in substantial crop and livestock losses, while record-breaking drought impacted other parts of the state. Congress has not funded a nationwide program of agricultural disaster assistance for FY2006.  
   "Whether it's a house in New Orleans or a flooded farm in Minnesota, a disaster feels the same to people," said Dayton at the press conference. "The federal government needs to step in and help all Americans affected by natural disasters." 
   In September, Dayton offered the Permanent Emergency Agricultural Assistance Act (S.1776), originally introduced in the House by Representative Collin Peterson (D-7th MN), which would have created a permanent program of agricultural assistance to replace the current system, in which Congress must approve disaster relief funds for farmers piecemeal, each year. Also in September, Dayton cosponsored a measure introduced by Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) that would have compensated farmers nationwide for crop and livestock losses this year. 
   Seventeen Minnesota counties are currently designated as primary disaster areas by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), due to storms, flooding, and draught, with their 28 neighboring counties designated as contiguous disaster areas. Prior to Hurricane Katrina, 40 percent of all the counties in the U.S. had already been designated as disaster areas by the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture. Currently, those counties are eligible for low-interest loans from USDA, but are not entitled to any federal compensation for their losses, because Congress has not funded a nationwide program of agricultural disaster assistance. 
   Also attending today's press conference were Senators Richard Durbin (D-IL), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Barack Obama (D-IL), Blanche Lincoln (D-AK), Ken Salazar (D-CO), and Max Baucus (D-MT).
 
 