SEN. DAYTON URGES SECRETARY RICE TO PROTECT HMONG IN LAOS FROM HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES
  Today, Sen. Mark Dayton and two of his Senate colleagues, Herb Kohl (D-WI) and Russell Feingold (D-WI), sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging her to immediately deploy an independent intermediary, such as a delegation from a diplomatic organization, to monitor the Lao government's treatment of Hmong refugees emerging from the jungle. It is estimated that thousands of Hmong, many of whom aided the U.S. government during the Vietnam War, have been hiding in the jungle for decades, to escape government persecution.  
   "I want to do everything we can to ensure the safety of the Hmong in Laos," said Dayton. "American intervention is essential to ensuring the humane treatment of these refugees and the Lao government's respect for international law." 
   Several media organizations have reported that the Hmong emerging from the jungle are being jailed or killed, including women and children. The Hmong who remain in the jungle are at high risk for starvation, as the Lao government has cut off their food supplies. 
   The full text of Dayton's letter is below. 
   June 20, 2005 
   The Honorable Condoleezza Rice 
  The Secretary of State 
  United States Department of State 
  2201 C Street, N.W. 
  Washington, D.C. 20520 
   Dear Madam Secretary: 
   We are writing to reiterate our concerns about the alleged human rights abuses against the ethnic Hmong in the jungles of Laos and to ask for an independent monitoring mechanism to report on the status of the Hmong people. We are pleased by news reports that 170 men, women, and children, who recently emerged from the jungles, have been treated humanely but we remain concerned about the welfare of those still in the Special Zone. 
   As allies of the United States during the Vietnam War, the Hmong were trained by the Central Service Agency to assist American troop operations covertly in Laos. Many risked their lives to rescue downed American pilots and assisted U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy air strikes by reporting enemy positions and convoys. We are greatly indebted to these heroic people for their contributions to the United States during the Vietnam War. Moreover, we, as a nation dedicated to the advancement of human rights worldwide, must commit attention to these allegations of abuse. 
   In the last two years, Amnesty International, Times Asia, the San Francisco Chronicle, and the British Broadcasting Corporation have all reported on the dire situation of the Hmong and the deaths of innocent civilians in Laos. The reports allege that the Hmong are slowly starving. Some reports state that the Lao military have blocked access to the food supply and have used food as a weapon of war, essentially forcing the Hmong to choose between starvation and emerging from the jungles without any assurances that they will be treated humanely by the Lao government. Though certain Hmong groups have expressed their willingness to come out of hiding, they fear that they will be harmed or sent to re-education prisons. We hope that the Lao government's appropriate treatment of the 170 recently emerged Hmong will be replicated, and we believe that international monitoring of this situation is essential. 
   In light of the seriousness of the plight of the Hmong people, we respectfully request the establishment of a reliable, independent monitoring mechanism that has the confidence of the United States government, access to the jungles of Laos, particularly the Special Zone, and the ability to assess whether the Hmong emerging from those areas are treated humanely by the Lao government. As some of these Hmong groups have completely exhausted their natural food supplies in the mountains, your expediency in this matter would be greatly appreciated. 
   Sincerely, 
   Mark Dayton 
  Russell Feingold 
  Herb Kohl
 
 