SEN. DAYTON FIGHTS TO PROTECT MINNESOTA DAIRY FARMERS FROM TRADE LOOPHOLE
  Sen. Mark Dayton yesterday joined with a bipartisan group of his Senate colleagues to introduce the Milk Import Tariff Equity Act (S. 1417), to stop importers of foreign dairy products from getting around U.S. trade laws. Dayton said rapidly increasing numbers of unfair imports are flooding the American market and pushing dairy prices down for U.S. producers. The Milk Import Tariff Equity Act would stop the importation of certain dairy products that have been slightly altered to get around U.S. tariff quotas.  
   Currently, milk protein concentrate (MPC), casein, and ultra-filtered (UF) milk products are not subject to the same quotas as other dairy products. Foreign exporters exploit this loophole by blending previously processed dairy proteins with nonfat dry milk to boost its protein content, so that it qualifies as milk protein concentrate. The resulting dairy blends are being imported into the U.S. market in ever-increasing amounts, displacing sales of domestic dairy products and lowering prices for U.S. dairy farmers. 
   "It is critically important to pass this legislation now, before MPC imports drive even more Minnesota dairy producers out of business," said Dayton. "The huge increase in imported MPC violates the intent of the previous trade agreements. For too long, U.S. trade officials have done nothing to challenge these violations, which have become more widespread. It's time the federal government stood up for Minnesota farmers, business owners, and workers. This bill would do that." 
   Under current law, MPC imports are not limited by international trade agreements. Though they do not qualify as milk under the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's guidelines, casein, MPC, and UF products are also used in the production of standardized, American cheeses. 
   Senator Larry Craig (R-I.D.) is the original sponsor of the legislation. In addition to Dayton, the original cosponsors of S. 1417 include Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.), Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), Tim Johnson (D-S.D.), and Arlen Spector (R-P.A.).
   Contact: Colleen Murray, 202/224-2333.
 
 