SEN. DAYTON: NEARLY $14 MILLION TO MINNESOTA FOR TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING INITIATIVES
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that the Senate Committee on Appropriations has approved $13.82 million in federal funding for transportation, housing, cultural heritage, and social service initiatives throughout Minnesota. Dayton, who pressed for the funding, said it has been approved by the committee, as part of the fiscal year 2007 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. The bill will soon go to the full Senate for consideration.
   "As the population of Minnesota continues to grow, meeting our state's expanding transportation needs becomes more important to our economy and to the safety of travelers," said Dayton. "These funds will help communities relieve congestion, spur economic development, and provide safer and more efficient transportation for residents and visitors alike." 
   Dayton secured a total of $12.8 million for the following Minnesota transportation projects:
   $3.7 million for Cedar Avenue Bus Rapid Transit, Phase 1, Dakota County The Cedar Avenue Corridor Transitway extends from the Mall of America transit station in Bloomington to 215th Street in Lakeville, one of the fastest growing corridors in the Twin Cities. Funding will be used for final design and construction of bus shoulders. The project is key to ensuring mobility in Dakota County and maintaining commuting times at acceptable levels.
   $2 million for Trunk Highway 14 from Waseca to Owatonna Funding will be used to expand US Trunk Highway 14, from West of Waseca to Owatonna. The project goals include: expanding from 2-lanes to 4-lanes, constructing a bypass of Waseca, and interchanges and bridges at select locations, including I-35 at Owatonna.
   $2 million for Minnesota Valley Regional Rail Authority Rehabilitation (MVRRA) Funding will support the 94.7 miles of railroad track that runs through Carver, Sibley, Renville, Redwood, and Yellow Medicine Counties. The project will spur economic development throughout the five counties, including 15 communities, and for all the shippers who have direct and indirect access to the line. Funding will be used to rehab the existing rail.
   $1.35 million for Central Corridor Transitway The Central Corridor is in an area of redevelopment in St. Paul and the site of a potential Light Rail Transit link, between Minneapolis, the University of Minnesota, and St. Paul. Funds will be used for engineering oversight and community outreach on development issues of the project.
   $1 million for Glencoe Railroad Congestion Mitigation Project Funding will support the construction of four siding tracks to accommodate the anticipated amount of rail car maneuvering and switching operations at a new facility. Constructing this new facility will provide congestion relief for residents in St. Louis Park, Hopkins, Minnetonka and Glencoe.
   $1 million for Trunk Highway 610, from Trunk Highway 169 in Brooklyn Park to Interstate 94 in Maple Grove Funding will be used to continue construction of Trunk Highway 610 from Trunk Highway 169 to Interstate 94.
   $1 million for Northstar Rail The Northstar Corridor Rail Project is a 40-mile commuter rail line from Big Lake to downtown Minneapolis. Funding will be used to construct stations and maintenance facilities.
   $777,709 for Thief River Falls Airport Funding will be used to construct a new commercial hanger at the Thief River Falls Regional Airport. Currently, all commercial freight is loaded and unloaded outside, in the elements, regardless of the weather. The Thief River Falls Regional Airport provides commercial service to northwestern Minnesota businesses and citizens.
   Additionally, the bill includes $1 million in Dayton housing and social service initiatives:
   $200,000 for Minnesota Housing Finance for Homeless This initiative aims to curb long-term homelessness in the area by 2010, and provides housing for at least eight long-term homeless families and individuals at a time. Residents are offered supportive services to stabilize their lives and reduce use of emergency services.
   $200,000 for Healing Spirit House in Minneapolis Healing Spirit House provides a parenting program, a family violence counseling program, a food shelf specializing in nutrition and diabetes prevention, a youth mentoring and tutoring program with a teen pregnancy prevention component for American Indian children. Funding will be used to construct a home for American Indian foster children.
   $200,000 for Lao Cultural Center in Minneapolis The funding will allow the organization to continue helping Lao children and youth succeed in school and stay out of the criminal justice system. The funding will support much needed repairs and renovations to the Lao Cultural Center Building, including: sealing leaks in the roof; replacement of heaters; upgrades to bathrooms, the kitchen, classrooms and gathering spaces.
   $200,000 for Mesabi Academy of KidsPeace in Buhl Funding will be used to renovate the Therapeutic Programming Center, which will includes three multi-use group rooms for issue-specific group therapy. Children residing and receiving care at Mesabi Academy will be able to participate in small therapy groups, focusing on such clinical needs as chemical dependency, sexual issues, and cognitive behavioral restructuring.
   $200,000 for Sheriffs Youth Program in Dodge County Funding will support construction of a new facility in Dodge County and a permanent facility for its substance abuse treatment program.
 
 