SEN. DAYTON SECURES OVER $26 MILLION FOR MINNESOTA DEFENSE INITIATIVES
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that he has secured $26.8 million for Minnesota-based defense initiatives. The funds were approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee, as part of the FY 2007 Department of Defense Appropriations bill, which will soon go to the full Senate. 
   "Minnesota companies continue to play a key role in forging America's military preeminence, and this year's Defense Appropriations bill will continue their strong involvement," said Dayton. "The spending bill also includes funding for the Minnesota National Guard Counter Drug Program which provides training and assistance to local law enforcement."
   Among the initiatives and projects for which Dayton secured funding include:
   $8 million to Minnesota Thermal Science's Golden Hour Technology in Baxter, to help fund blood bag transport, which preserves replacement blood under extreme weather conditions for soldiers on the battlefield.
   $4 million to Pemstar, Inc. in Rochester, to develop Land Warrior, an integrated fighting system to assist ground troops.
   $4 million to Lockheed Martin's Common Submarine Radio Room in Eagan, to assist the U.S. Navy in developing a submarine radio room, which will provide the navy with technologically advanced war fighting communications capabilities.
   $2.9 million to Third Wave System's Advanced Modeling Technology for Large Structure Titanium Machining in Minneapolis, to allow this small Minnesota company to use advanced technology in modeling titanium parts for ground military vehicles, which will save the military time and money.
   $2.4 million to Gradient Technology in Elk River, for gun propellant demilitarization technology, which will assist in safely disposing unneeded gun propellants.
   $2 million to the University of Minnesota's National Hypersonic Research Centers in Minneapolis, to develop a research center to expand the scope in designing the next generation of hypersonic vehicles, which have the ability to react quickly to global threats.
   $2 million to Honeywell's IMU Production Facility in Roseville, to ensure that the continued production of navigation and control devices for precision-guided munitions are available in a time of war.
   $1.5 million for the Minnesota National Guard's Counter Drug Program to work with local law enforcement, first responders and teachers to combat drug abuse in Minnesota.
 
 