SEN. DAYTON, MAYO CLINIC, ROCHESTER COALITION PUBLICLY CALL DAKOTA, MINNESOTA, EASTERN RAILROAD SAFETY RECORD INTO QUESTION
  Led by Mayo Clinic C.E.O. Dr. Glenn Forbes, Sen. Mark Dayton today joined members of the Rochester Coalition and other Mayo representatives at a press conference to discuss the Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern (DM&E) Railroad's safety record and the threat posed to communities along the railroad's proposed expanded line. Dayton also expressed his concern and frustration on the floor of the Senate. 
   "According to a report released today by the Mayo Clinic, but using public, factual information, DM&E has one of the very worst safety records in the entire U.S. railroad industry," said Dayton. "In fact, last summer, Mr. Kevin Shieffer, President and CEO of DM&E's parent company, told DM&E employees, in their newsletter, 'We have a very poor safety record.'"
   Over the past four years, DM&E has led the nation for its class in railroad accidents, with a total of 256 accidents. In fact, since 2000, DM&E has had train accidents at a rate that is 7.5 times the national average, according to the report, based on statistics from the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA). In July of 2004, in Minnesota, about 100 people had to be evacuated after a hazardous material spill occurred during a DM&E accident in Balaton.
   According to the Mayo Clinic's report, the FRA found "numerous problems with management and implementation of DM&E's safety program," and identified issues with track maintenance, employee training, bridge inspections, and highway-rail grade crossing warning systems. In the past six years, 17 people have been killed, and 98 have been injured, in 227 DM&E accidents at rail crossings.
   Representatives of Mayo Clinic and Rochester, together with Dayton, today highlighted their concerns about DM&E's questionable safety record and what this could mean for residents of Rochester and other Minnesota cities, should the railroad expand.
   The DM&E Railroad has requested a $2.5 billion federal loan, which would be funded by taxpayers, to expand the railroad from Wyoming to Winona, Minnesota. The DM&E proposal projects as many as 34 or more 1.5-mile-long coal trains per day, plus other freight trains with unrestricted cargo, traveling at street level through the heart of Rochester. Trains would pass alongside residential housing, senior centers, businesses, and multiple health care facilities, including Mayo Clinic.
   Participants in today's press conference include:
   * Dr. Glenn Forbes, CEO, Mayo Clinic Rochester 
   * Lawrence Mann, national rail safety expert, Alper & Mann, P.C.
   * Steve Ryan, legal counsel for Mayo Clinic and the Rochester Coalition, Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP
 
 