SEN. DAYTON: SENATE APPROVES OVER $15 MILLION IN MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FUNDS FOR MINNESOTA
  Sen. Mark Dayton announced today that the Senate unanimously approved legislation which would provide $15.45 million in federal funds for the Duluth International Airport and the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. Dayton, a Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, secured these funds as part of the FY 2005 Military Construction Appropriations bill.  
   "I'm happy to report that the Senate-passed version of the Appropriations bill included funding for the Duluth Air National Guard base," said Dayton. "In order for our armed forces to remain the world's leading military power, we must continue to provide our soldiers with the resources and facilities they need to get their job done." 
   Under the Senate bill, the Duluth Air National Guard base would receive $10.5 million for crew quarters, entrance road relocation, taxiway rehabilitation, and other facility improvements.
   Minnesota would also receive $4.95 million for the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport Air Force Reserve Unit. These funds would be used for a Joint Security Forces Operation Center which, once completed, would serve as headquarters for all security operations in the Twin Cities, including Minnesota's Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, Army Reserve, and Naval Reserve personnel.
   "As a Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I fought hard to secure these funds to build a central facility, which is essential for our military to perform effectively and efficiently," Dayton remarked.
   Vice Commander of the 934th Airlift Wing, Colonel Stephen J. DeWerff, said, "The 934th Airlift Wing is very thankful for all the support we have received from both Houses of Congress on this much-needed facility. We look forward to using the new Joint Security Forces Operations Center to better protect and serve the good folks of the United States of America."
   The Military Construction Appropriations bill will now move to a Conference committee, where Congressional negotiators will reconcile the differences between the Senate and the House versions of the bill.
 
 