SEN. DAYTON: IRAQ SPENDING BILL FAILS TO SUPPORT VETERANS
  Today, Sen. Mark Dayton voted in favor of legislation to send additional funds to troops stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan, but he criticized the bill's severe lack of funding for veterans' benefits. The Iraq Supplemental Appropriations bill (H.R. 1268) passed by a vote of 99-0.  
   Last week, Dayton voted in favor of an amendment (S.Amdt. 344) to the Supplemental Appropriations bill, which would have provided the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs with $1.9 billion in emergency funding. The amendment failed on a party line vote of 46 to 54. 
   "I have supported and will continue to support any measure that provides our troops with the resources they need to be successful. However, it is absolutely outrageous that we are not providing these brave men and women with quality health care once they return home from their devoted service to our country. It is astonishing that Republicans do not recognize this as an emergency," said Dayton. "It is an emergency to the Minneapolis VA Medical Center, which has been designated as one of the primary recipients for those soldiers most severely injured returning from the war in Iraq, and yet has received absolutely no additional resources to treat those veterans. 
   "It seems incredible to me that people can say that they support our troops, as we all do, and yet those same people oppose providing soldiers, some of whom have returned home with life-altering physical and mental health problems, with the resources necessary to resume healthy and normal lives. 
   Senate Amendment 344, introduced by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), would have helped local veterans' facilities to cover budget shortfalls, purchase much-needed equipment, and make necessary capital improvements, and would have expanded mental health care services for servicemembers. This year, both the Minneapolis VA Medical Center and the St. Cloud VA Medical Center are running budget shortfalls of nearly $7 million and $4 million, respectively.
   Contact: Semonti Mustaphi, 202/228-3263.
 
 