SEN. DAYTON: BUDGET BILL SLASHES HEALTH CARE, FATTENS WEALTHY WALLETS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today voted against the Budget Reconciliation bill (S. 1932), which will make drastic cuts to the Medicaid program, as well as to social services, education, and farm programs, compromising the quality of health care available to Minnesota's neediest families. Overall, the bill will result in over $40 billion in cuts to services necessary to the livelihood of millions of Americans. The measure passed by a vote of 51-50, with Vice President Dick Cheney casting the tie-breaking vote.  
   "Once again, the Congressional Leadership has failed the American people," said Dayton. "Such drastic funding cuts to agricultural programs and low-income health care assistance, and the unprecedented cuts to student loan programs are unfair and unwarranted - particularly in light of the major tax cuts for top-income earners, for which Republicans continue to push." 
   According to the Minnesota Department of Human Services, Minnesota could lose more than $120 million per year in federal funding for social services provided to eligible Medicaid beneficiaries. This will result in the neediest Americans' losing access to critical medical, social, and educational services, targeted to high-need Medicaid beneficiary groups, including those with mental illnesses and physical disabilities, abused and neglected children, and low-income families. 
   Earlier this month, the Association of Minnesota Counties, which represents all 87 counties in Minnesota, expressed concern about the harmful cuts to social service block grants, foster care, and targeted case management programs. 
   The final version of the budget bill, which includes over $16 billion in cuts related to cost-sharing and benefit reductions for Medicaid beneficiaries over ten years, would adversely impact the ability of families to see their doctors. In many cases, Medicaid offers the only opportunity for the least fortunate Americans to obtain health coverage. 
   Farm programs will also take a $2.7 billion cut in the final version of the bill. Emergency farm payments to dairy farmers under the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program will be reduced by nearly 25 percent, and agricultural conservation programs will be cut by nearly $1 billion. 
   The bill will also cut student loan programs by $12.7 billion - the largest cut in U.S. history.
 
 