SEN. DAYTON MEETS WITH 2,600 NATIONAL GUARD SOLDIERS STATIONED AT CAMP SHELBY, MISS.
  Sen. Mark Dayton spent the weekend with 2,600 members of Minnesota's National Guard stationed at Camp Shelby, Mississippi. The Guard team will be deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom this spring, the largest Minnesota Guard deployment since the Korean War and the largest single National Guard overseas deployment since World War II.  
   Dayton overnighted at the Camp, where he thanked the Guardsmen for their service, observed how they trained in preparation for their deployment, and dined with them in the mess hall. 
   "This experience has been humbling," said Dayton. "These soldiers redefine courage and patriotism. You can tell that they are Minnesotans, they are obviously very smart and very dedicated. I have huge respect for their commitment and dedication. 
   "I have been greatly impressed with the caliber of their training, these soldiers are getting superb preparation for the challenges they will soon face in Iraq. One of the Colonels in charge said the Minnesota National Guard is now the best equipped, best trained unit in the country. They come from all different backgrounds and walks of life and they're among the best Minnesota has produced." 
   Major Gen Larry Shellito, the Adjutant General of Minnesota said: "As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Mark Dayton is in a unique position to influence our military's policy. I'm extremely grateful he has taken time out of his hectic schedule to see first-hand how our Iraq-bound soldiers are trained, to assess their readiness, and to listen to some of their concerns." 
   A longtime advocate for Minnesota troops, Dayton has secured additional funding to help provide family assistance and affordable child care for soldiers and their families. That includes Dayton legislation that Congress passed to authorize $50 million in additional child care funds for families of those serving in the Armed Forces and $10 million for military Family Assistance Centers. 
   The majority of the Minnesota Guardsmen deployed this spring will come from the following communities: Alexandria, Anoka, Bemidji, Brooklyn Park, Cottage Grove, Crookston, Detroit Lakes, Duluth, East St. Paul, Fairmont, Faribault, Fergus Falls, Hastings, Hutchinson, Inver Grove Heights, Jackson, Little Falls, Long Prairie, Luverne, Minneapolis, Moorhead, New Ulm, Owatonna, Pine City, Pipe Stone, Rosemount, Sauk Center, St. James, St. Peter, Stillwater, Thief River Falls, W. St. Paul, and Winona.
 
 