SEN. DAYTON PROPOSES NATIONWIDE ETHANOL MANDATE BASED ON MINNESOTA'S E-10 LAW
  Sen. Mark Dayton took to the Senate floor today to push for a 10 percent ethanol requirement for all gasoline sold in the United States, by the year 2015, to counteract U.S. dependence on foreign oil. Dayton drew from ethanol mandate legislation enacted in Minnesota eight years ago, when offering his E-10 amendment (S. Amdt. 790) to the Senate's Energy bill (HR 6). Last month, the Minnesota State Legislature passed a mandate requiring that the state's gasoline contain at least 20 percent ethanol, by the year 2013. Dayton withdrew his amendment shortly after introducing it, saying that the country was not ready for an ethanol standard as high as Minnesota's E-10. 
   "E-85 fuel is still cheaper than regular unleaded gasoline," Dayton said today on the Senate floor. "Savvy consumers, of whom there are now some 100,000 in Minnesota, will decide that they want to take advantage of ethanol's lower cost. When consumers insist upon flex-fuel engines, automobile manufacturers will produce them. The marketplace will drive that transition and my legislation would accelerate it. But this Congress and this country are not yet ready for that conversion."  
   In further support of increased use of ethanol, Dayton voted for the Renewable Fuels Standard amendment (S.Amdt. 791), which passed late last week. It would double - to at least eight billion gallons per year - the amount of ethanol and biodiesel in the nation's fuel supply, by 2012. Minnesota, one of the nation's leading producers of corn-based ethanol, stands to benefit greatly from this legislation, which would help create new jobs and increase sales for this local, billion-dollar industry. 
   Text of Senator Dayton's full Senate floor speech: 
   Mr. President: We've been talking these last days about the laudable goals of reducing our nation's dependency on foreign oil and developing alternative sources of energy. As the old saying goes, however, "Actions speak louder than words." 
   Our current energy programs and practices are taking us in the opposite direction-toward increased imports of foreign oil. Even with the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) in this Senate bill-which some want to eliminate-protected gasoline consumption in our country will increase from 135 billion gallons this year to 168 billion gallons in 2012. That is a 26% increase in Americans' use of gasoline over just seven years, at a time when worldwide demand is expected to also increase significantly. Where will we get those increased supplies? How much will we have to pay for them? 
   As Senator Cantwell has courageously warned, even with the adoption of the Senate's RFS, our imports of foreign oil will increase from 59% currently to 62% in 2012. Without adopting RFS, our oil imports would be over 67% in 2012. At today's world price for oil, over $59 dollars per barrel, we will spend $220 billion this year for our foreign imports and would spend $243 billion in 2012, even with the RFS. Anyone who believes the world price in 2012 will not be higher than today's is beyond optimistic. Of course, if we can continue to get all of the oil we need at today's price or lower, we would have no need for alternatives. 
   That has been our national energy strategy to date. People say we don't have a national energy policy. I respectfully disagree. Our policy has been-and continues to be-to maintain the status quo for as long as possible. We continue to depend almost entirely upon oil and oil products; natural gas and its products; coal; nuclear and hydroelectric power for over 97% of our total energy needs, nationwide. Just as we did in 1970, before our so-called energy crisis began. 
   So-called alternative fuels provided less than 2% of our country's energy in 1970. They provide less than 3% today. None of them are likely to provide significantly more of our total supply 10 or even 20 years from now, except for ethanol and other biofuels like biodiesel. That is why you don't see full-page ads attacking solar, wind, or geothermal energy by the American Petroleum Institute or other major energy industries. They know that those alternatives are no threat to replace them any time soon. The only alternative source of energy the American Petroleum Institute is attacking is ethanol. 
   Why is that huge industry-oil and gas, special interests-spreading misinformation about a business competitor? Because they recognize that ethanol has the ability-not just the potential, but the ability-now, not 10 or 20 or 40 years from now-but right now to replace gasoline, to replace not just MTBE-the 3% additive to regular gasoline-but to replace the gasoline itself. I know that from my own experience driving a Ford Explorer that runs on a blend of 85% ethanol and 15% gasoline all over Minnesota, during the past three years. My Senate office has leased a Plymouth van for the past four years that runs on the same E-85 fuel. Both vehicles have factory-made "flexible fuel" engines, which can run on the 85% ethanol fuel, on regular unleaded gasoline, or on any mixture of the two. However, for the past nine years, every car, SUV, or pickup truck in Minnesota has run on a blend of 90% gasoline and 10% ethanol, after Republican Governor Arne Carlson and the Minnesota Legislature courageously passed a 10% ethanol mandate law. 
   Back then, the oil and gasoline industries tried the same scare tactics they are using on Capitol Hill right now: More ethanol will be prohibitively expensive, unsafe, and unreliable. For the last nine years, every motorist in Minnesota has put gasoline containing 10% ethanol into every vehicle at every service station with no problems and at prices lower than in our neighboring states. Two weeks ago, I bought E-85 fuel in seven Minnesota cities, at prices ranging from 25 cents to 75 cents per gallon less than regular unleaded gasoline. Unleaded gas cost between $1.90 and $2.05 per gallon. E-85 cost between $1.35 and $1.65 per gallon. 
   I have introduced legislation that would require all of the gasoline-consuming cars, SUVs, and trucks sold in America, after 2008, to have flex-fuel engines, which would give their owners a choice between ethanol and gasoline every time they fueled up. Every time, consumers could choose the lower priced option-and that consumer choice would provide healthy competition for both fuels. Certainly, there are other good reasons to buy ethanol instead of gasoline: Such as putting that money into the pockets of American farmers, rather than Arab Shieks. Or using a cleaner burning ethanol fuel that is better for engines and the environment. 
   However, the automobile industry will not support such an engine requirement, because not enough consumers ask for or insist upon those flex-fuel engines, even though on most models, there is no difference to consumers on the sticker price. And without consumer demand, most service stations do not carry E-85 fuel. When I visited Ford and General Motors plants recently, to better understand their challenges and costs in designing, producing, and selling vehicles with flex-fuel engines, I told their engineers and executives that the transition to fleets with flex-fuel engines could only occur with their support, not over their opposition. After all, they make the engines, warranty them, and service them. And I was greatly impressed with their success in designing and manufacturing engines that can measure the ethanol content in a fuel tank from 0 to 85% and adjust for the fuel intake and carburetor to burn a denser 87 octane gasoline or a less dense 104 octane ethanol or any blend of the two and produce the same acceleration, efficiency, and other performances from either. 
   If E-85 fuel-without its tax subsidies, now equivalent to 43 cents per gallon and after accounting for its 15% fewer miles per gallon because of its lesser density-is still cheaper than regular unleaded gasoline, which it is, at its current price in many parts of Minnesota, then savvy consumers, of whom there are now some 100,000 in Minnesota, will decide that they, too, are sick of ever higher and higher gasoline prices and that they, too, want to take advantage of ethanol's lower cost and equal, if not better, performance in their engines. And then-when consumers ask for and insist upon flex-fuel engines-at no additional cost-in the vehicles they buy, automobile manufacturers will produce them. 
   The marketplace will drive that transition. My bill would accelerate it. But this Congress and this country are not yet ready for that conversion. 
   My other legislation, this Senate Amendment 790, would have an even greater impact on our country's energy independence, on reducing our imports of foreign oil, on putting more of that $220 billion we now send out of the country to import that foreign oil into our U.S. economy, instead. This amendment would require that, in 10 years, the rest of America do what Minnesota has done for the past nine years-require that every gallon of gasoline contain 10% ethanol. Right now, nationwide use of ethanol is about 2 ?% of gasoline. The Senate's Renewable Fuels Standard would raise nationwide ethanol consumption to almost 5% of gasoline, by 2012, an amount of gasoline that is expected to be 26% more than we consume this year, nationwide. 
   Gasoline refined from oil-62% of which would be imported foreign oil with RFS. Replacing 5% of our country's gasoline with ethanol is real progress. But it's small progress. And it's only half of what we could achieve by a 10% ethanol mandate nationwide. 10% of the 168 billion gallons of gasoline Americans are projected to consume in 2012 would be 16.8 billion gallons of fuel. 
   If gasoline remained at $2.00 per gallon, substituting ethanol for 10% would shift almost $34 billion each year from a non-renewable fuel, over half of it foreign, to an annually renewable, American-grown and American manufactured fuel-which could ultimately supply over half of all that oil and gasoline. 
   Now, you can see why the American Petroleum Institute is attacking ethanol, and why, regrettably, it has convinced some of my Senate colleagues to do the same. I am deeply offended by the accusations made right here on the Senate floor that I and other ethanol proponents are trying to foist some huge additional costs on American motorists, in order to increase the profits of one company or to create some profits for Midwestern farmers. I am beholden to no company or no industry. I supported policies that benefited Minnesota farmers-but I would never, never try to advance their economic interests at the expense of all other Americans. 
   Americans are almost certain to be plagued by higher energy prices in the years ahead. They don't deserve any Congressional action that would cause those prices to go even higher. Americans do, however, want Congressional leadership to redirect our country away from our continued reliance on the same energy sources: oil, natural gas, coal, and nuclear. And, they know that we cannot replace something with nothing. It's true that conservation-using less energy-remains our best energy alternative. Individually and collectively, Americans will need to conserve more and consume less energy in the future. That conservation is essential, but it's not enough. 
   If we are to reduce our national consumption of oil and oil products, we will have to replace them with something else. Electric cars, hydrogen cells, and hybrids may sound good, but they are years away from being able to replace gasoline. Ethanol can replace gasoline today. Ethanol is cheaper than gasoline in Minnesota today. That's not yet true on the West Coast or the East Coast, due to transportation costs, because most ethanol is transported in relatively small amounts by truck or by rail-rather than in large quantities by pipelines. 
   A nationwide commitment to increased use of ethanol would involve developing a transportation system or, better yet, producing ethanol locally, as Minnesota farmer co-ops are doing today. Ethanol can be made from many different sources, including wood chips, corn stacks, organic garbage, and even animal wastes. I would rejoice when California, New York, and other farmers and small business entrepreneurs begin to produce ethanol and sell it locally or regionally. They can make decent profits while still offering consumers lower fuel prices for cleaner burning fuels. If they fail to do so, consumers can continue to buy gasoline. But they will have a choice. None of this would be necessary, if we could continue to get all the oil and gasoline we need at prices no higher than they are today. In the past, we have taken that gamble and, most of the time, have come out ahead. 
   That is what we will continue to do-despite the benefits of this legislation-even if those benefits survive Conference with the House and the Administration. If they survive all the efforts to defeat them by the American Petroleum Institute and the other established energy interests. Because they will still make their profits, no matter how much their energy prices increase-as long as Americans have no alternatives. 
   They profit and the rest of us pay. And that won't change-unless we take action to change it. 
   We can't-and won't-change our dependence on foreign oil-or on our current energy sources-by wishing them away or by making speeches about alternatives or by waiting for the next energy crisis to demand them. We have to take actions-and sustain those actions-to make the transitions to using significant amounts of other sources of energy. And use enough of them for long enough to enable new entrepreneurs and expanding businesses to produce those supplies, transport them, sell them, and service them. 
   There is no magic wand, there's no overnight cure, and not even a guaranteed success. There is only the choice to try to maintain the same, old energy supplies and pay for them-or to develop real alternatives. Ethanol is ready now. When America is ready, I will offer my amendments again. I withdraw Amendment 790.
 
 