SEN. DAYTON'S STATEMENT ON TERRI SCHIAVO CASE
  Based on Sen. Bill Frist's speech on the Senate floor Thursday night (please find text below), for which Dayton was present, Sen. Dayton voted in support of a bill that allowed the parents of Terri Schiavo to seek federal judicial review of their case, instead of keeping it in the state courts, which had previously ruled to allow the removal of her feeding tube.  
   There were slight modifications to the bill this weekend. The final version was passed by unanimous consent in the Senate yesterday afternoon. Senator Dayton did not object. The House of Representatives voted 203-58 in support of the bill. The President signed the bill at 1:11am today. 
   Congressional Record 3/17/05: Sen. Majority Leader Bill Frist's Statement on Terry Schaivo and the Need to Pass Legislation to Allow Federal Review of the Case: 
   Mr. FRIST. Mr. President, I will be very brief. This is an opportunity to talk to a number of my colleagues. 
   As most people know, this is coming to the floor very quickly. And the real, fundamental reason is, if we do not act, there is a good chance that a living human being would be starved to death in a matter of days. That is why the action now. That is why we are, not rushing things, but deliberating quickly, so we can get it to the House of Representatives. 
   She will be starved to death next Friday. I have had the opportunity to look at the video footage upon which the initial facts of this case were based. And from my standpoint as a physician, I would be very careful before I would come to the floor and say this, that the facts upon which this case were based are inadequate. To be able to make a diagnosis of persistent vegetative state - which is not brain dead; it is not coma; it is a specific diagnosis and typically takes multiple examinations over a period of time because you are looking for responsiveness - I have looked at the video footage. Based on the footage provided to me, which was part of the facts of the case, she does respond. 
   That being the case, and also recognizing she has not had a complete neurological exam by today's standards - allegedly, she has not had a PET scan or MRI scan; not that those are definitive, but before you let somebody die, before you starve somebody to death, you want a complete exam and a good set of the facts of the case upon which to make that decision. 
   All we are saying today is, do not starve her to death now - forever, I would argue - but establish the facts based on medical science today, and then make a determination in the future. That is what we will accomplish with passage of this bill.
   Contact: Semonti Mustaphi, 202/228-3263.
 
 