SENATE PASSES SENS. DAYTON, COLEMAN AMENDMENT TO PROTECT AMERICAN ATV CONSUMERS
  The United States Senate yesterday unanimously approved a bipartisan amendment authored by Minnesota Sens. Mark Dayton and Norm Coleman to the FY2006 Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill to protect Americans from the risks unregulated imported All Terrain Vehicles (ATV) pose for riders. This amendment, also co-sponsored by Sen. Mike DeWine (R - OH), will make the voluntary safety standards, implemented by American ATV manufacturers, mandatory for all imported or domestic ATV's distributed in the United States. Under this amendment, the Consumer Product Safety Act and Customs Laws agency will be charged with the duties of enforcing penalties on ATV manufacturers who fail to comply with standards.  
   "Holding all ATV manufacturers accountable to the same safety standards is a common-sense way to help protect our nation's snowmobilers and other outdoor enthusiasts," said Dayton. 
   "This amendment is critical to the safety and security of Minnesota's ATV riders," said Coleman. "While I applaud America's ATV manufacturers for recognizing the need to institute voluntary industry-wide safety standards, my concern is that imported ATVs are not held to the same standard and do not adequately protect users. This is a common-sense amendment that will save lives in the long run. It is important for us to create a level playing field for our nation's ATV manufacturers that ultimately have to compete against an industry with no regulation." 
   "This bill is an important first step in the legislative process to make sure all ATV manufacturers comply with safety and training standards whether the ATVs are made in the US or imported from overseas" say Tom Tiller, CEO of Polaris Industries Inc, and Chris Twomey, CEO of Arctic Cat. "Our thanks go to Senators Coleman and Dayton for working hard to advance this bill which supports an important industry in Minnesota." 
   Working with the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Specialty Vehicle Institute of America, American ATV manufacturers developed voluntary standards that addressed important safety issues, including appropriate ATV engine size, speed restrictions on youth ATVs, safety training, and proper head gear. Currently, foreign manufacturers are not required to adhere to the voluntary safety standards set by the U.S. In most cases, American ATV dealers do not have the ability to alert the consumer to these safety concerns because the majority of foreign-made ATVs are sold via the Internet.
 
 