SEN. DAYTON SCORES MAJOR SENATE VICTORY TO PROVIDE MORE MILITARY CHILD CARE, FAMILY ASSISTANCE
  The U.S. Senate yesterday approved two amendments offered by Sen. Mark Dayton, which will give military families more family and child care assistance and will rectify a reenlistment bonus snag in the military system. Dayton's amendments were included in the conference report of the Defense Authorization bill (H.R. 1858), which passed the Senate late last night. The legislation now goes to the President to be signed into law.  
   Dayton's first amendment targets the needs of military families by authorizing $50 million in additional child care funds for the families of Armed Forces members and $10 million for military Family Assistance Centers, which help military families with financial and legal problems, among others, that arise from deployment. The second amendment is a motion that calls on the Pentagon to keep its promise to pay reenlistment bonuses to some full-time members of the Army National Guard. 
   "Every American owes a debt of gratitude to our men and women in uniform; their personal sacrifices in service to our country go beyond measure," said Dayton. "Providing these heroes and their families with their full, promised benefits is the least that we can do." 
   Families in Minnesota pay some of the highest child care costs in the nation, up to $12,000 per year. This is a significant burden for families of military personnel, namely reservists and Guard members, who often take a significant pay cut when they are deployed. Family Assistance Centers are a crucial resource, particularly for the National Guard and reserve, whose members are sometimes given only a few days' notice to prepare for deployment. 
   "I have heard stories time and again from military spouses who have experienced unnecessary stress due to a recent deployment," added Dayton. "Of largest concern are juggling their jobs, caring for their families, and dealing with the logistical and financial issues caused by being sent off to war. Minnesota military families will benefit immensely from this legislation." 
   In January, the National Guard Bureau authorized the payment of reenlistment bonuses for mobilized Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) and Military Technicians (Dual Status), or MilTechs, of the Army National Guard. However, in April, Department of Defense (DoD) ordered the bonuses to be stopped, claiming they duplicated other programs, therefore violating DoD policy. 
   AGRs are full-time members of the Selected Reserve who provide training and support to reserve units. AGRs typically qualify for active-duty reenlistment bonuses, which can be worth up to $60,000. However, the Army Guard authorized the $15,000 reserve bonuses to eligible AGRs. MilTechs are currently excluded from reenlistment bonuses because of their status as civilians. Since they are deployed with the units that they support, they argue that they should be paid the bonuses, as well. 
   Dayton is also pleased that the Defense Authorization bill includes Senator McCain's anti-torture amendment, which will establish an Army Field Manual as the standard by which detainees of the U.S. will be treated.
 
 