SEN. DAYTON SECURES NEARLY $5 MILLION IN FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MINNESOTA AGRICULTURE PROJECTS
  Sen. Mark Dayton announced today that the full Senate has approved his request for nearly $5 million in funding for key agricultural and research projects in Minnesota. The Senate Committee on Appropriations approved the funding in July as part of the Agriculture Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006.  
   "Minnesota farmers produce some of the finest agricultural products in the world - they are the backbone of our state's economy," said Dayton. "This funding is an investment, not only in our farmers and their families, but in the future of our state." 
   Among the Minnesota projects Dayton secured in the FY2006 Agriculture Appropriations bill are: 
   $400,000 to the University of Minnesota-St. Paul for Soybean Genomics Research. These funds will create a new faculty research position at the University. Research will seek to identify genes that contribute to improved protein levels and soybean oil quality. 
   $300,000 in funding restored to the ARS Cereal Disease Research Lab in St. Paul, for research to improve resistance to scab and rusts in cereal crops. President Bush had proposed cutting the funds for this important research, which stands to reduce the substantial economic losses caused by these crop diseases. 
   $298,000 for the Uniform Farm Management Project, run by the Center for Farm Financial Management at the University of Minnesota. This project will continue the development of a national database of farm financial information to allow farmers to compare their expenses and earnings to those of similar farms, and thereby improve management and business decisions. 
   More than $600,000 to Northern Great Plains, Inc., to support cutting-edge research to keep Minnesota and North Dakota farmers competitive in the global marketplace. A top priority is creating new opportunities for value-added agricultural projects in the region. 
   $3 million to the Intensive Technical Assistance Program, developed by the University of Minnesota's Center for Farm Financial Management. This funding, provided through the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act for Farmers, will help the University develop a five to ten day technical assistance program to provide business and marketing training to farmers who have been hurt by competition from imports. 
   $300,000 for the Driftless Area Initiative, an association of six nonprofit Resource Conservation and Development Councils working to improve natural resources and the rural economy in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Illinois. 
   Additionally, Minnesota will receive part of an $18.6 million grant to the National Johne's Disease Management and Testing Initiative for Cattle, a top priority for dairy farmers.
 
 