SEN. DAYTON: MINNEAPOLIS RECEIVES OVER $18.9 MILLION FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAMS
  Sen. Mark Dayton announced today that Minneapolis will receive $18,902,354 in federal funding for projects that will expand affordable housing options, create new businesses, and improve emergency homeless shelters. The grant awards - $13,851,146 in Community Development Block Grants (CDBG); $3,563,274 for the HOME Program; $829,000 for the HOPWA program; $593,950 in Emergency Shelter Grants; and $64,984 for the American Dream Downpayment Initiative Program (ADDI) - are administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). "This federal funding will support low-income Minneapolis resident who might otherwise not be able to afford housing," said Dayton.  
 "However, I am deeply concerned about the President's proposed budget cuts to these vital housing programs; working families face an increasingly tight housing market, and many low- to moderate-income people simply cannot find an affordable place to live." President Bush's FY 2007 budget cuts $622 million from HUD programs. The largest cut targets the Community Block Grant - which was zeroed out of the president's FY06 request; it faces a 20 percent reduction in funds. The CDBG program helps communities nationwide meet the challenges of providing affordable housing; making public improvements, such as maintaining flood and drainage facilities; building senior centers, libraries, and water/sewer projects; and fostering economic development. Each year, the HOME program awards $2 billion to state and local governments. These programs enable communities to rehabilitate and operate emergency shelters; buy, build, and rehabilitate affordable housing; and run prevention assistance to those at risk of homelessness. The HOPWA program provides housing assistance and related supportive services to local units of government, states and non-profit organizations for projects that benefit low-income persons medically diagnosed with HIV/AIDS and their families. The Emergency Shelter Grant Program funds renovations and the conversion of buildings into emergency shelters. Funding may also include employment, health, drug abuse and education services. The ESG Program is allocated to state and local governments on a formula basis. ADDI is a new initiative under the HOME Program that will help to promote homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for down payment and closing cost assistance to low-income and minority families.
 
 