SEN. DAYTON SECURES OVER $6 MILLION FOR MINNESOTA AGRICULTURE INITIATIVES
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that the Senate Committee on Appropriations has approved his request for more than $6 million in funding for key agricultural and research initiatives in Minnesota. The bill also included provisions, cosponsored by Dayton, to provide emergency disaster assistance for farmers nationwide who suffered losses in 2005. The disaster assistance package includes a Dayton provision to help farmers recover from herd losses due to bovine tuberculosis. The Committee approved the funding this week as part of the Agriculture Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007, which will now go to the full Senate for a vote.
   "Minnesota farmers produce some of the finest agricultural products in the world - they are the backbone of our state's economy," said Dayton. "This funding is an investment, not only in our farmers and their families, but in the future of our state." 
   Among the Minnesota projects Dayton secured in the FY2007 Agriculture Appropriations bill are:
   $2 million to compensate cattle producers who suffered herd losses due to Bovine Tuberculosis (TB). Minnesota is one of four states to have recent cases of this highly contagious disease that can devastate entire herds. Earlier this year, the owners of Minnesota's fifth infected herd lost more than $40,000 in feed costs when USDA condemned their herd but, due to lack of funds for compensation, would not allow the farmers to destroy the cattle. Fortunately, Dayton was able to help the herd owners by contacting the head of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), who quickly released emergency funding. These funds will help to prevent such delays --and the resulting financial hardships for farmers--in the future. $3 million for the Intensive Technical Assistance Program, developed by the University of Minnesota's Center for Farm Financial Management. This funding, provided through the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act for Farmers, will help the University develop a five to ten day technical assistance program to provide business and marketing training to farmers who have been hurt by competition from imports.
   $310,000 in funding restored to the ARS Cereal Disease Research Lab in St. Paul, for research to improve resistance to scab and rusts in wheat, barley and oats. President Bush had proposed cutting the funds for this important research, which stands to reduce the substantial economic losses caused by these crop diseases.
   $295,000 for the Uniform Farm Management Project, run by the Center for Farm Financial Management at the University of Minnesota. This project will continue the development of a national database of farm financial information to allow farmers to compare their expenses and earnings to those of similar farms, and thereby improve management and business decisions.
   Over $600,000 for the Northern Great Plains, Inc., to support cutting-edge research to keep Minnesota and North Dakota farmers competitive in the global marketplace. A top priority is creating new opportunities for value-added agricultural projects in the region.
   $260,000 for the Driftless Area Initiative, an association of six nonprofit Resource Conservation and Development Councils working to improve natural resources and the rural economy in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Illinois. $1,065,000 for the National Wheat & Barley Scab Inititave to fight scab (technically known as fusarium head blight) that has caused serious damage to wheat and barley crops in the Red River Valley.
   Additionally, Minnesota will receive part of $10 million to fight Johne's Disease, a top priority for dairy farmers.
 
 