SEN. DAYTON NOMINATES MINNEAPOLIS PARENT FOR NATIONAL ANGELS IN ADOPTION AWARD
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that he has nominated Minneapolis resident Becky Steeber to be one of 165 Congressional Angels in Adoption 2004 awardees. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) will honor Steeber at a national ceremony held in Washington, D.C., this evening.  
   CCAI is a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to raising Congressional and public awareness about the tens of thousands of foster children America and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes; and to eliminating the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their need of a family. The Angels in Adoption Program was created in 1999 to publicize the many different ways that committed individuals can help children and families through adoption. 
   "It is an honor to nominate a very special Minnesotan, Becky Steeber, for this year's Angels in Adoption Award," said Dayton. "Not only is Becky a fantastic parent to her nine children, including her four adopted children from Latin America, but she has also dedicated her professional life to helping other families experience the joys of adopting children from other countries."
   In 1978, Becky and her husband, Patrick, first decided to adopt a child from Latin America, having made the decision that they wanted to provide a loving home for an orphan with special needs. During their trip to El Salvador to adopt their first child, Rosinda, Becky and Patrick were moved by the many orphans they met who needed a loving family. Shortly thereafter, the couple began the process of adopting their second child from El Salvador, Manuel, and their third child, Maria, from Colombia. The most recent addition to the Steeber family, Berta, came to the United States as an exchange student from Mexico.
   Regarding her selection by Dayton, Becky Steeber remarked, "I am absolutely overwhelmed by this nomination. It is my hope that this award will bring recognition to the many other parents and social workers in Minnesota who have done amazing work in this field."
   Becky's positive experiences adopting children from other countries inspired her to pursue a degree in social work. She has been involved with child advocacy work for over 20 years. Becky currently supervises an international adoption program at the Children's Home Society in St. Paul, where she helps other families adopt children with special needs. 
  For more information on the Congressional Angels in Adoption awards please visit www.ccainstitute.org/angels.php
 
 