SEN. DAYTON PRAISES PASSAGE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY PRODUCTION TAX CREDIT
  Sen. Mark Dayton announced today Senate passage of legislation to extend the federal tax incentive in the production of renewable commercial electricity, such as wind. Extension of the renewable energy production tax credit, included in the Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004, would give qualified individuals interested in the production of electricity from renewable resources a 1.8 cent per kilowatt-hour tax credit. The tax credit will be retroactive for those who have made investments in renewable energy projects since December 31, 2003.  
   "Wind power is a reliable source of clean and sustainable energy and is abundant in Minnesota," said Dayton. "It is important that we do everything we can to encourage our farmers to invest in renewable energy and share in this rapidly growing industry." 
   Mark Peterson, a Minnesotan who is developing a wind project in Tracy, MN, said, "This tax credit helps small developers and the consumers by keeping reliable electric costs down while also creating local jobs for the installation, maintenance, finance and use of wind projects. The extension of the Production Tax Credit for renewable wind energy systems has given small, local, family owned producers a chance to retain some of the profits locally."
   Michael Noble, Executive Director of Minnesotans for an Energy-Efficient Economy, said, "Extending the production tax credit for renewable energy is great news for many Minnesota-based clean electricity projects that have been held up all year. Minnesotans will be happy to see wind turbines being installed again with this extension of the tax credit through next year." 
   Renewable energy production tax credits are intended to encourage more market participation in renewable energy generation, so that eventually, these technologies become cost competitive and no longer require assistance. Maximum participation in renewable energy generation will help the nation achieve the goal of producing more abundant, affordable, renewable, alternative energy sources.
 
 