SENATORS URGE PRESIDENT TO SEEK CONCRETE PLEDGES FROM FOREIGN LEADERS TO HELP STABILIZE IRAQ
  Today Sen. Mark Dayton and five of his colleagues signed a letter Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI) delivered to President Bush this morning. The letter essentially iterates an amendment the Senators offered to the Defense Authorization Bill yesterday. 
   Senator Dayton was joined by the following list of his colleagues in signing the letter: Carl Levin (D-MI), Robert Byrd (D-WV), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), and Russell Feingold (D-WI).
   FULL TEXT OF LETTER
   June 24, 2004
   The Honorable George W. Bush
  Office of the President
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  Washington, D.C. 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   As you meet with your counterparts from the European Union (EU) and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) during your trips to Istanbul and to Dublin, we urge you to seek concrete pledges for troops and financial support for the stabilization and security in Iraq.
   It has been among the goals of your administration to secure pledges of increased financial support from other nations for the mission in Iraq. In addition, it has been among the goals of your administration to receive pledges of increased numbers of troops from other countries to assist in the stabilization of Iraq. Those goals are clearly within the scope of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1546, passed unanimously by the council on June 8, 2004.
   The United States maintains more than 85 percent of the 163,000 troops on the ground in Iraq. The United States has dedicated $122 billion for the mission in Iraq, not including the $25 billion emergency reserve fund that you have requested from Congress for the coming fiscal year. This burden, which should be shared by the international community, seems to be falling squarely on the shoulders of the American people. Your envoy, former Secretary of State James Baker III, made limited progress in convincing other nations to forgive Iraqi debt, estimated at $120 billion. Although Secretary Baker was promised action, those promises have proved to be little more than good intentions.
   Following your trips to Istanbul and to Dublin, we ask that you report on your efforts to decrease the heavy burden being carried by our men and women in uniform, and indeed by the American people, to build peace and security in Iraq.
   Specifically, we request that you tell the American people: how many more military and police forces from other countries will be deployed to Iraq; what additional financial resources from other countries will be provided to Iraq; and what schedule has been developed for the contributions of these troops and funds.
   During your presidential campaign in 2000, you noted that American troops should not act as nation-builders. We urge you to press your counterparts in the EU and NATO to increase their countries' roles in the stabilization of Iraq.
   War has proved, by comparison, far easier than peace. The United States had the weapons to win the war. Yet, the fighting has not ended. As each day passes, as the violence and chaos expand, it becomes increasingly important to find countries willing to share the burden of building a new Iraq. The challenge should not be met by the United States alone.
   We wish you safe travels and wise counsel during your trip overseas, and look forward to your response to this request.
 
 