SEN. DAYTON TO GIVE KEYNOTE ADDRESS AT OBSERVANCE SUPPORTING VICTIMS OF TORTURE
  Sen. Mark Dayton will deliver the keynote address at a commemoration of UN International Day in Support of Victims of Torture on June 25th, in Minneapolis. 
   The annual celebration is hosted by the Center for Victims of Torture, a world-class treatment, training, and research center dedicated to healing the wounds of torture around the world. CVT has treated torture survivors from more than 60 countries and trained thousands of education and health professionals who work with survivors.
   An estimated 30,000 survivors of torture live in Minnesota today, and 500,000 live in the United States. Many of these survivors are new Americans who do not have access to the health care and social services they need in order to recover.
   "The Center for Victims of Torture is doing heroic work," said Dayton. "This one-of-a-kind treatment facility serves many immigrants living in Minnesota and across the country. Recognizing this important day is a fitting way to help people recovering physical and emotional health following such severe trauma."
   June 26th is the anniversary of the day, in 1987, when the United Nations Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading Treatment or Punishment went into effect. Currently, 136 countries are parties to the Convention. The Convention established the Committee Against Torture, a key watchdog group; the Office of the Special Rapporteur, which monitors reports of torture from 60 to 70 countries each year; and the Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture, which helps fund rehabilitation and restitution efforts for survivors.
   Events are being held in hundreds of countries around the world to mark this important anniversary. In Minneapolis, 150 people - including many survivors of torture, volunteers, donors, and representatives of community organizations - are expected to attend. Senator Dayton's speech will be followed by a tree-planting ceremony. The Angelli Celli children's cello choir will perform.
   Event: UN International Day in Support of Victims of Torture
   Date: Friday, June 25th
   Time: 5 to 7 p.m.
   Location: 717 East River Road, Minneapolis.
 
 