LAME DUCK SESSION
  The Senate reconvened for five days after the election. Unfortunately, our accomplishments during this time hardly justified our plane tickets! No sooner had we met for the first time since early October than Members asked, "When will we adjourn?" I wrote the Majority Leader, Sen. Bill Frist, and urged that we continue working until we passed a six-year Transportation Bill that would provide an additional $2 billion to Minnesota, an Energy Bill, and a Constitutional amendment that would prohibit the burning of the American flag. None of those measures was considered or passed before adjournment.  
   Instead, the Senate and the House lumped together nine separate Appropriations bills that totaled $388 billion in FY 2005 spending. The Omnibus Appropriations bill was over 3,000 pages long, and we did not receive copies of it until an hour before debate. It is a lousy way to legislate. 
   An alert aide in North Dakota Senator Kent Conrad's office noticed a section in the bill that authorized the Chairmen of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, their staffs, and their "agents" to go into IRS facilities and examine individual Americans' tax returns. It also allowed them to release that information publicly! 
   That discovery ignited a firestorm of accusations and denials on the Senate floor! Everyone responsible for the bill denied any knowledge of that section! After enough promises to remove it were obtained from Congressional Leaders and the Administration, the Senate passed this mammoth spending legislation and immediately adjourned. 
   Left unfinished was the Intelligence Reform Bill, which we had started in August, immediately following the Report of the 9/11 Commission. A "final" agreement received the strong endorsement of the Commission's Cochairmen, and President Bush personally lobbied key House Republican Leaders to support it. However, they refused even to bring the bill to a vote. There is a possibility that another agreement will be reached and that we will return in December to pass it. Otherwise, the process will begin again next year. 
   This is one of the most frustrating aspects of Congress. Many people can devote thousands of hours to develop, debate, and agree upon important actions in the national interest, only to have them blocked by one or two key legislators. Even the President of the United States, the Commander in Chief of our Armed Forces, cannot overcome their resistance! 
   The recent session also presented the spectacle of House Republicans protecting their Majority Leader, Representative Tom DeLay, from losing his Leadership position, if he is criminally indicted by a Texas grand jury. House Republicans passed that penalty a decade ago, when a House Democratic Leader was in trouble. They are not so principled now that it is one of their leaders. Earlier this month, the House Republicans voted to remove that penalty from their rules. 
   This unproductive "lame duck" session proved that the label given these postelection gatherings is an appropriate one. Its futility underscores why the Senate should not have closed down in early October. We had more than enough work to keep us in session continuously through the election. We should have considered each one of the nine Appropriations bills separately and actually read them before the vote! We should have remained in session until we passed the important Intelligence Reform legislation and the other important matters still unfinished. That is what we were elected and are paid to do. That is what we should have done.
 
 