SEN. DAYTON ISSUES STATEMENT ON DEVASTATING CUTS TO ESSENTIAL BYRNE GRANT, COPS LAW ENFORCEMENT PROGRAMS
  I am terribly disappointed that Republican Congressional Leaders and the Bush Administration chose to attempt to balance the budget this year by taking law enforcement officers off our streets. It is shameful that important programs such as the Edward Byrne Memorial Grant program and the Community Orientated Policing Services (COPS) program, both vital to local law enforcement efforts, were drastically cut this year. According to many Minnesota law enforcement officials with whom I have met, this funding is imperative to continue aggressively fighting crime and our nation's war on drugs - particularly, Minnesota's fight against methamphetamine, one of the greatest threats to our state. 
   The cuts to the COPS program this year are devastating: $142 million less than last year, nationwide. This program has successfully reduced crime in many Minnesota communities and across the country by placing more police officers on the street. It is a successful, proven crime deterrent and has made our communities safer, better places to live. Since its inception in 1994, the program has sent more than $108,260,000 to Minnesota, thus helping put 1,417 additional police officers on the streets across the state. 
   The Byrne Grant program, which the President cut from his FY 2005 budget request and which he has proposed eliminating every year since he took office, was put on the chopping block again this year. Although not eliminated completely, the grant was combined with another program and listed under a new name in an effort to hide the fact that this program will receive $393 million less than it did last year. In Minnesota, Byrne Grant funding has provided essential funding to target "meth" trafficking in our communities. In 1997, nine methamphetamine labs were seized and shut down in Minnesota; in 2003 that number jumped to 400. The numbers of these deadly meth labs continue to multiply.
   I pledge to Minnesota's law enforcement officers and local communities steadfast support for criminal justice priorities in our state. The COPS and Byrne Grant programs have shown time and time again that they are vital to curtailing crime and illegal drug activity across our great state. It is time to start making investments in homeland security at the first line of defense - ensuring that our police have the resources they need to do the best possible job protecting their communities.
 
 