LESSONS LEARNED FROM 9/11
  On June 9, 2004, I was meeting with four Minnesotans in my Washington Senate office, when alarms sounded to evacuate the U.S. Capitol complex. One Minnesota woman was six months pregnant and making her first trip to Washington. We exited the air-conditioned building into 90-degree heat and humidity, joining hundreds of senators, staffers, and visitors walking or running away from the Capitol. As I helped my pregnant constituent down the sidewalk, I wondered if her ashen face and trembling lips signaled terror or exhaustion. 
   Later, I learned of the reasons for our evacuation. They made me doubt official assurances in recent Senate hearings that "much has changed since 9/11," either to prevent a reoccurrence or, at least, to improve our response to a terrorist attack.
   People were told to "run for their lives" on June 9th, because "an unidentified target" entered restricted airspace 15 miles from the Capitol. The "unidentified target" was a private plane flying the Governor of Kentucky to Ronald Reagan National Airport, only seconds from the Pentagon, where another "unidentified target" exploded on 9/11. Nearly three years removed from that tragic day, this recent scare highlights how much remains to be done.
   When Ronald Reagan National Airport reopened two months after 9/11, private planes were required to use Dulles Airport, some 30 miles farther away from the Capitol, the White House, and other likely terrorist targets. That made sense to me, but even at Dulles Airport, precautions on my post-9/11 chartered flights remained lax. No one checked passengers' identification; carry-on bags were not screened; and on board, anyone had easy access to the cockpits.
   Unfortunately, it did not make enough sense to officials at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), who have decided to allow certain favored "general aviation" aircraft to use Ronald Reagan National Airport. The FAA requires these aircraft to have operating transponders, which identify them and their locations to air traffic controllers. When terrorists turned off the hijacked planes' transponders on 9/11, neither FAA nor NORAD, our nation's air defense command, could accurately locate or track the aircraft. It was one reason that FAA officials failed to notify NORAD about three of the four hijackings, before the planes crashed. It was the principal reason our military did not know about the plane approaching Washington, until it struck the Pentagon.
   Upon his departure from Cincinnati last June 9th, the pilot of the Kentucky Governor's plane informed the FAA controller that his plane's transponder had "just quit." He should then have been denied clearance into Washington's Ronald Reagan National Airport. However, he was allowed to proceed. Lacking a functioning transponder, he was not properly identified by some of the seven federal agencies with jurisdiction over Washington's air space. On 9/11, no one responded. This time, someone reacted, but it was not the United States Air Force. Instead, the U.S. Customs Service launched a Blackhawk helicopter to face this unknown threat.
   Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld claimed recently that our military on 9/11 was not supposed to defend us from enemy attacks within our borders. That responsibility, he stated, falls upon the FBI. This time, we got the U.S. Customs Service!
   We eventually had involvement from the FAA, Transportation Security Administration, National Capital Region Coordination Center, the Capitol Police, and, belatedly, NORAD. After 9/11, they supposedly established procedures and mechanisms to communicate immediately and coordinate effectively. Almost three years later it is obvious that they failed utterly and ridiculously to do so. Once again, our nation's Capitol was undefended and had to be evacuated. Fortunately, no one was killed or seriously injured this time.
   Having seven different federal agencies responsible for the crucial air space above our nation's capitol failure is almost guaranteed, no matter how hard people try. Having 15 different entities within the gargantuan federal bureaucracy responsible for intelligence operations is not intelligent and unlikely to be effective. Having the world's best armed forces without the pre-9/11 responsibility to defend against internal enemy attacks was irresponsible and indefensible.
   We have made our federal government so large and complex that we cannot keep track of it all. We do not know what everyone is doing or not doing, until it is too late.
   The solution is neither more government reorganization nor more inter-agency coordination. The solution is less government and fewer agencies. It is holding someone responsible for each responsibility. It is not monolithic; there should be different perspectives involved and differing opinions offered. However, one agency, one authority, and ultimately one person (General, Secretary, President, etc.) must be clearly responsible and fully accountable for each action and every result.
   The lesson of June 9, 2004 is that we have not yet learned the lessons of September 11, 2001. We may not have much longer before we are tested again.
 
 