SEN. DAYTON BACKS BILL TO BOOST U.S. COMPETITIVENESS IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Mark Dayton is an original cosponsor of a legislative package introduced today, aimed at helping America maintain its leading edge in science and technology. The three bills, collectively titled the "Protecting America's Competitive Edge" (PACE) Act, would implement 20 recommendations presented in a recent report by the National Academy of Sciences, titled Rising Above the Gathering Storm. This ambitious legislation would provide $10 billion in new resources for math and science education and research initiatives.  
   "Technological innovation is crucial to our country's economic growth," said Dayton. "New resources for math and science education and for research are critical to keeping American jobs and to staying competitive in the global economy." 
   The PACE Act would strengthen the nation's traditional commitment to research by providing more research opportunities for scientists and engineers; targeted research grants for early career scientists and engineers; new federal funds to buy equipment and upgrade research laboratories; and a new agency for transformational energy research within the U.S. Department of Energy. On the education front, the bills would remedy America's decades-long math and science teacher shortage by providing scholarships and training programs for future math and science teachers; funding for advanced placement courses in math and science; federal grants for states to establish specialty math and science high schools; and internships and summer programs for middle and high school students. 
   The bill would foster the growth of our nation's talent pool by increasing scholarships and fellowships for future scientists and providing an efficient student visa process, thus attracting the brightest foreign student to our universities. 
   Finally, the PACE Act would provide incentives for innovation, including: doubling the research and development tax credit; establishing a new tax credit to encourage employers to invest in employees' education; and developing science parks through infrastructure planning grants and loan guarantees, so that U.S. science parks could be competitive with those in Asia.
 
 