SEN. DAYTON CONTINUES FIGHT TO KEEP LOW-INCOME FAMILIES OUT OF COLD
  Sen. Mark Dayton, along with 20 Senate colleagues, today called upon Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to bring legislation to the Senate floor to fully fund the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This would mark the seventh Senate attempt to adequately fund the program, with each prior vote failing, leaving low-income families across the country struggling to make ends meet.  
   "This winter, more Minnesotans than ever before are being forced to choose: heat or eat?" said Dayton. "We must bring this urgently needed legislation to the floor now, to keep millions of Americans out of the cold." 
   The full text of the letter follows: 
   January 26, 2006 
   The Honorable William H. Frist Majority Leader United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 
   Dear Majority Leader Frist: 
   High energy prices are threatening the health and economic well-being of low-income households across the United States. No family in our nation should be forced to choose between heating their home and putting food on the table for their children. No senior citizen should have to decide between buying life saving prescriptions or paying utility bills. Unfortunately, these stark choices are a reality for too many Americans across the nation. We strongly urge you to take immediate action to help low-income Americans by bringing a measure to the floor that provides an additional $2.92 billion for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), as supported by the majority of the Senate. 
   Since October 5, 2005, the Senate has voted six times to increase LIHEAP funding to $5.1 billion. Bipartisan amendments offered to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill, the Transportation, Treasury and HUD Appropriations bill, the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill, and the Tax Reconciliation bill received a majority of the Senate's support. Unfortunately, these amendments were not given the opportunity for a straight up-or-down vote. In December, 63 Senators supported a successful motion to instruct, which directed the Budget Reconciliation Conference Committee to provide $2.92 billion in additional funding for LIHEAP in FY 2006. Yet, the conference report for the Budget Reconciliation bill includes only $1 billion, with this spending designated for FY 2007. Procedural maneuvers are preventing vital assistance from reaching Americans. These families and seniors deserve help from the federal government. 
   As you know, the Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations Conference report originally provided an additional $2 billion for LIHEAP. The LIHEAP funding provided by the DoD conferees was designated as emergency funding. The emergency designation funding is warranted given the high cost of energy this winter, and the lack of growth in workers' wages. Unfortunately, other more controversial matters included in the conference report prevented the retention of the LIHEAP money in final action on that bill. 
   The Energy Information Agency forecasts that households heating with natural gas will experience an average increase of 35 percent over last winter. Households heating with oil will see an increase of 23 percent, and households using propane can expect an increase of 17 percent. In addition, wages are not keeping pace with inflation. The Real Earnings report by the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows that the average hourly earnings of production and non-supervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls were lower in December 2005 than they were a year ago, after accounting for inflation. Working families are continuing to lose ground, meaning more families also need LIHEAP assistance this year. Paychecks are being stretched thinner as families face higher prices for home heating, health care, and education. 
   We respectfully request that you bring a measure to the Senate floor at the end of this month, or at the latest, early February, that funds LIHEAP at the $5.1 billion level supported by the Senate. We also urge that these resources be allocated in such a way that they will benefit all states and ensure they receive this necessary assistance promptly. American families and seniors have been waiting too long for relief from high energy costs. Thank you for your consideration for this essential request. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senators Mark Dayton (D-MN), Jack Reed (D- RI), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Herb Kohl (D-WI), John Kerry (D-MA), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Barack Obama (D-IL), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY), Carl Levin (D-MI), Daniel Akaka (D-HI), Max Baucus (D-MT), Joseph Biden (D-DE), and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD).
 
 