SEN. DAYTON COMMENTS ON 9-11 COMMISSION REPORT
  The 9/11 Commission Report provides a grim picture of our international intelligence operation and homeland security preparedness on that terrible day, September 11, 2001. The recommendations in the final report by the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States give us a chance to avoid the warning that "Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it." We cannot afford to repeat the mistakes of 9/11. 
   Let me assure you that the United States is one of the safest places in the world in which to live today. Minnesota is one of the very safest places in the United States. There are, however, other places in our country which are at significantly greater risk, now and in the foreseeable future.
   I still believe that the war in Iraq has weakened, rather than strengthened, our long-term national security, as I did when I voted against the Iraq War Resolution in 2002. That, however, is now water over the dam. We must do everything possible to complete President Bush's mission in Iraq by transferring full responsibilities to the Iraqi people for their own country, so we can bring home the heroic men and women in our Armed Forces.
   We must also take the necessary steps to maximize the security of this country. Last week, the Chair and Vice Chair of the 9/11 Commission briefed about 30 of my colleagues and me about the Commission's findings. It is incredible that, despite the reported $40 billion we spend annually on our intelligence operations, we were so woefully uninformed and unprepared for the attacks on 9/11. The Commission noted, "The 9/11 attacks were a shock, but they should not have come as a surprise. Islamist extremists had given plenty of warning that they meant to kill Americans indiscriminately and in large numbers." The Commission cited Islamist terrorist attacks that began with the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center in New York.
   The Commission further stated that, "During the spring and summer of 2001, U.S. intelligence agencies received a stream of warnings that al Qaeda planned, as one report put it, 'something very, very, very big.' (CIA Director) George Tenet told us, 'The system was blinking red.'"
   The 9/11 Commission found no significant connection between Saddam Hussein and al Qaeda, prior to the 2001 attacks. President Bush and Vice President Cheney have repeatedly cited that supposed linkage as justification for their war against Iraq, especially after no stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction were found there.
   In the worst irony, the political vacuum which now exists in Baghdad and the resentments toward the United States have turned Iraq into a magnet for international terrorists. Dr. Judith Yapha, the CIA's Senior Analyst on Iraq during the first Gulf War, says that Iraq is now "open to terrorism in a way it was not before." Vincent Cannistraro, the Chief of Counterterrorism at the CIA under both Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush, has said that the Iraq War "accelerated terrorism."
   The 9/11 Commission Report should instruct us to refocus our national defense forces, finances, and diplomacy on defeating al Qaeda and every other terrorist organization who wants to destroy us. We must not lose that war. We must not lose even a battle, as we did on 9/11. The stakes are too high now, and they will only become higher in the future.
 
 