SEN. DAYTON, MINNESOTA DELEGATION CALL ON MEDICAID TO RELEASE OVER $140 MILLION TO MINNESOTA
  Sen. Mark Dayton, along with the entire Minnesota delegation, today called on the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to stop delaying and release $140 million in annual Medicaid funds to Minnesota. The letter asks CMS to immediately approve a state proposal to reconcile Minnesota and federal Medicaid plans, thereby freeing up nearly $300 million for the state budget, over the next two years.
   "It is imperative that CMS take immediate action to release this critical Medicaid funding to Minnesota," said Dayton. "It is unacceptable that Minnesotans' access to quality healthcare could be compromised by bureaucratic delays." 
   In a letter to the Administrator for the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Dayton and the delegation urge an expeditious resolution. CMS has reportedly delayed action on five Minnesota Plan amendments, which provide the state with $140 million in annual Medicaid funds. The amendments were enacted by the Minnesota State Legislature over the past three years, and make programmatic changes to Medicaid, including rate reductions, increases to providers, and policy changes necessary to reconcile state law with the federal Medicaid State Plan. CMS is withholding approval of changes to the state plan because of a disagreement with the state over a disputed $14 million, which the state uses to fund its county-run nursing homes. The text of the delegation letter to the Medicaid Administrator follows here.
   July 26, 2006
   Mark B. McClellan, M.D., Ph.D. Administrator Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services United States Department of Health and Human Services 7500 Security Boulevard M.S. C5-11-24 Baltimore, Maryland 21244
   Dear Dr. McClellan:
   We are writing to bring an important Medicaid matter to your attention that requires your prompt and direct involvement because it jeopardizes Minnesota's ability to maintain its excellent healthcare delivery system.
   It has come to our attention that the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) has delayed action on five state plan amendments that represent $140 million in annual Medicaid funds to Minnesota. These amendments were authorized by the 2003, 2004, and 2005 Minnesota State Legislatures, and they comprise programmatic changes, including both rate reductions and increases to providers (most notably hospitals and nursing homes) as well as policy changes required to reconcile state law with the federal Medicaid state plan.
   It is our understanding that CMS has delayed the approval of the $140 million in funds because of the existence of two disfavored supplemental payments which were approved by CMS over ten years ago. These supplemental payments total $26.3 million annually in federal funds, though Minnesota's Department of Human Services and the Legislature voluntarily repealed one a year ago in acquiescence to CMS' new policy perspective. What remains is a total of $14.185 million per year in scrutinized funds part of which is under dispute through a reconsideration and appeals process available to the state. It is unreasonable for CMS to withhold approval of unrelated Medicaid state plan changes worth $140 million, and it makes it impossible for the state to exercise its right to due process on the disputed $14.185 million.
   In the past you have shared your view that CMS will scrutinize all states equally in regard to state intergovernmental transfers so that CMS can pursue alignment of state financing policies. We take you at your word and agree that accountability is indeed important; however, unlike what has been done in other states, Minnesota has not experienced such expeditious work with CMS in uncovering mutually agreeable alternatives to disfavored intergovernmental transfers. The state has been more than patient given that the Minnesota Department of Human Services has been in equity discussions with CMS for over a year about this and how similar arrangements have been granted to states, such as Iowa and Massachusetts. You may be aware that both states have a ?1115 waiver to reshape the mechanisms by which public health care programs are funded without losing the value of the federal portion of former intergovernmental transfers.
   We ask that, as Administrator, you instruct your staff to take one of two actions: 1) separate the disputed $14.185 million from the $140 million group of amendments, letting the appeals process work; or 2) secure agreement quickly between CMS and the State of Minnesota about how this $14.185 million in disputed funds can be directed toward our uninsured efforts as has been approved in other states. The State Legislature and the Minnesota Executive Branch cannot be expected to budget for the next biennium with $300 million in Medicaid funds and three year's worth of program changes in question as the funds and approval of these state plan amendments are needed to effectively administer this complex program for 570,000 clients.
   We appreciate your consideration on this important issue to the State of Minnesota, and we look forward to a quick and favorable resolution for the benefit of the people of our great state.
 
 