SEN. DAYTON FIGHTS TO ENSURE MEDICARE RECIPIENTS KNOW THEIR BENEFITS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today introduced legislation (S.A. 2244) that would ensure 42 million Medicare recipients receive correct information about their new prescription drug benefits. Last month, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) distributed to beneficiaries the "2006 Medicare & You" Handbook, which incorrectly summarized the prescription drug subsidies available to low-income seniors. Rather than mailing a corrected copy of the Handbook to all beneficiaries, CMS has posted a corrected version of the Handbook on its website. CMS is also providing the correct information to those who call 1-800-MEDICARE, and relying on private insurers to relay the information. However, few people are aware of the mistake and, therefore, will not call the Medicare hotline or their insurance agencies to get the accurate facts of their coverage.  
   Dayton's amendment, offered to the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education spending bill (H.R.3010), would ensure that all Medicare beneficiaries receive a new copy of the Handbook, with the correct information. 
   In the section called "If I Qualify for Extra Help, Will My Full Premium Be Covered?" the Medicare Handbook incorrectly states that low-income beneficiaries can get subsidies to cover the entire cost of premiums for ALL prescription drug plans. In fact, only plans that have premiums at or below a regional average rate will be fully subsidized. That means that if Extra Help recipients select a more expensive plan - 60 percent of those offered - they will unknowingly be responsible for paying the difference in premiums. In Minnesota, 120,000 Medicare recipients qualify for subsidies and could, unwittingly, commit themselves to paying more out of pocket each month, if they select a more expensive prescription drug plan. 
   Senator Dayton said, as a result of the error, "The assumption is that you can enroll in any plan and, if you qualify, have that premium entirely paid for by the Medicare program. Well, that's not the case. And that would make a big difference, especially for low-income beneficiaries, when deciding which plan to enroll in. 
   "I think it's such a critical error, and one that is so misleading for people - who are going to have a hard enough time as it is trying to make these decisions - that I think a correction is necessary."
 
 