SEN. DAYTON APPLAUDS SENATE REAUTHORIZATION OF VOCATIONAL, TECHNICAL EDUCATION GRANT PROGRAM
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that the U.S. Senate has reauthorized the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education program, which provides millions of dollars in essential funding to Minnesota secondary and post secondary students. The Senate passed the bill late last night to reauthorize the program through 2012. "This program is critical to ensuring that Minnesota students can be successful in the international job market," said Dayton. According to the Minnesota Department of Education, over 125,000 students in all but two of Minnesota's 339 school districts benefit directly from the funding provided under the Perkins grant program. The grants are used to develop challenging academic standards for high-skill, high-wage, or high-demand fields, as well as non-traditional fields. Additionally, grants are used to develop partnerships between high schools, colleges, and businesses, creating opportunities for internships, job-shadowing, and mentoring programs. 
   States that receive the grants are required to ensure that their schools' vo-tech programs eventually lead to an industry-recognized credential, certificate, or post-secondary degree. Barbara Klaas, President of Minnesota School Boards Association, said: "The Carl D. Perkins grants are critical for students to learn applied math, science, and technology, areas vital to Minnesota's economy. Without them, many schools would not be able to offer vocational education to students. And for some students, this is the only type of learning that keeps them engaged and motivated in school. We are thrilled that these vital programs have again received funding."
   In March, Dayton joined 42 of his bipartisan colleagues in sending a letter to leaders of the Senate Budget Committee, urging full funding for the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education program. However, Dayton expressed disappointment that the President zeroes out funding for this program in his FY2007 budget proposal.
   "The Administration cannot claim an educational policy to leave no students behind, but then fail to continue long-standing and essential programs like Perkins," said Dayton.
   Dayton has vowed to do all that he can to preserve the program's funding, during the appropriations process later this year.
 
 