SEN. DAYTON PRESSES OIL COMPANIES TO HELP KEEP NEEDY OUT OF COLD
  Sen. Mark Dayton, along with 10 Senate colleagues, today called upon oil companies, that recently announced record 3rd quarter profits, to help low-income seniors and families stay warm this winter. Even in the wake of the hurricanes, oil companies' profits continued to skyrocket into the tens of billions of dollars, while the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) is extremely under-funded, forcing many Americans to choose between heating their homes and eating.  
   In an open letter to oil companies, the Senators urged them to "act as good corporate citizens" by using a fraction of their profits to help needy Americans, who are facing home heating crises. Earlier today, major oil companies announced profits in excess of $30 billion, for the third quarter alone. 
   Home heating prices are expected to surge by at least 60% over last year in Minnesota, and by 34% nationally. 
   "As energy prices skyrocket, so, too, do oil company profits," said Dayton. "Asking these corporations to contribute a small part of their profits to help low-income Americans survive this winter is the right thing for us to do and for them to do." 
   The full text of the letter is below: 
   October 27, 2005 
   An Open Letter to Oil Companies: 
   Energy companies are earning record profits this quarter, therefore, we urge you to act as good corporate citizens and invest earning profits into programs, such as fuel funds, that will provide energy assistance to low-income Americans. 
   Rising energy prices threaten to financially overwhelm low-income families and seniors this winter. These households will face impossible choices this winter: to heat or to eat. A study by the RAND Corporation found that low-income households reduced food expenditures by roughly the same amount as their increase in fuel expenditures. The Mortgage Bankers Association expects steep energy costs could increase the number of missed payments and lost homes beginning later this year. 
   Approximately 8.1 million households in the United States use oil for heating. Since the winter heating season of 2001-2002, heating oil prices rose 98 percent for the average family. This winter, prices are expected to rise over 30 percent. Natural gas prices are also expected to soar. This winter, the average family will face a $1500 natural gas bill, an increase of over $600 from just last year. For families using propane, prices are projected to hit $1,427, an increase of $325. These price increases are overcoming workers' salaries and seniors' Social Security checks. American families need economic relief from high energy prices. They need the security to know they will not have to decide between heating their homes or feeding their families, and paying the energy bill or buying life-saving medicines. 
   For years, natural gas utilities and their customers have contributed to fuel funds to help reduce the energy burden of low-income families. In 2003, contributions to fuel funds totaled $68 million. U.S. oil companies' profits for the first nine months of this year increased by more than 35 percent over last year. Contributing just 10-percent of your company's profits to assist low-income families faced with high energy burdens will have a substantial impact this winter. 
   To keep American households safe and warm this winter, we urge you to invest earning profits into energy assistance programs. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senators Reed (D-RI), Cantwell (D-WA), Dayton (D-MN), Mikulski (D-MD), Kohl (D-WI), Johnson (D-SD), Stabenow (D-MI), Lautenberg (D-NJ), Kennedy (D-MA), Kerry (D-MA), and Clinton (D-NY).
 
 