SEN. DAYTON GETS 42 MILLION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS REAL FACTS ABOUT THEIR BENEFITS
  Late last night, the Senate unanimously passed Sen. Mark Dayton's legislation (S.Amdt. 2244), ensuring that 42 million Medicare recipients, including 695,000 Minnesotans, will now receive correct information about their new prescription drug benefit. Dayton's Fort Snelling office received calls from constituents, last week, expressing confusion over the wrong information in their "2006 Medicare & You" Handbooks. The handbooks are published by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS).  
   In Minnesota, there are 41 different, stand-alone drug plans being offered under the new Medicare Prescription Drug Program. The Handbook states that Medicare will cover the monthly premiums of all 41 plans; but, in reality, Medicare will only cover premium payments for half of them. 
   Dayton's amendment, offered to the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education spending bill (H.R. 3010), ensures that all Medicare beneficiaries will receive a new copy of the Handbook, with the correct information. 
   "My amendment will help 42 million Medicare beneficiaries who received the wrong information from CMS in their handbook, 'Medicare & You'," said Dayton. "This will require that CMS issue a correction, mail it to all seniors and other Medicare beneficiaries, and when they choose their prescription drug coverage plan, they'll have the right information on which to do so." 
   Last month, CMS distributed to beneficiaries the "2006 Medicare & You" Handbook, which incorrectly summarized the prescription drug subsidies available to low-income seniors. Rather than mailing a corrected copy of the Handbook to all beneficiaries, CMS posted a corrected version of the Handbook on its web site; however, many seniors do not have access to the Internet. CMS is also providing the correct information to those who call 1-800-MEDICARE, and relying on private insurers to relay the information. However, few people are aware of the mistake and, therefore, will not call the Medicare hotline to get the accurate facts of their coverage. 
   In the section called "If I Qualify for Extra Help, Will My Full Premium Be Covered?" the Medicare Handbook incorrectly states that low-income beneficiaries can get subsidies to cover the entire cost of premiums for ALL prescription drug plans. In fact, only plans that have premiums at or below a regional average rate will be fully subsidized. That means that if Extra Help recipients select a more expensive plan - 60 percent of the plans offered - they will unknowingly be responsible for paying the difference in premiums. In Minnesota, 120,000 Medicare recipients qualify for subsidies and could have, unwittingly, committed themselves to paying more out of pocket each month, if they had selected a more expensive prescription drug plan.
 
 