SEN. DAYTON: MINNESOTA OVER $2.5 MILLION FOR THEATER, DANCE, ARTS
  Sen. Mark Dayton announced today that Minnesota will receive $2,588,6000 in federal funding from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA). The funding, provided as matching grants, will support 35 new and established artistic works - nine of which will go to theater and dance projects. The grant awards range in size from the smallest, $8,000 to support an exhibition on the artist Uta Barth at the New Franklin Cultural Center, to the largest, $1,214,000 to Minneapolis-based Arts Midwest to support regional art agencies in providing cultural and artistic programs to local communities. 
   "Minnesota is known nationwide for its performing arts," said Dayton. "I am delighted that the National Endowment for the Art grants will support some of Minnesota's finest theater and dance companies."  
   Below is a sample of the grants awarded under this program. 
   The Guthrie Theater, in Minneapolis, received a $25,000 grant for NEA's Shakespeare for a new Generation program. The Guthrie will tour The Merchant of Venice, providing performances and educational activities for high school students throughout Minneapolis. 
   "Each year, the Guthrie serves 100,000 students representing every school district in Minnesota," said Artistic Director Joe Dowling. "Funding from the NEA will be used to provide over 15,000 high school students throughout Minnesota and the Midwest who attend our annual Shakespearean production with a deep understanding and appreciation of Shakespeare's work. 
   Ballet Works, Inc., in Minneapolis, will receive $10,000 to support evening and student matinee performances, and master classes in Rochester and St. Cloud. 
   College of St. Benedict, in St. Joseph, will receive $10,000 to support the presentation of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company in a week-long residency. The company will perform Views on Stage, Cunningham's first collaboration with sculptor Ernesto Neto, as well as offer education and outreach activities for students and adults. 
   Illusion Theater & School, Inc., in Minneapolis, will receive $23,000 to support the Twin Cities Peer Education Residencies and the National Peer Education Program. The project will provide 25 communities in multiple states with theater arts education classes for urban and rural high school-aged youth. 
   Jungle Theatre, in Minneapolis, will receive $15,000 to support the production of The Rivals by Richard Brinsely Sheridan. 
   Pillsbury United Communities, in Minneapolis, will receive $20,000 to support continuation of the Chicago Avenue Project - a Learning in the Arts for Children and Youth program. Professional playwrights, actors and directors work with inner-city children to create theater productions focused on themes in students' lives. 
   Ragamala Music and Dance Theater, in Minneapolis, will receive $10,000 to support bharatanatyam Indian classical dance workshops and master classes. Workshops will be led by bharatanatyam dancer/choreographer Alarmel Valli and will culminate with a public performance by Valli in conjunction with the U.S. premiere screening of the documentary film Pravata - The Dance of Alarmel Valli. 
   Stuart Pimsler Dance & Theater, in Minneapolis, will receive $10,000 to support WASH: Working with Artists, Sharing the Healing. The project includes a symposium at the Barbara Barker Center for Dance, Caring for the Caregiver movement/expression workshops, and Satellite Events, which will include artistic collaborations by participants presented throughout the community. 
   Ten Thousand Things, in Minneapolis, will receive $17,000 to support the production and tour of Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice. Free performances will be targeted to low-income audiences in prisons, shelters, and housing projects. 
   For more information about NEA, please visit www.arts.gov.
 
 