SEN. DAYTON QUESTIONS WHETHER BUSH ADMINISTRATION IS USING SOCIAL SECURITY AS DISTRACTION FROM FISCAL CRISIS
  Sen. Mark Dayton, participating today in an oversight hearing on Social Security, questioned the Bush Administration's rationale in claiming that Social Security is about to go bankrupt. At the hearing, held by the Senate Democratic Policy Committee, Dayton speculated that the Bush Administration is using scare tactics as a distraction from the real fiscal crisis, which the Administration has created.  
   "Instead of doing something about the real financial problem facing our country - the $412 billion federal deficit - the Bush Administration is focusing on the one government program running surpluses," said Dayton. "Before we go correcting a problem, we need to know precisely what that problem is.
   "The Bush Administration claims there is a Social Security crisis only to distract Americans from its serious mismanagement of the federal budget. Over the past four years, the Administration has spent hundreds of billions of surplus dollars from the Social Security Trust Fund to try to repay some of the federal deficit this Administration's policies have created. It is that deficit which poses the single greatest threat to Social Security. If the economy is strained, then Social Security, like the rest of the government, will be, too." 
   Debbie Fredrickson, a Social Security Administration employee from Minneapolis, MN, testified at today's hearing about the use of the Social Security Administration's resources to promote the Bush Administration's political agenda, supporting privatization of Social Security. Fredrickson testified about internal Social Security Administration documents which encourage employees to promote private retirement accounts to beneficiaries. 
   Dayton recently joined with several of his Senate colleagues in requesting that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) open an investigation into the Bush Administration's illegal use of taxpayer dollars to promote its Social Security privatization plan. In the letter, the Senators charge that the Administration's action violated two laws that prohibit the use of taxpayer dollars for grassroots lobbying.
   Contact: Erin Utzinger, 202/224-2333.
 
 