SEN. DAYTON APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF DRU'S LAW TO CREATE FIRST-EVER NATIONAL SEX OFFENDER REGISTRY
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced the passage of legislation to create the first-ever national sex offender registry. Current federal law requires each state to maintain such a registry, but no national database exists to link the state lists together. By establishing the National Sex Offender Public Database, this legislation, introduced by Sen. Dorgan (D-ND) authorizes the federal government to create, manage, and make available the registry to all states and the general public via the Internet. Last November, this legislation, known as Dru's Law, passed the Senate by unanimous consent, but the House of Representatives failed to act on the bill in time. Dayton, who is a co-sponsor of the bill, is hopeful the House will pass it in the fall.  
   "It is terrible that we do not have a federal registry to track some of the most dangerous people in our society," said Dayton. "We, as elected officials, are duty bound to protect our communities. The National Sex Offender Public Database will help track people known to be repeat offenders. With this legislation, Minnesotans will know when these potentially dangerous people move into our neighborhoods." Dru's Law will also strengthen the rules monitoring high-risk sex offenders, by requiring correctional facilities to immediately notify the state attorneys general about the planned release of any high-risk sex offender. An attorney general could then determine the worthiness of the offender's case for a legal proceeding to determine if the individual is fit to return to society. Additionally, states will be required to transfer information regarding all sex offenders to the national database. This legislation was prompted by the case of Dru Sjodin, a young woman from Minnesota who was abducted while attending the University of North Dakota in 2003. Although Dru's suspected abductor was a registered sex offender in Minnesota, North Dakota authorities did not have access to the Minnesota state registry, and, therefore had no way of knowing about his criminal history. Dru's Law seeks to close this dangerous loophole and prevent similar tragedies from occurring in the future.
 
 