SEN. DAYTON: OVER $687K COMING TO IMPROVE MINNESOTA SCENIC BYWAYS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that Minnesota will receive $687,415 to improve its scenic byways. The grants are provided by the Federal Highway Administration's National Scenic Byways Program.  
   "Each year, thousands of Americans enjoy the natural beauty of Minnesota's scenic byways," said Dayton. "I am delighted this federal funding will expand and improve those sites for more Minnesotans and visitors to our great state." 
   Projects to receive funding include: 
   $149,975 for Split Rock Lighthouse Overlook in Lake County. Funding will be used to restore the rustic-style stone overlook wall, add interpretive information for visitors, reopen walking paths, and improve the grounds. 
   $136,000 for Grand Rounds National Scenic Byway in Hennepin County. The grant will be used to design and construct an overlook along the Mississippi River and Grand Rounds National Scenic Byway, connecting trails and a picnic pavilion. An additional $24,960 will be awarded for a marketing initiative, to promote the health benefits of recreation along the byway. 
   $104,000 for St. Croix Scenic Byway Traveler Enhancement and Education Project in Pine, Chisago, and Washington counties. Funding will support the development and design of an interpretive guide for step-on guides who join bus and tour groups. The grant will also support the creation of interpretive signs and exhibits at significant sites along the byway. 
   $78,600 for the Minnesota River Valley in Swift County. The grant will be used to construct parking and a sidewalk leading to a platform along the Minnesota River bank, improving access for senior citizens and the physically challenged. Funding will also be used to improve access to a fishing platform below the bridge's west side. 
   $43,000 for Minnesota Great River Road National Scenic Byway. Funds for this project, which includes 21 Minnesota counties, will be used to promote the byway and to educate local hospitality industry staff about the area. The project aims to increase the number of visitors and the duration of their stays in Mississippi River communities. 
   $40,000 for Lady Slipper Scenic Byway in Cass County. The grant will support the preservation of two historic buildings from 1935 at Camp Rabideau, which has been approved for designation as a National Historic Landmark. 
   $30,400 for Edge of the Wilderness National Scenic Byway in Itasca County. The funding will be used to further marketing and promotional initiatives for the byway, as well as to develop a vegetation management plan. An additional $10,000 will be awarded for the design and construction of an interpretive center. 
   $25,000 for Paul Bunyan Scenic Byway in Cass and Crow Wing counties. The grant will be used to promote the byway as an area amenity and travel destination. 
   $25,000 for Historic Bluff Country in Mower, Fillmore, and Houston counties. Funding will be used to develop, design, and print a brochure, including locations to visit along the byway with information about each site and a corresponding map. 
   $20,480 for North Shore Scenic Drive in St. Louis, Lake, and Cook counties. Funding will be used to improve several existing pull-offs along the North Shore Scenic Drive.
 
 