SEN. DAYTON SECURES OVER $14 MILLION FOR FLOOD CONTROL, CONSERVATION IN MINNESOTA
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that he has secured a total of $14.6 million in funding for flood control and environmental conservation initiatives, for communities throughout Minnesota. The funds were approved today by the Senate Appropriations Committee, as part of the 2007 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which will now go to the full Senate. 
   "Communities across Minnesota have been devastated in the past by floods," said Dayton. "This funding will help us to develop an infrastructure to prevent such extensive damage from happening again."
   Projects for which Dayton secured funding include:
   $12 million for ongoing flood control in East Grand Forks/Grand Forks. Severe flooding in 1997 caused significant damage to the cities of Grand Forks and East Grand Forks, and a joint flood control project was initiated shortly thereafter. A series of levees and diversions have since been built, providing both cities with much-needed flood protection. This federal funding will complete the cities' ongoing flood control project.
   $1.5 million for flood control in Breckenridge. In 1997, extensive flooding devastated much of Breckenridge, causing over $35 million in damages. Federal funding will support the construction of a diversion project.
   $450,000 for general investigations and a feasibility study for the Wild Rice River. The Wild Rice Watershed District encompasses an area of approximately 2,080 acres within the counties of Norman, Clay, Mahnomen, Clearwater and Polk in Northwest Minnesota. In April of 1997, severe flooding resulted in major damage to homes, infrastructure, farm land and public buildings. Again, in June of 2002 communities within the watershed were flooded twice. Federal funds will be used to determine costs and economic and environmental benefits of a flood control project.
   $326,000 for Roseau, for preconstruction, design, and engineering of a flood control project. A Presidential Disaster Declaration was granted to the city of Roseau in June of 2002, subsequent to a flood that devastated the city of Roseau and rural properties in Roseau County. Federal funding will support the initial design stages of a flood control project
   $125,000 for an ecosystem restoration feasibility study for Marsh Lake Dam. The Minnesota River Reconnaissance Study conducted by the Army Corps recommended that feasibility work be completed on the Marsh Lake Dam because safety issues and habitat degradation will persist unless something is done. Funding would be used to complete the Corps' feasibility study. Marsh Lake is a shallow 5,000 acre reservoir located mostly on public land in Big Stone, Lac qui Parle and Swift Counties.
   $200,000 for St. Paul Harriet Island Lower Harbor Dredging - Mississippi River. The Lower Harbor, located near Harriet Island, has silted in along much of the shore side docks, causing a number of boats to become grounded. The navigation channel adjacent to the harbor area is also negatively affected as the rate of silting has increased. Funding will be used for dredging at this specific site.
 
 