SEN. DAYTON: OVER $990,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDS FOR BRAINERD LAKES FOREST LEGACY PROJECT
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that he has helped to secure $992,000 in federal funding for the Brainerd Lakes Forest Legacy Project, in north central Minnesota. The project is a collaborative effort of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, the Potlatch Corporation, the Trust for Public Land, and state and local community supporters, to protect nearly 5,000 acres of working forest lands in and around the Crow Wing and Pillsbury State Forests. The federal funds were included in the FY 2006 Interior Appropriations bill.  
   "Congratulations to the Brainerd Lakes Forest Legacy Project," said Dayton. "We must act responsibly to protect our sensitive lands from the threats of over-development." 
   The conservation easement of over 4,776 acres of land, adjacent to Crow Wing and Pillsbury State Forests, will prevent commercial and residential development, ensure public access for recreational activities, and allow for sustainable forest management, thus providing raw materials and jobs for the Brainerd Lakes and northern Minnesota economy. Crow Wing and Cass counties are among the fastest growing counties in Minnesota, and there is increasing pressure to develop forestland. 
   Administered by The United States Department of Agriculture's Forest Legacy Program, the funding is provided to states to protect threatened working forests and woodlands through conservation easements and free acquisition. With its minimum requirement of 25 percent non-federal matching funds, the program leverages state and private dollars to complement the federal funding. Senator Coleman and Congressman Oberstar also worked on this initiative. 
   A formal announcement will occur on Friday, June 30th at 3 PM, at the Pillsbury State Forest, to mark the completion of the four-year conservation easement project. Federal, state and local officials will join with project partners and supporters at the event.
 
 