SEN. DAYTON SECURES OVER $4 MILLION FOR MINNESOTA CONSERVATION PROJECTS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced final passage of a spending bill to provide $4.4 million for Minnesota projects aimed at preventing water contamination and preserving forests and wildlife refuges. Dayton worked to secure the funds, which passed today as part of the $26.3 billion FY2006 Interior Appropriations bill (H.R. 2361). The Conference Committee Report will soon be sent to the President to be signed into law.  
   "Minnesota is home to some of the most beautiful forests and wildlife refuges in the country," said Dayton. "Every year, millions of people from around the world visit these exquisite places. It is crucial that we continue to fund preservation initiatives, so that many generations to come can enjoy these areas." 
   The following is a list of programs included in the Interior Appropriations bill: 
   $500,000 for Crow Wing County to establish a unique sanitary management district to fulfill current and future wastewater treatment needs. 
   $500,000 for the Western Lake Superior Sanitary District in Duluth, for a backup generator and an overflow basin in order to protect the water quality of Lake Superior. 
   $500,000 for the Northern Tallgrass Prairie National Wildlife Refuge to acquire land and conservation easements. 
   $800,000 for the Brainerd Lakes Legacy Program, to place a conservation easement on 1,600 acres of privately owned land, which will prevent development, and ensure public access. 
   $125,000 for the Chippewa National Forest to acquire private lands on Starr Island, which has a unique combination of forests and wetlands and provides nesting habitat for bald eagles and several species of waterfowl. 
   $500,000 for the City of Willmar to assist in their Wastewater Treatment Plan Relocation Project., which will focus on efficient wastewater treatment. 
   $1.5 million for the City of Minneapolis's Combined Sewer Overflow Improvement Project, where funds will be used to disconnect unauthorized public sector inflow sources that contribute and cause untreated sewage into the Mississippi River and the surrounding community.
 
 