SEN. DAYTON'S ETHANOL VEHICLE AWARENESS PROVISION PASSES IN FINAL ENERGY BILL
  Sen. Mark Dayton today voted for final passage of the Energy bill (H.R. 6), which included a provision, based on his E85 labeling amendment, to ensure that owners of flexible fuel vehicles are aware that they can fill their cars with 85 percent ethanol fuel. There are currently 5 million flexible fuel vehicles on the road, but only 50,000 of them that have ever been fueled with E85. The conference bill, which also contained other alternative energy initiatives, passed 74 to 26, and will now go to President's desk for his approval.  
   Minnesota is the only state that requires every gallon of regular gasoline to contain at least 10 percent ethanol. This amount will go up to 20 percent by 2013, due to legislation signed into law by Governor Pawlenty on May 3, 2005. 
   "I voted to support the bill. It's not perfect, it's not what I wish it was, but it has modest steps in the right direction," said Dayton. "It includes my E85 labeling amendment, which requires a notification sticker on the gas tank of every vehicle with a flex-fuel engine, and that's a victory." 
   Dayton originally offered the ethanol vehicle labeling amendment to the Highway Bill (H.R. 3), along with Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) and seven cosponsors. The amendment was eventually stripped from the Highway Bill, but Dayton worked with Congressman John Shimkus (R-IL) to include a modified version of the amendment in the House-Senate conference on the Energy Bill. 
   The Dayton-Lugar amendment was supported by the National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition, the Governors' Ethanol Coalition, the National Farmers' Union, the National Corn Growers' Association, and the Renewable Fuels Association. 
   In addition to the labeling provision, the bill includes the 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuels Standard, an extension of the wind production tax credit to 2007, and tax credits for E85 distributors and small ethanol producers-all of which are good for Minnesota, a leading state in ethanol production. 
   Unfortunately, the bill failed to include the Renewable Portfolio Standard, which was in the Senate bill, that would have ensured that at least 10 percent of the nation's electricity comes from renewable energy sources, such as wind power, hydrogen, solar power, and biomass. 
   "While the bill makes some modest steps toward expanding our use of alternative fuels, our reliance on foreign oil will continue to increase. National use of renewable fuels is still projected to be only 5 percent of gasoline in 2012. That's very treacherous for the U.S." 
   Finally, Dayton also commended the Energy conference committee members for preventing controversial provisions such as the MTBE liability waiver and drilling in the Arctic Wildlife Refuge from being included in the final bill.
 
 