SENS. DAYTON, REID DISCUSS HOMELAND SECURITY NEEDS WITH LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT, FIREFIGHTERS ON FRONT LINES
  Sen. Mark Dayton and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid today spoke with police, firefighters, sheriffs, and other first responders from Minnesota and Nevada about what they need to bolster national security at the local level. Despite increased homeland security responsibilities, federal grants for first responders have been repeatedly slashed by the Bush Administration and Republicans in Congress. During today's conference call, law enforcement officials described how the cuts have impacted their agencies and what additional resources are needed to protect citizens from terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and local crime. 
   "I've heard the saying, 'homeland security is hometown security,'" said Dayton. "Homeland security isn't just about terrorism; it's about keeping our communities safe from daily crime, illegal drugs, and violence. It's about being ready for any kind of disaster that could hit."
   Among the biggest issues currently facing first responders is the methamphetamine epidemic. One sheriff reported that, in his hometown prison, 80 percent of inmates were arrested for meth-related offenses. Yet, the Byrne grant program, which funds anti-drug initiatives, including Minnesota's 21 regional drug task forces, has been reduced by more than one-third since FY2003.
   Bob Bushman, President of the Minnesota Police and Peace Officers Association, said, "I've worked Narcotics, and 90 percent of the time, you're investigating meth cases. We have counties that spend more money placing meth kids in meth houses [for rehabilitation] than on their entire county highway budget."
   Unfortunately, the Bush Administration has proposed eliminating the Byrne grant program for 2007, despite reports that meth trafficking and meth use have rapidly increased in recent years. Earlier this year, the Senate passed an amendment that Dayton offered to the Senate budget resolution, to restore funding to the 2003 level. Dayton will continue to fight for this funding through the 2007 appropriations process.
   Federal grants for firefighters are also in jeopardy. The Administration has proposed a 46 percent cut to the Fire Assistance Grant program, which is essential for providing firefighter training and equipment. The Administration has also proposed eliminating the SAFER program, which supports the recruitment and hiring of new firefighters.
   "Basically, they're asking first responders to do more with much less. That's asking way too much, and that's why I will continue to fight to ensure Minnesota first responders have what they need to do their jobs," Dayton said.
   Minnesotans on today's call include:
   Bob Bushman, President of the Minnesota Police and Peace Officers Association Mike Stockstead, President of the Minnesota Professional Firefighters Association Dan Winkel, President of the Minnesota State Fire Department Association Bruce West, President of the Minnesota Fire Chiefs Peter Jansky, President of the Minnesota Chiefs of Police Association Harlan Johnson, Executive Director of the Minnesota Chiefs of Police Association Dallas Block, Lake of the Woods County Sheriff Kenny Hultgren, Hallock County Sheriff.
 
 