SEN. DAYTON URGES BUSH AGAINST RECESS APPOINTMENT OF JOHN BOLTON
  Sen. Mark Dayton today joined with 36 of his Senate colleagues, urging the President not to make a recess appointment of John Bolton to be the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. This week, it has become clear that Bolton was not truthful with the Senate Foreign Relation Committee, during the confirmation process.  
   The full text of the letter follows: 
   July 29, 2005 
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
  President of the United States 
  The White House 
  Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   In light of the fact that John Bolton was not truthful to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the questionnaire he swore was truthful, we ask that you do not make a recess appointment of Mr. Bolton to be the Ambassador to the United Nations, and instead submit a new nomination to the Senate. 
   Mr. Bolton's excuse that he "didn't recall being interviewed by the State Department's Inspector General" is simply not believable. How can you forget an interview about an issue so important that the United States Senate unanimously passed an amendment stating that Congress supports "the thorough and expeditious investigation by the Inspector General of the Department of State and the Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency into the documents ... that the President relied on to conclude that Iraq had attempted to obtain uranium from Africa"? The amendment was cosponsored by the Chairmen of both the Foreign Relations Committee and the Intelligence Committee. 
   Mr. President, we know you are engaged in an effort to strengthen our relationships throughout the world. Sending someone to the United Nations who has not been confirmed by the United States Senate and now who has admitted to not being truthful on a document so important that it requires a sworn affidavit is going to set our efforts back in many ways. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senators Durbin, Reid, Clinton, Boxer, Dodd, Biden, Feinstein, Kerry, Corzine, Wyden, Lautenberg, Jeffords, Obama, Salazar, Bingaman, Schumer, Bill Nelson, Feingold, Rockefeller, Reed, Dorgan, Cantwell, Murray, Mikulski, Sarbanes, Leahy, Lincoln, Stabenow, Kennedy, Kohl, Harkin, Conrad, Levin, Inouye, Akaka, and Dayton.
 
 