SEN. DAYTON OUTRAGED OVER BUSH'S FAILURE TO SUPPORT VETERANS' HEALTH CARE; SENATOR SUPPORTS $1.4 BILLION IN EMERGENCY FUNDING
  Earlier this week, Secretary of Veterans Affairs Jim Nicholson announced that his agency faces a $1 billion budget shortfall for fiscal year 2005, making it impossible for the VA to meet the health care needs of our nation's veterans. Sen. Mark Dayton today voted in support of an amendment that would fix the problem. The amendment, introduced by Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) with Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-WV), would provide $1.42 billion in emergency funding for veterans' health care. Two months ago, Democrats tried to increase veterans funding by $2 billion, but the VA Secretary said it was not needed. Additionally, Dayton joined his Democratic colleagues in sending a letter to the President urging him, during his speech to the nation last night, to address the Administration's failure to support veterans' health care. The full text of the letter is below.  
   "Earlier this year, I voted for an amendment that would have provided $1.98 billion in emergency funding to the VA," said Dayton. "However, the amendment was defeated on the floor, only after the Secretary of Veterans Affairs wrote a letter assuring that the VA did not need additional emergency funds this year. We now learn that the letter was dead wrong. 
   "We've known that this Administration has underfunded the VA for four years. The request for these much-needed funds has fallen on the deaf ears of the Republican majority. We need to figure out what happened, and we need to move quickly to get the VA the money it needs to keep our promise to our veterans." 
   The Murray/Byrd amendment provides the following funding to cover the VA's shortfall for 2005: 
   * $420 million to compensate each Veterans Integrated Service Network, or VISN, for the additional expenses incurred because of the heavy caseload of wounded veterans 
   * $400 million to replace "carryover" funds 
   * $600 million to reimburse VA construction accounts that have been raided to pay for health care costs 
   The text of the Senators' letter is below. 
   June 27, 2005 
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
  President of the United States of America 
  The White House 
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW 
  Washington, DC 20500 
   Mr. President: 
   As you prepare for your Tuesday evening address to the nation regarding our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, we urge you to take this opportunity to level with the American people about a major cost of these conflicts - the care of our nation's veterans. 
   As of January 2005, over 1 million U.S. troops have fought in Iraq and Afghanistan over the past 3 and one half years. The Department of Veterans Affairs' (VA) annual mid-year budget review confirmed that many of these soldiers have returned home and are beginning to access the VA health care system in record numbers, placing increased demands on an already overburdened agency. Many of us saw a looming crisis and sought to take steps that would avert it. 
   With the recent announcement that the VA is facing a shortfall of approximately $1 billion in fiscal year 2005 it seems that our concerns are well founded. Unfortunately, the VA's current shortfall, and larger shortfalls predicted for future years, has confirmed that your Administration has not prudently addressed the budget impacts of these conflicts. We urge you to do so now. Only by confronting this problem head-on can we ensure that our veterans receive the support and healthcare they were both promised and deserve. 
   Adjusted for inflation, the VA is spending 25-percent less per patient than it did in fiscal year 2000. Some veterans have to wait over three years to have surgery. And some VA hospitals are only seeing veterans who have more than a 50-percent service-connected disability. The evidence that the VA cannot function under your proposed budgets and needs immediate relief to provide veterans access to quality health care continues to mount. 
   War is costly. This is a lesson we all know personally. As Senators we have dealt with legislation authorizing the use of military force, we have worked on spending bills to support our troops, and we have talked to the families of those who have lost loved ones. We also know that failing to provide for the men and women who have sacrificed for our freedom is wrong. 
   In a September 7, 2003 speech to the nation you stated, "the heaviest burdens in our war on terror fall, as always, on the men and women of our Armed Forces and our intelligence services. They have removed gathering threats to America and our friends, and this nation takes great pride in their incredible achievements. We are grateful for their skill and courage, and for their acts of decency, which have shown America's character to the world. We honor the sacrifice of their families." 
   Mr. President, we urge you to provide the American people with a full accounting of the cost of these conflicts, including the cost of caring for our veterans upon their return home, during your Tuesday evening address. We ask that you directly share with the nation how your administration will make up the VA's current FY 2005 budget shortfall of $1 billion, as well as the looming shortfall projected for the future. And, we stand ready to work with you to pass an emergency spending bill to address this shortfall before the July 4th Congressional recess. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senators Murray, Reid, Boxer, Leahy, Corzine, Lautenberg, Johnson, Rockefeller, Kohl, Kerry, Jeffords, Carper, Obama, Durbin, Salazar, Wyden, Mikulski, Feinstein, Feingold, Reed, Schumer, Clinton, Kennedy, Dorgan, Bayh, Stabenow, Cantwell, Harkin, Bingaman, Sarbanes, Lincoln, Dayton, Landrieu, Conrad, Biden, Pryor, Bill Nelson, and Levin.
   Contact: Colleen Murray, 202/224-2333.
 
 