SEN. DAYTON DEMANDS COMPREHENSIVE REPORT ON ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF LARGEST INCINERATOR IN U.S. LOCATED IN PRESTON
  Sen. Mark Dayton today submitted an extensive list of comments on the adequacy of the environmental impact report done on the proposed Heartland Energy and Recycling plant in Preston, Minnesota. The comments were delivered to Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Project Manager, Kevin Kain today. Dayton is demanding that another environmental impact review by the agency take place before the project, which will be the largest incinerator in the U.S. that relies exclusively on waste tires for its fuel, moves forward. 
   "The Preston plant will be the largest incinerator in the United States to rely exclusively on waste tires for fuel," said Dayton. "A unique project of this size, that has so many unanswered questions and potentially an enormous negative impact on the water we drink and the air we breathe, demands more thorough environmental review. 
   "For the sake of the citizens of southeastern Minnesota, a full-scale Environmental Impact Statement must be done before this project moves forward," said Dayton. 
   Dr. Robert Sauer, a retired physician from Preston and a leading local opponent of the Heartland facility, thanked Dayton for his involvement on the issue. "The citizens concerned with the possible health effects of the proposed tire burning plant for Preston are excited and grateful that Senator Dayton agrees an environmental impact statement is necessary before the plant is permitted. While most state and national politicians have ducked the issue, we all applaud Senator Dayton for taking the time to investigate the problem and take a stand," said Dr. Sauer.
   Last year, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency approved an environmental study that was later found to be inadequate, as determined by the Honorable Judge Joseph F. Wieners, District Court Judge, Third Judicial District. Judge Wieners, in his ruling on a lawsuit filed by local opponents of the tire burning facility, noted the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency made significant factual errors upon its approval of the adequacy of the initial environmental assessment. 
   The full text of Dayton's letter to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency can be found below. 
   October 29, 2004 
   Mr. Kevin Kain
  Project Manager 
  Minnesota Pollution Control Agency 
  520 Lafayette Road 
  Saint Paul, Minnesota 55155-4194 
   Dear Mr. Kain: 
   I respectfully submit the following comments on the adequacy of the Supplemental Environmental Assessment Worksheet for the proposed Heartland Energy & Recycling plant in Preston, Minnesota. As you know, this facility will be the largest incinerator in the United States to rely exclusively on waste tires for its fuel. In fact, the Supplemental Environmental Assessment Worksheet notes that Heartland's own consultant claims, "to its knowledge, there are no fluidized bed combustion facilities in operation in Europe or elsewhere burning 100 percent waste tires..." 
   Given the many unanswered questions surrounding a unique facility of this size, it is imperative that the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and its Citizens' Board require a comprehensive Environmental Impact Statement to be completed prior to a decision regarding construction of the plant.
   Last year, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency approved an Environmental Assessment Worksheet for the proposed Heartland facility that was inadequate, as determined by the Findings, Order and Memorandum issued by the Honorable Joseph F. Wieners, District Court Judge, Third Judicial District. As noted by Judge Wieners, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency made significant factual errors upon its approval of the adequacy of the initial Environmental Assessment Worksheet. These factual errors underscore the inadequate review given the proposed Heartland facility by the Pollution Control Agency and its Citizens' Board. Given the factual errors documented by the District Court, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and its Citizens' Board must ensure the integrity of its environmental review process. 
   Approval of a Supplemental Environmental Assessment Worksheet that attempts to address the factual errors identified by the District Court will not restore credibility to the state's environmental review process. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency must fully address the concerns about the proposed Heartland facility by Judge Wieners, the Fillmore and Houston Counties Joint Health Board, the City of Lanesboro, the Zumbro Valley Medical Society, and thousands of citizens living in and around Preston. Those environmental concerns clearly require the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to order a full-scale Environmental Impact Statement on this proposed project. Anything short of an Environmental Impact Statement would continue to undermine the integrity of the environmental review process required under Minnesota law and rule.
   The Unique Characteristics of the Proposed Heartland Facility Demand Adequate Environmental Review 
   As noted in Judge Wieners' memorandum remanding the Heartland Environmental Assessment Worksheet back to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and its Citizens' Board for further review, there is no tire-derived, fuel-fluidized bed plant operating in the United States or Europe that relies solely on waste tires for its fuel. Given the uniqueness of the proposed facility and the volume of waste tires that will be burned there, it is imperative that the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency demonstrate due diligence relative to the environmental review process. The citizens of southeastern Minnesota must be adequately assured that the proposed plant will not cause irreparable harm to their environment, and there must be ample opportunity for public input. An Environmental Impact Statement process is warranted for a unique facility of this magnitude. 
   It is unacceptable that many of the environmental assessments of the emissions of this plant are based primarily on a nine-square-foot pilot test plant - a test plant that was built in California in 1986 to determine the feasibility of a proposed waste tire incinerator - an incinerator project that was ultimately abandoned. The Supplemental Environmental Assessment Worksheet also reviews the environmental impacts of dissimilar tire-burning plants currently in operation. Relying upon data from these facilities is inadequate.
   Furthermore, to approve this plant without an Environmental Impact Statement would set a terrible precedent for environmental review throughout the United States. If Heartland builds the first tire-burning plant of this magnitude without an Environmental Impact Statement, there would likely be additional proposals for tire-burning plants throughout Minnesota and the nation that would also attempt to bypass adequate environmental reviews. 
   The Pilot Plant Tests Are Based Upon Data More than 15 Years Old 
   The pilot test plant, upon which much of the Environmental Assessment Worksheet is based, is nearly 20 years old. The Supplemental Environmental Assessment Worksheet discounts the concerns raised relative to the use of this data. However, advances in the car and truck tire-manufacturing processes raise serious questions about the reliability of 20-year-old data on the combustion of waste tires
   Over the past 20 years, tire manufacturers have dramatically increased the tread life of the average automobile and truck tire. The improvements in the tire-manufacturing process have also changed the composition of the waste tires being discarded today. It is fair to question whether the combustion of a tire designed for 40,000 miles of road life will produce the same pollutants as a tire designed for 80,000 miles of road life. An Environmental Impact Statement could more fully explore the characteristics of modern automobile and truck tires and assess the emissions those tires will likely produce when incinerated.
   Allegations of Undue Influence by a State Legislator Cast Doubt on the Adequacy of the Environmental Assessment Worksheet
   The Memorandum issued by Judge Wieners alleges that a Member of the Minnesota House of Representatives had contact with the Commissioner and staff of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency in a "ham-handed effort to speed up the permitting process ..." for the Heartland project. This same Representative has allegedly threatened several citizens of the Preston area who opposed the Heartland facility. Such attempted undue influence seriously compromises the integrity of the environmental review process. The Pollution Control Agency can mitigate whatever influence this Representative had on the agency's decision-making process. However, the appearance of impropriety will erode public confidence in the decisions of the agency and its Citizens' Board.
   The Commissioner of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and its staff should not have allowed a continued dialogue with this State Representative. He should have been instructed to communicate his concerns through the same public comment process allowed for all other citizens.
   Adequate Environmental Review and Mercury 
   Judge Wieners' Memorandum also raises serious questions about the adequacy of the environmental review of the Heartland facility relative to the likely emissions from the proposed plant. There appear to be inconsistencies in the projected emissions of dioxins, furans, and mercury based on tests conducted using two pilot plants and one existing multi-fuel facility in Modesto, California. One 18-inch by 18-inch pilot plant and the full-scale plant in Modesto, California, produced noticeable dioxin, furans, and mercury emissions, while the 3-foot by 3-foot pilot plant produced no detectable emissions of these harmful pollutants. There is no evidence that these inconsistencies caused concern among staff at the Pollution Control Agency. 
   Furthermore, the Environmental Assessment Worksheet fails to account for the potential impact of increased mercury emissions on nearby "impaired waters," as designated by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. The Root River and the Mississippi River have been designated as "impaired waters" due to mercury accumulation, so any increase in mercury emissions from the Heartland plant should be considered in the context of a full Environmental Impact Statement. 
   Will the Cumulative Impacts of the Heartland Facility and the Adjacent Pro-Corn Ethanol Plant Create an Unacceptable Environmental Risk for the Preston Area?
   Notwithstanding the discrepancies in emissions data from the two test plants and the Modesto, California, facility, the Court continues to express concern about the cumulative impacts of the proposed Heartland facility and the existing Pro-Corn ethanol plant located immediately adjacent to the northern border of the proposed Heartland facility. 
   The Supplemental Environmental Assessment Worksheet continues to dismiss the cumulative negative impacts of the Heartland facility and the Pro-Corn facility. Although these two plants will be located adjacent to each other, the Supplemental Environmental assessment Worksheet continues to maintain the "the highest predicted impact from Pro-Corn occurs on its northern fence line," while "Heartland's highest predicted impact occurs approximately 100 meters south of their fence line." 
   The height of the proposed Heartland stack is 210 feet; the height of Pro-Corn's new dryer stack is expected to be 175 feet. While Heartland's stack will be 35 feet taller than Pro Corn's stack, it is inconceivable why the plumes from these two stacks will apparently travel in opposite directions. The Supplemental Environmental Assessment Worksheet continues to dismiss the cumulative impact of these two plants. Its refusal to consider the cumulative impact of the two plants is based primarily on the contention that the plumes from the two plants will travel in opposite directions. If these plumes will in fact travel in opposite directions, that phenomenon should be documented through an Environmental Impact Statement. 
   Can the Combustion of Waste Tires Be Done Safely? 
   Judge Wieners' Memorandum also addresses the fundamental questions surrounding the environmental impacts of tire-burning facilities. The Memorandum notes that waste tires contain benzene and aromatic extender oils that require very high combustion temperatures - temperatures that result in the instant vaporization of the waste tires and emit very little smoke. However, the Heartland plant will be burning the tires at a lower temperature (approximately 1600 degrees) in order to recapture the steel in the tires for recycling and to minimize nitrous oxide emissions. The disparate needs of high temperatures to break down harmful chemical compounds and the lower temperatures to preserve the steel for recycling pose a significant challenge for the Heartland facility. Once again, the complexity of the environmental issues surrounding waste tire incineration cannot be fully addressed through an abbreviated Environmental Assessment Worksheet process. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and its Citizens' Board should require a full Environmental Impact Statement process to adequately address these complex issues.
   The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Must Restore the Credibility and Integrity of Its Environmental Review Process 
   The issues I have addressed above underscore the continued inadequacy of the Supplemental Environmental Assessment Worksheet. There are numerous other issues surrounding the proposed Heartland facility that are not addressed in Judge Wieners' order to remand the case to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and its Citizens' Board. While Judge Wieners may not have raised questions about these issues, the integrity of Minnesota's environmental review process demands that the agency also consider these issues when determining whether an Environmental Impact Statement should be ordered for the Heartland facility. The original Environmental Assessment Worksheet (EAW) contained numerous misstatements of fact and questionable assessments, including the following:
   * The EAW claims "there are no known significant fish or wildlife resources on or near the site that could be disturbed or affected by the proposed construction or operation of the facility." Storm water discharge, including storm water that will filter through waste tire holding areas, will drain into a holding pond, which will drain into a creek that eventually drains into Watson Creek and the South Branch of the Root River. The south branch of the Root River is the most popular trout stream in the state. It is questionable whether the quality of these brooks and streams and the Root River will not be adversely affected by storm water runoff from this site. 
   * The EAW claims that "Heartland is not expecting to generate any hazardous waste." This statement ignores the possible contaminants in the ash residue that will be left after the combustion of 10 million tires annually. While the ash will be provided to cement-manufacturing factories, there is no apparent concern for possible hazardous wastes that may be present in this ash.
   * The EAW does not address safety concerns associated with the addition of 25 semi trucks per day bringing waste tires to the plant and the 25 empty trucks that will be leaving the plant. The Preston area is accessible via a two-lane highway with limited visibility due to the terrain of the area.
   * The EAW claims there are no prime or unique farmlands in proximity to the site. While the word "proximity" is not defined, the Preston area is surrounded by farmlands, including a farm immediately adjacent to the Heartland site. The Preston area also includes several organic farming operations that will likely be adversely affected by the emissions from this plant
   The EAW claims there are no parks, recreation areas, or trails in proximity to the site. A public golf course is located across a highway from the site; an elementary school and playground are 0.4 miles south of the Heartland property; the Root River Trail is within one mile of the site; and a fish hatchery and Forestville State Park are five miles from the Heartland site. 
   * The EAW claims there are no scenic views or vistas in the area. State Highway 16, a designated Scenic Byway, provides access to the site and provides a birds-eye view of Preston less than a mile up the road.
   The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and its Citizens' Board have failed to uphold the integrity of state and federal environmental review processes relative to the proposed Heartland facility. In ordering another review by the Pollution Control Agency, Judge Wieners has given the agency an opportunity to redress this serious failure. For the sake of the citizens of southeastern Minnesota and the protection of our environment, you must require the completion of a full-scale Environmental Impact Statement prior to deciding whether or not this project should be permitted to proceed.
   Sincerely, 
   Mark Dayton 
  United States Senator
 
 