SEN. DAYTON JOINS COLLEAGUES IN RARE CLOSED-DOOR SESSION TO DEMAND ANSWERS ON WHITE HOUSE USE OF PREWAR INTELLIGENCE
  Sen. Mark Dayton today joined with his Senate colleagues in a rare, closed-door session to discuss prewar intelligence and the failure of Congress to provide oversight of the Bush Administration during the Iraq War. The special session ended with a resolution that six members--three Democrats and three Republicans--would form a task force and report back to the Senate, no later than November 14th, on the status of the Senate Intelligence Committee's Phase 2 investigation and the projected timetable for its completion.  
   Last year, the Senate Intelligence Committee began its investigation of the intelligence that led the United States into the Iraq War. Phase 1 of that investigation revealed that American prewar intelligence was "dead wrong." In July, 2004, Intelligence Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS) promised that Phase 2 of the investigation, to determine whether the White House had intentionally misled the public, would commence following the presidential election. To date, the Senate Intelligence Committee has not proceeded with Phase 2. 
   "I can't think of anything more serious than the question of whether the Administration misled America into war," said Dayton. "The American public and the families of the more than 2,000 soldiers who have courageously died since this war began deserve answers." 
   Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) called for the closed-door session, citing the indictment of Vice President Cheney's Chief of Staff, I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby. Reid said the indictment "provides a window into what this is really all about: How this Administration manufactured and manipulated intelligence in order to sell the war in Iraq and attempted to destroy those who dared to challenge its actions." 
   All Senators were present for today's closed-door session and were required to turn over their mobile phones and all other communication devices. Senate staff members and the viewing public were cleared from the Senate Chamber, before the lights were dimmed and the doors were closed. No vote is required to call a closed-door session.
 
 