SEN. DAYTON: MORA TO RECEIVE NEARLY $2.5 MILLION FOR SENIOR HOUSING PROJECT
  Sen. Mark Dayton announced today that the Housing and Redevelopment Authority (HRA) of Mora, in partnership with Horizon Health, will receive $2,473,100 in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The grant will be used to construct a 23-unit senior housing project.  
   "It is important that the elders in our communities be allowed to age with dignity," said Dayton. "I am delighted that this funding will be used to give Mora's seniors greater independence and control over their lives." 
   Efforts to secure this funding have been unsuccessful during the last two years. Meanwhile, existing housing projects in Mora have been unable to meet the growing need for low-income senior population, leaving many seniors in Mora without adequate and stable housing. 
   "We've failed so many times," observed Laura Howell, Executive Director of the Mora HRA. "I've heard that God only gives you what you can handle, so I believe that we can handle this now. We're going to try our very best." 
   The senior housing units will fulfill the demand for affordable housing within the community and provide residents with the opportunities for residential activities, home health care, personal care services, and transportation to places like the drug store and the grocery store, thereby allowing elderly persons to live as independently as possible. 
   The housing project will be completed on the same site as the senior center, for which Dayton secured funding during the fiscal year 2006 HUD appropriations process. The senior center will provide gathering facilities, an exercise center, meeting rooms, and bingo and card games for all seniors and will serve as a county-wide congregation area as well as a dining center. 
   The funds for the housing project are administered under HUD's Section 202 program. The grant is interest-free and does not have to be repaid as long as the housing remains available for very low-income, elderly persons for at least 40 years.
 
 