SEN. DAYTON CRITICIZES ADMINISTRATION FOR IGNORING SCIENTIFIC PROOF OF MERCURY'S TOXICITY
  Sen. Mark Dayton joined with his Senate colleagues this week in sending a letter to the President expressing deep concern that White House staff members, when working with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to draft new mercury regulations, deleted and modified scientific information. The intent of the White House changes was to downplay the toxic effects of mercury on public health, specifically if the metal is ingested by children and pregnant women. Also last week, Dayton joined several of his Senate colleagues in pressing the EPA to account for the 65 tons of mercury that go missing each year at chlor-alkali plants. The lawmakers urged the agency to properly regulate the plants to protect human health and the environment from this potent neurotoxin.  
   The New York Times recently reported that facts, drawn largely from a study commissioned by Congress to settle the scientific debate about the harmful effects of mercury, were altered when transcribed in the draft regulations. The White House modified the report's statements to deceive the public that the adverse impact from mercury is not as serious as scientific research actually shows. 
   "I am deeply concerned that the Administration is turning a blind eye to proven scientific facts about the risk mercury poses for children and pregnant women," said Dayton. "Also, how can the EPA lose track of 65 tons of mercury generated from chlorine gas and lye manufacturing plants? They need to locate this dangerous toxin immediately in order to protect the public's health. 
   "Mercury emissions will continue to harm the environment and jeopardize the health of our nation's children and pregnant women until this Administration puts public health before politics."
   As a result of the Senators' letter, the EPA has agreed to undertake a review to determine how the 65 tons of mercury are mysteriously lost each year at chlor-alkali plants.
 
 