SENS. DAYTON, COLEMAN WIN EFFORT TO NAME U.S. POST OFFICE AFTER FORMER MINNESOTA GOV. QUIE
  Minnesota Sens. Mark Dayton and Norm Coleman today secured renaming Dennison's post office the "Albert Harold Quie Post Office," in honor of Former Minnesota Gov. Al Quie, in a measure passed by the Senate. In November, the House passed a bill (H.R. 3989) in support of the renaming, which was sponsored by the entire Minnesota House Delegation.  
   "Governor Quie is a great public servant and a great Minnesotan," said Dayton. "Naming the city's post office after this storied Dennison native is a fitting tribute to his extraordinary contributions to our state." 
   "Al Quie served Minnesota honorably for more than two decades and is certainly deserving of this recognition," said Coleman. "Long after his stint as Governor and Congressman, Al's tireless commitment to volunteering has been an inspiration to us all. As a man who is devoted to his faith, he worked hard to create the National Prayer Breakfast. As the current co-chairman, I am pleased to report that this legacy continues to shine brightly; giving members of all faiths an opportunity to come together. Al has been a friend, role model and mentor to me. Renaming this post office is a great way Minnesotans can show our appreciation." 
   After having served in the United States Navy as a pilot, Quie served in the Minnesota State Senate from 1955 through 1958. He then represented the people of Minnesota in Congress for 10 consecutive terms, beginning in 1958. As a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives, he was a founder of the National Prayer Breakfast, a tradition that continues today. In 1979, he left Congress to run for Governor of Minnesota, where he served until 1983. In addition to his work in public office, Quie has made significant contributions to Minnesota through his involvement with the Prison Fellowship and the Minnesota School Readiness Business Advisory Council. 
   Quie grew up on a farm outside Dennison and attended school in Nerstrand and Northfield. He graduated from St. Olaf College in 1950.
 
 