SEN. DAYTON CONTINUES STRONG SUPPORT OF KIDS FIRST; LEGISLATION WOULD PROVIDE HEALTH CARE FOR EVERY CHILD IN AMERICA
  Sen. Mark Dayton today reiterated his support of Sen. John Kerry's Kids Come First Act of 2005, legislation that would make health care available to every uninsured and underinsured child in America. According to U.S. Census data, there were nearly 81,000 uninsured children ages 18 and under in Minnesota in 2003, the most recent year for which such data are available. Senator Kerry (D-MA) will be in Minneapolis today for an event to promote the Kids First bill, which Dayton cosponsors. Dayton is traveling in Israel and, therefore, is not available to attend the event.  
   "I strongly support Senator Kerry's health care legislation, Kids First, which would greatly benefit our country's children," said Dayton. "As I always have, I still believe that universal health coverage for Americans is the best policy. Senator Kerry's plan is an important step toward that goal, and I am proud to be a cosponsor." 
   Kids First proposes an expanded incentive program for private health insurance companies that extend coverage, at a reduced rate, to uninsured and underinsured children. The bill would also provide tax subsidies for individual policy purchasers, designed to help offset the cost of private health insurance. Additionally, the bill would increase federal funding for state Medicaid and SCHIP programs, to include all families with incomes below 300 percent of the federal poverty level. 
   In March, 2005, Kerry announced that more than 500,000 Americans signed a petition which is in support of Kids First and which urges the Senate to act on the legislation. Kids First has been endorsed by 15 leading health care, children's, and labor organizations including the American Academy of Pediatrics, the National Association of Children's Hospitals, Families USA, Every Child Matters, the AFL-CIO, and the March of Dimes.
   Contact: Semonti Mustaphi, 202/228-3263. 
 
 