SEN. DAYTON FIGHTS TO PROTECT ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE FROM OIL DRILLING
  Sen. Mark Dayton today cosponsored an amendment (S.A. 2358) that would have removed from the Budget Reconciliation bill a provision to allow oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). The amendment failed by a vote of 48-51. Final passage of the Budget Reconciliation bill is expected to occur by the end of week.  
   "Today's misguided Senate vote to drill for oil in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is a consequence of the failure to reduce our nation's dependence on both domestic and foreign oil," said Dayton. "ANWR will not improve America's long-term energy future; it will primarily improve the profitability of some of the world's richest companies." 
   "Senator Mark Dayton deserves the thanks of all Minnesotans for standing up for real solutions to America's energy needs," said Rebecca Rom, chair of the Alaska Coalition of Minnesota. "He understands that America cannot solve its energy problems by forever spoiling its greatest wildlife refuge. We need more of Mark Dayton's kind of leadership in Washington." 
   It is estimated that drilling in ANWR would only provide oil equivalent to the amount that the United States consumes in six months. 
   Proponents of the plan claim that drilling in ANWR can be done in an environmentally benign way, but evidence from the adjacent Prudhoe Bay indicates otherwise. According to the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, the Prudhoe Bay oil fields and Trans-Alaska Pipeline have caused an average of 504 spills annually on the North Slope since 1996. Through last year, those spills included more than 1.9 million gallons of toxic substances including diesel, crude oil, and hydraulic oil. 
   "This is a money grab, by a few special interests, who think they can take advantage of a Republican Administration and Republican Congress, to ram this through and override any other environmental or sensible considerations," added Dayton. "We have more ethanol available in the cornfields of Minnesota and Iowa next year than they'd get out of ANWR ten years from now." 
   Established by President Eisenhower in 1960, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska is a diverse and fragile ecosystem. This area serves as a critical habitat for caribou, musk ox, swans, snow geese, and numerous other species. It is also home to the 150,000 animals in the Porcupine caribou herd, critically important to the culture and the subsistence lifestyle of the Native American Gwich'in tribe in Northeast Alaska and Canada.
   Contact: Colleen Murray, 202/224-2333.
 
 