SEN. DAYTON SECURES NEARLY $5 MILLION IN FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MINNESOTA AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
  Sen. Mark Dayton, a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, announced today that his request for nearly $5 million in funding for key agricultural and research projects in Minnesota has been given the final stamp of approval by Congress. The projects, approved by the joint House and Senate Conference Committee, were a part of the Senate Agriculture's spending bill (H.R. 2744). The Conference Committee's report will now head to the White House for the President's signature.  
   "Minnesota farmers produce some of the finest agricultural products in the world - they are the backbone of our state's economy," said Dayton. "This funding is an investment, not only in our farmers and their families, but in the future of our state." 
   Among the Minnesota projects for which Dayton secured funding in the FY2006 Agriculture Appropriations bill are: 
   $3 million to the Intensive Technical Assistance Program, developed by the University of Minnesota's Center for Farm Financial Management. This funding, provided through the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act for Farmers, will help the University develop a five- to 10-day technical assistance program to provide business and marketing training to farmers who have been hurt by competition from imports. 
   $200,000 to the University of Minnesota-St. Paul for Soybean Genomics Research. These funds will create a new faculty research position at the University. Research will seek to identify genes that contribute to improved protein levels and soybean oil quality. 
   $300,000 in funding restored to the ARS Cereal Disease Research Lab in St. Paul, for research to improve resistance to scab and rusts in cereal crops. President Bush had proposed cutting the funds for this important research, which could reduce the substantial economic losses caused by these crop diseases. 
   $298,000 to the Uniform Farm Management Project, run by the Center for Farm Financial Management at the University of Minnesota. This project will continue the development of a national database of farm financial information to allow farmers to compare their expenses and earnings to those of similar farms, and thereby improve management and business decisions. 
   $622,000 to Northern Great Plains, Inc., to support cutting-edge research to keep Minnesota and North Dakota farmers competitive in the global marketplace. A top priority is creating new opportunities for value-added agricultural projects in the region. 
   $263,000 to the Driftless Area Initiative, an association of six nonprofit Resource Conservation and Development (RC&D) Councils working to improve natural resources and the rural economy in the Driftless Area of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Illinois. Minnesota's portion of the funds will go to the Hiawatha Valley RC&D serving southeastern counties. The Initiative will work to improve water quality by identifying major sources of pollution in the Driftless Area and working with farmers to implement practices to reduce soil erosion, sedimentation, and runoff. 
   Additionally, Dayton helped to secure a $13 million grant to the National Johne's Disease Management and Testing Initiative for Cattle. Johne's Disease is a contagious disease that causes animals to waste away, causing diarrhea and rapid weight loss in dairy cattle. USDA estimates that 22 percent of dairy herds in the United States are infected, making funding to fight this disease a top priority for Minnesota's dairy farmers.
 
 