SEN. DAYTON: BUDGET BILL FAILS MINNESOTA
  Sen. Mark Dayton Thursday denounced the Senate - passed budget bill that increases the financial burden on senior and cuts support for farmers. In a party-line vote, the Senate approved the Budget Reconciliation bill (52-47) that cuts $39.1 billion, most of which will come from Medicare, Medicaid, and farm programs. The bill also opens the Arctic Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil drilling.  
   "I voted against the Budget Reconciliation because it increases the deficit - it has $39 billion in program spending cuts, $70 billion in tax cuts," said Dayton. "It also includes unfair agriculture cuts, and language that would open ANWR for exploration." 
   The Congressional leadership has pressed forward with its proposed cuts to essential programs, in order to pay for the $70 billion in tax cuts they plan to pass before Congress adjourns this year. Dayton and Senate Democrats argued that more tax breaks for the wealthy and more program funding cuts to help pay for them is a fiscally reckless combination, when the nation already has a record $7 trillion debt and a $318 billion deficit and is in the midst of the Iraq War and rebuilding the Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina. 
   Democrats offered amendments to protect senior citizens from increases in their Medicare premiums, while finding other savings in Medicare by allowing the government to negotiate with the drug companies on the cost of prescription drugs, under the new Medicare drug benefit program. Both amendments were defeated. 
   Farm programs also take a $3 billion hit in the Senate-passed bill. Emergency farm payments to dairy farmers under the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program will be reduced by more than 25 percent, and agriculture conservation programs will be cut by $1.05 billion. 
   The Senate Budget Reconciliation bill will now head to a joint House-Senate Committee, where Committee members will reconcile the Senate version with the House-passed version. The House bill has $50 billion in spending cuts that will impact food stamps, child support enforcement, and student loans.
 
 