SEN. DAYTON ANNOUNCES NEARLY $659,000 FOR INDIAN HEALTH BOARD OF MINNEAPOLIS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that the Indian Health Board (IHB) of Minneapolis, Inc. will receive $658,992 in federal funds to increase health care access and services for residents in the Phillips neighborhood of Minneapolis. The Phillips neighborhood is a low-income neighborhood south of Minneapolis with a mix of minority populations, including the third largest urban American Indian population in the United States. The funding is provided by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).  
   "I am delighted that the Indian Health Board received this important federal funding," said Dayton. "Although Minnesota is considered a leader in health care, some populations can still face many obstacles to obtaining quality care. This funding will aid the Indian Health Board in reversing health care inequality." "We will continue our campaign against the disparities in the levels of health found in the low-income and minority communities we serve," said Dr. Terril Hart, CEO of the Indian Health Board of Minneapolis. "This funding will help us maintain the vigor of the medical, dental, and mental health services essentially unavailable elsewhere to many of our patients." 
   The Indian Health Board of Minneapolis is a community health center since 1971 that offers primary medical and dental care, counseling and support, and community health services. American Indians and Latinos combined make up approximately 70 percent of IHB's patient base. Both these populations have high poverty rates, low rates in health care coverage and experience significant health disparities. Diabetes, cancer incidences and mortality rates rank high among American Indian and Latino populations. In addition, thirty percent of American Indian and Latio children fall behind on their immunizations, and the rate of inadequate or no prenatal care for American Indian women is six times higher than caucasians, and four times higher than caucasians for Latina women. 
   Though the Indian Health Board of Minneapolis was awarded funding through HHS, it is among the clinics that could lose funding in the near future. President Bush's 2007 budget proposal would eliminate the $33 million that goes to 34 urban Indian health clinics.
 
 