SEN. DAYTON: FARMERS HIT BY NATURAL DISASTERS GET $4 BILLION IN SENATE-PASSED EMERGENCY SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Mark Dayton has announced that $4 billion in agriculture disaster assistance, which includes Minnesota farmers slammed by last year's floods, was approved today by the Senate. Dayton pushed for the legislation, originally introduced as a separate bill by Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND), which would compensate farmers nationwide for losses due to Hurricane Katrina and other natural disasters in 2005. The measure is included in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (H.R.4939), which passed the Senate by a vote of 78 to 20. 
   "Too many farms in Minnesota have been pushed to the brink of bankruptcy by last year's devastating floods," said Dayton. "Senator Conrad's legislation, of which I am cosponsor, will help farmers in Minnesota and other flood-ravaged parts of the country to get back on their feet."
   Seventeen Minnesota counties have been designated primary disaster areas by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Today's amendment would compensate farmers in those regions for a percentage of their crop losses in the 2005 crop year. To offset the high cost of energy, fertilizer, and feed, the amendment provides an increase in farm bill program payments. The measure also includes a livestock assistance program and gives states block grants to provide assistance for dairy and specialty crops, which are not covered by the farm bill.
   In September, Dayton offered the Permanent Emergency Agricultural Assistance Act (S. 1776), introduced by Representative Colin Peterson in the House, which would create a standing program of agriculture disaster assistance. The legislation would assure affected communities that emergency government assistance will be available when it's needed.
   Today's emergency spending bill also includes: $72 billion for defense and foreign aid; $27 billion for hurricane recovery; $2.3 billion for avian flu preparation; and $648 million for port security. Additionally, the bill includes a measure, cosponsored by Dayton, which provides $430 million for veterans' healthcare.
 
 