MINNESOTANS HONOR THEIR FAVORITE TEACHERS
  Mr. President. Recently, I invited Minnesotans to honor their favorite teachers. The response was overwhelming. Over 4,000 Minnesotans nominated their favorite teachers. Many teachers were nominated more than once. Current students nominated recent teachers. Older Minnesotans nominated teachers from years, even decades, ago. Many of the honored teachers are still actively teaching; others are now retired; some have passed away. 
   I wish there were time here and space in the Congressional Record to read all of the words of admiration and gratitude, which accompanied those 4,000 nominations. They were truly heartwarming. Very successful adults credited special teachers with turning their lives around; helping them to recognize their undiscovered talents; or sparking interests which led to their successful careers. The specific details varied; but the conclusions were the same. Those teachers made huge differences in the lives of their students. They saved lives. They made lives. They taught more than their subjects. They taught ways of thinking, ways of being. They taught study skills and the value of hard work. They helped boys and girls; young women and young men to find themselves; to believe in themselves, and to better themselves. They helped young dreamers learn how to live out their dreams - and how to make them life-enhancing realities.
   We do too little to credit and honor the many teachers - dedicated men and women -- who perform these human miracles for our children. They are modestly paid at best, underpaid at worst, although most of them do not teach for monetary rewards. They teach for their love of teaching. For the joys of performing their magical awakening of young minds to new possibilities. They take personal satisfactions in their own knowledge of their successes - even when those are seldom recognized and appreciated by the rest of us. It may be only years later that someone thinks to note their incredible contributions. Now is one of those moments.
   Sadly, in Minnesota, there is mostly bashing and trashing of public school teachers and public schools. They are paid $2,500 less than the national average for public school K-12 teachers. Their class sizes are larger than the national average. State support for public school students is declining, both in real dollars and relative to other states. They are asked to do more and more, with less and less. The least we can do is to say thank you, when they do their jobs well.
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that names of teachers nominated by Minnesotans as their favorite teachers follow the conclusion of my remarks in the Congressional Record.
   I also encourage my fellow Minnesotans to thank a teacher this week or this month, and next week or next month - either a present or former teacher - for a special job, well done.
   They deserve it. They have earned it.
 
 