SEN. DAYTON URGES SENATE TO GIVE FARMERS AGRICULTURE DISASTER AID BEFORE WINTER RECESS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today called on Congress to create a program of nationwide disaster assistance for farmers before the Senate adjourns for its winter recess. Dayton has also cosponsored legislation (S. 1692) to create such a program; the bill was introduced by Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Rep. Earl Pomeroy (D-ND).  
   "Before we go home to our holiday feasts, Congress ought to give thanks to the farmers that put food on our tables," said Dayton. "2005 has been a hard year for farmers across the country - more than half the counties in the nation have received disaster designations. Minnesota was hit hard with heavy rains and flooding this year, and those farmers need and deserve assistance from the federal government, just like farmers hit by hurricanes in the Gulf." 
   Northwestern Minnesota was ravaged last spring by severe storms and heavy rainfall. Flooding prevented planting in large areas, while existing crops were damaged by excessive rain, hail, and wind. 
   Senator Conrad's emergency spending legislation would compensate farmers for 50 percent of their production and quality losses above a 25 percent loss threshold. 
   The text of the letter cosigned by Dayton is below: 
   December 1, 2005 
   Dear Senators Frist and Reid: 
   As you develop the Senate schedule for the balance of this session, we urge that you not adjourn the Senate before it has the opportunity to consider a comprehensive, emergency economic and disaster assistance program for our nation's farmers and ranchers. 
   Emergency assistance for farmers and ranchers is necessary because of the loss of crops and livestock due to weather related causes, including Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma as well as losses caused by drought, flood and disease in other parts of the nation. In addition, farmers and ranchers have suffered significant income losses this year due to rapidly escalating input and transportation surcharge costs associated with rising energy prices. As you know, our farmers cannot pass these added expenses on to their consumers due to the nature of agricultural markets. 
   As you are aware, several bills have already been introduced in the Senate to provide this type of assistance to our agricultural producers. The supporters of these initiatives were requested to withhold offering them as amendments to the supplemental appropriations for hurricane relief as well as the annual agriculture appropriations bills in order to expedite the consideration and passage of those bills. Senators agreed to that request with the understanding that agricultural disaster assistance would be considered as part of other legislation that would come before the Senate this year. 
   As the Senate concludes its agenda for the current session, we hope you will honor the commitment that agricultural disaster assistance will receive appropriate attention before we adjourn. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senators Conrad (D-ND); Dayton; Baucus (D-MT); Cantwell (D-WA); Coleman (R-MN); Dodd (D-CT); Dorgan (D-ND); Durbin (D-IL); Jeffords (I-VT); Johnson (D-SD); 
   Landrieu (D-LA); Levin (D-MI); Murray (D-WA); Ben Nelson (D-FL); Bill Nelson (D-NE); Obama (D-IL); Roberts (R-KS); Salazar (D-CO); Stabenow (D-MI); Talent (R-MO); Wyden (D-OR).
 
 