SEN. DAYTON KICKS OFF NEW AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION
  Sen. Mark Dayton, in an effort to highlight the exceptional educational achievements of Minnesota schools, today kicked off his new Award for Excellence in Education, at the Minnesota State Capitol. The award publicly recognizes the thousands of individual success stories that occur in Minnesota schools each day.  
   Dayton now embarks on a trip across the state to present the Award for Excellence in Education to 18 schools and school districts, which have exceeded expectations for improving scholastic performance and enriching lives. Winners will receive an official copy of Dayton's congratulatory statement, from the Congressional Record, along with an American flag that has been flown above the U.S. Capitol. 
   "Excellent public education has long been one of Minnesota's highest priorities and greatest achievements," said Dayton at the kickoff. 
   "During the past few years, I have visited a couple hundred Minnesota schools, and have been in a couple thousand classrooms. I have witnessed so much outstanding teaching and exceptional learning. Our educational excellence did not just happen; we earned it." 
   As a former teacher in the New York City Public School system, Dayton has seen firsthand the needs of students, their parents, and schools. In the 109th Congress, Dayton was one of 17 Senators to introduce the Quality Education for All Act of 2005, which would reauthorize federal funding for Head Start and childcare development block grants. This year, Dayton also introduced two amendments to fully fund the federal government's commitment to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 40 percent of the estimated cost of special education for each state. Along with Senator Robert Byrd (D-W.V.), Dayton also offered an amendment that would provide an additional $5 billion for Title I, which covers educational expenses for disadvantaged children. 
   The Award for Excellence in Education is noncompetitive; all schools that are nominated and that exceed expectations for providing quality education will receive the award. Nominations can be made at any time during the school year, by any individual or group. Parents, students, teachers, school administrators, and school board members are all encouraged to submit nominations. Awards will be given throughout the school year. 
   To nominate a school, school district, or academic program for Senator Dayton's Award for Excellence in Education, submit a narrative of no more than 1,250 words describing your nominee's educational achievements, along with a cover letter signed by the school board chair or superintendent, to: Senator Mark Dayton Attention: Jim Gelbmann Fort Snelling Federal Building, Suite 298 1 Federal Drive Saint Paul, Minnesota 55111 Nominations can also be emailed to: Awards@dayton.senate.gov 
   For more information about the Award for Excellence in Education, please contact Jim Gelbmann at 612-727-5220, or toll free at 888-224-9043, or send an email to Awards@dayton.senate.gov.
 
 