SEN. DAYTON COMMENTS ON IRAQ PRISONER ATROCITIES
  Floor Statement on the Iraq Prisoner Atrocities
   I was present for the concluding remarks of the majority leader regarding the atrocities committed in Iraq against the prisoners there. I certainly share his sentiments. A number of my colleagues have spoken today from both sides of the aisle expressing their horror, their outrage, and their deep regret. I join with them, as well.  
   I also am deeply disturbed, as a Senator and as a Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, at the lack of communication from the military and the civilian command to those Members of the Senate about these incidents-in fact, right up to the moment they were disclosed to the American people through, fortunately, a free and vigilant press. 
   According to the information I have been able to obtain, a copy of the most recently referenced classified internal military report, and other news reports about that and other information, many of these incidents that have been under investigation occurred last October, last November-in other words, over half a year ago. They are horrible events. The report said that Iraqi prisoners had been victims of sadistic, blatant, and wanton criminal abuses. They were beaten with broom handles and chairs and threatened with rape. One prisoner was sodomized with a chemical light stick or with a broomstick. Military dogs were also used to frighten and intimidate detainees. One graphic description in The New York Times today outlines the experience of a particular Iraqi male, the deep humiliation and shame he still feels, the utter degradation, the sadistic and disgusting abuse of him, night after night, by his American captors. 
   I agree with the remarks of the majority leader that these people carrying out these terrible deeds were few in number, but tragically their impact is enormous. They are going to make life a lot more difficult and a lot more dangerous for the 134,000 incredibly brave, patriotic Americans who are over there putting their lives on the line every day and night. 
   A story in The New York Times gives a sense of how this is affecting the way the United States is viewed in the Arab world, saying in the Arab world and beyond, the tormenting of Iraqi prisoners by their American guards shredded already thin support for Washington's invasion of Iraq and its vow to install democratic values and respect for human rights. 
   The outrage over the abuse shown in pictures printed on front pages and flashed across television screens drew emotional comparisons, asking how the American occupation of the country could be distinguished from the way Saddam Hussein's government oppressed the ordinary Iraqis. This kind of outrage will lead to more attacks against our forces, greater intensity of attacks, more bombing and assassination attempts against our forces and other representatives, more casualties, more men and women from America dying, shedding blood as a result of this immoral and illegal misconduct. 
   The U.S. military, according to this report, first became aware of these incidents, or some of them, as early as January of this year; in fact, maybe even sooner than that. It was January 19 when LTG Ricardo Sanchez, the commander of the joint task force in Iraq, requested that these incidents of last October, November, and December be investigated. There was a preliminary report which indicated systemic problems within the prison brigade and suggested a lack of clear standards, proficiency, and leadership. 
   That investigation began then on January 24. It was carried out through interviews and other investigations of both Iraqi prisoners, former prisoners, and U.S. military personnel who had witnessed these incidents. 
   On February 29, the executive summary was presented to the military command; on March 19, the final written report. The out brief to the appointing authority took place on March 3, 2004. That is 2 months ago, and actually the 2 months preceding that, various people in the chain of command were aware of these incidents. 
   They must have recognized the enormous impact they would have, the devastating effect they would have upon our situation in that country, militarily, diplomatically, and in our relations with other countries throughout the world. Yet as far as I have been told, not one word-not one word, literally, was communicated to anyone in the Senate, Democrat or Republican. 
   We had, in fact, a briefing last Thursday afternoon, a top-secret classified briefing, which was attended, as I recall, by about 40 to 45 Members of the Senate with the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. That briefing occurred 2, 3 hours before the "60 Minutes II" report which disclosed these incidents and this report. Not one word-not one word-was mentioned to any of us. 
   I have been in briefings as a Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee through the last weeks and months where we have asked, time after time: What is going on? What is the progress? What is the lack of progress? Where are the problems? What is occurring? Not a word about this. Not a word, until it occurred, of the eruption of violence, the intensification of violence, in key areas of Iraq over the last several weeks, which caused, in April, the highest level of casualties since the war began. We ask, again and again: What is going on? And we are told: Everything is fine. We are making great progress. 
   As early as last August, we were told 95 percent of the country is peacefully progressing. Everything is going well. And we find out, through news reports or through the reality of events, that is not the case. 
   There is no credibility. The American people are not being told the facts and the truth. The U.S. Congress is not being told the facts and the truth. We deserve the facts and the truth. 
   I do not know who knew what, at what point in time, up through this chain of command. But I believe we have the responsibility and the right to find out. We are going to have, I am told, the opportunity, in the Senate Armed Services Committee, to meet with Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld this Friday morning. I certainly - and I know others, too - will be asking for that sequence of events and asking why it is that we are not told relevant information, crucial information that affects the conditions over there, the progress or lack thereof, that then, in turn, affects the lives, the safety, the well-being of the men and women who are serving over there heroically, and whose families are waiting back in my State of Minnesota and across this country, frantically, anxiously, wondering what their future is going to be, wondering if they are going to return home alive, safely. 
   We were elected in a democratic process by those men and women, their families, to be here to look out for them, to ask questions about what is going on, to be given the information about what is occurring, so we can participate in decisions that are going to affect U.S. policies that are going to determine the outcome of their lives - when they will be home, whether they will come home. 
   I think the people at various levels who participated in this investigation-I am not going to call it a cover-up, because there was an ongoing investigation, but, my goodness, for the last 2 months, when it was completed, and we were not informed, it was not being reported. If not covered up, it was being hidden from Congress. 
   I am going to ask those individuals to read or reread the United States Constitution and refresh their understanding of what it means to be in a constitutionally established democracy where the executive branch and the legislative branch have coequal responsibilities. 
   I certainly would like to work with Members of both sides of the aisle in regard to the authorization of military- 
   I would like to work with Members of both sides of the aisle to put in place language, in the military authorization and in any supplemental requests that are going to be made, that we be given full and necessary disclosure, the same way we require corporations that are making stock offerings to inform their investors, the same way we require corporations and those running them to inform their boards of directors of relevant, critically important information that has a material bearing on the information that is being presented so they can make informed decisions. We are getting far less than that. We are being asked to make informed decisions when we are not being given the information, we are not being told the truth. We are having vital, important information withheld. That has to stop. We need to disclose what has occurred in these incidents. 
   We need to make sure they never happen again. And we need to make sure that we in Congress are given the opportunity that we deserve, the right that we have, to look out on behalf of the American people to make sure they never occur again.
 
 