SEN. DAYTON PAYS TRIBUTE TO TROOPS ON THIRD TRIP TO IRAQ
  Sen. Mark Dayton, D-Minn., last week made his third trip to Iraq. He spent 12 hours Thursday visiting Minnesota National Guard troops stationed in southern Iraq. He spoke with the Star Tribune by phone from Minneapolis on Saturday. 
   Q. How would you compare the situation to what you experienced on your previous visits?
   A. I had different exposure. On my first trip [June 2003] we drove around in unarmored Jeeps. In December 2004, we flew into Baghdad but couldn't leave the Green Zone. This time, I wanted to stay overnight but wasn't allowed to because of security. We wanted to ride in a convoy but were denied. That tells me a lot about how precarious the security situation is.
   Q. What impressions did you come away with?
   A. It's a challenging assignment and [the Minnesota troops are] performing superbly well. Morale is high, and they're committed to their mission. I met with the mayor of Al Batha, where Minnesotans are working with him to make improvements. They've rebuilt schools, a city park, a water purification system and are rebuilding roads. It's incredible what they're doing on their own initiative. ... The critical element in the solution - if there is one in Iraq - is to improve the lives of average citizens there. Rebuilding is seriously lacking in most of the country.
   Q. How were military personnel reacting to the John Kerry flap? [Kerry's "botched joke" referring to getting "stuck in Iraq."]
   A. I was en route to Iraq when it broke. A couple soldiers commented on it, and they were, rightfully, deeply offended ... These [soldiers] are the best and brightest and certainly the bravest.
   Q. What impact do you foresee from today's expected verdict in the Saddam Hussein trial?
   A. If it's a [sentence] of death, the Sunnis will be incensed. If it's less than death, it will incense the Shiites. Either way, it's likely to inflame the divisions and protract this awful debacle.
   Q. With your Senate term nearly over, why did you return to Iraq?
   A. I went to tell these incredibly heroic Minnesotans how proud we are of them, that they're not forgotten and greatly admired.
   KIM PALMER
 
 