SEN. DAYTON ANNOUNCES HAPPY ENDING TO ROCHESTER FAMILY ADOPTION CASE
  Sen. Mark Dayton announced that Carol and Rob Nassif of Rochester, Minnesota, have officially completed the adoption of their son, Luke, an orphan from China who was originally brought to the United States to receive medical care at the Mayo Clinic. Today's announcement completes the family's 1 ? year quest to adopt Luke which included Sen. Dayton's successfully persuading the Chinese government to make a first-ever exception to its adoption laws. 
   "I am delighted about the outcome of this case," said Dayton. "The perseverance and determination of Carol and Rob Nassif have been rewarded. Luke is a very special little boy, and I am thrilled he is now a Nassif!"
   "There were many people who felt our request was impossible; and when others doubted our success, Senator Mark Dayton and his staff believed in us," said Carol Nassif. "They saw us through when others asked us to reconsider. We are forever grateful to Senator Dayton for his guidance and support."
   Carol and Rob Nassif first contacted Dayton in August, 2003, requesting his assistance in discussions with Chinese authorities to create a compromise regarding Chinese regulations that would require, Luke, who is a Chinese orphan, to return to China for the finalization of his adoption. Luke came to the Mayo Clinic in 2003 for treatment of a heart condition and undergone three heart surgeries. Due to Luke's condition, which was described as "fair", his physicians warned that air travel in a pressurized cabin could be detrimental to his health.
   Following Senator Dayton's intervention, the Chinese government agreed to allow the completion of the adoption process in the United States. Dayton welcomed an envoy of Chinese adoption officials to Minnesota to certify the details of the adoption instead of having Luke make the life-threatening trip to China.
   Carol Nassif first met Luke while she was working at the Mayo Clinic. The Nassifs decided shortly thereafter to adopt him.
 
 