SEN. DAYTON: $250K COMING TO NORTHERN MINNESOTA FOR ADULT DRUG COURT
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that Arrowhead Regional Corrections in Duluth will receive $250,000 in federal funding to implement an Adult Drug Court. The grant, provided by the U.S. Department of Justice under the Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program, will be used to provide treatment to nonviolent offenders with a history of substance abuse. Participants in the drug court program will receive rehabilitation services and undergo mandatory drug testing and progress monitoring.  
   "Drug Courts play a vital role in helping to stop the cycle of drug dependence and resulting crimes," said Dayton. "I am delighted that the Arrowhead Regional Corrections will receive this federal support." 
   Tom Roy, Executive Director of Arrowhead Regional Corrections said: "Our experience with addicted offenders tells us that if we are able to intervene in their use of drugs and alcohol, they often become law abiding and productive citizens. This grant allows us, as a local government entity, to develop and promote this proven model of justice for non-violent offenders that best serves our local communities. We appreciate the advocacy of Senator Dayton and his continued support of our northern communities." 
   The Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program provides financial and technical assistance to states, state and local courts, units of local government, and Indian tribal governments to develop and implement treatment drug courts that integrate substance abuse treatment, mandatory drug testing, sanctions and incentives, and transitional services for nonviolent, substance-abusing offenders. Programs funded by Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program are required by law to target nonviolent offenders and must implement a drug court based on ten key components. 
   Arrowhead Regional Corrections provides correctional services to five counties in northern Minnesota, including: Carlton, Cook, Koochiching, Lake and St. Louis counties.
 
 