SEN. DAYTON: BUSH ADMINISTRATION FAILS RENEWABLE FUELS REQUIREMENTS
  Sen. Mark Dayton Thursday called on the Bush Administration to immediately address its failure to comply with a requirement to reduce the federal fleet's dependence on regular gasoline. According to the "Federal Fleet Compliance with EPACT and E.O. 13149 Report" that was released late Wednesday, only three of the 21 federal agencies complied with the 1999 Executive Order that required a 20 percent reduction in federal fleet consumption of petroleum by FY 2005. This year, the overall federal fleet had no reduction, but actually had an increase of 1.2 percent, compared to FY 1999.
   "In his State of the Union address, the President said our nation is addicted to oil. What he failed to mention was that the federal government is the biggest addict of them all," said Dayton, who today sent a letter to President Bush asking what the Administration is doing to address the problem. 
   The one positive outcome in the report: the federal government overall exceeded a mandate, under the 1996 Energy Policy Act, to buy more alternative fuel vehicles (AFVs) that can run on renewable fuels, including E85. The report found that 15 of the 21 federal agencies met the requirement that 75 percent of all new vehicles purchased in FY 2005 be AFVs. The irony, however, is that many are still running on petroleum-based fuel.
   "It doesn't do any good if they're buying flex-fuel vehicles, but then filling them up with regular petroleum-based gasoline," said Dayton.
   Part of the problem is that many of the federal fleet fueling stations nationwide don't even have renewable fuel pumps. Dayton has introduced legislation, The Renewable Fuels Promotion Act (S. 2812), which would require every federal fueling station to be equipped with a renewable fuels pump.
   "In the world of renewable fuels, infrastructure is half the battle. If you don't have the pumps, you can't use the fuel," Dayton said.
   Below is the text of the Dayton letter.
   July 6, 2006
   The President
  The White House
  Washington, D.C., 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   I respectfully request information on how you plan to address the failure of your Administration to comply with the federal fleet mandate to reduce the use of petroleum-based fuel.
   A 1999 Executive Order required the federal fleet to reduce by 20 percent its use of petroleum by 2005. According to the "Federal Fleet Compliance with EPACT and E.O. 13149 Report" that was released yesterday, only three of the 21 federal agencies in 2005 met that mandate. More troubling, the federal government actually increased its consumption of petroleum in 2005.
   The report found that the federal government, overall, met the requirements to buy more alternative fuel vehicles (AFVs). But it does no good when those AFVs are routinely filled up with petroleum-based gasoline, instead of renewable fuel alternatives, such as E85.
   You have said that America is addicted to oil and that you are committed to promoting the use of ethanol and E85 as a way to reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil. As the largest consumer of petroleum-based fuel in the world, the U.S. government plays a key role in the mission for energy independence. According to this report, your Administration has fallen far short of that goal.
   Again, I would appreciate any information you can provide on how you plan to reduce the federal government's dependence on oil and increase the consumption of renewable fuels in all of the dual fuel AFVs that are now in the federal fleet.
   Thank you for your consideration of my request.
   Sincerely,
  Mark Dayton
 
 