SEN. DAYTON SECURES $100 MILLION FOR MILITARY FAMILIES, NATIONAL GUARD SOLDIERS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today offered an amendment to the FY 2006 defense spending bill (H.R. 2863), which would add $100 million to child care for families of the Armed Forces, military Family Assistance Centers, and the National Guard Counterdrug Program. The measure was adopted unanimously by the Senate.  
   Dayton's amendment would provide: $50 million in additional funds for child care for families of Armed Forces members; $10 million for military Family Assistance Centers, which help military families with financial, legal, and other problems arising from deployment,; and $40 million for the National Guard Counterdrug Support Program, which assigns members of the Guard to U.S. border patrol and other activities to stop the flow of illegal drugs, including methamphetamine. 
   Speaking from the Senate floor, Dayton said, "My amendment would add another $50 million to child care, because the office of the Secretary of Defense currently estimates that 38,000 children of active duty military families are not able to access military child care, due to the lack of spaces and facilities. This is especially critical because so many of these family members are being deployed for 12 or 18 months, leaving their spouses as single parents, financially strapped, needing to work and, therefore, needing quality child care more than ever before." 
   Families in Minnesota pay some of the highest child care costs in the nation, up to $12,000 per year. This is a significant burden for families of military personnel, namely Reservists and Guardsmen and women who often take a significant pay cut when they are deployed. Family assistance centers are a crucial resource, particularly for the National Guard and Reserve, whose members are sometimes given only a few days notice to prepare for deployment. 
   Dayton later added, "Other than international terrorism, there is no greater threat to the safety, the health, and the well-being of our citizens than the increasing flow of illegal drugs into our country, into our neighborhoods, into our schools, and into our homes. As I listen to local law enforcement officials throughout Minnesota, they say we are losing the war against these narcotics terrorists. We're losing because our resources are being overwhelmed by their resources. My amendment would provide more money for the good guys to win this terribly destructive battle." 
   Methamphetamine is the most rapidly spreading, illegal drug in Minnesota. In 2003, more than 500 meth labs or dumping sites were discovered in the state - nearly three times the number found in 2000. In 2004, the number of meth lab busts fell to 317, which law enforcement and public health officials attribute to smaller, harder to find meth labs and smarter meth cooks. Last year, in Minnesota, meth use resulted in 18 accidental overdose deaths and 705 visits to Twin Cities-area emergency rooms.
 
 