SEN. DAYTON: 36 DROUGHT-STRICKEN MINNESOTA COUNTIES DECLARED DISASTER AREAS BY USDA
  Sen. Mark Dayton today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has declared 36 Minnesota counties as primary natural disaster areas, due to persistent drought conditions impacting farmers and livestock producers this year. As a result of USDA's action, farmers in the designated disaster counties are now eligible for low-interest emergency farm loans. 
   "While I am glad that USDA has recognized that disaster conditions exist in those counties, the federal loans that USDA plans to provide are completely inadequate," said Dayton. "That is why I will continue to fight for a comprehensive agriculture disaster package, which would provide urgently needed relief for farmers' losses in 2005 and 2006."
   Dayton and other farm state senators are concerned that low-interest loans won't provide the relief farmers need to make ends meet. That's why he has joined Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) in introducing new legislation that would provide direct compensation for farmers' crop losses in the 2005 and 2006 crop years. The addition of the 2006 crop year will send a much-needed lifeline to Minnesota farmers suffering losses from the drought devastating the Great Plains this year.
   The comprehensive agriculture disaster assistance package would provide compensation for crop production shortfalls and quality losses, as well as livestock and feed losses. In addition, the bill provides an increase in farm bill program payments to offset the high cost of energy and fertilizer in 2005.
   Today, 36 counties in Minnesota were declared primary disaster areas. In addition, 15 other counties were named as contiguous disaster areas.
   The 36 primary disaster counties are Aitkin, Anoka, Beltrami, Benton, Carlton, Cass, Chisago, Clearwater, Cook, Crow Wing, Hennepin, Hubbard, Isanti, Itasca, Kanabec, Kittson, Koochiching, Lake, Lake of the Woods, Mahnomen, Marshall, Mille Lacs, Morrison, Norman, Pennington, Pine, Polk, Pope, Red Lake, Roseau, Sherburne, St. Louis, Stearns, Todd, Wadena, and Wright.
   The 15 counties that have been declared as contiguous disaster areas include: Becker, Carver, Clay, Dakota, Douglas, Grant, Kandiyohi, McLeod, Meeker, Otter Tail, Ramsey, Scott, Stevens, Swift and Washington.
   Qualified farm operators in all counties, whether declared a primary or contiguous disaster area, will be eligible to be considered for low-interest emergency loans from USDA's Farm Service Agency (FSA). Farmers in eligible counties have eight months to apply for the loans to help cover part of their actual losses.
 
 