SEN. DAYTON PRESSES SENATE COMMITTEE FOR HEARING ON MERCURY'S DANGER TO PUBLIC HEALTH
  Today, Sen. Mark Dayton joined with several Democratic colleagues in sending a letter to Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, Chairman James Inhofe, requesting a hearing on the effects of mercury pollution on human health and the environment.  
   The Senators' action is in response to the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) final mercury rule, which fails to adequately protect public health. The new rule will establish a cap-and-trade system of pollution allowances for mercury, a known toxic pollutant. 
   Last July, Dayton invited Scott Sparlin, a sportfisherman from New Ulm, Minnesota, and also the Director of the New Ulm Area Sportfishermen, to testify before the Senate Democratic Policy Committee regarding the harmful effects of mercury on public health in the United States. Specifically, Sparlin testified that many of Minnesota's lakes and rivers are under fish advisories, and he outlined the adverse consequences for the state's fishing industry and entire economy. 
   "Minnesota is one of 48 states that has issued fish consumption advisories for mercury," said Dayton. "Once mercury reaches our waterways, it is highly toxic and builds up in the fish we eat. It is shameful that this Administration continues to ignore scientific facts and, instead, allows mercury pollution to jeopardize our health and way of life in Minnesota. Mercury emissions will continue to harm the environment and to endanger the health of children and pregnant women, until this Administration puts public health before politics." 
   Last month, Dayton joined with several of his Senate colleagues in urging the EPA to strengthen its proposed rule on mercury emissions. The Senators cited new reports, from the EPA Inspector General (IG) and the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), which emphasize serious flaws in how the EPA analyzed the impacts of mercury on the health of children and women of childbearing age. In Minnesota alone, more than 5,000 babies are at risk of developing learning and behavioral disorders from exposure to mercury. 
   A copy of the Senators' letter is below. 
   April 7, 2005 
   The Honorable James Inhofe 
   Chairman, Committee on Environment and Public Works 
   United States Senate 
   Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Mr. Chairman: 
   We respectfully request that the Committee on Environment and Public Works hold a hearing on the Environmental Protection Agency's recent "Clean Air Mercury Rule," due to significant public health concerns. 
   Recently, a Washington Post article reported on a study by the Harvard School of Public Health's Center for Risk Analysis, which showed the health benefits of mercury reductions to be far greater than reported by the EPA. This vital information was omitted from the public documents concerning the mercury rule. The Harvard study was paid for by the EPA and was co-authored and peer-reviewed by EPA scientists. 
   This latest revelation is the newest evidence that the EPA used a flawed procedure when creating its mercury rule. Before the rule was finalized, both the Government Accountability Office and the EPA's Inspector General issued reports that severely criticized the EPA's rulemaking process, finding that it violated the agency's own policy, as well as OMB guidance and Presidential Executive Orders. Both reports emphasized that the agency used a seriously flawed methodology when analyzing the impacts of mercury on children's health and the comparative benefits of using various measures to control mercury emissions, thus violating the basic rules of the scientific method. 
   Forty-five states have issued fish consumption advisories, due to mercury content, for pregnant women and children. Furthermore, one in six women of childbearing age in the United States has enough mercury accumulated in her body to pose serious health risks to her children, should she become pregnant. 
   The EPA's failure to adequately analyze the health effects of the mercury rule must be addressed. We look forward to your response on this critical public health issue. 
   Sincerely, 
   Mark Dayton (D-MN) 
   Maria Cantwell (D-WA) 
   Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) 
   Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) 
   Patrick Leahy (D-VT) 
   Russ Feingold (D-WI) 
   John Kerry (D-MA) 
   Joseph Lieberman (D-CT)
 
 