SENS. COLEMAN, DAYTON HONOR 150TH ANNIVERSARY OF MINNESOTA NATIONAL GUARD
  The U.S. Senate passed a resolution late last night congratulating the Minnesota National Guard on its 150th anniversary and honoring its service to the State of Minnesota and the United States. The resolution (S.Con.Res.85) was sponsored by Sens. Norm Coleman and Mark Dayton, and mirrors an identical resolution offered by Rep. Mark Kennedy, which passed in the House. 
   "On the 150th anniversary of the Minnesota National Guard, it's important that Minnesotans step back and recognize the selfless service and honorable accomplishments of our Guardsmen and women," said Coleman. "Since the Civil War, the men and women of the Minnesota National Guard have made sacrifices that are beyond measure, and we owe them our deepest gratitude for the freedoms we enjoy today. I am humbled by their commitment to our state and nation, and this resolution is one small way we can recognize and thank them for all they have done and will do."
   "From the first Minnesota regiment that fought at the Battle of Gettysburg, to the 2,600 Minnesotans deployed to Iraq last month, the members of the Minnesota National Guard have contributed immeasurably to our great state, our country, and our freedom," said Dayton. "This Senate Resolution recognizes their outstanding dedication and service."
   The Minnesota National Guard will celebrate its 150th anniversary on April 17, 2006. Currently, 2,600 Minnesota National Guardsmen and women are deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. These soldiers, who are serving as part of the 1st Brigade of the 34th Infantry Division, represent 585 communities throughout Minnesota. It is the largest overseas deployment of the Minnesota National Guard since World War II.
   Founded two years before Minnesota became a state, the Minnesota National Guard was originally a territorial militia unit, based in St. Paul, called the Pioneer Guard. Members of the Minnesota National Guard have fought in the Civil War, World War I, World War II, the Korean War, Operation Desert Storm, and Operation Iraqi Freedom.
 
 