SENS. DAYTON, CHAMBLISS FIGHT TO RESTORE LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT FUNDING
  Sen. Mark Dayton today joined with Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), to call for Senate Appropriators to provide at least $900 million in FY 2007 for the Byrne/Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program. The bipartisan letter states that Byrne, which state and local law enforcement rely on to combat methamphetamine and other drugs, has been cut repeatedly over the last four years. The letter signed by 31 senators and sent to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee today urges funding to be restored to the FY 2003 level of $900 million.
   "Without federal support through Byrne grants, there will be fewer regional drug task forces and less training and equipment for Minnesota police and sheriffs," Dayton said. 
   In FY 2006, Byrne/JAG was cut by 34 percent from the previous year, resulting in a $2.7 million loss for Minnesota, from the $8.2 million it received in FY 2005. For FY 2007, the Bush Administration eliminated the law enforcement program in its budget request to Congress. Last month, however, the Senate passed the Dayton-Chambliss amendment, as part of the Budget Resolution, to restore funding to the 2003 level. The Budget Resolution remains in flux because the House has not passed its version of the budget blueprint.
   The Byrne grant program targets illegal drugs, including meth - the most rapidly spreading drug in the U.S. - by allowing law enforcement agencies to acquire new personnel, equipment, training, technical assistance and information systems. It also provides key funding to Minnesota's 21 drug task forces. Rural communities are especially dependent upon Byrne Grants to stop the illegal use and production of methamphetamine.
   Consigners of the Dayton-Chambliss letter include: Akaka (D-HI), Baucus (D-MT), Bayh (D-IN), Biden (D-DE), Burns (R-MT), Cantwell (D-WA), Coburn (R-OK), Coleman (R-MN), Conrad (D-ND), Cornyn (R-TX), Dewine (R-OH), Durbin (D-IL), Feingold (D-WI), Hagel (R-NE), Harkin (D-IA), Grassley (R-IA), Leahy (D-VT), Lincoln (D-AR), Kerry (D-MA), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Obama (D-IL), Pryor (D-AR), Rockefeller (D-WV), Salazar (D-CO), Snowe (R-ME), Stabenow (D-MI), Talent (R-MO).
   The full text of the Senators' letter is below.
   April 7, 2006
   The Honorable Richard C. Shelby
  Chairman
  Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
  Committee on Appropriations
  United States Senate
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Mr. Chairman:
   We respectfully urge the Subcommittee to provide $900 million for the Byrne/Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program in the Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill for FY 2007. These federal resources are crucial to local law enforcement efforts in our states.
   During the past four years, Byrne/JAG funding has been cut by over 50 percent to just $416 million for FY 2006. At the same time, Congress and the Administration have called upon local and state law enforcement to do more to prepare for possible terrorist threats. In many areas, the scourge of methamphetamine drug trafficking and increased crime have placed severe pressures on local law enforcement capacities. Byrne/JAG funds are badly needed and will be well used.
   In its FY 2007 Budget Resolution, the Senate unanimously approved our bipartisan amendment, which established funding for Byrne/JAG at the FY 2003 level of $900 million. The amendment was endorsed by major law enforcement organizations including the National Sheriffs' Association, the National Narcotic Officers' Associations Coalition, the Fraternal Order of Police, and the National Association of Police Officers.
   Again, there is strong bipartisan support for the Byrne/JAG program, and we urge the Subcommittee to provide this critically needed funding in its FY 2007 Appropriations bill.
   Thank you for your consideration of our request.
 
 