PRIVATIZING SOCIAL SECURITY
  After hardly mentioning Social Security during his recent Presidential campaign, President Bush has announced that partially privatizing the system is now one of his top priorities. His vague proposal would allow workers to place part of their current payroll taxes into their own individual retirement accounts. Congress, he said, should work out the details!  
   At first glance, his idea appeals to many young and middle-aged workers. Investing future retirement dollars in stocks and bonds might well increase their values in future years and provide more retirement income than the present Social Security system. However, privatization brings huge costs and serious risks, which need to be carefully considered before the present system is dismantled. 
   Since its beginning, Social Security has paid current retirees' earned benefits with the money it receives in payroll taxes from current workers and their employers. When those workers retire, their earned benefits will be paid with payroll tax revenues from the next generation of workers and employers. Members of each generation depend upon the next generation to pay their Social Security benefits, since their own payroll tax dollars have been spent on the retirements of the generation before them. So far, that arrangement has worked for everyone, and no one has had to worry that it would not continue to do so. 
   Now, however, questions are being raised about whether the present system will have enough money to pay the benefits promised to the "baby boom" generation of retirees, who are about to retire in record numbers. Alarmists are warning that Social Security "will go bankrupt" at some future date and will be gone when the following generation, who are now workers between 15 and 40, finally reach their retirements. They are being persuaded that they would be better off to set up their own retirement accounts individually, rather than depend upon Social Security. 
   There is no doubt about the present Social Security Trust Fund's ability to pay the benefits earned by current and future retirees for the next decade and beyond. Last year, the Trust Fund had a surplus of nearly $153 billion! It is currently projected to run surpluses each year between now and 2018. When President Clinton left office and the rest of the federal budget was balanced, he proposed using the Social Security Trust Fund surpluses to pay off the national debt. Then, when the Trust Fund started running deficits, taxpayers would not owe $200 billion to $300 billion each year in interest on the national debt, and they could better afford the additional costs of Social Security. 
   President Bush promised to protect the Social Security Trust Fund surpluses, when he ran for President in 2000. However, he broke that promise; and his budgets have spent every dollar of those surpluses each year on other federal programs. As a result, the national debt continues to increase; and there will be no cushion, when the Trust Fund goes from annual surpluses to deficits. 
   Unfortunately, allowing present workers to shift part of their payroll taxes from the existing Social Security Trust Fund into their own retirement accounts would only hasten the day when those annual deficits begin. The existing Trust Fund surpluses cannot be used for individual accounts, since they are being spent entirely on other government programs. In short, regardless of the theoretical advantages of forward-funded, individual retirement accounts, there is at present no money available to pay for them. Either present retirees would lose the benefits they have earned under the existing Social Security system, or someone would have to pay twice: for both those benefits and for their own future retirements. Otherwise, we would have to borrow the several trillion dollars necessary to finance this dual system for the next 10 to 20 years. There is no free lunch, and there is no free retirement system! 
   Social Security is not in any immediate danger, as long as it is not dismantled by those who want to "save" it!
 
 