SEN. DAYTON SUPPORTS JOHANNS TO HEAD USDA; PROMISES TO PROTECT MINNESOTA'S AGRICULTURAL PRIORITIES
  Sen. Mark Dayton joined with his Colleagues on the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry in unanimously recommending Nebraska Governor Mike Johanns to the Senate for confirmation as U.S. Secretary of Agriculture.  
   "I am hopeful that Governor Johanns, with his solid background and good Minnesota education, will be mindful of Minnesota's agricultural needs and will remain responsive to them," said Dayton. 
   In the nomination hearing yesterday, Dayton received a commitment from Johanns regarding the extension of the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program, which is set to expire on September 30th, and is essential to improving the livelihoods of Minnesota's 5,920 dairy farmers. 
   Dayton also questioned Johanns about his position on the recent case of Mad Cow Disease discovered in Canada and the Central America Free Trade Agreement which will deeply impact Minnesota's beef industry and sugar beet farmers. 
   "I am glad that there will be a hearing on BSE, in a timely manner. The consequences of opening up our borders to Canadian beef imports and running the risk of receiving one or two imported animals with BSE could be enormous. An ill-considered decision to take that action could set off a massive world scare. 
   "We are once again confronted with CAFTA, which would open our domestic market and create the possibility in northwestern Minnesota of shutting down an entire industry, shattering the economic cornerstone of an entire region," said Dayton. "Whether it is free trade or fair trade, I want it to be American trade. I want our decisions to be in the best interests of our country and our farmers." 
   Dayton also asked Johanns about his position on the future of the Conservation Reserve Program, an essential USDA conservation program. 
   Pheasants Forever, a nonprofit organization established in 1982 in St. Paul and dedicated to protecting pheasant and other wildlife populations in North America, supports Johanns's nomination to head the Department of Agriculture. Of Pheasants Forever's 110,000 members, 23,000 reside in Minnesota. The organization tempered its support of Johanns, however, expressing concern about the future of conservation programs under his leadership. 
   Dayton said, "Over 30,000 Minnesota farms are enrolled in USDA's Conservation Reserve Program, which protects Minnesota's resources for future generations. I will continue to press for the President's support in making available new contracts to those landowners whose contracts will soon expire." 
   David E. Nomsen, Vice President of Governmental Affairs for Pheasants Forever, said, "We were certainly pleased that Senator Dayton acknowledged the importance of conservation programs during his statement at Governor Johanns's confirmation hearing and that he questioned the Governor about fulfilling President Bush's recent directives concerning the future of the Conservation Reserve Program." 
   Dayton also asked the Committee Chairman to hold future meetings on biofuels, a subject of vital importance to Minnesota.
   Contact: Erin Utzinger, 202/224-2333.
 
 