SEN. DAYTON, DEMOCRATIC COLLEAGUES DENOUNCE ELIMINATION OF SENATE-PASSED $4 BILLION AID PACKAGE FOR FARMERS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today joined Sens. Kent Conrad (D-ND), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Richard Durbin (D-IL), and Ken Salazaar (D-CO) at the U.S. Capitol, to sharply criticize the elimination of $4 billion in aid for farmers struck by natural disasters, from the final FY2006 emergency appropriations bill. The measure, originally introduced as a separate bill by Conrad and cosponsored by Dayton, would have delivered an estimated $175 million to Minnesota farmers devastated by floods and other disasters in 2005. 
   "The President and Republicans in the Senate and House have cost Minnesota farmers $175 million in disaster relief, on a day when, in the Senate, Republicans are proposing to abolish estate taxes for the wealthiest one-half of one percent of the American people," said Dayton. "Nothing should show more clearly the misguided priorities of the Republicans who control Congress and the White House, and how the people who are most in need of legitimate government assistance are left behind."
   Though originally passed unanimously by the Senate Appropriations Committee, the $4 billion aid package was eliminated by Republicans during closed-door House-Senate conference negotiations late last night. Instead, the spending bill includes just $409 million in agriculture disaster assistance, exclusively for farmers impacted by Hurricane Katrina.
   Due to heavy rains and other weather-related disasters, Minnesota farmers suffered estimated losses totaling over $200 million in 2005, according to state officials.
   "Whether it's a house in New Orleans or a flooded farm in Minnesota, a disaster feels the same to people," said Dayton. "The federal government needs to step in and help all Americans affected by natural disasters."
   The Conrad measure would have compensated farmers for a percentage of crop losses for the 2005 crop year. In addition, to offset the high cost of energy, fertilizer, and feed, the amendment would have provided an increase in farm bill program payments. The measure also included a livestock assistance program and would have provided block grants to states, to provide assistance for dairy and specialty crops which are not covered by the farm bill.
   To Access Radio Actuality Call: 1-800-511-0763 Actuality Number: 7730 Or go to http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/dayton/dayton060607.mp3.
 
 