SEN. DAYTON, MINNESOTA CONGRESSIONAL COLLEAGUES PUSH FOR CONTINUED CANCER RESEARCH FUNDING FOR ROCHESTER MAYO CLINIC
  Sen. Mark Dayton today, with five of his Minnesota Congressional colleagues, sent a letter to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) urging it to continue funding of its gynecologic cancer research and training programs for fiscal year 2006. The Rochester Mayo Clinic, housing one of the largest ovarian cancer practices in the United States, could benefit from the funding, should the NCI extend or increase it.  
   Recently, the NCI decided that it will not fund gynecologic cancer research and training programs, and announced a modified funding plan for new and renewal grant applications for its Ovarian Cancer Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPORE). 
   "Lack of federal funding threatens progress in ovarian cancer research and treatment at leading medical centers, including Rochester's world-renowned Mayo Clinic," said Dayton. "I strongly urge the National Cancer Institute to continue funding this important research." 
   Bobbie S. Gostout, MD, a gynecologic oncologist at the Mayo Clinic said, "Each year, in Minnesota alone, over 200 women die from ovarian cancer. We are grateful to Senator Dayton for his efforts to ensure continued federal funding for ovarian cancer research and treatment." 
   Approximately 22,220 new ovarian cancers will be diagnosed in the United States in the year 2005, and about 16,210 women will die from this disease. The national incidence rate for ovarian cancer per 100,000 women is 14.6 percent, as compared with 15.8 percent per 100,000 women in Minnesota. According to the Minnesota Ovarian Cancer Alliance, an average of 347 women in Minnesota are diagnosed with ovarian cancer each year. 
   Text of the letter is below: 
   November 7, 2005 
   Dr. John Niederhuber Acting Director National Cancer Institute 9000 Rockville Pike Bethesda, Maryland 20892 
   Dear Dr. Niederhuber: 
   We are deeply concerned about the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) withdrawal from its commitment for gynecologic cancer research and training. We understand that NCI has decided not to continue its funding for all five Ovarian Cancer Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPORE) in fiscal year 2006, and not to provide funding to the research training programs for gynecologic oncologists at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD). NCI evidently made those decisions despite the excellent research being conducted at the SPORE sites and NICHD's rate of success in producing clinician scientists. 
   We have been told that this discontinuation of funding will adversely affect women who are at risk for, or suffering from, a gynecologic cancer. Since this is the only programmatically targeted funding effort for ovarian cancer research, we urge NCI to continue to fully fund the five Ovarian Cancer SPORE programs in FY 2006. 
   At the current funding level, internationally recognized cancer centers, such as the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, have not yet been awarded an Ovarian Cancer SPORE. Further, at the Mayo Clinic, over half of the training resources for clinician scientists in gynecologic oncology come from private sources, in part because NCI no longer contributes to the reproductive/women's health scientist training programs at the NICHD. 
   Nearly 85,000 new cases of gynecologic cancer will be diagnosed in 2005. Ovarian cancer is the fourth deadliest cancer for women and will likely claim the lives of more than 16,000 women this year. That fatality rate is due, in large part, to the lack of an accurate screening tool that can detect ovarian cancer in its early stages, when it is highly curable. Identifying biomarkers, which can be used to develop a valid, reliable ovarian cancer screening test, is one of the most important contributions of the ovarian cancer SPORE programs, scientist training programs, and clinical trial cooperatives. 
   The gynecologic cancer research funded by NCI can help to make significant progress toward the goal of eliminating suffering and death due to cancer by 2015. We appreciate the research that NCI is supporting, and we look forward to working with you on NCI's current and future plans regarding gynecologic cancer research. 
   Thank you for your attention to this matter, and for your dedication to our nation's fight against cancer. We look forward to your response. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senator Mark Dayton, Senator Norm Coleman, Congressman Jim Ramstad, Congressman Collin Peterson, Congressman James Oberstar, and Congresswoman Betty McCollum.
 
 