SEN. DAYTON, BIPARTISAN CONGRESSIONAL COLLEAGUES URGE BUSH TO KEEP COMMITMENT FOR GREAT LAKES RESTORATION
  Sen. Mark Dayton today joined with a bipartisan group of members of Congress from the Great Lakes region have called on President Bush to adequately fund Great Lakes restoration. A recent report by the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force indicated that recommendations for a collaborative restoration strategy need to stay within current budget projections, contradicting earlier Administration indications that they would consider new budget initiatives. In the letter sent on Friday, the members of Congress raised concerns over this revised position.  
   Dayton said, "On one hand, you have the Administration creating this task force, giving the impression that cleaning up the Great Lakes is a priority. But then, on the other hand, you have the Administration submitting a proposal that falls far short of what is needed. 
   "The Great Lakes are such an important resource for people in Minnesota and across the country. We have an enormous responsibility to protect them and to keep them healthy now and into the future." 
   The Government Accountability Office revealed that state and local spending already far exceed federal investment in the Great Lakes. 
   Cameron Davis, Executive Director of the Alliance for the Great Lakes - the oldest citizens' Great Lakes organization in North America - said, "The Great Lakes that communities around the Midwest rely on are a national treasure that deserve a national investment. We're looking to President Bush to honor his commitment to restore these magnificent waters and to support a stronger federal investment in them." 
   Text of the letter is below: 
   November 4, 2005 
   President George W. Bush 
  The White House 
  Washington, DC 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   We are writing to follow-up on the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force Report to the President on the Implementation of the Great Lakes Executive Order. After reading the report, we are disappointed by the limitations placed on Regional Collaboration through this Report. 
   When Regional Collaboration was initiated last year, nothing indicated that the restoration Strategy needed to stay within current budget projections, and we were led to believe that the Administration would consider some new budget initiatives. A serious consideration of the challenges faced in the Great Lakes region requires a commitment of federal resources. 
   As you stated in the Executive Order, "the Great Lakes are a national treasure," and we were encouraged by the Administration's commitment to address the environmental and natural resource challenges of the Lakes through a "regional collaboration of national significance." The Great Lakes Regional Collaboration has brought together roughly 1,500 people who are dedicated to protecting and restoring the Great Lakes. All of these individuals contributed time and resources in order to develop a strategic, comprehensive strategy for the Great Lakes. 
   Meaningful Great Lakes restoration cannot happen without support from all levels of government, including the federal government. The states, municipalities, and tribal officials, as well as the individual participants, have provided tremendous support for Regional Collaboration. However, these efforts alone will not restore the Lakes. Each party must be willing to provide additional short and long-term commitments in the near future. The problems impacting the Great Lakes will only get worse over time, and the implementation of the solutions will only become more expensive. 
   We cannot wait to start restoring the Great Lakes to a healthy condition for future generations. The Great Lakes are vital to our cities', states' and nation's environment, economy and way of life. We appreciate your past support for improving the Great Lakes and strongly urge that you maintain your commitment to the Great Lakes by not limiting restoration recommendations to the existing budget projections. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senator DeWine (R-OH), Senator Voinovich (R-OH), Senator Levin (D-MI), Senator Stabenow (D-MI), Senator Feingold (D-WI), Senator Durbin (D-IL), Senator Obama (D-IL), Senator Mark Dayton (D-MN), Senator Bayh (D-IL), Congressman Oberstar (D-MN), Congresswoman McCollum (D-MN), Congressman Emanuel (D-IL), Congressman Kirk (R-IL), Congresswoman Bean (D-IL), Congressman Jackson (D-IL), Congresswoman Schakowsky (D-IL), Congressman Levin (D-MI), Congressman Ehlers (R-MI), Congressman Dingell (D-MI), Congressman Gutierex (D-MI), Congressman Kildee (D-MI), Congressman Stupak (D-MI), Congressman Higgins (D-NY), Congressman McHugh (D-NY), Congresswoman Slaughter (D-NY), Congressman Ryan (D-OH), Congressman Visclosky (D-IN), Congressman Walks (R-NY), Congressman Latourette (R-OH), Congressman Kucinich (D-OH), Congressman Brown (D-OH), Congressman Camp (R-MI), Congressman Upton (R-MI), Congressman Green (R-WI).
 
 