SEN. DAYTON JOINS IN INTRODUCING SENATE RESOLUTION CALLING FOR U.S. LEADERSHIP ON GLOBAL MERCURY POLLUTION
  A bipartisan group of seven Senators, including U.S. Senator Mark Dayton, today introduced a resolution urging the Bush Administration to take the lead collaborating with international partners to prepare a comprehensive strategy to swiftly reduce global mercury pollution and mercury use. 
   "Minnesota is one of 48 states that have issued fish consumption advisories for mercury," said Dayton. "Once mercury reaches our waterways, it is highly toxic and builds up in the fish we eat. It is shameful that this Administration continues to ignore scientific facts and instead allows mercury pollution to jeopardize our health and way of life in Minnesota.
   "Mercury emissions will continue to harm the environment and endanger the health of our world's children and pregnant women until this Administration puts public health before politics. We need an international reduction plan that will be comprehensive, sensible, and feasible in protecting America's families, as well as families across the globe, by substantially reducing the threat mercury poses to our health."
   The Senators introducing the legislation include: Mark Dayton, Jim Jeffords (I-VT), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ). They want the Administration to be proactive as the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) considers country recommendations for international agreements to limit mercury use, trade, mining, and pollution. These strategies will be considered at the next UNEP Governing Council meeting in February. To date, the Administration has taken no position on any potential treaty.
   In particular, the Senators advocate development of a U.S. strategy leading to international negotiations on a binding agreement for mercury, calling for all nations with significant contributions to the global pollution problem to share responsibility for corrective action. Since mercury pollution can travel the globe, international cooperation is vital to protecting public health and the environment.
 
 