NEARLY 4,000 MINNESOTANS HONOR THEIR FAVORITE TEACHER AT SEN. DAYTON'S STATE FAIR BOOTH
  Sen. Mark Dayton today thanked the nearly 4,000 Minnesotans who stopped by his State Fair booth to a write note of appreciation to their all-time favorite teacher. Over the last two weeks Dayton's booth was inundated with students, parents, and friends wanting to pay tribute to an educator who had made a difference in his or her life. Dayton's staff will work to locate every honored teacher so that Dayton can mail the tributes directly along with his own personal letter of appreciation. Later this fall, Dayton will also make a Senate floor speech recognizing the dedication of each honored teacher. Minnesotans have until September 17th to honor their favorite teacher by sending a note to teacher@dayton.senate.gov or calling (612) 727-5230.
   "All we hear is negative talk about our schools, and I am tired of it," said Dayton. "We have thousands of Minnesotans who are grateful for the hard work and dedication of our educators and feel that a teacher has had a significant impact on their life.
   "I am proud that nearly 4,000 Minnesotans took the time at the State Fair to let our teachers know that their work is appreciated by students long after leaving the classroom."
   Governor Pawlenty recently held a press conference at which he announced that 472 Minnesota schools need improvement, according to the No Child Left Behind Act.
   "While it seems popular to criticize Minnesota's educators, I'd rather join with the nearly 4,000 students and parents who stopped by my State Fair booth to commend the thousands of dedicated teachers whose exceptional work has had a lasting, positive impact on Minnesotans."
   Notes of appreciation collected at Dayton's State Fair booth included:
   Dear Janine: You're the best ever. I have learned more from you than you will ever know. Thanks a million for everything. - A current Minnesota student.
   Dear Bill: You taught me how to think and how to believe in my own intelligence. You provided the challenge that I needed to survive in an environment that wasn't always inspiring to free-thinkers and artists. - A former Minnesota student.
   Dear Mr. L.: You had a lasting influence on me. For the last 34 years, I have been teaching English and Theater largely due to your influence. Thanks for making my senior year and my life so rewarding. - A former Minnesota student.
 
 