SEN. DAYTON JOINS BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO ADDRESS H-2B VISA WORKER ISSUE
  Sens. Mark Dayton, Susan Collins (R-ME), Ted Kennedy (D-MA), and Judd Gregg (R-NH) today agreed on a bipartisan amendment to address the problem of the shortage of seasonal workers in Minnesota and throughout the nation, caused by the unavailability of additional H-2B temporary worker visas. The Senator's amendment, the "Summer Operations and Services (SOS) Relief and Reform Act," would provide relief to Minnesota's tourism, construction, and forestry industries, which rely heavily on workers who hold seasonal jobs under the H-2B visa program. 
   "This issue is important to Minnesota's economy and important to so many of our workers," said Dayton. "If additional H-2B visas, upon which so many businesses rely, are not made available, it could have a lasting, damaging effect on our economy."
   The SOS Relief Reform Act would allow employers who have hired H-2B visa workers in previous years to rehire these workers without their visas counting against the national cap, which was reached last spring. This provision would make additional visas available immediately. Also, it would require the Department of Homeland Security to report to Congress on a quarterly basis on the number of visas that have been issued and whether any of these visas have been revoked or otherwise terminated.
   At issue is the current mandatory cap on the number of H-2B visas available nationwide. While the cap, 66,000, was met early this spring, employers who rely on the visas for summertime seasonal workers, were not notified the cap had been met until after the Department of Homeland Security stopped processing H-2B visa applications. The situation has placed a heavy burden on industries ranging from hotels and restaurants to the construction industry.
   "The availability of H-2B visas are vital to a wide range of industries in Minnesota. I will continue to work with my Senate colleagues to find ways to quickly resolve this matter," said Dayton.
 
 