SEN. DAYTON COMPLETES SECOND E-85 TOUR IN MINNESOTA
  Sen. Mark Dayton late yesterday completed a three-day tour of gas stations that offer E-85 throughout Minnesota - including stops in Hutchinson, Willmar, Benson, Morris, Fergus Falls, Alexandria, St. Cloud and Litchfield - to promote the 85 percent ethanol-blended fuel, known as E-85. While pumping gas for area residents, Dayton pitched the merits of E-85 fuel as a less expensive, environmentally sound alternative to conventional gasoline. At each of his stops, Dayton also presented a new feature of his official Senate web site, which allows Minnesotans to determine whether their own vehicles are E-85 compatible and to locate E-85-supplied gas stations in their area.  
   "I was told this week the average gas price is at a record high of $2.39 a gallon," said Dayton. "Consumers are the ones that get hit, not the oil industry. The lower price of ethanol is a good reason to check if you have an E-85 compatible vehicle. Anyone who has a truck, van or car should ask for a flexible-fuel engine, so they can go across the state and find the best buy. 
   "Ethanol is our future. This is good for our farmers. It has cleaner burning fuels, and it's environmentally and cost friendly. This a win-win for everyone but the gas lobby. Consumers benefit when no one has a monopoly on their product. With E-85, there's no downside to the consumer, just savings. This is good for America." 
   In May, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed Dayton's amendment requiring automobile manufacturers to display a decal on the gas tanks and windshields of E-85-compatible vehicles, effective in 2007, showing their capability for running on the alternative fuel. Dayton has also introduced two other pieces of legislation, the Freedom from Foreign Oil Act, which would require all vehicles, beginning in model year 2007, to be E-85 compatible; and the Renewable Fuels Standard, which would add eight billion gallons of ethanol to the nation's gasoline supply, each year, effective in 2007. 
   Recently, Dayton traveled to Detroit to visit the manufacturing plants of General Motors and Ford Motors and to meet with vehicle designers and engineers to discuss ways to provide more of America's drivers with the option of using E-85. 
   For more information on E-85, please visit Senator Dayton's web site: http://dayton.senate.gov/issues/agriculture/renewablefuels.cfm
 
 