SEN. DAYTON CONGRATULATES TWIN CITIES CYCLIST, MEMBER OF LANCE ARMSTRONG'S TOUR OF HOPE TEAM
  Sen. Mark Dayton, a longtime advocate for funding cancer research, is pleased to congratulate Jim Owens of Edina for being part of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Tour of Hope Team. As one of 20 cyclists selected from nearly 1,200 applicants, Jim joined other cancer survivors and six-time Tour de France champion Lance Armstrong in a cross-country ride to raise awareness about the importance of cancer clinical trials. The cycling team is made up of cancer survivors, caregivers, physicians, nurses, and researchers and is expected to complete their trip tomorrow in Washington, D.C. 
   "Jim's commitment and determination are inspirational," said Dayton. "It is my honor to congratulate him and his teammates for being selected to participate in such an important effort. Cancer affects the lives of millions of Americans each year and will continue to do so, until we find a cure. With leadership from people like Jim, I am convinced, we will eventually overcome this dreaded disease."
   Jim is a six-year survivor of brain cancer who successfully tried a cutting-edge oral chemotherapy, when his tumor recurred. Throughout the treatment, he continued to work, ride, and compete. Jim's experience impressed upon him the need for and benefit of new cancer treatments through clinical trials that may benefit him and his son in the future. As a teenager, Jim helped his sister through successful cancer treatment, and he recently supported his father as he battled prostate cancer. Jim is vice president of Owens Companies, Inc., an air-conditioning and heating contractor.
   As part of the Tour of Hope Team, Jim has bicycled almost 3,500 miles, beginning from Los Angeles on October 1st, and is scheduled to arrive in Washington, D.C., this Saturday. The purpose of the ride is to help inform the public about the importance of participating in cancer clinical trials. Over 60 percent of pediatric patients with cancer are enrolled in clinical trials, compared to just five percent of adults with cancer. Clinical trials have helped increase the cure rate of childhood cancer in the past three decades from less than 10 percent to 75 percent.
 
 