SEN. DAYTON HONORED BY MINNESOTA PRINCIPALS FOR DEDICATION TO PUBLIC EDUCATION
  Sen. Mark Dayton has been honored by the Minnesota Elementary School Principals' Association (MESPA) with the 2006 Champion for Children award, in recognition of his support of children and education. The award will be presented this evening, during the 51st annual statewide MESPA convention, at the Sheraton Bloomington Hotel. Five-hundred principals are expected to attend the convention.  
   "I am honored to receive this award from the Minnesota Elementary School Principals' Association," said Dayton. "I recognize how critical their schools are to the future of our state and our country. I deeply regret that there are not the votes in the Senate to provide them and their students with the support they need and deserve." 
   "Senator Mark Dayton has been a consistent advocate of legislation that strengthens public education," said P. Fred Storti, MESPA Executive Director. "He understands the true priorities of education. He believes in the true value of ensuring our schools are effective and able to meet the needs of all Minnesota children. Senator Dayton is a true friend to the principalship and a champion for children." 
   As a former teacher in the New York City public school system, Dayton has seen firsthand the needs of students, their parents, and schools. In the 109th Congress, Dayton was one of 17 Senators to introduce the Quality Education for All Act of 2005, which would reauthorize federal funding for Head Start and childcare development block grants. Dayton also introduced two amendments to fully fund the federal government's commitment to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), which would provide 40 percent of the estimated cost of special education for each state. Additionally, Dayton cosponsored an amendment that would provide an additional $5 billion for Title I, which covers educational expenses for disadvantaged children. 
   Dayton continues to focus public attention on the high-quality education Minnesota children are receiving in schools throughout the state. He has created the "Award for Excellence in Education," to recognize the thousands of individual success stories that occur in Minnesota schools each day.
 
 