SEN. DAYTON BLASTS ADMINISTRATION AT SENATE HEARING FOR FAILING TO ADDRESS MERCURY'S ADVERSE IMPACT ON PUBLIC HEALTH
  At the invitation of Sen. Mark Dayton, Scott Sparlin, a sportfisherman from New Ulm, Minnesota, and Director of the New Ulm Area Sportfishermen, testified today before the Senate Democratic Policy Committee regarding the harmful effects of mercury on public health in the U.S. Specifically, Sparlin described how many of Minnesota's lakes and rivers are under fish advisories and outlined the resulting impact on the state's fishing industry and entire economy. He also discussed a letter recently signed by almost 500 national sportsman's groups, including 45 in Minnesota, opposing the Administration's proposed mercury rule.  
   The current proposal by the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate mercury emissions falls short of the requirements under the Clean Air Act. In their letter recently sent to EPA Administrator Michael O. Leavitt, 45 senators, including Dayton, criticized the rule, which would not adequately reduce power plant emissions or effectively address the scientific evidence identifying mercury as one of the most serious hazardous emissions.
   At today's hearing, Dayton said, "The EPA no longer stands for the Environmental Protection Agency; it now means: Every Polluter's Ally! It is shameful that the Administration continues to ignore scientific fact, allowing mercury pollution to jeopardize our health and way of life in Minnesota. We need a national reduction plan that will be comprehensive, sensible, and feasible in protecting our families by substantially reducing the air pollution between states."
   Said Sparlin during his hearing testimony, "To continue allowing mercury to contaminate our water is an abandonment of government responsibility to all citizens. In Minnesota, 1.6 million people go fishing every year, contributing about $1.3 billion to Minnesota's economy. The health of our abundant recreation industry and all the businesses that depend on this industry are at risk when the state's lakes and streams are filled with fish that are contaminated with mercury."
 
 