SEN. DAYTON ISSUES STATEMENT ON ERROR WHICH CAUSED MINNESOTANS TO RECEIVE EMPTY ENVELOPES FROM MEDICARE/MEDICAID
  Sen. Mark Dayton's Statement on Error Which Caused Minnesotans to Receive Empty Envelopes from Medicare/Medicaid, Instead of Important Benefits Information:  
   "Today I sent a letter to Dr. Mark McClellan, the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), asking how many Minnesotans were affected by a faulty mailing intended to explain their prescription drug coverage and also asking what action people should take if they received empty envelopes," said Dayton. "In the meantime, while CMS sorts this out, I encourage any Minnesotan affected to call my Health Care Help Line at (612) 727-5244, or 1 (866) 296-4319, so that my office can help them get the necessary information." 
   CMS is the federal agency that manages the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 
   After sending its mass mailing last month, CMS received complaints from beneficiaries that instead of information on their benefits, they had received empty envelopes. The intended recipients were people with dual eligibility - those eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid. Currently, there are 677,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Minnesota, 93,000 of whom are dually eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid. 
   Senator Dayton's letter to CMS: 
   June 9, 2005 
   The Honorable Mark McClellan, M.D., Ph.D. 
  Administrator 
  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
  200 Independence Avenue, S.W. 
  Washington, D.C. 20201 
   Dear Dr. McClellan: 
   I am very concerned that an undisclosed number of CMS's recent mailings to 4.7 million low-income Americans about the new Medicare prescription drug program were empty envelopes. I would like to know how many Minnesotans received those empty envelopes and what I should tell them, if they contact my office. 
   Will they soon receive another mailing from CMS that contains the missing information? Is there a CMS web site that presently provides the same information, or is there another source for it? 
   I understand that President Bush will hold a "town meeting" in Minnesota on June 17th to discuss Medicare and Medicaid. I ask that all Minnesotans who should have received information about Medicare's future prescription drug coverage will have it by that date, so that they can raise any remaining questions at that meeting. 
   Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   Mark Dayton 
  United States Senator
 
 