SEN. DAYTON: 2006 BUDGET MUST RESTORE CRUCIAL FUNDS TO MINNESOTA'S FIRST RESPONDERS
  In a hearing today with Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, Sen. Mark Dayton criticized the Department's 2006 budget cuts to first responders. The proposed budget would cut by $400 million the State and Local Grants formula, which provides funding to police and fire departments, as well as to local communities for equipment and training. The budget also proposes a 30 percent cut to the FIRE Act grant program, which sends funds directly to local fire departments to help pay for equipment and training. Dayton said he would fight to restore full funding for both of these first-responder programs.  
   "The message from Congress to local governments has been: 'Take these initiatives, put hundreds and thousands of hours into preparedness.' And now, someone's going to turn around and say to those same governments, 'Well, you know, we've done a risk assessment, and you get no money,'" said Senator Dayton at today's Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee Hearing. "First responders are not expecting the federal government to fund all of their activities, but they are expecting the federal government to be consistent in providing resources for those additional efforts." 
   Many Minnesota fire departments rely on funds from FIRE Act grants to hire additional personnel, buy new fire trucks, radios, and other equipment, and establish general fire-prevention programs. Last year, Minnesota received $17 million from this program. 
   "The FIRE Act grant program has been invaluable to fire departments in Minnesota. Many departments across the state would be unable to obtain proper safety equipment for their firefighters without FIRE grant funding," said Tom Preston, President of the Minnesota State Fire Department Association. "To the extent that these funds go directly to the fire departments, they have that much greater impact and return on investment than funds which are filtered through other channels."
   Contact: Semonti Mustaphi, 202/228-3263.
 
 