AFTER THE ELECTION
  The election is over, and the voters have spoken. President Bush won a second term conclusively, albeit by a narrow margin of 51 percent to 48 percent. Republicans gained seats in both the United States Senate and the House of Representatives. They are in a stronger position to enact the President's agenda, regardless of the views of the Democratic minorities. 
   It remains to be seen whether President Bush intends to govern from the political center or from his party's right-wing base. He has mentioned "bipartisanship." In the past, however, bipartisanship has meant the Democrats agreeing with the Administration's policy. True bipartisanship means including people with different views in the initial policy formulation and in the final deliberations. That has seldom happened in the recent past. We will see if things change now.
   Presidential second terms have not been notable for their accomplishments. Bill Clinton put himself under the cloud of impeachment and accomplished relatively little. Ronald Reagan was embroiled in the Iran-Contra Affair. Richard Nixon resigned before being impeached. Lyndon Johnson was forced to forego a 1968 campaign because of his opposition to the Vietnam War.
   President Bush and the Congress must contend with very important and difficult challenges in the coming days. This year, Congress failed to pass both energy and transportation funding legislation, both of great importance to Minnesota. (The Senate's Energy Bill, which both Senator Coleman and I supported, would have boosted ethanol production domestically and the Transportation Bill would have helped add capacity to overburdened transportation systems. The delay of these bills is costing Minnesota jobs.) Congress and the President need to work together to pass both bills, either in our lame duck session this month, or immediately after the new Congress convenes next January. 
   Congress and the President must also review the current situation in Iraq. As I write this Dayton's Account, American military forces again lead the fighting to regain control of Fallujah. It is long past time for the Iraqi forces to do most of the fighting for the future of their country. They are unlikely to do so, as long as they can rely, instead, on the best fighting force in the world. Our troops liberated Iraq; they should not have to defend it indefinitely. That should be the responsibility of the Iraqi and Afghan governments and military forces, and I will continue to push for those responsibilities to be transferred to them.
   I will continue to vote for the funding the President requests to support our troops, who are fighting so courageously in Iraq and Afghanistan. However, I continue to believe that we can best support our troops by bringing them home alive as soon as possible, with their hard-won victories secured.
   After the election, President Bush expressed his support for privatizing part of Social Security. It is noteworthy that he did not mention this proposal during his campaign! Currently, the Social Security Trust Fund accumulates yearly surpluses, as payroll taxes exceed earned benefits. Those surpluses are being expended for other federal programs, thereby reducing our already horrendous budget deficits. The President's plan is to divert those surpluses to individual accounts which would increase those deficits - deficits he pledged to halve during his second term. The numbers simply do not add up. 
   There are only three ways to reduce the budget deficits. The only popular way - popular because it does not require any difficult decisions - is for economic expansion to increase employment and, consequently, increase the number of people and businesses paying taxes. The other two deficit-reduction measures are to raise taxes and to cut government spending. Both of them are widely unpopular! It is far easier and more popular politically to continue to run large budget deficits, until the negative economic consequences begin to hurt. By then, the economic damage is greater, and the austerity measures required are more severe. 
   I respect President Bush's victory and the will of the American electorate. I intend to agree with the President whenever I can and to disagree when I must. I hope that the President and all of Congress can work together to find the most areas of common agreement. As a country, we all succeed the most, when the most of us succeed together.
 
 