SEN. DAYTON URGES INVESTIGATION, PUBLIC HEARINGS ON APPOINTMENTS OF UNQUALIFIED FEMA OFFICIALS
  Sen. Mark Dayton today, in a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, urged the committee to conduct an investigation and hold public hearings to look into patronage appointments made by the Bush Administration to top Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) positions. Citing the agency's disastrous response to Hurricane Katrina and the lack of experience among top FEMA officials, Dayton is pressing for a Senate investigation.  
   The full text of the letter is below: 
   September 9, 2005 
   The Honorable Susan M. Collins 
  Chairman 
  Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
  United States Senate 
  Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Madam Chairman: 
   Pursuant to our Committee's oversight responsibilities over the Federal Emergency Management Agency, I urge an immediate hearing on the qualifications of the agency's top appointees. Today's Washington Post reports that five of eight top FEMA officials, "... came to their post with virtually no experience in handling disasters and now lead an agency whose ranks of seasoned crisis managers have thinned dramatically since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks." 
   Apparently, the primary qualification necessary to lead the nation's disaster relief agency was to have been a major supporter of the President's 2000 election campaign. The blatant patronage apparent in those appointments is shocking and disgraceful, and it warrants our Committee's immediate attention. 
   There is also a new published report questioning the honesty of other purported qualifications. According to the biography of Under Secretary Michael D. Brown posted on FEMA's website, Mr. Brown claimed previously to have overseen emergency services as an Assistant City Manager in Edmond, Oklahoma. Time magazine quotes Edmond's former City Manager, Bill Dashner, as saying, "Yes, Mike Brown worked for me. He was my administrative assistant. He was a student at Central State University." 
   Ms. Claudia Deakins, currently head of public relations for the city of Edmond, told Time, "The assistant is more like an intern. Department heads did not report to him." 
   According to the Time report, Under Secretary Brown listed "outstanding Political Science Professor, Central State University" on his profile at FindLaw.com. However, a university spokesman reportedly told Time that Under Secretary Brown, "wasn't a professor here, he was only a student here." Time continues, "As for the honor of Outstanding Political Science Professor, [the spokesman] says, 'I spoke with the Department Chair yesterday, and he's not aware of it.'" The Time article goes on to cite other apparent falsifications in Under Secretary Brown's résumé. 
   Under Secretary Brown's predecessor as head of FEMA was Mr. Joe Allbaugh, who was the National Campaign Director for President Bush's 2000 Presidential campaign. Under Secretary Brown's Chief of Staff, Patrick J. Rhode, also formerly worked on President Bush's 2000 campaign. FEMA's Deputy Chief of Staff, Brooks D. Altshuler, was a member of President Bush's campaign advance team. 
   Given the failures of FEMA, to both prepare for and respond to the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina, those lack of qualifications are extremely troubling. They confirm that FEMA's failures were caused primarily by executive-level incompetence, rather than any organizational considerations. Today's Washington Post article quotes University of Maryland School of Public Policy professor I.M. Destler: "(FEMA) has gone downhill within the department, drained of resources and leadership. The crippling of FEMA was one important reason why it failed." 
   The same article quotes Mr. Richard A. Andrews, a member of the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council, that, "I do not think fundamentally this is an organizational issue. You need people in there who have both experience and the confidence of the president, who are able to fight and articulate what FEMA's mission and role is, and who understand how emergency management works." 
   Again, I urge an immediate hearing into those and other leadership deficiencies which caused the failures in FEMA's lack of preparedness and effectiveness. 
   My best regards. 
   Sincerely, 
   Mark Dayton
 
 