STEM CELL RESTRICTIONS HANDCUFF SCIENCE, SEN. HATCH SAYS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today at a press conference spoke with a bipartisan coalition backing the Stem Cell Research and Enhancement Act of 2007 (S. 5), which would authorize the use of federal funding from the National Institutes of Health for embryonic stem cell research. Hatch's prepared remarks follow.  
   I want to thank all my friends - lawmakers, patients, and scientists - for coming today to put their muscle behind S. 5, the Stem Cell Research and Enhancement Act, and give one more push. I know the struggle to get National Institutes of Health funding dollars into the hands of stem cell researchers has been more of a challenge than any of us would like, but we can't stop pushing. 
   It would be preposterous to put handcuffs on a surgeon trying to operate or an OB trying to deliver a baby, yet this is exactly the impossible bind in which we have put our nation's researchers. By forbidding federal funding for ethical stem cell research, we have shackled the hands of our nation's health scientists. 
   Support of embryonic stem cell research does not contradict a pro-life stance. I have always been pro-life and I believe a pro-life agenda demands that we care for the living, not just the unborn. Scientists have told us for years that with ethically-obtained embryonic stem cells they can develop treatments for diseases that doom millions of Americans to suffering and even death. I believe such treatments also have the potential to save our country billions of dollars in health care costs. 
   Stem cell restrictions discourage some of our best minds from exploring this new field of research. A friend of mine at the University of Utah, Dr. Mario Capecchi, spoke on stem cells at a conference I held in Salt Lake City last week. Dr. Capecchi has pioneered a gene-targeting system for embryo-derived stem cells - but only in mice. His research is valuable but nowhere near as valuable as the work he could perform with stem cells derived from humans. But because of the obstacles in funding human embryonic research, he has chosen simply to avoid it. NIH funds are the difference between a treatment and a laboratory-finding that never leaves the laboratory. 
   S. 5 is the key that will free so many researchers' hands. For the sake of those who suffer from diabetes, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, leukemia, cystic fibrosis and a host of other diseases, the Federal government needs to unlock the handcuffs and enable scientists to do the research they want.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854, Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 