SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON REP. GOSS' NOMINATION
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) made the following statement this morning on the nomination of Representative Porter Goss (R-Fla.) to be the next Director of the Central Intelligence Agency:  
   "President Bush has nominated an experienced hand to be the new Director of Central Intelligence. Porter Goss will take his knowledge of the internal workings of the CIA as a former officer in the Directorate of Operations, as well as his oversight experience as chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and lead the CIA as we continue to wage war on global terrorism. 
   "Porter Goss is uniquely qualified to, first, lead a very unique agency critical to our national security, whose inner workings require leadership and knowledge; second, represent that agency to Capitol Hill, where he understands critical support and informed oversight are intertwined; and third, shepherd that agency through a reform that must balance bureaucratic initiatives imposed from the outside with internal reforms of the culture necessary to maximize our ability to penetrate terror networks. 
   "I've known Porter Goss since he came to the Congress in the late 1980s. I worked with him closely during the long investigation of the Joint Inquiry into the September 11, 2001 attacks conducted by both congressional intelligence committees, which we finished in December 2002. With Porter Goss's experience, the Administration and the American public will get a steady leader in a demanding and difficult time." 
   Hatch also expressed dismay that some Democrats have already declared their opposition to the nomination. "While it is fair to use this nomination hearing as another setting for the ongoing debate on intelligence community reform, and it is certainly fair to ask of Mr. Goss's views on these and other subjects, it is grossly unfair to declare opposition without the benefit of hearings. The nation remains under threat, in a war against global terrorism. We need a DCI and the CIA needs a leader. Playing politics with national security demonstrates an egregious lack of seriousness."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 