SEN. HATCH: $125 MILLION IN JOB TRAINING GRANTS AVAILABLE TO COMMUNITY COLLEGES
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today encouraged Utah educators to apply for job-training grants from the $125 million available this year from the Department of Labor (DOL), as part of President Bush's American Competitiveness Initiative. The DOL will award approximately 75 grants between $500,000 and $2 million for training in high-growth/demand industries through community and technical colleges.  
   "Participants in these programs will have higher-paying, higher-quality jobs," Hatch said. "Utahns have always pursued education, and these grants can help build a bridge between education and the careers of tomorrow." 
   These grants will help community colleges train students for careers where demand for qualified workers is outstripping supply - such industries include health care, manufacturing, and biotech. Funds will be awarded to individual community and technical colleges, community college districts, state community college systems, and one-stop career centers. 
   "Our economy is changing, both in Utah and across the world," Hatch said. "The President created these grants to help keep America at the forefront of these changes. 
   The grants were first publicized in the July 3 Federal Register, which is posted below. In awarding the grants, the DOL seeks to fairly distribute money across rural and urban areas and across the different geographic regions of the United States. Because rural and other areas might lack access to community or technical colleges, the DOL will make exceptions in those cases for workforce investment boards, vocational education programs, and similar agencies. The deadline for applications is August 29, 2006. For more information, go online to doleta.gov/business/Community-BasedJobTrainingGrants.cfm. 
   * For CBJT2006SGAJuly32006FederalRegister, see http://hatch.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=DataPipes.ViewPDF&Id=1616
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 