SENATE ACTS TO IMPROVE SAFETY OF FDA-REGULATED PRODUCTS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) played a key role in passing a major overhaul of the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) efforts to ensure the safety of regulated products, including drugs, devices and food. Yesterday, the Senate passed S. 1082, the FDA Revitalization Act, which also contained a number of Hatch-backed provisions that impact Utah. Hatch, former chairman and current member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, which oversees FDA policy, wrote the predecessor FDA Revitalization Act in 1990.
   "My office has been flooded with letters about the need to improve drug safety," said Hatch said. "This bill strikes the right balance - safety is determined through scientific evidence, not innuendos or hearsay. It strengthens the FDA's authority to monitor drugs once they've been approved, and it improves the agency's ability to warn consumers when there are problems." 
   The drug safety provisions were combined with renewal of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA), which has enabled FDA approve more than 1,100 new drug therapies since its inception in 1992. The program helps provide the FDA with resources to meet rigorous timeframes for the review of new drugs, while preserving patient safety. Scheduled to expire on September 30, 2007, S. 1082 would renew PDUFA for another five years.
   Hatch used his influence on the HELP Committee to ensure that Utah's more than 100 medical device companies were treated fairly in the reauthorization of the Medical Device User Fee Modernization Act (MDUFMA), which was also included in S. 1082.
   "Executives in Utah's medical device industry made it clear that they have seen little or no evidence that they're getting a good return on investment from user fees," Hatch said. "In fact, in a recent study, 70 percent of device manufacturers thought the fees have not improved the predictability or timeliness of reviews. This bill has a new fee structure that I believe will help ensure that the companies get what they pay for. I intend to carefully follow this to make sure it's implemented correctly."
   Concerned about recent reports of illness and even death from everyday foods such as spinach and peanut butter, as well as pet food, Hatch also worked to strengthen the FDA's ability to safeguard the nation's food supply. The bill improves communication systems about all food recalls, coordinates state and federal activities on fresh and processed produce, and creates a database to help FDA better track patterns of problems and target its limited resources where they are most needed. Hatch ensured the new food safety requirements would not supersede nor interfere with the new dietary supplement adverse event reporting law Hatch authored last year.
   The bill also contained a Hatch-authored provision that would spur the much-needed development of new antibiotics to fight drug-resistant infections.
   "Antimicrobial resistance is a public health crisis," Hatch said. "This is an issue that touches not just the old or the young, but all Americans throughout every walk of life. Antibiotics are as precious a natural resource as water is to a vibrant and healthy community and, guess what, the creek is drying up. My provisions take the first necessary steps to address these issues."
   Speaking in the Senate chamber earlier this week, Hatch noted that doctors at Utah's Primary Children's Medical Center have seen a dramatic increase in resistant bacteria since 1989. The increase is not only seen in Utah but nationwide - according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, resistant strains of infections have spread rapidly from 1980 to 2000.
   The Infectious Diseases Society of America, the Alliance for Aging Research, the Institute of Medicine, the Resources for the Future, the Centers for Disease Control, and many others have been sounding the alarm about the growing threat from resistant microorganisms and the need for innovation in the area of antibiotics.
   Hatch's provisions would do the following:
   * Provide equitable treatment for so-called "old" antibiotics.
   * Promote communication and education of current law orphan drug incentives by directing FDA to convene a public meeting to clarify what "bad bugs" may qualify for orphan designation.
   * Reauthorize the Orphan Drug grants & contracts program which expired September 30
   * Require FDA to establish, update and make publicly available information on antibiotic breakpoints. This is important to assure that the antibiotics we and our children take are effective against bacterial infections and minimize the progression of resistance.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 