TAX RECONCILIATION BILL TO HELP MILLIONS OF FAMILIES
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today urged Congress to pass a tax bill, that will save millions of American families from a tax increase next year. President Bush's tax cuts have helped fuel the explosion of economic growth and job production of the last five years, and Sen. Hatch is eager to see those cuts continue. 
   Statement of Sen. Orrin Hatch before the United States Senate on the Tax Reconciliation Bill  
   May 11th, 2006
   I applaud the conferees for successfully concluding the negotiations and giving us a tax reconciliation bill that I believe fixes glaring problems that would otherwise punish millions of American families. The provisions in the conference report before us today will also help to perpetuate the strong growth our economy has experienced over the last three years that has created millions of jobs for Americans. I want to exhort my colleagues to give their support to the conferees' efforts and vote for the passage of this conference report. 
   One major problem the conference report addresses is the fact that the Alternative Minimum Tax is due to hit tens of millions of American households this year had it not been temporarily fixed. The "fix" provided in the bill before us is by necessity only a one year "band-aid," so our tax writers will have to address this issue once again next year. Without this provision over 18 million households would unexpectedly find themselves bereft of deductions and facing a higher tax bill. 
   The Alternative Minimum Tax is Exhibit A for the law of unintended consequences in the tax world. Originally created as a response to news reports that a few millionaires were using available deductions to not pay any taxes at all, this provision, which is essentially a parallel tax system to our "normal" tax system, is on pace to snare tens of millions of households in just a few years unless repealed or reformed permanently. It is only the projection of major revenues from this tax that keeps us from discarding it completely. 
   The Alternative Minimum tax is an especially pernicious tax for Utahns, as it unduly burdens large families by disallowing the exemptions for dependent children. A family of six earning $90,000 a year pays enough taxes as it is without us taking away their exemptions. 
   While the fix of the Alternative Minimum Tax is welcome, I believe the most important provision in the reconciliation bill is the extension of the lower tax rate on dividends and capital gains to 2010. This provision has proven to be a boon for economic growth since it was added to the Code in 2003. 
   The revenue cost of this lower rate has been very slight--we collected more tax revenue from dividends and capital gains last year than we did in 2002, the year before we reduced the tax rate. In fact, total Federal revenue growth has been simply tremendous the past two years as the economy has taken off. Revenue grew more than 14.5 percent last year and is growing at more than 11 percent this fiscal year, well above the predictions made by CBO. 
   The benefits of the lower tax rates on dividends and capital gains has been higher economic growth. The way it works is simple: a lower tax on investment income means that investors get a higher return from their investments, thus spurring them to save more. Greater savings means that firms find there is more money available for them to use to increase production and improve the productivity of their workers, both of which ultimately lead to an increase in economic growth. 
   Moreover, the money invested is used more effectively with a lower tax on capital gains. Capital is not locked up in long-term investments held in order to avoid paying the tax. As a result, capital flows to the most productive investments, and economic growth is maximized. A vibrant, dynamic economy benefits from flexibility, both in the labor market and the capital market. Our 4.7 percent unemployment rate and two million jobs created in the past year, on top of a total of 5.2 million new jobs created since August of 2003, testify to the strength of our labor market. The $52 trillion of net wealth in this country, which increased by 8 percent last year, is a manifestation of the strength of our capital market. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is also nearing its all-time high, in no small part due to the tax policies of this country. 
   The benefits of economic growth are in ample abundance in Utah, where the current unemployment rate is just 3.4 percent, while wages increased last year by nearly 4 percent. 
   I am also pleased to see the extension of the small business expensing provision, which has been very important to business investment in this country. Another important provision included in the conference report is the two-year extension of the active financing exemption under subpart F, which allows many of our U.S.-based multinational firms to remain competitive with their foreign counterparts. 
   We need to remember that taxes are only a means to an end. Ultimately, a primary goal of the government needs to be to ensure the continued prosperity of its citizens, and our tax code should be constructed with that purpose in mind. Our tax code is by no means perfect; and I could litter this discussion with references to the hundreds of exceptions, exemptions, credits, ill-advised deductions, dubious penalties, and needless complexities that should not be in there. But fixing the myriad imperfections of the tax code is a task for a later Congress and was not the assignment of the conference committee. What they did accomplish was figure out a way for us to keep a provision that has been a boon to our economy for another two years. I fervently hope that by the time this provision is next due to expire, or even before then, that my colleagues can see how important it is to have a tax code that encourages saving and investment. A lower tax rate on dividends and capital gains is a modest step towards that goal, and one that has cost us little or no revenue in return. 
   At a time of growing prosperity, it is important to continue with the policies that have contributed to that prosperity, and that is exactly what this bill has done. I urge my colleagues to support its passage.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 