SENS. HATCH, BAYH PRESS WHITE HOUSE TO ADDRESS RUSSIAN PIRACY
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Sen. Evan Bayh (D-Ind.) today called on President Bush to oppose Russian entrance into the World Trade Organization (WTO) because of Russia's rampant theft of American intellectual property and its trade barriers against American goods. The two Senators jointly signed a letter to the President, which outlines some of Russia's unfair trade practices.  
   "I understand why Russians want the benefits of membership in the WTO, a community of laws and fair trade," Hatch said. "But when they're blatantly defiling those laws, we need to tell them 'no.' America cannot support Russian admittance into the WTO until Russia starts playing by the rules." 
   "Intellectual property theft is a drain on the American economy, stealing American ingenuity and taking away American jobs," Bayh said. "The Administration needs to take a stand against the cheating and piracy committed by foreign companies and insist that other countries play by the same rules if they want to benefit from membership in the WTO. Turning a blind eye to Russia's obvious trade violations will make it that much harder to enforce fair trade laws elsewhere in the world." 
   One example of Russian piracy is music CDs. The International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA) reports that, despite the fact that Russia needs only five CD-manufacturing facilities to meet domestic demand, there are currently 47 such plants in operation in Russia - and at least nine of them are located on military bases. The IIPA has confirmed that Russian pirates ship their wares to 27 foreign markets, compounding the theft of American revenue. Moreover, the Russian government is considering legislation to eliminate current intellectual property protections. 
   The Russians also maintain unfair trading barriers on many American goods, such as discriminatory licensing requirements. For example, the Russians are now requiring sanitary certification, which is typically reserved for agricultural goods, on items like furniture and Styrofoam cups. The current U.S. trade deficit is too large to ignore the revenue that a balanced trade situation with Russia could generate. 
   "Our country's economic vitality depends on trading partners who are partners - not pirates," Hatch said. "Due to our current trade deficit, the U.S. needs to become more aggressive with industrial nations who discriminate against American goods." 
   * For the Senators' entire letter, visit http://hatch.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=DataPipes.ViewPDF&Id=1572.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Meghan Keck, 202/224-4598.
 
 