SEN. HATCH CONDEMNS IRAQI PRISONER ABUSE, SUPPORTS DEFENSE SECRETARY RUMSFELD
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today expressed his outrage at inhumane actions of a few individuals at the Abu Ghraib prison, while reaffirming his strong support for the leadership of Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. The Senator's full floor statement follows: 
   Statement of Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate
  The Detention of Iraqi Prisoners at Abu Ghraib Prison
   Mr. President, I stand before you today to echo the horror that all of our citizens felt when we first viewed the photographs taken at Abu Ghraib prison. It is a stain upon the honor of our nation and the actions of these few individuals have undermined many of the substantial gains and sacrifices that our service men and women have achieved since the events of September 11th.
   At the same time, it is important to remember that these are the disgraceful actions of a few and by no means do they represent the hard work and honorable service of the 138,000 soldiers, sailors, airman, marines, and coast guardsman that are serving our country in Iraq and surrounding countries.
   During this trying time, I am also reminded that one of our troops' primary responsibilities is to do what is necessary to minimize civilian causalities. As some of my colleagues have mentioned on numerous occasions, one of their most vivid memories of the war was when a young American service member ran out onto an exposed bridge in order to save a young Iraqi woman. This is just one of many examples of the high personal, professional and moral conduct that is displayed every day by our nation's service members.
   The question then arises, how do we remove this stain on our honor? Our commander-in-chief, the President, as always, is leading the way by expressing his outrage over these actions and has apologized to the world.
   The Department of Defense has followed the President's example. 
   In his very forthcoming and candid comments before the Senate Armed Services Committee, the Secretary of Defense apologized and took full responsibility for these mistakes.
   Mr. President, I believe that the statements by President Bush and Secretary Rumsfeld were the hallmarks of leadership and show the world what is best about the United States. It is the sign of a great nation to acknowledge openly when laws have been broken, bring those violators to justice, and apply the law equally to all. We are working with the Iraqi people to use these same legal principles as the cornerstone of their developing legal system. Therefore, it is my hope that the results of the trials to come will form the real enduring image in minds of the Iraqi people.
   That is why I strongly support the resolution that is before the Senate. It adds our apology to those offered by the President and the Secretary of Defense; it rightly commends the vast majority of service members who are serving nobly abroad to support liberty; and it reiterates our commitment to bring to justice those who broke the law.
   It is a beginning to set things right.
   However, Mr. President, I am dismayed to learn that some have taken this opportunity to make a political point. They have called on the Secretary to resign. It is troubling that some would take advantage of these horrific acts in order to achieve a political gain during an election year.
   This is a Secretary of Defense who has continued to show that he is a man of honor by taking direct responsibility for the actions of a few rogue individuals.
   Secretary Rumsfeld has proven conclusively time and again that he is a positive agent for change at the Department of Defense. I know of no other individual who will engage in a more aggressive investigation of the events that have occurred and will institute whatever changes are necessary to prevent these violations from ever happening again.
   Mr. President, we have much to do to repair our credibility.
   The President's apology, followed by the acceptance of responsibility by Secretary Rumsfeld and the actions of the Senate today, begin this process. 
   However, this process will also require a rigorous investigation. There is one man who I know who is up for that challenge and it is Secretary Rumsfeld. This great nation must stand behind him.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 