SEN. HATCH CALLS NARAL AD 'A NEW LOW'
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today called on the pro-abortion group NARAL to apologize for and withdraw its ad attacking and distorting the record of Supreme Court nominee John Roberts, which is currently running on cable television channels. Hatch's statement follows:  
   "I have participated in 10 Supreme Court confirmations. Over the years, I have seen many unfair attacks made against good people and qualified nominees. Yet the recent television ad produced by the radical abortion rights organization NARAL is a new low. 
   "This ad grossly distorts the record of John Roberts from start to finish. It has only one goal: to associate John Roberts with violent extremists. The claim by NARAL President Nancy Keenan-that the ad does not suggest John Roberts condoned clinic violence-is disingenuous. That is exactly what it suggests. The non-partisan group, FactCheck.org of the Annenberg Center at the University of Pennsylvania reviewed the ad and found it to be 'false.' Walter Dellinger, who is pro-choice and a former Democratic Solicitor General, called the ad 'unfair.' 
   "This ad attempts to convince the American people that John Roberts took a legal position that excused the bombing of abortion clinics. This is an appalling suggestion that does not remotely comport with the truth. By using images from an abortion clinic bombing in Birmingham, Alabama, while discussing John Roberts' work on a brief in the case Bray v. Alexandria Women's Clinic, NARAL attempts to convince Americans that Roberts condoned or was insensitive to such violence. Neither is true. 
   "Bray had nothing to do with the incident portrayed in this commercial. In fact, Roberts' involvement in Bray predated these images by nearly seven years. Moreover, the case involved non-violent political protest, not politically motivated violence. NARAL fails to mention that the noted liberal pacifist Daniel Berrigan filed a brief supporting the same position Roberts took in arguing against the application of a law that would curtail the rights of non-violent protestors. And not surprisingly, NARAL also conveniently ignores the advice that John Roberts once gave on the issue of a pardon for a person convicted of violence at an abortion clinic: 'No matter how lofty or sincerely held the goal, those who resort to violence to achieve it are criminals.' 
   "By unfairly linking John Roberts to this notorious criminal act, this ad is an insult to the good sense and fair-mindedness of the American people. If NARAL has any integrity it will apologize to Judge Roberts and his family."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 