SEN. HATCH: DOES COURT SECRECY UNDERMINE PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY?
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) delivered the following statement before the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights at a hearing titled "The Sunshine in Litigation Act: Does Court Secrecy Undermine Public Health and Safety?" 
   Mr. Chairman, today we are here to consider the "Sunshine in Litigation Act." This legislation addresses court secrecy. More specifically, it addresses the lack of public access to materials obtained in discovery and to the content of settlement agreements. To provide greater public access to these essentially private matters, previous proposals have modified the use of protective orders in federal courts, limiting the discretion of a presiding judge to issue a protective order for information that might be relevant to the protection of public health and safety.  
   There are strong arguments on both sides of this proposal. Yet in preparation for this hearing, I found that the explosion of e-discovery has only strengthened the views of those opposed to this legislation. For example, some years ago Professor Arthur Miller of New York University Law School criticized sunshine litigation in the Harvard Law Review. In preparation for this hearing, however, Professor Miller wrote to me and stated that "My views on the subject are even stronger today, reinforced by dramatic changes in the litigation landscape?.[T]he massive expansion of discovery in today's electronic world magnifies the need for broad judicial discretion to protect all litigants' privacy and property rights." I think that going forward the Committee should heed this warning. These practical concerns also implicate constitutional interests of privacy and due process. The United States Supreme Court has addressed these privacy interests in Seattle Times v. Rhinehart, 467 U.S. 20 (1984). The Court found that "A litigant has no First Amendment right of access to information made available only for purposes of trying his suit," 467 U.S. at 32-33. Some appear to believe that the materials obtained in discovery and the content of settlement agreements are essentially public matters that are made private by protective orders. In my view, this gets it backward. While there are public elements to litigation, most obviously the complaint, the Supreme Court has indicated that privacy interests deserve protection in litigation. 
   The Committee should also consider the potential unintended consequences of any legislation modifying the use of protective orders. Given the burdensome character of discovery, it is not clear what the consequences of this legislation will be on the incentives to settle rather than go to trial. Some believe that an agreement of confidentiality facilitates the informational exchange necessary to the adversary process. Greater public access to materials obtained through discovery and to settlement agreements might create disincentives to settlement, increasing litigation costs and the caseload of the federal courts. 
   Finally, Congress should be mindful that the courts are an independent branch of government and that the management of its caseload is a quintessentially judicial function. Yet this legislation would fundamentally rework Rule 26(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which provides judges with broad discretion to issue protective orders. At this point, the Judicial Conference is not considering a change to these rules. In part, this might be owing to a finding by the Federal Judicial Center that of the 288,846 civil cases terminated in 2001 or 2002 in the fifty-two districts studied, 1,270 had sealed settlement agreements, which is .44%--less than one-half of one percent. Mr. Chairman, our courts exist to adjudicate cases and controversies. When the parties to a dispute agree to settle, that case or controversy becomes moot. We need to consider whether it is consistent with our commitment to due process to require judges essentially to make fact-findings about the public health impact of information obtained through discovery without the truth-seeking benefits of the adversarial process. 
   Mr. Chairman, thank you again for your work on this hearing. I look forward to working with you on this issue in the coming year.
   Contact: Heather Barney, 801/524-3341; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 