SEN. HATCH EULOGIZES REP. LANTOS
 Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) offered the following speech before the United States Senate on the death of Chairman Tom Lantos (D-Calif.). 
   Mr. President, May I be allowed to speak as in Morning Business for a few moments to eulogize an old friend, the Chairman of the House International Relations Committee, Tom Lantos?  
   Mr. President, this morning began sadly with the news of the death of Congressman Tom Lantos, one of the giants among the Democrats in the House, and, frankly, among all Members of Congress during the last 28 years. 
   Congressman Lantos had been diagnosed with cancer a few months ago, and had recently announced he would not run for a 14th term for the 12 District of California, which he so ably served since 1980. 
   Tom Lantos led a remarkable life. A Hungarian Jew, he lived what he said was a happy childhood until the Hungarian fascist allies of Hitler brought the Holocaust to Hungary. Through most of the war, he was interned in various forced labor camps, some from which he escaped, and was at least once recaptured, following a beating that, he later said, "I was pleasantly surprised to survive." 
   After a final escape, he spent the remainder of the war in hiding, protected, as so many Hungarian Jews were, by Raoul Wallenberg, the man who risked his life to protect as many of Hungary's Jews as he could, and who vanished into the Soviet camps at the end of the war. 
   600,000 Hungarian Jews perished in the Holocaust, including Tom Lantos' family. 
   One of the first initiatives of Congressman Lantos upon coming to the House of Representatives in 1980 was to pass legislation granting Raoul Wallenberg U.S. citizenship. 
   Tom Lantos was, in his words, "an American by choice," and to know him was to see that every day of his life he embraced the opportunities an immigrant can find in this country. 
   He arrived penniless to this country - according to his biography, his only possession was "a precious Hungarian salami" - which was confiscated upon arrival. But with a scholarship and hard work he earned a Ph.D in Economics, and taught at San Francisco State University for almost three decades, developing, during that time, his credentials as a commentator on world affairs. 
   Tom Lantos brought to the House his passionate patriotism and the drive of a survivor. When people would comment on the demands of his work, which included regular travel to his constituency 3,000 miles away, his global travels as a Member of the House International Relations Committee, which he recently chaired, and the hectic pace of his other Congressional assignments, he would be quick to remind us that this was nothing in comparison to what he had faced as a young man. 
   He founded the House Human Rights Caucus, a platform which he used to highlight human rights abuses around the world, and with which he become inextricably associated. For many of us in Congress and for many oppressed throughout the world, Congressman Lantos was the Chairman for Human Rights. 
   He was a Democrat who believed in the use of American power for good, and who understood the nuances of subtle as well as confrontational diplomacy. 
   For example, he kept trying to get a visa to visit Tehran, because he believed that there was always room to talk, with enemies as well as friends. But, when asked what he would say to the dictators in Tehran, he was less than subtle: "I will the tell the Iranians the truth - that it's a great country and they need to be reintegrated into the family of civilized nations and that they must give up their lunatic notions." Less than subtle, to be sure, but truthful. It's hard to disagree with this view, Mr. President. 
   Tom Lantos also recognized that diplomacy could fail and the use of the U.S. military could achieve noble ends. He was a strong supporter of the military during the Cold War, supported military assistance to Israel, urged President Clinton to lead NATO forces against Milosevic's genocide, and supported our interventions in Iraq, although, to be fair to him, he was critical, as many of us have been, about the implementation of our invasion of Iraq. 
   The point is that Tom Lantos represented the wing of the Democratic Party that kept central our national security concerns, that recognizes our duty in the world, and that accepts that the use of force is sometimes required. This is the wing of the Democratic Party that needs to survive if that party is to remain relevant to the events in the world that will shape us. 
   I am honored to have been a friend of Tom Lantos for decades. Our staffs worked together well, and he always had my admiration and respect. I will never forget a tour he gave me and Senators Reid and Daschle of the old Jewish ghetto in Budapest when our separate codels happened to be in that city at the same time in 1996. Later, he gave us a personal tour of the magnificent Hungarian parliament building. One of the first post-communist governments was in power, and they so highly regarded Tom Lantos, for his heritage as well as his anti-communist stance throughout this life, that he was granted free access throughout the building - he even knew where to turn the lights on. 
   The prayers and thoughts of Elaine and I go out to Annette, his wife of 58 years, who he married in California, but who, like himself, was a survivor the Holocaust in Hungary, and was actually a childhood sweetheart. The fact that they loved each other as long as they have, that they came from similar backgrounds and worked together daily throughout their lives only makes her loss that much sadder, and our condolences go to her, their two children, and eighteen grandchildren. 
   But the death of Tom Lantos is a great loss as well to his constituents, to his colleagues in the House, to his party, to all of us in Congress. It is a loss to this Nation, and to all those who strive in solidarity for the cause of human rights. 
   Tom Lantos was slight of build, but he was a giant. He was a moral force, who used the authority of a survivor from the Holocaust, of an American immigrant, and of a scholar and leader, to show the great institution of Congress how it can lead in a dangerous and often immoral world.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 