SENS. HATCH, BENNETT ANNOUNCE SENATE YOUTH PROGRAM DELEGATES FROM UTAH
  Sens. Orrin Hatch and Bob Bennett today announced that Utah students Lenaye Howard and Lacey Slizeski will represent the state at the 43rd annual United States Senate Youth Program in Washington, D.C.  
   "I'm so proud of Lenaye and Lacey," Hatch said. "The Senate Youth Program is a wonderful introduction to public service, and these two fine young women worked hard to be selected. I know they will do a great job representing our state." 
   "It is my pleasure to welcome these two bright students to Washington to learn more about the Senate and the federal government," said Bennett. "This will be an invaluable experience; one that I expect will help shape many of their future goals." 
   Lenaye Howard, of Smithfield, is president and extemporaneous captain of Sky View High School's debate team. She is also the oboe section leader in the wide ensemble of Sky View's marching band. Lacey Slizeski, of Park City, is a student representative on the Board of Education at Park City High School. Lacey is also a Utah Girl's State representative, vice president of the Social Justice Club and Academic Decathlon team captain. Alternates are Brighton High School student Megan Olsen and Orem High School student Derrick Wakamatsu. 
   The chief education officer in each state, the District of Columbia, and the Department of Defense Education Activity - oversea schools for children of military service members and civilian employees - selected two delegates for the program. In Utah, State Superintendent Dr. Patti Harrington named the state's delegates. The students will be in D.C. from February 26-March 5, 2005, for a week of intensive study of the federal government and, in particular, the U.S. Senate. The operations of the Senate will be particularly stressed during the week. As in past years, arrangements are underway for the delegates to meet with cabinet members, a Supreme Court justice and several key congressional policymakers. 
   Each of the 104 delegates will receive a $5,000 college scholarship. This scholarship, in addition to the program week in D.C., is made possible by a grant from the William Randolph Hearst Foundation. 
   For more information, please contact Utah's selection administrator, Pam Su'a at (801) 567-8320 or by email at pamsua@yahoo.com.
 
 