SEN. HATCH, GOP TASK FORCE UNVEIL PROPOSALS TO HELP AMERICANS WITHOUT HEALTH INSURANCE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and 10 of his Senate GOP colleagues unveiled today an array of proposals to reform the nation's health care system and help provide access to care for Americans currently without health insurance. 
   "We simply can't allow tens of millions of Americans - and tens of thousands of Utahns - to go without health insurance," said Hatch. "The proposals we are presenting today are a comprehensive, balanced approach to the problem. We can cover more of the uninsured and cut the costs of health care for all Americans."
   The proposals issued today by the Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured include recommendations for increasing access to health care for the estimated 41 million Americans who may be without health insurance for some period during a given year, decreasing the costs of health care for all Americans, and reforming the system to eliminate red tape and increase efficiency. The proposals are the culmination of about half a year of study on the issue of covering more uninsured Americans.
   "Providing insurance coverage to more Americans will not only improve health and save lives, but will reduce overall medical costs," said Hatch. "No longer will patients wait until their conditions reach catastrophic levels before seeking treatment. More serious illnesses will be treated early and at lower costs, and more Americans will have access to preventive care to avoid becoming sick in the first place."
   The proposals include increased funding for community health centers, an important health care safety net in Utah. Health centers have shown that they can provide care in underserved areas for roughly $1.25 per patient per day. The new proposals also include tax incentives for specialists to see patients referred by community health centers.
   "We've come a long way this Congress, providing Medicare beneficiaries with a prescription drug benefit and giving Americans more control over their medical finances through health savings accounts,' Hatch continued. "But we've got a lot of work still to do. For instance, we need to pass medical liability reform to keep family doctors from going out of business. That is just one of the proposals in this package that will make an immediate difference."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 