SEN. HATCH EAGER FOR HOUSE STEM CELL VOTE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today joined members of the House of Representatives in a press conference to demonstrate the strong support stem cell research has among Republicans in Congress.  
   Hatch's press conference statement follows: 
   I am grateful to be here my good friends and colleagues who are leading the fight in the House to promote stem cell research. Largely because of their efforts, the House is now poised to take a vote that could lead the way to expanded federal support of this life-saving research. 
   It's important to note who's standing here in this press conference today - we're all Republicans who believe that we should not use embryonic stem cell research for political gain - on either side of the debate. Too much is at stake here to fight this battle along partisan lines. 
   We strongly believe in the potential of stem cell research, and Congressman Castle's Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act will unleash the promise of stem cell research by increasing both the quantity and quality of stem cell lines available for federally funded research. I have joined Senator Arlen Specter, Senator Tom Harkin, and many others to introduce similar legislation in the Senate. 
   This is an important bill because it will allow research to proceed on stem cell lines that are derived without federal funds in an ethical fashion. The bill requires informed consent and that no financial incentives be given to donors of these embryos produced for in vitro fertilization but no longer needed. Over 190 cosponsors in the House have recognized the critical contribution embryonic stem cell research can make to the millions of Americans suffering from dreadful illnesses. 
   I come to this issue as a proud Right-to-Life Senator. While I admire and respect those who do not share my views on this, I do believe, very strongly, that it is possible to be both anti-abortion and pro-embryonic stem cell research. 
   The stem cells highlighted in this bill will be derived from excess embryos from in vitro fertilization clinics, where literally thousands of fertilized embryos are destroyed every year simply because they will not be used by donors. 
   We are confident that when our colleagues and the public consider all of the issues, including the ethical questions, a bipartisan majority will reach the conclusion that this bill will advance important science and is consistent with our moral values.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 