SEN. HATCH COMMENDS SENATE FOR DESIGNATING NOV. 2004 AS 'NATIONAL RUNAWAY PREVENTION MONTH'
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today commended the United States Senate for passing S. Res. 430, a resolution designating November 2004 as National Runaway Prevention Month. Sen. Hatch issued the following statement:  
   "National Runaway Prevention Month is a public education initiative to increase awareness of issues facing runaways. This resolution will sensitize the public about solutions to the runaway dilemma and educate them on the role they play in preventing youth from running away. 
   "Runaway and 'throwaway' episodes among our nation's youth are a widespread problem, with one out of every seven children and youth in the United States running away or being turned out of their home before the age of 18. A recent study by the Department of Justice's Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention estimates that nearly 1.7 million youth experienced a runaway or throwaway episode in a single year. The primary causal factors of running away or being turned out are severe family conflict, abuse and neglect, and parental abuse of alcohol and drugs. 
   "All of the conditions that lead young people to leave or be turned out of their homes are preventable. However, we need to make interventions available to strengthen families and support youth in high-risk situations. Successful interventions are grounded in partnerships among families, community-based human service agencies, law enforcement agencies, schools, faith-based organizations, and businesses. 
   "Preventing young people from running away and supporting youth in high-risk situations are a family, community, and national responsibility. I hope that this resolution will succeed in increasing public attention to the challenges that youth are facing today and in encouraging all Americans to play a role in supporting the millions of young people who have run away from their home environments or who are at-risk of doing so each year."
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225. 
 
 