SEN. HATCH TAPS FIVE UTAH STUDENTS FOR SENATE INTERNSHIPS
  Five Utah students are learning about life on Capitol Hill with a semester internship in the Washington, D.C., office of Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah).  
   "These five young Utahns are welcome additions to my D.C. team," Hatch said. "Interns can bring energy and enthusiasm to the work in our nation's capital that are a real asset to my office. They help me, and they learn a lot along the way that will help them in their futures." 
   Interns in Hatch's office help his work for Utah constituents. Exploring a variety of Capitol Hill experiences, the interns also attend press conferences, hearings, and committee meetings. 
   Each semester, Hatch selects interns from Utah from the dozens of students who apply for the office's few openings. Schools recommend a group of applicants to the internship program based on their grade point average, extra-curricular activities and other accomplishments, then Hatch makes the final cut. Students may also apply on their own using Hatch's website, hatch.senate.gov. (Click on "Teachers and Students," then "Internships.") 
   "Internships in Congress are very tough to land," Hatch said. "There is competition among the students, but there is also competition among the various organizations and offices for the best interns. It's fortunate that so many young people in Utah are eager to come here and serve their country." 
   An internship can be a springboard to new experiences and opportunities for students. This semester, Hatch's interns are: 
   Matt Ivers, 26, a recent graduate from Utah State University. 
   "It's an incredible opportunity to come to Washington and experience Congress first hand. Being here has brought me a greater appreciation for the establishment and function of government." 
   Derek Matsumori, 23, from Brigham Young University. 
   "I have taken a few political science classes at BYU, but nothing can substitute for the learning experiences I have had while interning for Senator Hatch. Working here has really shown me that public service is something I would like to pursue." 
   Shannon Mullin, 22, 
   "I am thrilled to be here on Capitol Hill. What an honor to learn about the founding fathers and live the dream they created. You can't live and work here without developing an appreciation and respect for our freedom for which so many American patriots have fought." 
   Neal Tolman, 23, from the University of Utah 
   "I have planned on doing an internship in D.C. since I was first introduced to the U's Hinckley Institute as a freshman. I waited a few years so that I could get a little more experience and education that would help me take full advantage of this incredible opportunity." 
   Rich Wilkinson, 22, a recent graduate from Utah State University. 
   "Politics has been a big part of my family. When I was a little kid, my dad used to take me to political conventions to meet prominent figures and learn how government works. With this internship, I am learning more about the law and those figures that will help me succeed."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 