SEN. HATCH PRAISES OPERATION PREDATOR FOR SUCCESS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today praised Operation Predator, the Department of Homeland Security's comprehensive Immigration and Customs Enforcement initiative aimed at safeguarding children from foreign national pedophiles, human traffickers, international sex tourists, and internet pornographers.  
   "Young people are our most valuable and vulnerable citizens. Every year millions of children fall prey to sexual predators. These young victims are left with permanent physical, psychological, and emotional scars," Hatch said. 
   "The tragedy of child exploitation is compounded by the fact that child prostitution, human trafficking, child pornography, and international sex tourism now generate billions of dollars a year worldwide. It is imperative that we do all in our power to reverse this trend and protect our children," continued Hatch. 
   "I praise the efforts of Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials, Hatch stated. "Through coordinating investigative and intelligence resources the Department of Homeland Security has embarked upon a unified campaign against child predators not only in the United States, but worldwide." 
   Operation Predator, launched one year ago, is a systematic, comprehensive approach to targeting child sex predators. The initiative is coordinated nationally and internationally through Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) headquarters, and evolved out of ICE's mission to find and deport illegal aliens, concentrating on those with criminal records. This year Operation Predator has resulted in 3,247 arrests nationwide, and additionally more than 500 individuals have been arrested by foreign law enforcement based on Immigration and Customs Enforcement investigative leads. 
   As part of Operation Predator's efforts, ICE has created a National Child Victim Identification System and established a single web portal allowing the public to access all state Megan's law registered sex offender identification databases. Also as a part of the effort, ICE agents stationed internationally work with foreign governments and their law enforcement counterparts to enhance coordination and cooperation on crimes that cross borders. 
   Hatch further stated, "These predators come from all walks of life, and as a parent I believe that we can never be too careful when it comes to the protection of our children. I will do everything I can to work with the Department of Homeland Security to make sure that they have everything they need to continue this important effort."
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 