SEN. HATCH: INCREASE OIL REFINERY CAPACITY TO DECREASE COST OF GASOLINE
  With gas prices in Utah averaging $3.21, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced legislation to reduce gasoline prices through increasing the capacity of American oil refineries.  
   "No one doubts that Utah consumers and businesses will face another long, hot summer of too high gas prices," Hatch said. "And a major refining bottleneck is a big part of the problem. The government does not produce or refine oil in this country, but it obstructs private sector efforts to do so. While refiners would like to expand their capacity, they face prohibitive costs from regulations and other unfriendly economic factors that make expanding very, very difficult." 
   Hatch's bill, called the Refinery Investment Tax Assistance Act of 2007, would provide tax incentives to help lower the high economic hurdles to refinery capacity expansion. Hatch cited a AAA report that the rapid surge in gas prices is largely due to ongoing problems at the nation's oil refineries, and his bill would make it easier for refineries to address these problems. 
   The bill would allow refiners able to commit to installing new refining capacity before 2008 - and to building it by 2012 - to write-off 100 percent of the costs of the equipment in the first year rather than depreciating them over 10 years. Moreover, the bill would allow refiners to depreciate the cost of other property over five years rather than ten years, which would allow the huge investment involved in an expanded refinery to be recovered far more quickly. 
   "Although this legislation offers tax incentives, over time it will not cost the U.S. Treasury any tax revenue," Hatch said. "It would allow refineries to change the timing of the depreciation of their equipment, but not the amount. Meanwhile, it would increase the size of our tax base by encouraging industry to build new refineries and increase capacity." 
   Countries like Saudi Arabia, India, and China - where fewer regulations makes building refineries much cheaper - are experiencing a refining boom to quench the United States' energy thirst. If America doesn't act to increase its refining capacity, Hatch says, it will continue to lose ground to overseas competitors and put itself at the mercy of foreign economies. 
   "Because of these tough economics, not a single new refinery has been built in the United States in 30 years," Hatch said. "In fact, we have lost nearly 200 refineries when we are badly in need of more of them."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 