SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON 'FEDERAL MARRIAGE AMENDMENT'
  Statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch 
  Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary 
  Before the U.S. Senate on the Federal Marriage Amendment
   Mr. President, the debate over marriage boils down to two fundamental questions. Should our goal be to keep marriage limited to a man and a woman? And if so, is amending the U.S. Constitution necessary to accomplish this goal?  
   The answer to both questions is yes. 
   The first question, whether we should keep marriage between a man and a woman, can be examined in several ways. First, we can look at different kinds of polls. Just in the last few months, polls by reputable news organizations such as CBS News, FOX News/Opinion Dynamics, Newsweek, Time/CNN show that, by at least 2-to-1, Americans would not redefine marriage. Not only is this margin overwhelming, but it exists in the face of a barrage by the liberal media urging a different answer to the question. 
   These polls tell us something about the opinions of individual Americans. Another kind of poll examines what the American people's elected representatives do on their behalf. Two years ago, the Supreme Court repeated its long-held guidance that "the clearest and most reliable objective evidence of contemporary values is the legislation enacted by the country's legislatures." That evidence is in and confirms the same conclusion: the American people oppose redefining traditional marriage. 
   In 1996, Congress overwhelmingly passed the Defense of Marriage Act and President Clinton, a Democratic president signed it into law. As its name implies, this legislation was intended to defend what marriage has always been, a union between a man and a woman. Since 1996, the citizens and legislatures in nearly every state in the union have taken one or more steps to further protect traditional marriage. Again this year, citizens in several more states have collected hundreds of thousands of signatures to put before voters state constitutional protection for traditional marriage. And speaking of signatures, last Friday some of my colleagues received nearly 1.5 million petitions from Americans to protect traditional marriage and more are on the way. 
   Whether traditional marriage should remain what it has always been, the goal most Americans support, requires amending the United States Constitution. If the answer is yes, no one should be able to get away with professing support for traditional marriage but refusing to do what's necessary to make it real. Some have indeed tried to have it both ways, saying they want to keep marriage between a man and a woman but refusing to take any real steps to do so. Last Friday, for example, I pointed out how Senator Kerry has publicly said marriage should be between a man and a woman, yet voted against the Defense of Marriage Act. 
   You can't have it both ways - you can't vote against DOMA and argue that it is unconstitutional and now say that a constitutional amendment is not necessary because DOMA will protect us. But this is exactly what the junior Senator from Massachusetts is doing. 
   Let's face it: One of the reasons why so many of my friends across the aisle will argue so strenuously this week that the time is not ripe for consideration of this issue on the Senate floor, or that the Senate has much more important things to do, is because they wish to avoid getting cross-wise with those tens of millions of Americans who support traditional marriage yet also do not want to offend their many supporters who wish to allow these novel, non-traditional same-gender marriages. 
   Their politically expedient solution is this: As quietly as possible, vote against the Marriage Amendment today and leave it up to the courts to reinterpret the Constitution tomorrow. 
   So the real question is whether protecting traditional marriage requires amending the Constitution. As Senator Smith said on this floor last Friday, it would be better if the answer were no. Polls suggest that many Americans would prefer their elected representatives to be able to legislate in this area. That indeed is the way it was traditionally done. 
   In polling as in life, however, the devil is in the details. A CBS News/New York Times poll in March, for example, asked whether marriage laws should be determined by "the federal government or by each state government." This sounds as if the choice is between the federal or state legislature. That, however, is not the choice and never has been. The choice today is between the judiciary and the legislature, but the polls never ask about that. 
   Another poll taken at the same time, this one by ABC News and the Washington Post, asked whether Americans would support amending the U.S. Constitution "or should each state make its own laws." Another false choice. Activist judges are rapidly making it impossible for states to make their own laws regarding marriage, making a constitutional amendment the only option. The polls never ask about that. These highly misleading polls make one wonder whether the liberal media outlets conducting them have some kind of agenda here. 
   Does protecting traditional marriage require amending the United States Constitution? The best prescription depends on an accurate diagnosis. Simply put, when an issue like this one that traditionally was decided by state legislatures is redefined by judges in constitutional terms, the only effective option is amending the Constitution. 
   The judiciary has been flexing its cultural muscles for decades, imposing its own values upon the American people, supposedly in the name of the Constitution. There can be no doubt that traditional marriage is in the path of what Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia in 1992 called the judiciary's social engineering bulldozer. That same year, the Supreme Court invented a constitutional right to define "one's own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life." Four years later, the Court said resistance to making public policies more favorable to homosexuals "seems inexplicable by anything but animus." Last year, the Court combined these ideas to take away from state legislatures the ability to prohibit certain kinds of sexual practices. 
   And finally, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts applied all of this by inventing a constitutional right to same-sex marriage. Step by step, by re-casting these cultural questions in constitutional terms, the courts took them away from the American people and their elected representatives. 
   These were not a bunch of random coincidental legal events. These falling dominoes were part of the very same strategy that today is targeting state and federal laws protecting traditional marriage. Last Friday, I outlined the five current fronts in the legal war to redefine marriage. And there may be more on the way; politically driven lawyers are nothing if not creative. This is why nearly all legal analysts and scholars, either grudgingly or enthusiastically, conclude that legislatures' ability to make real decisions in this area may already be a thing of the past. 
   This is why a constitutional amendment to preserve traditional marriage is the only effective solution, and why this is not premature. It might have been premature if the Supreme Court's cultural bulldozer were still idling. It might have been premature if the Supreme Court had not embraced the insulting and false conclusion that traditional views on certain cultural questions are nothing but irrational animus. It might have been premature if the Supreme Court had not created a constitutional right to sexual autonomy. It might have been premature were there not already dozens of lawsuits challenging laws protecting both state and federal laws protecting traditional marriage. But these things have already happened, and more aggressive legal assaults are coming. The judiciary's cultural bulldozer is in gear, on the move, and has already done too much damage. If anything, we are behind the curve, not ahead of it. 
   Some call this election-year politics. Well, I suppose any measure considered by a political institution can be called politics. And yes, this is an election year. This is merely a clich? substituting for an argument. Those who use it perhaps have no real argument, and so they use this clich? to imply that we would not be trying to defend traditional marriage if this were 2003 or 2005. Simply saying that demonstrates how absurd it is. 
   Supporters of traditional marriage, that is to say, the large majority of the American people, have not dictated the timetable here. The minority who wants to redefine marriage have done that. They brought the lawsuits that took these issues from the American people. Since the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts had used the state constitution to redefine marriage, amending the state constitution was the only way to protect it. Yet the court gave the legislatures just six months to do what it knew in Massachusetts takes three years to do. This issue is already out of the people's hands. 
   As Senator Smith said on this floor last week, words have meaning. Activists, with the help of judges, are seeking to change the meaning of the word marriage to further their political agenda. The proponents of the marriage amendment are saying Stop. We want to retain the word marriage to its real meaning of a male and female union, and it is inescapable that amending the U.S. Constitution is the only way to accomplish this goal.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 