COLLOQUY: EUNICE KENNEDY SHRIVER NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH, DEVELOPMENT ACT
  The following is a transcript of a colloquy among Senators Hatch, Enzi and Kennedy regarding the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Development Act, which passed the U.S. Senate today.  
   Hatch: Mr. President, I am hopeful we will approve tonight a bill I have authored with Senators Mikulski, Enzi and Harkin, The Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Development Act (S. 2453). This Act will change the name of the National Institute of Child Health and Development to the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Development. 
   Our bill honors a truly great American who has played a unique role in advancing children's health, and particularly in shaping how we treat individuals with intellectual disabilities. Few Americans have ever played such a profound role as Ms. Shriver has played in her life and it is entirely fitting that we rename NICHD on her behalf. 
   Enzi: Mr. President, I want to thank Mr. Hatch for introducing this legislation, which I have joined as an original co-sponsor. Ms. Shriver's contribution stand alone, both in terms of what she has done in terms of individuals with intellectual disabilities and their meaningful contribution in society as well as advancing basic research at the National Institutes of Health. The National Institute of Child Health and Development was launched in the beginning of the Kennedy Administration and Ms. Shriver and her husband Sargent advocated for the institute when many knowledgeable scientists were willing to write off these individuals and advocated that the money spent at the NICHD would be better spent studying adult diseases. Ms. Shriver advocated for this research and I think it is fair to say without her advocacy the Institute would not be what it is today. 
   Kennedy: I would like to thank my colleagues for their support of this legislation. I would also like to thank Senators Mikulski and Harkin who were the other original cosponsor of this legislation. I will speak at a later time on the extraordinary difference that my sister, Eunice, has made in the lives of millions of Americans, but for now, I wish to comment on an aspect of the legislation before us. As we enact this legislation, I did want to make clear, that it is my understanding that nothing in this bill changes any authorities that we provided NIH and its director in the NIH Reform Act that we passed last Congress. Specifically, this does not change any of the authorities of the Scientific Management Review Board or any other provisions provided in section 401 of that Act. 
   Is that your intent and understanding as well, Senators? 
   Hatch: Thank you, yes, this legislation is only meant to change the name of the single Institute within NIH, and to have no other effect on the NIH or its organization. 
   Enzi: I agree. We do not intend this to change or signal any other change at NIH.
 
 