JUDICIARY COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. HATCH BILL TO REAUTHORIZE NATIONAL CENTER FOR MISSING, EXPLOITED CHILDREN
 The Senate Judiciary Committee Thursday unanimously reported legislation sponsored by Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Committee member Orrin Hatch (R- Utah) to reauthorize funding for the nation's premier center for the protection and rescue of missing and exploited children. The bipartisan Protect Our Children First Act was introduced in July by Leahy and Hatch.  
   The bill reauthorizes funding for the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), which is slated to expire in 2008. Leahy and Hatch have been longtime advocates for the NCMEC, and in 2003 sponsored legislation to keep the Center funded. The Center has worked on more than 127,700 cases since it opened in 1984, and has helped rescue more than 110,200 children. The Center is funded under the Department of Justice, and works in conjunction with DOJ's Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. 
   "With the dangers of online predators, children are subject to threats nowadays that we never could have imagined when we first founded the National Center," Hatch said. "The goals and activities of this great organization are a critical line of defense in protecting those who otherwise cannot defend themselves. I appreciate Senator Leahy's leadership and his bipartisanship on this issue and look forward to celebrating this bill's final passage with him when Congress eventually gets it to President Bush's desk." 
   "The Department of Justice estimates that more than 2,000 children are reported missing every day," said Leahy. "A central responsibility of our government is to protect its citizens, and particularly its children. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children has worked effectively to protect some of our most vulnerable citizens. I have worked with Senator Hatch over the years to ensure that this important Center receives the necessary support to continue its operations, and I hope the Senate will quickly pass this vital legislation." 
   The Protect Our Children First Act will reauthorize NCMEC through 2013, and makes several improvements to the Center's ability to collaborate with federal, state and local law enforcement agencies by: 
   * Providing analytical and technical support to assist law enforcement agencies in searching public databases to identify missing children and to locate abductors; 
   * Facilitating the deployment of the National Emergency Child Locator Center to assist in locating children in times of natural disasters; 
   * Tracking the incidence of attempted child abductions to report any links or patterns to law enforcement agencies. 
   The Committee Thursday also unanimously approved two additional pieces of legislation to protect children from predators, the Keeping the Internet Devoid of Sexual (KIDS) Predators Act and the Internet Safety Education Act.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 