HELP COMMITTEE ADVANCES BREAST CANCER RESEARCH BILL
  A breast cancer research bill long championed by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UTAH) cleared the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee today.  
   The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act, S. 579, co-sponsored by Hatch and Senate colleagues of both parties, creates a national strategy to research possible links between breast cancer and the environment. 
   It authorizes the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to spend $40 million per year over the next five years to conduct peer-review studies that cut across traditional disciplines and institutional boundaries in a unified effort to explore the environment's impact on breast cancer. 
   Hatch, the lead Republican sponsor of the original bill, is pleased S. 579 made it out of committee and is hopeful members of the full Senate will pass it when the act comes up for their consideration. 
   He said the statistics are frightening. The American Cancer Society, he noted, estimates that a woman in the U.S. has a one in eight chance of developing invasive breast cancer, compared to a one in 11 chance in 1975. About 90 percent of women diagnosed with breast cancer do not have a family history of the disease. Moreover, about 40 percent of women diagnosed with invasive breast cancer die from the disease. 
   "Some studies suggest there are environmental links to breast cancer, but the evidence has been inconclusive," Hatch said. "This bill provides the resources and focus for the NIH to study this in a collaborative, comprehensive way that may lead, for the first time, to some definitive scientific conclusions. We simply have to find out what is causing this disease and put a stop to it." 
   Sylvia Rickard of the Utah Breast Cancer Network echoed Hatch's remarks. 
   "Because only a small number of breast cancers have known causes, and in order to better treat, prevent or cure the disease, we need to know what causes it," Rickard said. "We need to know what role the environment plays. Senate Bill 579 sets up a national strategy to study the potential causes." 
   Fran Visco, president of the National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC), extolled Hatch for his work on the bill. 
   "As a lead sponsor of this bill, and a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Senator Hatch has worked with the National Breast Cancer Coalition's grassroots advocates and within the Senate to advance NBCC's cause," Visco said. "We appreciate his hard work to help get this bill through the committee and we are committed to working with Senator Hatch to make certain the bill becomes law this year. We need a strategy to address the links between the environment and breast cancer, and this bill will help get us there."
   Contact: Mark Eddington and Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 