SEN. HATCH BILL TO CRACKDOWN ON DEADBEAT ALIENS UNANIMOUSLY PASSES SENATE JUDICIARY
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today announced that the Judiciary Committee unanimously passed the Parental Responsibility Obligations Met Through Immigration System Enforcement Act or "PROMISE Act." The PROMISE Act amends the Immigration and Nationality Act so that those who fail to satisfy their child support obligations are ineligible to enter the United States. Further, those already in the United States will be ineligible for certain immigration benefits, such as citizenship. 
   "Sadly, there are many in our society who do not honor their child support obligations," stated Hatch. "Ultimately, it is the children who are hurt by such irresponsibility. Shockingly, many foreign nationals are able to benefit from our immigration laws even though they fail to live up to their child support obligations."
   "Permission to enter the United States is a privilege, not a right," continued Hatch. "We cannot afford to grant this privilege to individuals who do not respect the law of our nation, the laws of their home country, or their moral duty to provide for their children."
   "Let us be clear in our message. If you do not live up to your financial obligations to your own children, then you are not welcome in the United States," Hatch emphasized. "We do not tolerate this behavior from our own citizens, and we certainly should not have to tolerate it from foreigners who want to come into our country or have the privilege of citizenship."
   Hatch thanked Senator John Cornyn of Texas the primary cosponsor of this legislation, the National Child Support Enforcement Association who passed a resolution in support Hatch's efforts, and his Democrat as well as Republican colleagues on the Judiciary Committee for unanimously voting in favor of this important legislation.
   "Having such support in our corner only strengthens our efforts to protect the most innocent and vulnerable members of society - our children," continued Hatch.
   "By closing this serious loophole in our immigration policy, we are protecting the rights of many in our country - including Utah," concluded Hatch. "My office has received calls from Utah parents who have tried in vain to collect child support from foreign deadbeats. This bill solves that serious problem and I look forward to working in a bipartisan fashion to get it passed by the full Senate."
   Provisions of the PROMISE Act include:
   * Amending the current Immigration and Nationality Act, section 212(a), to include failure to pay child support as a ground of inadmissibility.
   * Amending section 101(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act so that one who fails to pay child support is statutorily without good moral character.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 