SEN. HATCH PARTICIPATES IN RALLY FOR CHILD HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today participated in a rally for the Child Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which is up for reauthorization this year. Hatch was the key Republican player in implementation of CHIP 10 years ago. His prepared remarks follow. 
   I am so grateful to see so many of you here at our nation's capital today. 
   Our message today is simple: America's children must have access to affordable health insurance. 
   We have to take care of our children. The health care a child receives when they are young will largely determine their quality of life for their entire adult life. No child should have to skip needed care. And children need the continued care of a personal physician. 
   That's why we created CHIP back in 1997. We wanted to cover those children who had no insurance coverage. 
   Now, 10 years later, we've seen tremendous progress. More than 6 million children have enrolled in CHIP this year. These are children of hard-working families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid - yet don't have enough to pay for health insurance themselves. No matter how hard they try, they simply can't afford medical coverage. CHIP has made a huge difference to these families. 
   That's the good news. 
   The bad news is that nearly 9 million children in the United States still lack health coverage. And it's estimated that there are between 2 million and 2.8 million children nationwide who are eligible for the CHIP program - but still not enrolled. 
   So it's clear we have a long way to go. The need for CHIP today is greater than ever. Now is the time for Congress to act and ensure that all of America's children are provided with the care they are entitled to receive. 
   It's a worthy goal - no child in a country as prosperous as ours should be without medical coverage. 
   And it's an achievable goal. Despite coming from very different political perspectives, all of us standing here are united in our desire to get CHIP reauthorized this Congress. 
   I hope - and I know - that you will all join us in making the vision of CHIP become a reality.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 