SEN. HATCH HONORS 10TH ANNIVERSARY OF VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT
  Remarks by Sen. Orrin Hatch 
  before the "Learning From the Past, Shaping the Future" 
  Symposium Honoring the Tenth Anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act 
   Thank you for the kind invitation to be with you today. I want to take a moment, Diane Stuart, to let you know just how extremely proud I am of the work you are doing. You are providing impressive leadership as Director of the Office on Violence Against Women in the Justice Department. Your impressive background and dedication to addressing the problem of violence against women make you a great asset to the Justice Department and the Nation. As many of you know, before joining the Department of Justice, Diane was Utah's coordinator for the Council on Domestic Violence. Diane, I am proud of you, the state of Utah is proud of you, and, the Nation is grateful to you.  
   Let me also thank every individual in this room who plays an important role in our fight against domestic violence. I thank each of you for doing all that you do. I am grateful for the personal sacrifices you make and for your tireless commitment to the cause. I continue to believe that a handful of dedicated people who really care can change the world. You can take great pride in knowing that you are those people. 
   We live in a world where we can't pick up the morning newspaper without the latest developments in the war on terror. But as we focus so much of our national attention on the threat of terrorism, we cannot afford to lose sight of the important fight against domestic crime, particularly crimes against women. And because the incidents of domestic violence and other violence against women have plagued our society for so long, and because mass disasters tend to get the media spotlight, the problem of violence against women does not always get the attention it deserves. 
   Fortunately, you have remained vigilant in the important cause of ending violence against women. Now more than ever, our continued efforts are essential. Abraham Lincoln once said that "You cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today." As difficult as it is to confront the devastating problem of violence against women, each morning you get out of bed and you face it head on. By doing this day in and day out, you ensure a better tomorrow for all of us. 
   Domestic violence destroys lives, literally. According to a DOJ report, there were nearly 700,000 incidents of domestic violence in 2001 alone, and who knows how much more staggering the numbers would be if every case were actually reported. That number is truly astonishing. Behind each of those 700,000 incidents is a personal story of immense pain and suffering, of physical and emotional devastation. And domestic violence impacts not only the direct target of the violence, but children, families, friends, and entire communities. 
   The effects on children living in homes where there is domestic violence are deeply disturbing. And we have all come to know the dangerous cycle of abuse that can be perpetuated from one generation to the next. To quote Lincoln once again, "a child is a person who is going to carry on what you have started...the fate of humanity is in his hands." And of course, domestic violence is not the only source of misery and devastation. It is a profound understatement to say that other forms of violence against women are also far too prevalent. 
   When I was asked to speak with you today, I must admit, I had some difficulty in determining what exactly I might say. You wouldn't be here if you weren't already familiar with the staggering statistics. You know full-well the immeasurable, devastating impact of violence against women on individual survivors. You have witnessed the fallout of horrifying cases of violence. You know the staggering costs to society. The fact is, you wouldn't be here today if you didn't fully appreciate how very real the problem of violence against women is, and if you weren't committed to addressing it. 
   So I come to you today with just one message, a message I can bring to you from my role as a legislator. It is this: I give you my pledge to continue my commitment in Congress to do everything that can be done to eliminate the scourge of violence against women in all forms. 
   We are here today to honor the tenth anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act. I consider passing the first Violence Against Women Act back in 1994 to be one of my greatest achievements in my 28 years in the United States Senate. The original Act and subsequent legislation, of course, created new crimes for federal interstate domestic violence, stalking and firearms crimes. It strengthened federal penalties for repeat sex offenders, and required states and territories to enforce protection orders issued by other states, tribes and territories. 
   Since it was created in 1994, the Office on Violence Against Women has played a vital role in protecting our children and women from the tragedy of violence and abuse. Today, as a result of VAWA, battered immigrants have legal relief; abusers can no longer use immigration law to control their victims. VAWA established the National Domestic Violence Hotline - which responds to thousands of calls from desperate women each year. Equally important, VAWA authorized and increased funds available to support rape prevention education, domestic violence intervention programs, battered women's shelters, and law enforcement and prosecution services. 
   With the re-authorization of VAWA in 2000, we not only re-authorized the grant programs created by the original legislation, but we also created initiatives addressing elder abuse, violence against women with disabilities, and supervised visitation in domestic violence cases. 
   More recently, I was proud to cosponsor the 21st Century DOJ Appropriations Authorization Act, which modified the Violence Against Women Office and made it a stand-alone office within the Department of Justice; it also authorized the appropriation of funds necessary to run the office. 
   That particular legislation was first introduced in Congress in June of 2001 and was signed into law by the President in November of 2002. Now, you might be wondering why I am giving those dates to you. It is because they represent my frustration with the slow, deliberative pace of Congress in the context of addressing the pressing problem of violence against women. 
   I know from Judy Bell, the Administrator of the Utah Domestic Violence Advisory Council, that during 2002 -- which is only a part of the period during which the legislation was under consideration in Congress - that there were 17 documented deaths related to domestic violence in my home State of Utah alone. 
  Seventeen innocent people in Utah took their last breaths in the face of horrifying rage and violence. In 2003, there were 27 documented deaths related to domestic violence in Utah. 
   In the Nation, in 2000, 1,247 women and 400 men were killed in domestic violence related homicides. And, of course, as I stand before you at this very moment, we can be certain that other acts of violence against women are taking place in our nation and our world. 
   There is no question that we have made substantial progress over the course of the last ten years. Senator Biden and I are both proud of that progress. Under the VAWA grant programs administered by the Department of Justice, over $1.6 billion in grant funds have been awarded throughout the Country. These grant programs play an invaluable role in enabling state, tribal, and local governments to train personnel and establish domestic violence and sexual assault units that assist victims of violence. 
   In the last ten years, the Department of Justice has prosecuted more than 1650 cases involving domestic violence, interstate stalking, interstate violation of protection orders, or possession of a firearm while subject to a protection order. In 2002 alone, Federal prosecutions involving violence against women increased by 35 percent. 
   I am particularly pleased at the way this Administration and the Violence Against Women Office have responded to the problem of domestic violence. In addition to their commitment to prosecuting domestic abuse offenders, they have redoubled their prevention and treatment efforts. Funding for the Violence Against Women Office was raised to and remains at the highest level in history. 
   Their budget was increased by $100 million in 2002, and has remained at or near this level ever since. In 2003, $194 million was awarded to states and tribal governments through grant programs to enhance the criminal justice system's response to violence against women. Also in 2003, $39.6 million was awarded to rural communities to address domestic violence, teen dating violence, and child abuse. $40 million will help provide legal assistance to victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, and stalking. These legal clinics and organizations will provide the assistance that is so desperately needed by those who lack the financial capability to hire private counsel to assist them in obtaining protection orders or in other civil matters. 
   In fiscal year 2004, the Violence Against Women Office, as part of the President's DNA initiative, contributed $5 million to provide training and technical assistance for Sexual Assault Response Teams. The President's DNA Initiative is an incredibly important component of the battle against sexual assault and violence. 
   As many of you know, in October of 2003, Senator Leahy and I and several of our colleagues, including Senator Biden, introduced the Advancing Justice Through DNA Technology Act of 2003. Among other things, this legislation incorporates the President's DNA initiative. The DNA bill authorizes $755 million for the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant program. If enacted, these funds will go a long way toward eliminating the current backlog of more than 300,000 rape kits that have gone unanalyzed in our Nation's crime labs. 
   It is imperative that we analyze this DNA evidence. Not only will it bring closure to some victims whose assailants are already in prison for other crimes, but there is no question in my mind that a thorough and detailed analysis of these rape kits will result in convictions of perpetrators still roaming the streets. Rapists and other violent criminals will be brought to justice, and there will be fewer women victimized by repeat offenders. 
   As some of you know, the Backlog Grant program was named in honor of a courageous woman named Debbie Smith. She was brutally raped in the woods behind her house in March of 1989. Six years later, her assailant's DNA profile matched a recently input DNA sample of a convicted felon. Proving the power of DNA evidence, Debbie Smith's rapist was convicted and sentenced to two life terms plus twenty-five years. Debbie Smith has since traveled the Country speaking on the importance of collecting and analyzing DNA samples and entering the data into DNA databases in a timely fashion. 
   As Senator Biden can attest, I have been fighting hard to get this legislation through the Judiciary Committee. Just last week, we finally began considering amendments to the DNA bill. It is my hope that at our next Executive Committee meeting, we will finish the bill and I will be able to report it to the Floor for its consideration by the full Senate. 
   I am also heartened by the President's Family Justice Center Initiative, announced eleven months ago. This initiative will be administered through the Violence Against Women Office. As many of you know, victims of domestic violence often do not receive the services that are available to them either because they are unaware that they exist, or more often than not, they are simply too fearful to reach out for those services. 
   We not only must make sure these services exist, but also that they are as accessible and convenient as possible. The Family Justice Center Initiative will provide $20 million to 12 jurisdictions for the development of a pilot program that will provide all of the services these victims need in a single, convenient location. 
   Because of the hope that you - the people in this room and so many others who are not here today - provide to victimized women and their families, countless lives have been improved. Women who have endured terrible violence against them, and who have moved on with their lives without losing hope, are a testament to the strength of the human spirit. They are also a testament to the powerful, positive impact so many of you deliver through the work that you do. With your help, many other women have been spared the horror of violence altogether. Many children will avoid growing up in a violent home, and the cycle of violence for them, thankfully, has been broken. 
   The President made a comment last year when he proclaimed October domestic violence awareness month. He said, "I wish government could make people love one another. I would sign the piece of legislation." I couldn't agree more. And if such legislation were possible, I'd introduce it in Congress today and make sure it landed on the President's desk for signature. There surely is frustration in knowing that we can't simply eradicate the entire problem of violence against women with legislation alone. But each of us can still do our very best to protect people from harm and prevent future violence with whatever means we have in our power. By working together, we can continue to make a difference. 
   My friends, we have made progress. But, as you know too well, we are by no means finished. We still have a long way to go to end the pain caused by domestic violence and other violence against women. There are still far too many women who live in constant fear and lack the means to get the help they so desperately need and deserve. There are still thousands of children who fear returning home from school every day. Without question, the national problem of pervasive domestic violence and other forms of violence against women remains a travesty. As the philosopher Etienne Gibson once said, "Let us...quietly accept our times, with the firm conviction that just as much good can be done today as at any time in the past, provided that we have the will and the way to do it." 
   I stand here today with my friend Senator Biden not only to commemorate the ten-year anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act and reflect on the strides taken during those years, but more importantly, to re-affirm our commitment to the next ten years, and the ten years after that. We cannot rest on our past accomplishments. We cannot and we will not stop to catch our breath. Not while there are 300,000 unanalyzed rape kits. Not while there are 27 documented deaths from domestic violence in Utah in a single year. And not while women continue to be the subject of horrible acts of violence. We must continue to work together to end the silent scourge of violence against women. 
   We must, as your Symposium is so appropriately titled, learn from the past, and shape the future. Senator Biden and I are committed to joining together once again to continue to combat violence against women head-on and to re-authorize the Violence Against Women Act. Too often, we learn of women whose lives have been shattered by violence. But, through the help of effective legislation and the work of individuals like you, many women have been able to courageously pick up the pieces and move forward, one step at a time. Through our collective efforts, many of these stories of tragedy can become stories of tragedy turned into triumph. And many tragedies can be prevented altogether. 
   In closing, let me again express my appreciation to you once again for the important work that you do. Many of you stand on the front lines of this battle, a battle that cannot be won without you. Thank you.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225. 
 
 