CONGRESS APPROVES SEN. HATCH BILL TO HELP VICTIMS OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) released the following statement today, hailing passage last week by Congress of the Traumatic Brain Injury Act Reauthorization, which will now go to the President for his expected signature. Hatch sponsored the bill along with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.).
   The legislation will extend and improve funding for a range of traumatic brain injury rehabilitation programs, such as assistance in returning to work, finding a place to live, and obtaining needed support and appropriate rehabilitation services. It also funds an important CDC program to prevent such injuries. The bill will be of major assistance to soldiers with such injuries from combat, and to children, who tend to have a higher incidence of traumatic brain injuries. 
   "Each year, 1.4 million people sustain a TBI and face long-term or lifelong need for help to perform activities of daily living as a result," Hatch said. "Direct medical costs and indirect costs such as lost productivity of TBI totaled an estimated $60 billion in the United States in 2000. We can help truncate those costs and ensure that people are connected to the services they need by continuing this important program."
   The House of Representatives approved the bill on Tuesday, after making a few minor modifications to a version of the bill the Senate approved in December. The Senate voted for final passage on the House bill today.
   Hatch's full statement on the bill's passage follows.
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch
   Before the United States Senate On the passage of S. 793, Reauthorization of the Traumatic Brain Injury Program
  April 14, 2008
   Mr. President, I rise today to acknowledge the passage of S. 793, the Reauthorization of the Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) Program. Both the Senate and House of Representatives have passed this bill and it will now be sent to the President's desk to be signed into law.
   I want to thank my colleague and co-author of the Senate bill, Senator Kennedy, and his staff for their hard work over the past few years. I also extend my gratitude to Senator Enzi and his staff for their diligent efforts in helping to reauthorize this important program.
   I also must thank the leaders of this effort in the House, Representatives Bill Pascrell, Jr., Frank Pallone, Jr., and their staffs who have been so dedicated to helping individuals with TBI.
   Also, this bill would not have been possible without the cooperation and input from involved organizations, like the Brain Injury Association of America (BIAA), the National Association of State Head Injury Administrators (NASHIA), the National Brain Injury Research, Treatment and Training Foundation (NBIRTT), and the National Disability Rights Network (NDRN), and I thank them all for their contributions.
   It means a lot to the 5.3 million Americans living with TBI, and their families, to reauthorize the only federal program that helps them. The federal TBI program comprises prevention and surveillance activities at the Center for Disease Control (CDC), research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and grants to states from the Health Resources and Services Administrations (HRSA). This reauthorization bill expands and improves those activities, and includes provisions to look at the reintegration of war vets returning to their communities.
   Each year, 1.4 million people sustain a TBI and face long-term or lifelong need for help to perform activities of daily living as a result. Direct medical costs and indirect costs such as lost productivity of TBI totaled an estimated $60 billion in the United States in 2000. We can help truncate those costs and ensure that people are connected to the services they need by continuing this important program.
   It has been a labor of love to draft and enact legislation to reauthorize this important program. On behalf of individuals living with TBI, and their families, I thank my colleagues in Congress for passing this legislation and reaffirming our commitment to helping those with who suffer from traumatic brain injuries.
   Contact: Mark Eddington and Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 