EXPIRED TEMPORARY TAX PROVISIONS LEAVE U.S. TAXPAYERS, BUSINESSES IN LIMBO
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today decried the Congressional practice of adopting temporary tax provisions and allowing them to expire. 
   Speaking on the Senate floor, Hatch said the practice leaves taxpayers and businesses in limbo as to what the tax rules are going to be. He specifically singled out the research tax credit, which has been in the law since the early 1980s but has been allowed to expire 13 times over the past quarter-century. 
   "Here we are, once again, in mid-April, and our research credit has been expired since the end of last year," Hatch said. "The worst part is that, while we all believe it will be extended eventually, everyone knows that the credit will not be made permanent, and that the likelihood it will be allowed to expire again is very high. 
   "In the meantime, many of our global trading partners have developed stronger and more permanent research incentives in an attempt to lure away research from our shores. They perceive a weakness in our incentive system and they are moving to capitalize on this weakness."  
   Sen. Orrin Hatch's complete speech on the Senate floor follows: 
   Mr. President, tomorrow is April 15, the day tax returns are due to the IRS for most citizens. It is a day that Americans meet with fear and loathing. Even though most taxpayers will not file their returns tomorrow because they have already done so, or because they have filed for an extension, April 15 remains a symbol of a burdensome tax liability and an even more burdensome tax compliance system for millions of Americans. 
   April 15 is met with apprehension and dread for many reasons. The primary one is understandable: People just don't like paying taxes. And who can blame them? Under the best of circumstances, if you owe Uncle Sam, a day spent with your tax return is worse than a day spent with the dentist. 
   Yes, the IRS has become one of the most despised institutions in American life. However, a good share of this agency's reputation is undeserved. In fact, considering all that we require the Internal Revenue Service to do, and the resources we give them, the folks that work there do a pretty darn good job. 
   Paying taxes is never going to be popular, nor is it ever going to be fun. However, we all know that it does not have to be as bad as it is. A great deal of the aggravation, a good share of the complexity and much of the confusion is probably unnecessary. 
   I could spend hours speaking about what is wrong with our tax system. It is, in military parlance, a target-rich environment. In fact, I expect that we will hear a fair number of our colleagues speaking today and tomorrow on the Senate floor deploring the tax system. 
   But amid all this denouncement of the IRS and of the tax code, we in Congress should recognize an ugly truth. And that is that a great deal of the blame for our far less than first-rate tax system lies right here with us, the Members of Congress who created it and who have the power to improve it. 
   I want to focus on a disturbing trend we have seen growing much worse in recent years that is adding a great deal of stress to our already troubled tax system. This is the increasing tendency of Congress to create temporary tax provisions and then allow them to expire while leaving taxpayers in limbo as to what the rules are going to be. 
   If we take a look back over the past dozen or so years, Mr. President, we see a growing proclivity on the part of Congress to enact tax provisions on a temporary rather than permanent basis. This has mostly been done to satisfy the often perverse demands of our budget rules. 
   But whatever the reasons, the effect of not extending these provisions before they expire has been greatly damaging to the tax system and to taxpayers' ability to understand and rely on the law. And the effect has also been to weaken this country economically and competitively. 
   Let us consider the research credit as an example. This is an important provision that has been in the law since the early 1980s, and it enjoys wide and bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate. 
   The research credit provides a strong incentive for businesses to increase their research and development activities here in the United States. It probably is universally accepted that R&D investment is the lifeblood of high technology and is vital to the future of our economic leadership. 
   We all know this, and almost to a person, the Members in this body would say they support a strong, vibrant, effective, and permanent research credit. Why then, have we allowed this credit to expire 13 times? 
   Here we are, once again, in mid-April, and our research credit has been expired since the end of last year. The worst part is that while we all believe it will be extended eventually, everyone knows that the credit will not be made permanent, and that the likelihood it will be allowed to expire again is high. 
   In the meantime, many of our global trading partners have developed stronger and more permanent research incentives in an attempt to lure away research from our shores. They perceive a weakness in our incentive system, and they are moving to capitalize on this weakness. It appears these actions are working because we are seeing the amount of research activity in the U.S. growing much more slowly than it is overseas. We simply cannot afford to lose to other countries our research and the good jobs it brings. 
   Unfortunately, this problem goes way beyond the research credit, Mr. President. Each year, the Joint Committee on Taxation releases a list of expired and expiring tax provisions. The list for 2008 was 28 pages long and included an unbelievable 145 provisions. By contrast, the list released in 2003 was 13 pages and featured 71 provisions. Fifteen years ago, there would not have been much of a list at all. 
   Our habit of adding new expiring provisions to the tax law is out of control, and worse, our refusal to deal with extending these provisions on a timely basis - well before they expire - is inexcusable. 
   Mr. President, it is the obligation of the majority party in Congress to operate the legislative trains so that they run on time and produce laws that our people can at least rely upon, if not be proud of. And while there is blame to spread between both parties in this area of expired tax provisions, which have such a degenerating effect on our already shaky tax system, we all know who is at fault for the current fiasco. 
   I do not think anyone in this body will have trouble recalling the weeks-long standoff that occurred late last year over the so-called AMT patch. All of us, though, would probably prefer to forget it if we could. 
   Instead of addressing the issue of the Alternative Minimum Tax and its expired thresholds early on, which would lend a degree of certainty to an already obnoxious and insidious tax, the Democrats last year dithered on both the AMT patch and on the other soon-to-expire provisions. 
   The result was a last-minute agreement on the AMT patch that put this year's tax filing season in jeopardy, greatly confused the American taxpayer and left behind the other now-expired tax provisions. Perhaps most irresponsible was the fact that we took care of the AMT patch for 2007 only, and now we are facing the same scenario this year. It must have been so much fun last year that we want to do it again in 2008. 
   I am aware of the arguments surrounding the question of whether extending these provisions should be offset, and I will address those on another day. 
   Today, however, on the eve of America's most hated day, I call on my colleagues, and especially those on the other side of the aisle, to consider why this is so, and what it is that we are not doing that is really the reason why the words "April 15," "IRS," and "Congress" are among the least popular in the lexicon.
   Contact: Mark Eddington and Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 