CONGRESS APPROVES SEN. HATCH ROCKET MOTOR AMENDMENT TO DOD REAUTHORIZATION
  Congress approved an amendment from Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) to the Department of Defense reauthorization bill (H.R. 1585), which passed today. The amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to submit to congressional defense committees a report on maintaining the capabilities of the United States' solid rocket motor industrial base. The amendment is cosponsored by Sen. Robert Bennett (R-Utah). The legislation now proceeds to President Bush for his expected signature.  
   Major components of solid rocket engines are constructed at a variety of locales throughout Utah, including Bacchus and Promontory Point, and depot maintenance on land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) that use solid rocket engines is performed at Hill Air Force Base. 
   "Facing the threats of the future will require our nation to maintain its technical supremacy," Hatch said. "Maintaining a solid rocket motors industrial base is a modest expense compared to the cost of rebuilding our infrastructure later. If our industrial, military manufacturing base loses momentum, then our highly sought-after engineers and specialists could find employment elsewhere." 
   The law requires the Secretary of Defense to assess the nation's ability to maintain the Minuteman III ICBM through its planned operational life and to assess the adequacy of the current and anticipated programs to support the solid rocket motor industrial base necessary for meeting future requirements. The United States is currently modernizing its land-based ICBM force, retiring the Peacemaker and retrofitting that system's warheads into the Minuteman III fleet. In addition to the new warheads, 450 Minuteman III systems are being completely rebuilt, modernized, and will be deployed. Unfortunately, after this work is completed, no other work is planned on land-based strategic missile systems, which use solid rocket motors. 
   "Our land-based strategic forces are currently in the process of completing a critical modernization program," Hatch said. "However, I am unaware of any plan to maintain our solid rocket motor base for land-based strategic systems once this modernization is completed. This legislation would require a report from the military on the status of our solid rocket industrial base. The report will then be the basis for legislation to correct any problems that may be found."
 
 