SEN. HATCH: MAJORITY OF PRIVATE FUEL STORAGE SHAREHOLDERS NOW OUT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) has won agreement from another member of Private Fuel Storage (PFS) -- Florida Power and Light (FPL) -- that it will no longer support efforts to build a private spent nuclear fuel storage site at Skull Valley, Utah.  
   "After carefully evaluating our goals, FPL has concluded that at this time PFS is no longer in our strategic interest and that for the foreseeable future we will put no further effort into developing that project," wrote Lewis Hay, chairman and chief executive officer of FPL. 
   Last week, the majority shareholder in PFS, Xcel Energy, and Southern Company also announced their plans to end their financial support for PFS. 
   "These three companies make up 56.7 percent of the PFS shareholders, and we're not through yet," Hatch said. "There is another 31.5 percent of the shareholders of PFS who have committed to me that they would not fund PFS past the licensing stage as long as progress is made on Yucca Mt. The licensing phase is not complete at this time, only because we have been successfully delaying it. But I will be working with the remaining partners to end their support for PFS immediately and begin focusing on alternatives to interim storage that have the support of this Administration." 
   Hatch has also been working tirelessly to ensure Rep. Rob Bishop's Cedar Mountain Wilderness language is included in the final Department of Defense reauthorization conference report. After speaking with senior White House officials, Senator Hatch secured a December 6 letter from the Secretary of the Air Force, Michael Wynne, stating, "...with regard to the specialized commercial activities [PFS], the Air Force remains opposed to any restriction resulting from any activity under or near airspace used for military operations at the Utah Testing and Training Range." This marked the first time the Air Force has given a formal position during the history of this legislation. 
   Among the many other activities Senator Hatch has pursued in support of the Bishop language, he has asked the White House to engage with the negotiators on the Defense bill and Senate leadership in support of the Bishop language, which the White House has done. 
   "Congressman Bishop has gotten us closer than we have been before in securing this wilderness language," Hatch said. "He has been Utah's champion on this and deserves our thanks."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 