SEN. HATCH: ASBESTOS LITIGATION HAS 'MADE MOCKERY OF OUR JUDICIAL SYSTEM'
 The following is Sen. Hatch's floor speech urging cloture on asbestos litigation reform, S. 852. Asbestos lawsutis have swallowed companies whole, driving them into bankruptcy, wiping out jobs, careers, pensions, health care, and hope, Hatch said as he urged his colleagues to vote wisely on this vital issue. 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch, United States Senate 
  S. 852, Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005, February 14, 2006 
   Mr. President, every couple of years, this august chamber is given a chance to make good on its billing as the greatest deliberative body in the world, to set aside the predictable partisanship that today passes for deliberation and, instead, work together to solve a real problem besetting our nation. 
   We face such a moment today. Later this afternoon, each of us will have a choice. Either we will vote to address a litigation crisis that has made a mockery of our judicial system - and demonstrate that we, as a body, can still function when absolutely necessary - or we will use a clever, parliamentary maneuver to avoid having to face a problem that is too inconvenient and confounding to fix without political cost. 
   We have been here before, and we have failed miserably. Why? Because, unfortunately, the most effective legislative solution is also the most politically impracticable. To solve the asbestos crisis, conservatives are being asked to turn a deaf ear to many of our traditional supporters and endorse the very kind of federal structure against which we battle daily - a cumbersome, unwieldy program that seems to teeter on the brink of obsolescence before it even begins. 
   And liberals are being asked to say enough is enough to one of their most important and influential constituencies and to set aside the one governmental institution over which they feel they can still exert some control - the courts. It is a legislative formula that seems designed for failure. 
   And then there is the greed. Oh yes, the greed. For years, members from both sides have waxed eloquent condemning the pecuniary gluttony of one side or the other but, in truth, there is so much greed among so many that it has obliterated any chance for an accurate debate of the realities we should be confronting. 
   What are those realities? Let us be honest. By this time, we all understand that asbestos litigation has swallowed companies whole, driving them into bankruptcy, wiping out jobs, careers, pensions, health care, and hope. All of us know that those who mined asbestos and used it to manufacture products are long gone, demolished in the first wave of lawsuits. All of us appreciate that today, far too many businesses are being targeted more because of their perceived wealth than their presumed culpability. 
   All of us realize that under the current system, tens of thousands of Americans who are the most sick, the most deserving, have no place to seek compensation. Veterans exposed by their government and hard working men and women left sick by their now bankrupt employers have become the jetsam of this litigation - cast aside by the new potentates of asbestos - the small, infamous gaggle of personal injury lawyers who have manipulated victims, companies, and the courts to divert billions and billions of dollars to their own pockets. Amazingly, not even such a massive transfer of wealth from so many to so few is enough. Even as we speak today, their lobbyists stand literally feet away, pandering advice, counsel, and contributions to those who will prevent their despicable avarice from being stopped. 
   But the greed can not be laid just at the feet of these lawyers. There are also companies who have grown weary of paying, not just the wrong people, but paying for their real and technical complicity. There are corporations who want to be free of mistakes they made during the merger and acquisition madness of the late 1990's. And, there are businesses who believe that they can game the current system, relying upon insurance and the inherent lethargy of litigation to delay paying what they owe. 
   Then there are insurance companies, some of whom fear having to make good on the policies they sold. Even after nearly a decade of debate on this issue, no one is certain exactly who owes what, especially with the tangled web of insurance and reinsurance and domestic insurance and foreign reinsurance. 
   Of course, all of us know there is also an unacknowledged giant in the room. For nearly half a century, the federal government of the United States was one of the biggest consumers and promoters of asbestos. Today, people are dying from mesothelioma not because of corporate misdeed, but because they worked in the boiler room of a naval ship or in a military shipyard or in the furnace room of an army base. The government required asbestos to be used in buildings and workplaces, in factories, homes, and schools. Yet today, as we discuss how best to solve the asbestos epidemic, the government's own responsibility is not to be mentioned. 
   And finally, Mr. President, all of us know that the current tragedy will not abate on its own. Over the last six years, we have proven conclusively, beyond any shadow of doubt, that while we have stood frozen, incapable of any even the slightest remedial act, the avarice of asbestos has become an industry unto itself. 
   These are the realities we still face today. What are our options? Some on my side of the aisle have suggested the adoption of a medical criteria bill, legislation that would make changes in the applicable litigation rules in state courts. They still push this proposal even though by now they have to appreciate that it fails to even acknowledge the most compelling players in this tragic tale - veterans and employees of bankrupt companies who have no place to seek relief. It does nothing to address the manipulation of liability and responsibility that have become commonplace at the state court level. Such a solution was inadequate four years ago. It is inadequate today, and it will still be inadequate two years from now. 
   Then again, at least it represents an attempt to solve this crisis. For the past decade, there has been a thundering silence from too many on the other side of aisle. They are quick to criticize what has been suggested but not once, in more than decade, have they proposed their own solution. 
   This year, they have raised the canard of lost days in court. They are like people who, when they find a man dying of thirst in the desert, give him an empty glass. "Now, if by some miracle you find water," they proclaim, "you can quench your thirst with the dignity and decorum you deserve." And, as the man slowly dies from dehydration, they marvel at their own benevolence. 
   They know that a day in court is meaningless to a veteran who cannot sue his government or an employee who cannot sue a bankrupt company. They know a day in court is worthless to those who currently are being paid only pennies for every dollar of their settlements. For nearly a decade, their objections have been endless and their solutions nonexistent. 
   So, Mr. President, we arrive today at a critical juncture. We have rejected the suggestion of a medical criteria bill. Our choice is simple - we can act or we can hide. We can vote to keep working on the Specter-Leahy legislation, or we can vote for the budget point of order and stop the legislation dead in its tracks. It is a clever tactic - using the mantel of fiscal responsibility as an excuse not to legislate. Of course, leaving the asbestos crisis unresolved is the ultimate act of fiscal irresponsibility, but it certainly is more politically expedient for some. 
   Or, we can hide behind a cloture vote, knowing that without cloture, the bill will be pulled from the floor and the status quo will be preserved. In today's world of relentless partisanship, it is a vote easy to explain and justify. 
   But, each of us also knows these measures are nothing more than procedural subterfuges - some parliamentary arcanum designed to confuse the public about what is really happening. The Senate has failed the country on this issue before. The time has come to act. 
   The Specter-Leahy bill before us is by no means without flaws. All of us understand that the legislation is, at best, a work in progress, the inevitable product of a political process that to date has been as disingenuous as it has been prolonged. Yet even with its shortcomings, the legislation represents the best hope, the most salient chance for an effective legislative solution. 
   I beseech my colleagues - do not let this bill die today. Do not end what could well be the last chance we have to solve a crisis we have all universally condemned. Let's stop the debilitating games and tactics. For once, let's give to the bill the same brilliance and creativity that to date have been invested in its destruction. 
   There are thousands of veterans throughout our nation who are watching us today. When the nation asked for their service, their blood, they gave it willingly, without complaint. They did their part. Now it is time for us to do ours. 
   There are thousands and thousands of sick working men and women with no place to turn but us. They too are watching. They asked for our assistance, not excuses. They have asked for candor, not cold calculation. They have asked for compassion, not clever, procedural ploys. 
   If there is any justice, we will be remembered long after we have left elective office - not for the vain promises we have made or the good intentions we have so readily proclaimed, but for the votes like the ones we will soon cast. 
   For, in truth, this vote is about more than asbestos. It may well signal the last chance that this body will have to be productive, to break free of our respective orthodoxies and legislate for the public good. Did any of us really seek public office so that in the face of a crisis, we could hide behind a budget point of order or a cloture vote? 
   The time has come to reveal who we are, who we have become. Isn't this the real condemnation confronting this institution? It's is not a lack of ethics or the unseemly tangle of lobbyists, members, and campaigns. No, our real failing is our collective trepidation, our fear of stepping free of the pack to work together to solve real problems without concern for political advantage or personal benefit. If we cannot find a common will to address something as pernicious as the asbestos litigation crisis, then one has to ask what real purpose this legislature serves. 
   Today, our country needs lions. Let us not give it mice. Vote against the budget point of order. Vote to invoke cloture. And for once, let us consider fixing the asbestos crisis with the honesty, candor, and ingenuity the American people deserve.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 