UTAH DELEGATION INSPECTS CUTTING-EDGE FIGHTER
 Sens. Orrin Hatch and Bob Bennett and Rep. Rob Bishop traveled to Langley Air Force Base for an in-depth briefing on the F/A-22 Raptor, a next-generation fighter and attack aircraft that will be maintained at Hill Air Force Base (HAFB). The Utah Congressional delegation is fighting to secure continued funding for the aircraft, which the Department of Defense has targeted to cease producing after Fiscal Year 2008.  
   "This is truly an impressive aircraft," Hatch said. "The F/A-22 is one of the stealthiest aircraft in the world, designed to meet today's threats whether the targets are on the ground or in the air. The Air Force says it needs 200 more than what is budgeted, and today's visit reaffirms my conviction that we should fight to make sure we give the Air Force the air power it needs to be successful." 
   "The advanced capability of the F/A-22 clearly makes it an important component in our future homeland security efforts," said Bennett. "It is a better choice than the 25-year-old F-15 to adequately combat threat levels 25 or 30 years from now." 
   "When we send our men and women into battle, I don't want a fair fight," said Bishop. "Other countries have caught up to our military technology. The F/A-22 puts us back ahead. And if the lives of our pilots and their ability to defend our country is worth the investment." 
   For more than 30 years, the Air Force has relied on the F-15 to maintain its air superiority in battle, but age has taken its toll. Today, many nations already have fifth-generation fighters and integrated air defense systems with capabilities designed to defeat the F-15. The Air Force has responded to this challenge by building the F/A-22, a truly revolutionary fighter that is also a very capable and precise bomber. 
   After considerable study, the Air Force believes it will require 381 Raptors to ensure a squadron of 24 Raptors for each Air Force Expeditionary Force, along with additional aircraft for training and back-up inventory to replace lost aircraft. However, the Department of Defense in its 2006 budget revealed its intention to scale back the procurement of F/A-22 aircraft to 180. This would directly impact HAFB, which is not only designated to maintain the F/A-22 but has also been selected - along with several Utah companies - to build portions of the aircraft. 
   "The F/A-22 is vital for maintaining the American edge and ensuring the future of Hill," Hatch said. "We need to do what's right for our military men and women, instead of cutting a crucial program just to make budget cut quotas." 
   "As we assess our needs for new aircraft, the F/A-22 clearly is one worth the investment," said Bennett. 
   "I'm proud to defend this program," said Bishop, "not just for its current and potential ties to Utah and Hill Air Force Base, but because I think it's critical to our national security."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 