SENS. HATCH, CONRAD CHAIR BRIEFING ON NEW TANKERS
  Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) convened a bipartisan briefing today for the Senate Tanker Caucus to allow a top Air Force official to explain the service's plans to procure the next generation of air refueling tankers.  
   Senator Conrad and Senator Hatch are co-chairs of the Senate Tanker Caucus. They jointly chaired a briefing of the Tanker Caucus Steering Committee to better inform caucus members, congressional staff, and the public on the Air Force's rigorous and transparent procurement process. 
   "The Air Force has been working closely with Congress and industry to replace aging tankers quickly and in a cost-effective way," said Senator Conrad, who is also Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. "The air refueling tanker is crucial to projecting American military might around the globe. Its importance cannot be understated. Even if we begin buying new tankers immediately, we will likely be flying some of the current KC-135s until they are 80 years old." 
   "Our nation is at war," said Senator Hatch. "The United States has the unique ability to carry the fight to the enemy - wherever he may be hiding. However, we would not have that capability without our nation's tanker fleet. KC-X is needed now - and I want to give all appropriate support to the Air Force to procure the aircraft most suited to carry out our National Military Strategy." 
   Ken Miller, Special Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force, appeared before Senators Conrad and Hatch and addressed their questions about the procurement process. Miller described replacing the aging tanker fleet as the top acquisition priority for the Air Force. While legal limitations related to the ongoing contract competition prevented Miller from providing specific dates for the contract award, he told the senators in the public briefing that an announcement was due shortly. 
   "It is essential that we make this as clean a process as possible," Senators Conrad and Hatch said in a joint statement. "We can't afford to go through a protracted battle after the procurement decision is announced. We'd urge that all parties accept the Air Force decision as final. The Air Force has done a good job of sharing information with Congress, and we cannot afford to wait to replace these aging tankers."
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 