SENS. HATCH-FEINSTEIN GANG BILL PASSES COMMITTEE
  The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee today gave a green light to comprehensive gang legislation sponsored by Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). The bill, the Gang Abatement and Prevention Act, would provide more than $1 billion for successful gang prevention, intervention, and suppression programs. It would also create tough federal penalties to deter and punish members of illegal street gangs. The committee approved the bill by a vote of 17-0-2. 
   Hatch's prepared remarks on the bill follow.  
   Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for bringing up the Gang Bill today. Senator Feinstein and I have worked together for many years to get this important legislation passed and I hope the Committee will work with us to pass this bill again this year. 
   All Americans are acutely aware of the myriad of problems brought about by the influence and prevalence of criminal gangs in this country. I share this concern, and am proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation. I want to thank Senator Feinstein for her dedication to this cause. 
   I believe that all members of the Senate share their constituents' desire to see a diminished role of gangs and associated violence in our communities. The question is very simply - how do we achieve this result? 
   Over 10 years ago, I sat in this very room during a hearing on reducing interstate street gang activity. Since that time, Senator Feinstein and I have introduced gang bills in subsequent Congresses, only to see them not receive a vote on the floor. Given that all Members realize the tremendous harm and danger that gangs pose to our communities, I am hopeful that any concerns with the approach we take in this legislation can be addressed during this forum. 
   One thing I want to make perfectly clear is that my involvement with this issue does not diminish my concerns with the federalization of crimes. I want to read a few sentences I said on the Senate Floor in 1996 when introducing the Federal Gang Violence Act of 1996: "Our problem is severe. Moreover, there is a significant role the Federal Government can play in fighting this battle. I am not one to advocate the unbridled extension of Federal jurisdiction. Indeed, I often think that we have federalized too many crimes. However, in the case of criminal street gangs, which increasingly are moving interstate to commit crimes, there is a very proper role for the Federal Government to play." 
   Now I said this in 1996, and my thoughts have not changed. The federal government too many times takes on the role of a broken ATM, subsidizing projects with tax payer money that it has no business being involved in. However, the fact that Gangs have operations which spread throughout our country necessitates a federal law enforcement response. This is why I am comfortable with the funding mechanisms included in this bill, as I am confident that Americans would approve of their tax dollars being effectively utilized to reduce gangs and criminal activity, and provide a safer environment for their families. 
   One thing that disappoints me tremendously is that young people who join the gangs have made a choice to squander all of the opportunities that await in life. Having the good fortune of being in the United States provides opportunities that people throughout the world still envy. But worse yet, their choices put the lives of innocent Americans in danger. The same innocent people who have rightly chosen to live their life without harming others. 
   The prevailing thought for an attempted solution is to either create criminal legislation or provide financial assistance that enhances procedures and programs that have been proven to effectively reduce gang participation. The bill that we will discuss today does both of these things. It is my hope that we can move forward with this initiative, and that in the near future our nation will have a greatly diminished threat from criminal street gangs.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 