SEN. HATCH URGES SENATE TO PASS ANTI-FLAG DESECRATION AMENDMENT
  To celebrate Flag Day, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Majority Leader Bill Frist, and other Senators held a press conference this morning alongside the American Legion and sports legend Rick Monday to promote upcoming debate on Hatch's anti-flag desecration amendment to the Constitution. Hatch's prepared remarks follow:  
   This is a vital issue. Let's be clear - the United States Congress did not make this an issue. Since the American Founding, the American people understood that flag desecration statutes were consistent with the First Amendment. 
   When the Supreme Court, by a bare 5 to 4 majority, handed down Texas v. Johnson, 48 states and the District of Columbia had flag protection statutes. 
   This activist decision overturned all of these laws. 
   When a few renegade courts and judges misinterpret the Constitution, it is Congress' obligation to restore the American people's sovereignty over their governing charter. 
   Poll after poll shows that this amendment remains quite popular with the American people. We have considerable bipartisan support for this amendment. 
   This is more than a liberal or conservative issue. Republicans and Democrats--moderate, liberal and conservative--support this amendment. 
   I have no doubt that academic elites do not like this amendment. 
   But I also have no doubt that at the grassroots level, with our American soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines in harms way, this is an extremely popular amendment. 
   Assuming that every member votes, this amendment needs 67 supporters to become law. Right now, 59 Senators are cosponsors. 
   I believe that we are only a few votes away. Should this amendment pass, it would lead to an incredible public debate. 
   This amendment only becomes law if the states and citizens that we represent ratify it. I do not doubt that they will, and I think that we should give them this debate. In a historically unprecedented act, all 50 states have petitioned Congress to pass this amendment. 
   The ensuing debate would be an amazing opportunity for our country and our citizens. 
   I have no doubt that it would lead to the most vibrant and dynamic civic conversation about the Constitution that we have had in decades. 
   And it would lead to a deep public awareness of the problems of activist judicial decisions that corrupt the Constitution's meaning and take decisionmaking away from the American people. 
   We live in a democracy. 
   I am not sure why some people are so afraid of having this debate.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 