SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON 'FEDERAL MARRIAGE AMENDMENT'
 Statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch 
  Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary 
  Before the United States Senate
   Mr. President, we have heard some eloquent and passionate speeches on the floor these past few days. It is obviously an issue that many of us feel very strongly about.  
   I just want to make a couple things clear before we vote on this shortly. First, the proponents of this measure are not seeking a policy change here. We are simply trying to preserve a 5,000 year-old institution - the most fundamental in all of society - that a few unelected activist judges are trying to radically change. 
   Some of my colleagues suggest we do not need a national policy on marriage. Well guess what - we have always had one. When my home state of Utah wanted to enter this great Union, the federal government conditioned such acceptance on their adoption of a one man, one woman marriage policy. The federal government understood then what we still know today - that children are best off by having a mother and a father. 
   While most of my colleagues agree with this, some argue that it does not belong in the Constitution. The Constitution properly deals with foundational questions of how our nation should be organized. Traditional, male-female marriage is the universal arrangement for the ordering of society and ensuring future generations. If such a foundational institution as this is not deserving of protection in our Constitution, then I do not know what is. 
   There are others who agree on preserving traditional marriage, and agree that an amendment may be necessary - at some point in the future. We do not need to wait. Judges have already sanctioned marriage licenses for same-gender couples, and those couples have spread to 46 states. Folks, marriage has already been amended. 
   Some of my colleagues say that the Defense of Marriage Act will contain the spread to other states, but we know that this is a flimsy shield at best. There are multiple actions pending against it now, and legal scholars across the political spectrum agree that it is only a matter of when, not if, it will be struck down. 
   We should be wary of those who argued back in 1996 that the Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional and now are hiding behind this act to argue against the need for a Constitutional amendment. You simply cannot have it both ways. 
   If you really believe that marriage should be between a man and a woman, and you really believe that the federal Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional, then you should support the Federal Marriage Amendment. 
   We know from other countries that have undermined marriage the way the Massachusetts court did, that a message is sent to everyone that marriage is not important. Far fewer couples get married. Out-of-wedlock births skyrocket. 
   We do not need to wait for the disastrous results to happen here to act. We have the chance to send the message here that marriage and the family do matter. This is not an irrational fear derived from an extreme religious agenda, as my colleague from Vermont, Senator Jeffords, suggested yesterday. We know from the benefit of experiences in Scandinavia, Denmark and elsewhere, what happens. Everyone in society benefits when we strengthen the family. 
   Mr. President, as far as I am concerned, this debate has been a triumph for democracy. We have debated these issues. I, for one, have learned quite a bit from listening to my colleagues. I hope that the American people have as well. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote yes on this motion to proceed. If there is a way to improve the language, the only way we can do so is to vote for cloture.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 