SEN. HATCH: WINNING WAR ON TERROR REQUIRES U.S. ECONOMIC SUPPORT IN PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN
 Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) is pushing for the United States to help expand economic opportunities for the border region of Pakistan and Afghanistan, territories prone to religious extremism and potential terrorist activity. Hatch is the lead cosponsor on legislation, sponsored by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), which would create Reconstruction Opportunity Zones (ROZs) to connect the isolated region to the global economy and create greater employment opportunities.  
   "Achieving a lasting peace in the global war on terror will require every tool we have, particularly economic tools," Hatch said. "Young men with opportunities for jobs that improve their quality of life are far less likely to become suicide bombers. I wholly support the Administration's goals in this outreach to our allies in Pakistan and Afghanistan, and I laud Sen. Cantwell for her leadership on this matter in the Senate." 
   "This bill is crucial to the efforts to bring peace and stability to Pakistan and Afghanistan. It will bring hope and opportunity as an alternative to extremism and narco-trafficking." said Cantwell. "ROZs should become part of a long-term international strategy to promote sustainable economic development in region." 
   Supported by the State Department and the U.S. Trade Representative, the Afghanistan and Pakistan Reconstruction Opportunity Zones Act of 2008 (S. 2776) aims to encourage investment and economic development in the border region by granting duty-free entry to the United States for certain goods produced there. The new economic activity should, in turn, create employment alternatives for those who may otherwise be drawn into terrorism, narcotics trafficking, or other illicit activities. The bill's supporters expect the zones to be a focal point for interconnected efforts by the governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan, as well as the international donor community, to build better roads and other infrastructure improvements and to remove bureaucratic barriers to investment and export.
   Contact: Mark Eddington and Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 