SENATE APPROVES SEN. HATCH AMENDMENT TO PROTECT U.S. PATENT, TRADEMARK OFFICE
 The U.S. Senate late last night unanimously approved an amendment from Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) to the Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Resolution that condemns the diversion of funds from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). When USPTO funds are diverted for other purposes, the office's examiners cannot approve patents as quickly, which hinders the economic boon these new innovations could potentially bring.  
   "I believe this Sense of the Senate is the first step in acknowledging that Congress must act in short order to stop depriving the USPTO of funds it so desperately needs and give the paying applicants the quality and timeliness of service they are due," Hatch said. "Considering the value of our nation's intellectual property and its contribution to building a strong and vibrant economy, it is incomprehensible to siphon these funds away from their intended use, especially during these trying economic times." 
   Patent applications reflect cutting-edge technology and are increasingly complex. Last year, more than 467,000 applications were filed at the USPTO and the backlog of unfinished applications for U.S. patents might reach well over 800,000 this year alone.  
  "The sheer volume of patent applications reflects the vibrant, innovative spirit that has made America a world-wide leader in science, engineering, and technology," Hatch said. "No doubt, the number of applications is hampering the Agency's ability to keep pace with the innovative thought of applicants and to be flexible with the emergence of new technologies. By stopping the short-sighted practice of fee-diversion, Congress would ensure that U.S. entrepreneurs receive swift, precise decisions to secure their intellectual property" 
   Hatch is the Republican leader on the Patent Reform Act of 2007 (S.1145), the product of years of deliberation and study within Congress and by many esteemed agencies and institutions. This legislation represents the first significant reforms to our antiquated system in more than 50 years. The Senate is planning to debate and vote on the bill sometime this spring. 
   Utah is replete with high-tech companies that could benefit from a streamlined patent system. In the state, there are more than 3,200 technology and 500 life science companies, according to the Utah Technology Council.
   Contact: Mark Eddington and Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 