SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON MORTGAGE CANCELLATION RELIEF ACT
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) delivered the following statement on the Senate floor on the Mortgage Cancellation Relief Act of 2007 
   Mr. President, I rise to speak concerning the Mortgage Cancellation Relief Act, S. 1394. In previous Congresses, I have introduced this legislation to provide immediate tax relief to homeowners adversely impacted by the recent downturn in the nation's housing markets. 
   However, this Congress, I am pleased to join my friend and colleague from Michigan, Senator Debbie Stabenow, as a cosponsor of S. 1394. She was on the floor earlier this morning, and she had the opportunity to address this bill. I want to thank her for her continued interest in this issue. 
   I agree with her that it is well past time for Congress to act on this legislation.  
   There are a number of positive things I can say about S. 1394 
   It is a bipartisan bill. 
   It is sound tax policy. 
   It is good economic policy. 
   And it treats those who have been impacted by housing declines fairly in their time of need. 
   As I mentioned, Senator Stabenow introduced this bill in May. 
   The President recommended a similar proposal in August. 
   However, the one not-so-positive thing I can say is that it is not law. 
   We are now into November. And despite all of the positive aspects of S. 1394, it has still not been reported by the Finance Committee or debated on the Senate floor. 
   The problem addressed by this legislation has its roots in the housing market. 
   In September, overall home sales slid 8 percent from the month before. Single-family sales slowed to the lowest pace in nearly 10 years. 
   Inventory is going up. At the end of August, there was a 9.6 month supply of homes. At the end of September, there was a 10.5 month supply of homes on the market. 
   So supply is up, and demand is down. 
   A high school senior, barely paying attention in his economics class, could tell you the result. 
   The result is a buyer's market. The median home price is down 4.2 percent from the year before. 
   With the dip in the housing market has come a corollary decrease in new home construction. 
   According to one recent estimate, construction spending on all new homes fell by 22 percent in 2007. The decline was even greater for single family homes-25 percent. 
   With another 4 percent dip in 2008, residential construction spending will be down to $254 billion in 2008 from $384 billion in 2005. 
   While this is not good news for the nation's builders, at least it tells us that the US housing market is functioning rationally. As the supply of housing tightens, demand and prices will once again go up. This leads many economists to believe that housing markets will turn the corner sooner rather than later. 
   In the meantime, however, we have a deadly economic mix of declining housing prices, interest rate volatility, and adjustable rate mortgages that are beginning to reset. When this convergence of events takes place and is followed by a certain unnecessarily punitive and totally unfair provision in our tax code, life becomes even more burdensome for some of our most vulnerable families and communities. 
   Let me explain why. 
   Adjustable rate mortgages are a product that provides an opportunity for millions of families to achieve home ownership. Because they pose less risk to lenders, these mortgages can be a more affordable product that allows families to purchase homes while assuming the risk that interest rates will increase. 
   Yet, because of the easy availability of adjustable rate mortgages, some people took out very high mortgages and according to the Wall Street Journal, there are 17% of adjustable rate mortgage holders who cannot make their payments on time. 
   We are currently witnessing how well private industry will be able to handle this problem on its own. The nation's largest mortgage lender, Countrywide Financial, announced that it is modifying the terms of $16 billion in adjustable rate mortgages. Thirty thousand have already restructured their loans, and Countrywide intends to contact 52,000 borrowers to see if they would like to restructure their loans as well. 
   Still, the declines in the nation's housing markets have left two groups particularly vulnerable. 
   First, there are those who sell their homes for less than the outstanding amount of the mortgage. 
   Second, there are those who are unable to make their mortgage payments and suffer foreclosure. 
   As I mentioned earlier, the tax code effectively kicks these folks while they are down. 
   The Internal Revenue Code defines income very broadly. 
   And when lenders forgive mortgage debt in a short-sale or a foreclosure, the borrower has technically received taxable income. Yet, this is phantom income, and it makes little sense to have these financially vulnerable families getting a Form 1099 and an increased tax liability for income they never received. 
   This makes little sense as public policy. 
   And it is inequitable as tax policy. 
   Section 121 of the Internal Revenue Code allows the exclusion of up to $250,000-or $500,000 on a joint return-of gain on the sale of a home. Few people realize gains in excess of this statutory exclusion. And for those who do, those gains are taxed at lower capital gains rates. 
   Yet, if a family is in such a dire financial situation that it is losing its home or selling it at a loss, the phantom gain on these transactions is taxed at ordinary income rates. 
   With adjustable rate mortgages being reset, growing housing inventory, and declining housing prices, too many people will be getting a 1099 form in the mail telling them that they owe income taxes on this debt forgiveness. 
   This is not the way it ought to be. 
   Our legislation would remedy this problem by excluding this debt forgiveness from gross income. 
   There is precedent for this. 
   Congress provided similar relief in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. 
   Given the ramifications of housing market declines, we should extend this needed relief to all Americans who find themselves receiving this kind of phantom income. 
   Yes, we would forgo some tax revenue by making this simple, fair, and commonsense change to our tax laws, but the House has found a reasonable offset that is supported by the housing industry so the net effect to the federal budget should be zero. 
   As I stated earlier - it is time to act. 
   I am not sure what the delay is. 
   The drop in the housing market and the problems with adjustable-rate mortgages are no longer breaking news. It has been nearly six months since this bipartisan legislation was introduced. It has been over 2 months since the President indicated he supported this legislation and wanted to get it signed into law. 
   This Congress seems to have ground to a halt. 
   You can hear crickets chirping on the Senate floor lately. 
   To say we are too busy to address this important legislation is simply false. 
   The lack of quick action on this legislation is no longer acceptable. 
   I urge my colleagues to support S. 1394 and for the Senate to pass this legislation as soon as possible. 
   Families in need and vulnerable communities demand that we act. 
   I thank the chair and yield the floor.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 