SEN. HATCH URGES SENATE TO INCLUDE RETROACTIVE IMMUNITY FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS
  In a speech on the Senate floor, Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today called on his fellow Senators to support legislation that would grant immunity to communication service providers who allegedly assisted the government with terrorist surveillance activities following the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. In the broadcast remarks, Hatch says, "these service providers alleged to have participated deserve a round of applause and a helping hand, not a slap in the face and a kick to the gut." 
   Without immunity, these companies are subject to lawsuits which could cripple national security, as Hatch outlines in his speech. The Senate Judiciary will consider this legislation on Thursday, November 15. 
   Mr. President, following the unauthorized public disclosure in 2005 of what has become known as the Terrorism Surveillance Program (TSP), numerous lawsuits were filed against electronic communication service providers for their alleged participation. Currently, more than 40 lawsuits are pending, which collectively seek hundreds of billions of dollars in damages. Let me repeat that figure, hundreds of billions of dollars.  
   For myriad reasons which I am going to discuss, these service providers alleged to have participated deserve a round of applause and a helping hand, not a slap in the face and a kick to the gut. 
   The amount of misinformation concerning this issue is staggering. Given that this dialogue involves highly classified details, there are many things that simply can't be discussed. However, the Committee Report for the recently passed FISA modernization bill (S. 2248) from the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is public, and contains very pertinent information. 
   The report mentions that as with other intelligence matters, the identities of persons or entities that provide assistance to the U.S. Government are protected as vital sources and methods of intelligence. Details of any such assistance can not be discussed. However, the committee report does mention that beginning soon after September 11th, the Executive Branch provided written requests or directives to U.S. electronic communication service providers to obtain their assistance with communications intelligence activities that had been authorized by the President. 
   During consideration of FISA modernization legislation, the Intelligence committee examined classified documents relating to this issue. 
   The committee, in an overwhelmingly bipartisan tally, voted to include retroactive immunity for service providers that were alleged to have cooperated with the intelligence community in the implementation of the President's surveillance program. Senators from both sides of the aisle, after careful consideration, came to this conclusion. Make no mistake, this was the right conclusion. 
   It was the right conclusion for the intelligence committee, and it should be the right conclusion for the Judiciary committee, when it considers this bill tomorrow. 
   Given the astounding amount of misinformation in the public domain concerning the Terrorism Surveillance Program, it is not surprising that these lawsuits are filled with false information and baseless allegations. 
   Some have asked a valid question, if the companies did not break the law, why do they need immunity? Quite simply, the government's assertion of the state secrets privilege prevents these companies from defending themselves. 
   This assertion by the government is absolutely essential, as the possible disclosure of classified materials from ongoing court proceedings is a grave threat to national security. Given the necessity for the state secrets privilege, the drawback is that the companies being sued are forbidden from making their case. 
   In fact, the companies can not even confirm or deny any involvement in the program whatsoever. They have no ability to defend themselves. 
   Ordinarily, these companies would be able to address allegations and make their case. However, the classified nature of the topic means that companies are not free to do so. They can't even have discussions with shareholders or business partners. But we need to remember, lawful silence does not equate to guilt. 
   Another point not mentioned nearly enough is that the government cannot obtain the intelligence it needs without the assistance of telecommunication companies. This means that our collection capabilities are dependant on the support and collaboration of private businesses. 
   If retroactive immunity is not provided, these private businesses will certainly be extremely hesitant to provide any future assistance to our intelligence community. This could have a crippling effect on our security, thus it's simply an unacceptable outcome for the safety and security of our nation. 
   Any hesitation from companies to provide assistance with future government requests could be disastrous. This could affect not only our intelligence community, but domestic law enforcement efforts. The next time a child is kidnapped, and law enforcement needs help with communications, would that situation allow any hesitation from the service provider? If your son or daughter was missing, would you stand for any lack of cooperation from companies? Do we want endless teams of private company lawyers second, third, fourth, and fifth guessing lawful orders to compel their assistance? 
   This is not the only problem with not including retroactive immunity. As the duration of these lawsuits increases, so does the chance that highly classified sources and methods of our intelligence community will be unnecessarily and unlawfully disclosed. Our enemies are acutely aware of these proceedings, and are certainly attempting to gather information previously unknown to them. 
   The potential disclosure of classified information also puts the personnel and facilities of electronic communication service providers at risk. 
   Given all of the tremendous harm and damage that will occur by not passing a form of limited liability, I am amazed at the number of individuals who fail to grasp the seriousness of the issue before us. 
   To those who purport to oppose immunity in any form, I would hope that they take the time to actually read the bill. For those unable to tear themselves away from their favorite partisan blog, I'm going to quickly tell you what the immunity provision says, and what it does not say. 
   A civil action may be dismissed only if a certification is make to the court certifying that either 1) The electronic service provider did not provide the alleged assistance, or 2) the assistance was provided after the 9/11 attacks, and was described in a written request indicating that the activity was authorized by the President and determined to be lawful. 
   Furthermore, this certification has to be reviewed by the court before a civil action can be dismissed. 
   It does not provide for immunity for government officials. It does not provide for immunity for criminal acts. Instead, it is a narrowly tailored provision that strikes a proper balance. This point can't be overlooked; the immunity provision in the current bill has absolutely zero effect on the numerous lawsuits pending against federal government agencies. These cases will go on, with their questionable Constitutional challenges, with no impact from this bill. 
   Some Senators have suggested that indemnification or substitution would be possible solutions. Let me be perfectly clear, neither one is appropriate or acceptable in this situation. The Intelligence Committee considered both of these ideas, and rejected them. Indemnification, where the federal government would be responsible for any damages awarded against the providers, is not advisable since the providers would still be parties to the lawsuits, and thus the suits would continue. Not only does this further the likelihood of disclosure of classified material, but the companies will face serious damage to their business reputations, relationships with foreign countries, and stock prices. 
   Substitution, where the government would litigate in place of the service providers, is not a viable solution since all of the same concerns just mentioned still apply. Even though the providers will not be parties to the litigation, discovery will still apply. 
   Don't we realize that having the "government" fund unnecessary litigation is a tremendous waste of taxpayer dollars? The government does not magically create dollars, it taxes hard working Americans. When it comes to funding, who do we think the government is? 
   To say that the government should pay is to say that our mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, sons, and daughters should have money forcefully taken from their paychecks to fund frivolous lawsuits! This is Alice in Wonderland, and down the rabbit hole we go. 
   Finally, for those who love to expound the catch phrase "warrantless wiretapping" to assert some theory of illegality, I encourage you to carefully read the 4th Amendment. 
   Contrary to any other assertion, the 4th Amendment does not always require a warrant, and is based on the reasonableness of searches. While the phrase is meant to scare people, "warrantless wiretapping" in this instance is perfectly legal and constitutional. 
   Immunity is an appropriate remedy. It is just. It is necessary. It is imperative for the continued success of our intelligence gathering. 
   While reasonable minds can disagree about political topics, this issue requires disciplined logic, not political hyperbole. I hope that people keep the following facts in mind when considering this topic: 
   The program did not involve interception of domestic to domestic phone calls; 
   The President and the highest levels of the Executive branch determined the program to be lawful, and conveyed this fact repeatedly in writing to service providers: 
   The electronic service providers' participation was vital to the security of our country; 
   Lives have been saved by this program; 
   The companies were called on to support a lawful program that was vital to the security of our country. Do the companies require thanks or appreciation? No, but they certainly don't deserve illegitimate and false criticisms that affect their financial well being. 
   A grateful public should certainly appreciate the critical assistance the companies alone can provide for the public's defense. These companies are quite possibly facing irreversible harm to their business reputation, and can't defend themselves due to state secrets. 
   This debate has far too many Monday morning quarterbacks, applying their revisionist history to best represent their political mantra. I strongly urge all of my colleagues to support the limited immunity provided for in S. 2248. Any company that has done its part to provide for the protection of American families deserves protection in return. If not, the next time we reach out for a helping hand, we will be the ones that receive a slap to the face. And really, who could blame them?
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 