SEN. HATCH: UTAH RECEIVING NEW FIELD OFFICE TO OVERSEE DETENTION, REMOVAL OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
 Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today announced that the Department of Homeland Security's U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) plans to enhance Utah's capabilities to detain and remove illegal aliens. At Hatch's request, ICE officials recently evaluated the Salt Lake City Detention and Removal office and have upgraded it to a Field Office Directorate (FOD) that reports directly to Washington, D.C. Currently, the Salt Lake office is a sub-office of the San Francisco FOD.  
   "Utahns have long had to respond to the challenges of criminal aliens, but lacked the proper means to deal effectively with them," Hatch said. "Unfortunately, immigration enforcement resources are stretched in states like Utah. That's why I pressed so hard for this new office. A Salt Lake FOD will give our enforcement officers a streamlined reporting chain that lets them coordinate directly with ICE headquarters in Washington." 
   ICE based the re-designation on office workload, demographics, geography and statistics. While ICE has not yet established a timeline for the rollout of this new office, ICE officials expect to do so after additional planning and resource allocation. This addition will bring the number of field offices nationwide to 24. 
   "Everywhere I go in Utah, the No. 1 issue for my constituents is immigration enforcement," Hatch said. "Utah is the crossroads of the west, and many people who violate the law come to Utah then flee to elsewhere in the nation. Augmenting Utah's detention and removal capabilities will help the whole country." 
   In recent years, Utah has experienced increased trafficking of illegal aliens, drugs, and alien criminal activity, particularly through the southern part of the state, where vast geography has spread the ICE presence thin. For years, Hatch has worked with local law enforcement and community leaders to convince federal authorities to take steps to address these challenges. 
   "These additional enforcement resources will help address Utah's immigration concerns," Hatch said. "I appreciate Homeland Security responding to my request to assess the need for upgrading the Salt Lake-based office. This move will help combat the pressing problems that Utah communities have faced for too long." 
   When appointed, the new Field Officer Director, a senior Federal law enforcement officer, will work more closely with the U.S. Attorney and other law enforcement offices in Utah than the current director can from San Francisco. The director will have hands-on decision-making authority over Utah immigration cases, providing for more efficient apprehension, transfer, and deportation of aliens apprehended in the region. As the FOD expands, additional personnel will be added as well, thus increasing enforcement efforts in the Intermountain West. The new FOD will preside over immigration casework in Utah, Idaho, Nevada, and Montana. 
   "A Utah-based FOD will know the state well, will know where there's a large criminal alien population, and will have the appropriate authority to detain and remove as needed," Hatch said. "I am confident that this new enforcement presence will make itself felt very quickly."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 