SEN. HATCH RESPONDS TO TROLLEY SQUARE SHOOTING
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) made the following statement in the Congressional Record regarding the recent shooting at Trolley Square, wherein five Utahns lost their lives. 
   Mr. President. I rise today to honor and pay tribute to the many heroes who have emerged out of a horrific tragedy that took place in my home state this week.  
   On Monday evening, February 12th, a lone gunman entered Trolley Square, a bustling shopping, dining, and entertainment plaza located in Salt Lake City. For the next several minutes he randomly shot and killed five people, and wounded four others - leaving a path of destruction and a community in utter shock and grief. 
   Those who lost their lives that evening included: Teresa Ellis and her friend Brad Frantz; Kirsten Hinckley, a 15-year-old sophomore at Brighton High School; Vanessa Quinn who was meeting her husband at Trolley Square to shop for a long-awaited wedding ring; and Jeffery Walker a Utah marketing director. 
   In the ensuing minutes, shoppers scrambled for cover and feared for their lives. Shop owners corralled customers and helped them take refuge in closets, backrooms, and hidden cubby holes. Frantic 911 calls were placed by many and within minutes courageous police officers had contained the suspect. 
   As the story unfolded, one hero stood out in the chaotic terror. Off-duty Ogden police officer Kenneth Hammond was at Trolley Square having an pre-Valentine's Day dinner with his pregnant wife, Sarita. As they were finishing their meal, the Hammonds heard popping noises and looked over the mall balcony to see bodies laying below. 
   Officer Hammond sent his wife back to call the police and lock-down the restaurant. Shouting his name to let customers know he was an off-duty police officer, and not a second gunman, he made his way to the bottom level. He engaged the shooter in a gun battle hoping to distract him from killing any other innocent people. Running out of ammunition, he was soon joined by a Salt Lake City officer and members of the SWAT team. Within about nine minutes, the battle was over - the suspect lay dead along with five beloved members of our community. 
   We can only imagine the terror that the brave Hammonds felt. Mrs. Hammond, fearing for her husband's safety, bravely went to protect other shoppers and alert authorities. Officer Hammond, fearing he would not be recognized as a law enforcement official since he was off-duty and in another jurisdiction, still selflessly reacted to safe lives. 
   Without a moment's hesitation, Officer Hammond put the needs of our community first before any thought for his own safety or well-being. 
   There is no question his heroic acts saved countless other lives that could have been lost on that tragic evening. 
   Mr. President, words cannot express the vital role his selfless service and courageous action played in ending the massacre. 
   Salt Lake City Police Chief Chris Burbank described Officer Hammond's quick action and courage this way: "Going in and engaging a subject who was well armed and prepared to engage him, without having the benefits of a uniform, extra equipment or magazines for his firearms, is truly heroic." 
   In addition to Officer Hammond, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the many, many other police officers from various law enforcement agencies who responded to the calls for help. Precisely and courageously these officers went about their duties evacuating the premises, getting immediate help for hurt victims, comforting the grief-stricken shoppers, and containing the crime scene. I want to commend the rapid response of law enforcement agencies who worked together on a crime scene of this magnitude. I am proud of all of the officers who rendered such important service. 
   It is hard to understand why something this horrific happens in life. But in this time of our deepest sorrow, it has been comforting to witness so many wonderful Utahns who have stepped up to lighten the burdens of those involved. 
   Neighbors in the vicinity of Trolley Square opened their homes to shell-shocked shoppers that night as a refuge to wait for further instructions. Total strangers hugged and comforted those leaving the mall who desperately needed a strong shoulder to lean on, and grief counseling services are being made available to those impacted by this tragedy. As neighbors and fellow Utahns we are united in our grief and desire to comfort those suffering. 
   Mr. President. My home state has suffered a tragedy of incomprehensible magnitude. The actions of one determined to kill will have an impact on many of our wonderful citizens for years to come. As difficult as this has been and will continue to be, the examples of selfless service and heroic acts will never be forgotten. 
   I have been deeply touched by so many who truly made a difference in the aftermath of this tragedy. Elaine and I pray that our Heavenly Father's peace will comfort the family members and friends of the victims, as well as all who have been forever touched by this tragedy.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 