JUDICIARY COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. HATCH'S FLAG-PROTECTION AMENDMENT
  The Senate Judiciary Committee today approved Sen. Orrin G. Hatch's (R-Utah) resolution to restore Congress's power to protect the American Flag. This amendment would allow the American people - through their elected representatives - to decide the proper way to protect the flag, something that has been denied them since the Supreme Court overturned 48 state flag protection statutes with a 5 to 4 vote in 1989's Texas v. Johnson.  
   "This is a great victory for patriotism in this country," Hatch said. "Those who back this amendment never believed the First Amendment protects desecration of the flag. Along with the four dissenting Justices in the case, we believe the Court got it wrong on this one. We want to give the power back to the people to decide how they will treat the American flag." 
   The Judiciary Committee reported the resolution by a bipartisan 11 to 7 vote. Hatch has gathered a bipartisan array of 59 cosponsors for his resolution, and Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist expressed his support for the amendment at a press conference on Wednesday, June 14 - Flag Day - promising to dedicate floor time to the bill by the end of June. 
   The bill reads: 
   "The Congress shall have the power to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States." 
   Because this bill would amend the Constitution, 67 Senators will need to vote in favor of it. Comparable legislation has already passed in the House of Representatives, so should the bill pass the Senate, state legislatures across the country would then have the opportunity to ratify the amendment. If three-fourths of legislatures, or 38, approve the bill, it will be added to the Constitution. 
   "We should pass this for the American people," Hatch said. "Should we send this to the states for ratification, we would have the greatest debate that most citizens will ever participate in. I think it is wholly appropriate that we send this amendment to the states and let the people decide."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 