SENATE INVESTS IN BORDER SECURITY, FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) fought to maximize the first-responder funds coming to Utah and decrease illegal immigration in Utah during the Senate's consideration of the Fiscal Year 2006 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which was approved by the Senate late last night.  
   Utah is set to receive more than $10 million through security grants to strengthen the ability of police and firefighters to respond to emergencies in the state. Hatch opposed several amendments that would have significantly decreased the amount of security grant funding Utah would receive in the bill. 
   "Utah is the crossroads of the West," Hatch said. "We have vital infrastructure critical to the country that needs to be protected. Utah deserves a fair share of security grant funding to invest in significant intelligence and practical anti-terrorism approaches to keep Utahns and the country safe." 
   The bill invests heavily in border security, providing for 1,000 additional Border Patrol Agents and hundreds of new immigration criminal investigators and deportation officers. The Senate also approved $5 million for a provision Hatch sponsored with Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) to help participating states train and certify local law enforcement to enforce federal immigration law. The bill also contains another Sessions-Hatch amendment that provides $1 million to expedite data entry into the National Crime Information Center database, a tool used by law enforcement to identify repeat criminal resident and alien offenders. 
   Hatch also secured report language to study creating an immigration and customs office in Blanding, Utah, and also reached an agreement with Senator Judd Gregg (R-N.H.), chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee for Homeland Security, to work together to address the immigration issues facing Utah. 
   "We are seeing a dramatic increase in illegals and drug-trafficking coming through Utah, especially in the southern areas near Blanding and St. George," Hatch said. "They're taking advantage of the low level of enforcement in these areas, largely because the office overseeing Utah is in San Francisco, so our needs are often overlooked. The immigration problems facing San Francisco are very different from the problems facing Utah, and the state should have a field office and a director who can focus on our unique needs."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 