SEN. HATCH: LIFT BAN ON INTERSTATE MEAT SHIPMENT
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced legislation to overturn a nearly 30-year ban on interstate shipment of state-inspected meat, which would place Utah's ranchers on a level playing field with national and foreign meat producers.  
   "This ban hurts Utah's ranchers and small business owners, and there's no reason for it," Hatch said. "States are getting a bad deal. State inspection programs have proven to be just as effective as Federal programs, yet state-inspected meat can't be shipped across state lines. It's high time we update this unnecessary, unjust ban that puts Utah's small businesses at such a disadvantage." 
   Federal law requires the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to inspect all meat products slaughtered for human consumption, and in the late 1960s Congress created state inspection programs that are mandated to be "at least equal to" the Federal inspection program. Utah has 32 plants authorized to inspect meat, part of nearly 2,000 plants nationwide largely run by small businesses that cater to the needs of small, family-run farms and ranches. 
   Perishable products -- including milk and other dairy items, fruit, vegetables, and fish -- are freely shipped across state lines after being inspected by state programs. Yet certain meat products are prohibited from being sold in interstate commerce, despite decades of meeting or surpassing the Federal inspection standards. Hatch's bill would remove this prohibition. 
   "Three USDA Advisory Committees have recommended that we lift this ban," Hatch said. "The ban clearly disrupts the free flow of trade, restricts market access for countless small businesses, and creates an unfair advantage for big businesses." 
   In addition, current regulations allow meat inspected in 34 foreign countries to be shipped throughout the U.S. because the USDA has certified that the inspection programs in these foreign countries are equivalent to the Federal program. State inspection programs must meet the same Federal equivalency standard, and USDA supervises state programs far more frequently and thoroughly than foreign inspection programs. 
   "It's absurd that meat inspected overseas can be shipped anywhere in the United States without restriction, but Utah's small businesses are prohibited from shipping their products across state lines," Hatch said. "They meet the same food safety requirements. We shouldn't hold Utah's meat producers at a different standard than their foreign competitors."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 