SEN. HATCH ANNOUNCES UTAH PILT FUNDS STAY STRONG
  The U.S. Department of the Interior today announced federal Payments In Lieu of Taxes (PILT) for the coming fiscal year, money distributed to local governments whose jurisdictions contain tax-exempt federal lands. Commenting on the announcement, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) said he was pleased, since Utah's funding level remained stable at $20 million while most other states saw decreases. But he pledges to continue his efforts to seek full funding for the program.  
   "A decade ago, the PILT program was funded at only one-third its authorized level, today it's at two-thirds," Hatch said. "We have worked hard to get it to where it is today, and we'll keep fighting until we get PILT fully funded." 
   The Interior Department collects about $4 billion annually from commercial activities on federal lands, such as oil and gas leasing, livestock grazing and timber harvesting. A portion of these revenues are shared with states and counties. The balance is deposited in the U.S. Treasury, which in turn pays for a broad array of federal activities, including PILT funding. Nationwide, county governments with federal land in their jurisdictions will receive more than $232 million in PILT funds. This year 37 states will receive slightly less than they did in 2006 - which saw the highest level of PILT funding in history - but only 17 will decrease by 1 percent or more. 
   "PILT is vital to rural counties in Utah," Hatch said. "So much of Utah's land is tied up by the Federal government, which hurts the tax base that counties rely on to provide funding for schools, roads, and public safety services. We need PILT funds to help pay the bills. Of course we'd like to see more, but it's good that Utah is not losing any funding this year, while many other states are." 
   For more information, visit http://www.senate.gov/cgi-bin/exitmsg?url=http://www.doi.gov/news/07_News_Releases/070615.html.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 