SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON SEN. DEWINE AMENDMENT TO AMERICAN JOBS CREATION ACT OF 2004
  Statement by Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate
   Mr. President, I rise today to address the DeWine/Kennedy amendment to H.R. 4520, The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.  
   Let me say at the outset that I will vote for this proposal tonight, because I am fully supportive of measures to end tobacco use in the United States. I can think of few public health dangers worse than tobacco, and this is especially true for young people. Certainly, in my home state of Utah, I hear time and time again from concerned parents and health advocates who point out the devastating health consequences of tobacco use. 
   So, I think it is critical that we go to conference on this issue. However, my support for the amendment is not without some serious reservations, and I hope they can be addressed and corrected in conference. 
   My first concern is that the Committee of jurisdiction, the HELP Committee, should have had the opportunity to consider fully the text of S. 2461, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, which is included in the DeWine/Kennedy amendment, before it is brought to the floor for this vote. 
   Having been the Chairman of that Committee for several years, I know full well the complexities of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Three hours of debate are not enough time to consider legislation that makes such dramatic changes to current law. 
   I have only had a short time to review this legislative language but I believe there are several troubling components. For example, the tobacco company marketing provisions alone in this amendment raise serious First Amendment issues, as do the provisions granting authority to state and local governments to impose specific bans or restrictions on the time, place and manner of tobacco advertising. I would have preferred we have a more lengthy debate on about the implications of these provisions before we vote. 
   I also think we need to give serious study to the drafting of the language providing the FDA with the authority to regulate tobacco products. This area of the law is extremely complex. In addition, I must point out that the FDA already has been charged with numerous responsibilities and has been criticized time and time again for its inability to meet statutory requirements due to funding constraints. In fact, just yesterday, I held a hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee on the safety of imported drugs where FDA officials told members of my Committee how difficult it would be for them to ensure the safety of imported drugs because the agency is already strapped for resources. How can we expect the FDA to take on new responsibilities without supplying the agency sufficient funding for performing its current duties? 
   In closing, let me address the tobacco buyout provisions. 
   Mr. President, I am all for measures to reduce our nation's dependence on tobacco, and measures to encourage less tobacco production are an important part of that equation. 
   I am encouraged that the amendment we are considering tonight does not use taxpayer funds to accomplish the buyout. That is an important point. I also recognize that the program will help get the government out of the farming business while making temporary assistance available to farmers as they adjust to the free market. That being said, questions worthy of serious consideration have been raised about where this assistance will go, and I think we need to study that more.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 