SEN. HATCH INTRODUCES TAX BILL TO SPUR RESEARCH
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced legislation that would extend and expand the research tax credit, which would give a boost to thousands of research-based companies in Utah.  
   "If we want to keep our nation and our economy strong and growing, it is vital that we maintain and even enhance our position as the world leader in innovation," Hatch said. "One sure way to have strong economic growth without the pain of inflation is to increase productivity, and most productivity gains are derived from technological advances. We should never forget that our nation's future economic health depends on the innovations of today." 
   Since its enactment in 1981, the research tax credit has become a powerful and effective incentive for firms to increase research spending. With the research credit scheduled to expire December 31, 2005, Hatch's bill would make the credit permanent and establish a new simplified credit that addresses changes in business models and economic circumstances that prevent some businesses from using the credit. 
   "Higher productivity means increased profits, higher returns on investment, and higher wages," Hatch said. "Utah is a perfect example. Last year, high technology jobs paid nearly 10 percent of wages in Utah, despite making up only 5 percent of Utah's workforce. Technology is one of Utah's leading exports, and many firms throughout the state profit from the innovations that are developed in Utah." 
   "Research and development is clearly the lifeblood of not only Utah's but the nation's economy," Hatch continued. "And as we increase our productivity through research and innovation, we will be in a better position to deal with the looming budgetary challenges, such as Social Security, Medicare, and other entitlements. We have had a dramatic surge in productivity growth since 1995, and economists agree this is the result of businesses integrating technology into day-to-day operations. We need a strong and permanent research credit in order to continue these gains in productivity growth."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 