SEN. HATCH: HIGH GAS PRICES DUE TO LACK OF REFINING CAPACITY
  A major contributor to the recent spike in gas prices is the lack of domestic oil-refining capabilities, said Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today, who is working to expand refining capacity while continuing to increase national access to alternative energy sources. 
   "With Utahns paying more than $3 for a regular gallon of gas, and as much as $3.40 in some parts of the state, everyone is feeling the squeeze at the pump," Hatch said. "This hurts everyone from families on budgets, to businesses with high travel expenses, and even school districts, who have to swallow the extra costs to bus kids. While there is unfortunately no immediate magic bullet for our energy problems, there are real steps we can take to strengthen the weakest links in our nation's energy system."  
   According to AAA, gasoline stockpiles in the United States have dropped by 15 percent since early February amid an unusually high number of refinery outages. The economics of refining are so tough that the United States has lost nearly 200 refineries since the last U.S. refinery was built in 1970, and now, 37 years later, the nation is left with only 149 aging over-worked and over-regulated refineries, Hatch says. 
   "We simply can't supply enough refined gasoline to an ever-growing marketplace," Hatch said. "That is why I sponsored a new law that provides tax incentives for the construction of new refineries and additions to existing refineries. Since it's a new law, it'll take time to reap the benefits, and because of budget restraints, important incentives in my initial proposal were dropped. I have and will continue to urge my colleagues to provide a fuller measure of tax incentives to promote new refining capacity." 
   Hatch's refinery incentives were part of 2005's comprehensive energy bill, which also included Hatch's CLEAR Act, a law that gives tax incentives to consumers who purchase alternative-fuel and hybrid-electric vehicles, tax incentives at the pump for the purchase of alternative transportation fuels, and tax incentives for the purchase and installation of alternative fueling equipment. The law also includes Hatch provisions to tap the vast reservoirs of oil shale and tar sands in Utah, Colorado, and Wyoming. Experts agree that this small tri-state region promises more recoverable oil in tar sands and oil shale in than the entire Middle East. 
   "Congress needs to keep pursuing a forward-looking energy policy," Hatch said. "With largely untapped energy reserves, Utah will have a vital role to play in such a forward-looking policy. As our nation grows and our energy consumption increases, we must keep Utah's communities supplied with affordable and reliable energy resources." 
   Hatch will soon introduce legislation with Senators Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) and Barack Obama (D-Ill.) that would build on the success of the CLEAR Act and promote further development of plug-in hybrid technology. 
   "In my view, no solution to our nation's transportation energy needs holds more short-term promise than plug-in hybrids," Hatch said. "Electons are significantly cheaper and cleaner than liquid fuels, and we could provide power to between 70 to 80 percent of all our vehicles on the road right now without having to build a new power plant."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 