SEN. HATCH INTRODUCES BILL TO COMBAT ELDER ABUSE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced bipartisan legislation that would address elder abuse and crimes against seniors.  
   "Thousands of cases of elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation go unaddressed each day," Hatch said. "Yet no federal employee works full-time to address elder abuse and neglect. This bill will give much-needed attention and resources to fighting these crimes and providing seniors the protections they need to live safely and securely." 
   The bill, called the Elder Justice Act (S. 2010), is designed to create a national focus on elder abuse to increase detection, prevention, prosecution and victim assistance. It ensures that states, communities, consumers and families will have access to the information and resources they need to confront this difficult issue. Hatch introduced the measure with Sen. Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), Sen. Gordon Smith (R-Ore.), chairman of the Senate Aging Committee, and Sen. Herb Kohl (D-Wis.), ranking minority member of the Senate Aging Committee. 
   "The Elder Justice Act is based on the same approach the federal government uses to address child abuse and violence against women," Hatch said. "We're combining law enforcement and public health efforts and funding that are now spread throughout many federal agencies into dual Offices of Elder Justice at the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services. We're targeting the funding to the programs that are most effective, and we're coordinating our resources with state and local efforts to combat crimes against our seniors." 
   The bill also establishes new programs to assist victims and provides grants for education and training for law enforcement and prosecutors, while developing more forensic expertise. It also includes measures to increase and retain staff in long-term care facilities, including a staff demonstration project, training and degree programs, and incentives to draw more people to health professions serving elders. 
   Hatch's legislation has been endorsed by the Elder Justice Coalition, a national membership organization comprised of 397 groups dedicated to eliminating elder abuse, neglect and exploitation in America, including the National Committee for the Prevention of Elder Abuse, National Association of Adult Protective Service Administrators, National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys, National Association of State Ombudsman Programs and the National Association of State Units on Aging.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 