SEN. HATCH PUSHES FOR IMPROVED CEDAR CITY RAIL LINE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) this week brokered a meeting between the leaders of Cedar City and Union Pacific Railroad to help improve service on the Cedar City rail line. After learning of Cedar City's frustration with undependable rail schedules and the urgent need for expanded rail service, Hatch invited Mayor Gerald R. Sherratt and other Cedar officials to Washington, D.C., to bring their city's rail case directly to Union Pacific President and CEO James R. Young. 
   "Improved and expanded rail service will play an important role in the future of Cedar City," Hatch said. "Having property connected to rail service is a powerful recruiting tool for local economic development as Cedar officials map their city's growth in the 21st century, and it's imperative that the service is reliable and runs on time." 
   Currently Union Pacific serves Cedar City with a 21-mile rail branch off its Salt Lake-Los Angeles line. About 6,500 cars serve manufacturers in the area per year. But Cedar leaders want to catapult the annual load to 45,000 cars, serving current economic needs, plus those of three new rail industrial parks and reopened local iron mines. 
   "We're a Union Pacific town, and we want to be an even bigger Union Pacific town," Sherratt said. "Rail is the future of our city. I know the rail industry is in something of a perfect storm right now, so Senator Hatch is a powerful ally in bringing our case to Union Pacific." 
   Because of increased fuel costs, many services are using rail that had previously used diesel trucks. This increases the demand on rail companies and makes expanding service difficult. Nonetheless, Union Pacific has promised to find a solution to Cedar City's challenge, either by building a new at-grade rail crossing or an overpass to reach areas currently not served by rail. The Cedar City-Iron County Office of Economic Development will act as a bridge between Union Pacific and manufacturing stakeholders to help build a coalition. 
   "Current railroad service problems are very complicated, and they aren't going to go away with the wave of a magic wand," Hatch said. "But all the players have the goal of expanding economic opportunity in Utah's Dixie, so now it's just a question of how we get there." 
   City Manager Ron Chandler and Economic Development Director Bryan Dangerfield joined Mayor Sherratt in Washington as well.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 