SEN. HATCH: NO TAXATION WITHOUT IRRIGATION IN JUAB COUNTY
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced a bill allowing Juab County to complete water resource development projects with Central Utah Project funds.  
   "As the crossroads of the West, Utah is experiencing some of the most rapid growth in the nation," Hatch said. "And while the Beehive state has an abundance of natural resources, water is not among them. Juab County needs this bill for its water resource development projects." 
   Under the original plan for the Bonneville Unit of the Central Utah Project, several counties in central Utah, including Juab, were to receive supplemental water through an irrigation and drainage delivery system. Over the years, however, the planning requirements for the Bonneville Unit have changed and most of the water allocated to the Bonneville Unit of the Central Utah Project is planned for use in Wasatch, Salt Lake, and Utah counties at present. 
   Many central Utah counties have elected not to participate in the plan and no longer pay the requisite taxes. Juab County, however, has remained active in the Central Utah Water Conservancy District's efforts and has paid millions in property taxes to the District. Unfortunately, the County has yet to reap any of the benefits of its membership. 
   Hatch's bill, the Juab County Surface and Ground Water Study and Development Act of 2007, would amend the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act to allow Juab County to receive Central Utah Project (CUP) funds. The bill is assigned to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power. Sen. Bob Bennett (R-Utah) is a co-sponsor. 
   "For years, the citizens of Juab County have been contributing to the Central Utah Project," Hatch said. "This bill will finally allow them to reap the rewards of those contributions, so in Juab County there will be no taxation without irrigation."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 