UTAH TEST AND TRAINING RANGE - PFS PROVISION INCLUDED IN FINAL DEFENSE BILL
  The Utah Congressional delegation announced today the inclusion of a provision in the Defense Authorization Conference Report which will significantly impede the transportation of high level nuclear waste to Skull Valley and protect the Utah Test and Training Range. 
   Years in the making, the language came from a bill introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop and co-sponsored by fellow Utah Representatives Chris Cannon and Jim Matheson. It was shepherded through the Senate by Utah Senators Orrin Hatch and Bob Bennett.  
   "This bill is a good example of what can be accomplished when groups and individuals work together," said Rep. Rob Bishop. "We have made major progress on defending the range with over-flight protection. We have created wilderness the right way. We have moved forward in the effort to prevent nuclear spent fuel rods from reaching the Goshute Reservation. We have put another nail in the coffin of PFS, but PFS is not dead. So we must work until it is." 
   "I'm grateful to former Congressman Hansen who first came up with this concept. Credit must be given to Senator Bennett, Senator Reid and Governor Huntsman for creating the opening for this deal and to Senator Hatch and Senator Ensign for closing this deal. Our entire delegation has worked tirelessly together, with heavy involvement from Congressman Matheson and Congressman Cannon. We also appreciate the way the entire Nevada delegation and House Leadership has worked with us, and the support we received in this effort from various environmental groups, including the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance," Bishop added. 
   Senator Bob Bennett said, "Today's agreement raises an important roadblock to PFS and provides a more secure future for the UTTR. It is the result of efforts of a united delegation and our governor working with Sens. Warner, Reid and Ensign and a changed dynamic in the Senate. 
   "While this strikes a further blow to the viability of PFS, we can't relax. We will remain vigilant and active in pursuing all other avenues available to us," Bennett added. 
   "We have worked very hard together for a number of years to deliver this big win for Utah, and, I might add, this is a very serious blow to PFS," Hatch said. "Congressman Bishop is Utah's hero for putting us in a position to get this win. Now we can focus on finding solutions to our nation's nuclear spent fuel problem that are reasonable and safe." 
   Congressman Cannon added, "This is a significant step for our state. Our entire delegation has been working on this, but there is still a lot of work yet to be done. We're not going to stop until we kill this thing once and for all." 
   The measure, originally named the Utah Test and Training Range Protection Act, consists of three main components. First, it helps guarantee the ability of the military to use the airspace over the range, ensuring continued military readiness and national security. Second, it blocks potential attempts to build a rail spur on federal lands near the range and the Goshute reservation, thus hampering the nuclear waste storage facility from being built. Other routes still exist. And third, the plan designates roughly 100,000 acres of land as wilderness in the Cedar Mountain area of the range. 
   The language will now be included in the final version of the annual Defense Authorization Bill, and should be voted on soon by both Houses of Congress where it is expected to pass easily. The president has indicated he will then sign it into law. 
   Hatch's full press comments follow: 
   We have worked very hard together for a number of years to deliver this big win for Utah, and, I might add, this is a very serious blow to PFS. Congressman Bishop is Utah's hero for putting us in a position to get this win. He has developed a profound influence with the top leadership of the House of Representatives and proved to be a deciding factor between failure and victory. 
   We should also recognize the past work of former Governor Leavitt and Congressman Hansen for all they did to help lay the groundwork for our progress today. And we appreciate the White House and the Department of Defense for their active support of Congressman Bishop's wilderness language. 
   We will need the continued support of this Administration and industry to put this issue to bed once and for all. Xcel Energy, Southern Company, and Florida Power and Light have heeded our call already. I want to personally thank Envirocare of Utah for using its relationship with these companies to encourage them to put Utah's interest first and back out of PFS. 
   We call on the remaining members of PFS to pull out immediately. Putting any more resources toward the Skull Valley project will not only prove a complete waste of time and money, but also prolong and deepen the mistrust Utahns feel toward the nuclear industry. 
   I understand that the Federal government has failed to live up to its commitment to move spent nuclear fuel. I pledge to work with my Colleagues, this Administration, and industry to solve that problem.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 