SEN. HATCH SUPPORTS BILL TO EXPAND VITAL RESEARCH
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) joined a bipartisan group of Senators and Congressmen to introduce legislation that would make more embryonic stem cell lines available for federal funding.  
   "There is no greater way to promote life than to find a way to defeat untimely death and disease," Hatch said. "This bill will improve the ability of our scientists to unleash the promise of stem cell research by increasing both the quantity and quality of stem cell lines available for federally funded research." 
   In 2001, President Bush allowed federally funded research to proceed on a limited number of stem cell lines. Hatch said the current cell lines eligible for federal funding are not sufficient to yield the full array of diagnostic, preventive, and therapeutic options due to problems such as contamination with mouse feeder cells and lack of biological diversity. The legislation introduced today, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005, would allow federally funded scientists to conduct research on additional stem cell lines derived from embryos created for fertility treatment but are no longer needed for in vitro fertilization. 
   "Tens of thousands of these unused, unimplanted embryos are routinely discarded each year," Hatch said. "I believe that when my colleagues and the public consider all of the issues, including the ethical questions, that most will reach the conclusion that this bill will advance important science and is consistent with our moral values." 
   "I commend President Bush for being the first President to take the initial steps necessary to allow federal funding of research using some stem cell lines," Hatch continued. "But I believe that now is an appropriate time for the Administration and Congress to consider whether this policy should be adjusted. I respect those who have concerns about this field of research, but I am committed to debate and discuss the issues involved because so many American families have such a high stake in the outcome of this important bill."
   Contact: Adam Elggrenm, 202/224-3370.
 
 