SENS. HATCH, BAUCUS INTRODUCE BILL TO ENFORCE FREE TRADE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) joined Sen. Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, to introduce legislation giving the U.S. Trade Representative more tools, more support and more funds to break down barriers to U.S. exports in markets worldwide.  
   At a press conference this morning, Baucus and Hatch said American businesses can find more success in the global marketplace, and create more jobs here at home, if the Federal government does its part to enforce trade agreements and keep world markets open to U.S. goods. 
   "It is well known in the Senate and in my home state of Utah that I have been a long-time advocate for free trade," Hatch said. "But we absolutely cannot give up our right to govern within our own borders. Our nation and states have laws for a reason, and they represent the ideals and values we hold dear in our society." 
   "I want American companies to get aggressive about getting their products and their people into foreign markets, to bolster the U.S. presence around the world and bring jobs and dollars back home," Baucus said. "And when American companies embrace these new market opportunities, the American government needs to have their backs. Improving enforcement of our trade agreements will allow American companies to play hard and win big in the global marketplace." 
   The Baucus-Hatch bill, the Trade Competitiveness Act of 2006, does the following: 
   Requires USTR to work closely with Congress to prioritize and break down the biggest barriers to U.S. trade worldwide, providing a time frame and a list of options for taking action to enforce trade agreements. 
   Creates a Senate-confirmed Chief Trade Enforcement Officer at USTR, with a supporting Executive Branch task force that includes representatives from the Agriculture, Commerce, State and Treasury Departments. The Chief Enforcement Officer would be charged with investigating and advocating action on particular trade enforcement issues. 
   Calls on the International Monetary Fund to more aggressively condemn currency manipulation for trade purposes. 
   Requires the administration to consider federal and state sovereignty in negotiating, implementing, and enforcing trade agreements, and provides the sense of Congress that trade agreements should not lead to a loss of sovereignty. 
   "This legislation is not a knee jerk reaction," Hatch said. "The major premise of this bill is that existing laws and treaty obligations must be enforced. It also ensures that the prevention of the loss of Federal and State sovereignty is considered during the negotiation, implementation and enforcement of our trade agreements." 
   "The United States is still a world leader in almost every way imaginable. But we need a bold agenda to maintain America's economic leadership and preserve high-wage American jobs here at home," said Baucus. "A level playing field is the foundation of American competitiveness on trade, and this bill will help to provide it."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 