SUPPORT BREAST CANCER AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH ACT OF 2007
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today joined a bipartisan coalition in cosponsoring the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act. Hatch delivered the following remarks to promote the bill. 
   Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce today along with my colleagues, Senators Harry Reid, John Warner, Hillary Clinton, Olympia Snowe, Lisa Murkowski, and Bernie Sanders, the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act of 2007.  
   The American Cancer Society estimates that a woman in the United States has a one in eight chance of developing invasive breast cancer during her lifetime. This risk was about one in 11 in 1975. All women are at risk for breast cancer. About 90% of women who develop breast cancer do not have a family history of the disease. The most recent available statistics show that 40% of all women diagnosed with invasive breast cancer died from the disease within 20 years. These are frightening statistics. 
   Furthermore, the disease is not limited by gender - in 2007, approximately 1,750 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed among men in the United States. In my home state of Utah, as indicated by the Utah Cancer Registry, breast cancer has the highest incidence rate of the ten leading cancer types. This disease has an impact on nearly every American's life. 
   Breast cancer death rates have been dropping steadily since 1991; however, challenges still remain. The bottom line is that we still do not know what causes this disease, or how to prevent it. Although scientists have discovered some risk factors for breast cancer, the known risk factors account for only a small percentage - about 30 percent - of breast cancer cases. There are no proven interventions to prevent breast cancer and there is no cure. 
   There is general belief within the scientific community that the environment plays a role in the development of breast cancer, but the extent of that role has been less-examined. Research has investigated the effect of isolated environmental factors such as diet, pesticides, and electromagnetic fields; but, in most cases, there has been no conclusive evidence. Some scientists hypothesize that certain subgroups of women have genetic variants that may make them more susceptible to adverse environmental exposures. 
   In addition, a large study of twins demonstrated that the majority of breast cancers cannot be explained by inherited factors. The incidence of breast cancer in Western industrialized countries, such as the United States, is much higher than the incidence in Africa and Asia. When women migrate from a country with low incidence to a country with high incidence, their daughters experience the breast cancer risk of the new country's population. The discrepancy in incidence among various countries suggests that some of the differences in incidence may be explained by environmental exposures. 
   In-depth study of these potential risks could provide invaluable information in understanding the causes of breast cancer, and could lead to new prevention strategies. Clearly, more research needs to be done to determine the impact of environmental factors on breast cancer. 
   My colleagues and I are introducing the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act of 2007 to address this palpable need for research. It creates a national strategy to conduct research into the possible links between breast cancer and the environment. The time to address these frightening statistics is now. 
   Specifically, the bill authorizes the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to award grants for the development and operation of up to eight centers for the purpose of conducting research on environmental factors that may be related to breast cancer. These centers will work across institutions, across disciplines, and with community organizations to study environmental factors that may cause breast cancer. 
   This legislation is modeled after the highly successful and promising Department of Defense Breast Cancer Research Program (DOD BCRP), which operates under a competitive, peer-reviewed grant-making process that involves consumers. 
   Isolated studies have been conducted to look at suspected environmental links to breast cancer; but these studies are only a small step toward the broad strategic research that is required. What is needed is a collaborative, comprehensive, nationally-focused strategy to address this oversight - a strategy like the one outlined in this bill. 
   It is important to note that while we have made progress in the fight against breast cancer, we are still a long way from prevention or a cure - breast cancer remains the leading cause of cancer death among women worldwide. Studies have shown that environmental factors that cause breast cancer may exist, but conclusive evidence is scarce. This bill will go a long way in helping the scientific community explore environmental triggers of breast cancer. 
   The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act had strong bipartisan support in the 109th Congress, with 66 Senate cosponsors. In the House of Representatives, 262 Members supported the legislation. 
   I urge my colleagues to think of breast cancer patients and their loved ones, and support this important bill. This federal commitment is critical for the overall, national strategy and the long-term investments required to discover the environmental causes of breast cancer so that we can better prevent it, treat it more effectively, and, ultimately, cure it.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 