SENS. HATCH, BENNETT TO HOST MEDICARE DRUG DISCOUNT CARD TOWN MEETINGS
  Sens. Orrin Hatch and Bob Bennett will host two town meetings with senior Bush administration officials on Friday, June 18, 2004 - one in Salt Lake and another in St. George - to help Utah seniors learn more about the new Medicare-approved drug discount card. 
   Dr. Mark McClellan, administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), will join Bennett and Hatch in Salt Lake to explain the benefits of the new program. Alex Trujillo, CMS regional administrator, will speak in St. George. State health department officials, senior organization representatives, and drug discount card providers will also be at both locations to help beneficiaries determine which card best fits their needs.
   "The Medicare drug discount card is an important first step in giving seniors and disabled individuals a much needed prescription drug benefit," said Bennett. "We have invited Dr. McClellan and other experts to Utah to explain the new program and make sure beneficiaries have the information they need to make the best decision."
   "For the first time, Medicare is now offering seniors and the disabled help with their prescription drugs," Hatch said. "This is new to Medicare, and it can be confusing. That's why we want to meet face to face with beneficiaries to help them understand the new benefit and ensure they receive the maximum value on their cards."
   Salt Lake and St. George Event Information:
   * Salt Lake Community College Larry H. Miller Campus, 9750 South 300 West, Sandy, 10 a.m. - Noon.
   * Santa Clara Branch Library, 1099 North Lava Flow Drive, St. George, 3 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 
   Seniors should bring their Medicare identification number and the names and dosage of their prescription drugs to the meeting. Additional income information may be needed to determine eligibility for the $600 low-income credit. Prior to the meeting, they may also call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227) or (877) 486-2048 TTY, or visit www.medicare.gov for more information or to compare available drug discount cards. 
   The discount card program became law last December as part of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. Card enrollment began on May 3, 2004, and drug savings began as early as June 1, 2004.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 