SEN. HATCH: COMMUTER RAIL FUNDING APPROVED
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) commended Utah transit officials for securing a government promise to cover up to 80 percent of the cost of the Salt Lake-to-Weber commuter rail line.  
   "This is a landmark day for transportation in Utah," Hatch said. "I know that traffic between Salt Lake and Weber can get incredibly congested, and this rail line will improve the lives of commuters all along the northern Wasatch Front." 
   In March, Hatch and fellow Utah Senator Robert F. Bennett wrote the Bush Administration, urging officials for prompt final approval of the grant agreement. The Senators highlighted the rigorous two-year review the project had undergone with the Federal Transit Authority, the White House recommended the grant on April 10 to Congress, which approved it - after a required 60-day waiting period - on June 9. 
   "UTA's light rail line has been incredibly successful, as I'm confident the commuter rail will be," Hatch said. "Given UTA's history of success, it was very easy for Bob and me to convince the Administration to green-light the commuter rail project." 
   The agreement will reimburse UTA on the commuter rail for about $80 million per year for the next six years. This covers an estimated 80 percent of the project's costs. Because UTA will have the pledged support of the federal government, it will be able to bond for the project as needed at a significantly lower rate - comparable to the way home buyers get a better interest rate on a mortgage with a letter of credit. 
   "Now that we have this pledge of support from the Administration, we have the resources to start laying tracks with confidence," Hatch said. "This is a great step toward building the commuter rail line." 
   UTA's long-range plan for commuter rail is a 175-mile system connecting Brigham City to Payson. Financing for the commuter rail comes from federal funds, county funds (a ? cent sales tax increase passed in 2000 by voters in Weber, Salt Lake, and Davis Counties) and matching dollars by local governments and private developers. Commuter rail will reduce traffic and stress on existing roads, which will improve worker productivity and gas mileage. Moreover, efficient public transportation is likely to attract new businesses to the area.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 