SEN. HATCH ANNOUNCES 2007 CONFERENCE FOR SENIORS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) announced the line-up today for the 20th Annual Conference for Seniors. This year's conference will feature "Mr. Piano" Roger Williams, and entertainer Jason Hewlett. The Conference will be held on Monday, April 2, 2007, at the Little America Hotel in Salt Lake City starting at 9 a.m.  
   Seniors across the country can relate to the music of Roger Williams, a musician with hits spanning decades. Williams burst onto the popular music scene in 1955 when he recorded the only piano instrumental to ever reach #1 on the Billboard singles charts - Autumn Leaves. He followed that hit with more million selling records including: Born Free, The Impossible Dream, and Maria. Williams has earned the title "Pianist to the Presidents," playing for eight different U. S. Presidents. 
   Jason Hewlett has entertained audiences across America with his creativity and hilarious impersonations. This Salt Lake City native is a one of a kind impressionist, musician, and humorist. His one-man show incorporates impressions of many well-known celebrities while weaving in his personal experiences and inspiring stories. 
   The Conference will also include presentations by local weather forecaster Mark Eubank, "Grocery Guru" Ken Roesbery, and Anthony Principi, former secretary of the U. S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Other workshops will focus on the Medicare Prescription Drug Plan, stem cell research, volunteerism, men's health, estate planning, and avoiding identity theft. 
   "This year's Conference will be highly entertaining, as well as informative," stated Hatch. "I have long admired Roger Williams for his talent and inspiring music, and feel privileged that he would take time in his schedule to perform for Utah's seniors. In addition, I am looking forward to the humor of Jason Hewlett, and the many informative and important workshops planned for this Conference." 
   For registration information, those interested can call (801) 413-9133.
   Contact: Heather Barney, 801/524-4380.
 
 