SEN. HATCH OUTLINES PLAN TO FIX SOCIAL SECURITY
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today called on Congress - and especially Senate Democrats - to stop partisan attacks and work toward a bold, bipartisan plan to resolve the looming Social Security crisis. 
   "Let's face it," Hatch told the audience at a Baker & Hostetler's Tax Budget, and Legislative Policy Seminar. "If we cannot find a way to attract significant bipartisan support in the Senate, Social Security reform is dead. The President knows this. You know it, and I know it. I hope that as this debate continues, and as the President continues his bold efforts to reform the system, my Democratic colleagues need to consider the price of inaction."  
   Hatch is committed to protecting the benefits of current retirees and making Social Security solvent for future generations. Today he outlined his draft reform plan that addresses the two basic shortcomings - the need to gradually raise the age of retirement and the need for workers to better prepare for retirement. 
   Hatch proposes creating separate retirement accounts, called Personal Unlimited Retirement Security (PURSE) accounts, which would be similar to Roth IRAs, that could be accessed only after retirement and feature significant dollar-for-dollar matching by the federal government. In addition, Hatch's plan would deposit a lump-sum federal contribution to the personal account of workers age 18 to 55 who voluntarily elect to postpone receiving Social Security benefits for five or 10 years. 
   "I believe an incentive such as this has the power to capture the imagination of younger Americans and make them think about savings and planning for retirement like they have never done before," Hatch said. "Imagine the impact on the attitude of a young worker of a monthly statement in his or her own name with a substantial and growing balance. Combine this with the force of a generous federal match for each American worker. Multiply this by millions of workers and you begin to see the potential power of this idea." 
   As an example of how this plan would work, Hatch suggested that a 20-year-old who decided to defer Social Security retirement benefits for five years would receive $10,000 in her PURSE account at the time of the election. If she also saved $1,000 each year and thus qualified for the full $1,000 federal savings match, she would have over $900,000 in the account at age 72, assuming the account grew at an annual rate of just 6 percent. 
   As the President, Hatch is considering several alternatives to funding Social Security solutions that would permanently resolve the system's solvency crisis. 
   The full text of Hatch's remarks today follows: 
   Remarks of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch 
  before Baker & Hostetler's 
  Tax, Budget and Legislative Policy Seminar
   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am very pleased to be with you. I see that you have a good lineup of speakers today, and I am honored to also have been invited. 
   I want to congratulate Baker and Hostetler and the other hosts of the 16th Annual Seminar on Tax, Budget, and Legislative Policy. I have been privileged to participate in several of these seminars in the past, and I think they offer everyone a great opportunity to get a sense of what is happening in Washington in budget and tax policy. 
   Of course, the biggest issue in Washington today is not exactly budget or tax, but is closely related to both. I don't think I am the first speaker here today to mention Social Security, and probably not the last. It is a topic very much on my mind, and I am sure it is on many of your minds as well. 
   The way I see it is that we are not merely talking about Social Security reform. I prefer to think of the topic as being broader than that. We really should be talking about retirement security, which includes Social Security, Medicare, savings, pension reform, and more. All of these things are interrelated. 
   To say that we face challenges in retirement security is a tremendous understatement. The retirement of the massive Baby Boom generation will bring about profound changes and challenges to our country over the next couple of decades. 
   To meet the challenges brought about by the aging of our population is going to require vision and leadership. And, it is going to take new ideas and bipartisanship. 
   I want to congratulate President Bush for having the vision to take on the issue of Social Security reform. George W. Bush recognizes that the nation faces an enormous challenge in keeping Social Security viable for younger Americans, and he is stepping up to the plate to lead the nation in dealing with it. 
   His first task has been to educate the country about the problems facing Social Security, and here he has already made a difference. Based on polls released just this week, 71 percent of Americans believe the system is headed for a crisis, and 60 percent are opposed to just doing nothing. It is clear that Congress should deal with this issue this year. 
   There are plenty of ideas on how to best reform the system. Unfortunately, it is bipartisanship that seems to be in the shortest supply right now. But, bipartisanship is the essential ingredient we need to get any reform measure passed in the Senate. 
   I think it is tragic that the current debate on Social Security has degenerated into a sideshow on the wisdom of personal accounts. Please don't get me wrong - I am a supporter of personal accounts and I think they are key to rescuing Social Security and solving insolvency problems. Unfortunately, though, opponents are painting President Bush's position as being entirely about personal accounts, and nothing else. 
   Well, I was present in the House Chamber on February 2 when the President laid out his vision for saving Social Security. In that address, President Bush mentioned all of the following bipartisan ideas: 
   * Limiting benefits for wealthy retirees; 
  * Changing the indexing from that of wages to prices; 
  * Increasing the retirement age; 
  * Discouraging early retirement; 
  * Changing the benefit formula. 
   I also clearly heard the President reach out to Democrats for their ideas and their participation. The principles he set forth are bipartisan. So far, though, we are getting too few Democratic ideas and far too little of their participation. 
   I also heard him make it clear that current Social Security beneficiaries and those nearing retirement have nothing to fear from reform. It really upsets me now to see television and newspaper ads that are scaring seniors into believing their benefits are in jeopardy from President Bush's plan. Those engaging in this kind of deceit and demagoguery should be ashamed. 
   Let's take a look at the President's idea of personal accounts funded by diverting a portion of the worker's FICA tax. President Bush has suggested that as much as 4 percent of the worker's FICA tax be used to fund the accounts. These would be totally voluntary, and it could only be elected by those under age 55. 
   The money going into these accounts would be invested in a conservative mix of stock and bond funds that are similar to the options featured in the Thrift Savings Plan. This is hardly the risky gamble that the President's detractors have tried to make it out to be. Those who criticize this idea seem to not understand that practically every pension plan in America is invested in stocks and bonds. 
   I submit that there is absolutely nothing wrong with the idea of investing some of today's earnings in stocks and bonds to allow them to grow to fund tomorrow's retirement benefits. It is the prudent thing to do. Again, it is what the trustees of pension plans do with the money with which they are entrusted. 
   The President's detractors also do not like what they see as the government having to borrow the money to make up for the amounts that would be diverted into the personal accounts. While I can understand some of the concern expressed over this borrowing, it is important to realize that this would not create a new net liability to Uncle Sam. 
   Because the proceeds of any new borrowing would be, in effect, deposited into the personal accounts, where the money generally would not be touched for decades, there would be assets created to offset the liability. 
   I keep hearing critics say that the personal accounts by themselves will do nothing to address the solvency of the Social Security system. 
   Well, my answer is that this is why President Bush listed all of the other reform ideas we should consider as well. He has never intended that personal accounts be the sole answer to reforming the system - just an important part of the solution. He is reaching out to members of Congress on both sides in order to find some consensus on changes that would address solvency. 
   However, some on the other side would rather try to corner the President into a box and hope to gain political benefit out of the failure of the reform plan, which failure they themselves would bring about. 
   Rather than refusing to bargain in good faith unless carve-out accounts are first taken off the table, these detractors would be better serving their fellow Americans if they would at least try to see if common ground exists between them and the President. 
   I want to commend one of my Senate colleagues - Ben Nelson - who has said that he wants to take a look at the entire plan before passing judgment on it. We can use more of his open-minded honesty in government today. 
   So far, we do have some good ideas already out on the table that are worth considering. 
   For example, Senator John Sununu and Congressman Paul Ryan have introduced a plan that is similar in concept to the President's. It would allow workers to voluntarily divert a portion of their FICA tax into personal accounts that would be larger than the 4 percent the President has suggested, and would average about 6.4 percent of wages. 
   This plan would guarantee retirees a minimum of the current-law Social Security benefit. If the worker's personal account at retirement were too small to pay this amount, the shortfall would be covered from the Social Security Trust Fund. 
   Another plan, introduced by Congressman Sam Johnson of Texas, would allow workers born after 1949 to elect to place their entire half of FICA taxes in a personal account. Those choosing to do so would agree to forego all future accrual of retirement benefits under the traditional Social Security system. 
   Under the Johnson plan, the employer's share of the payroll tax would be used to fund the transition costs and fund disability and survivor benefits. The proposal would establish a safety net to ensure that no retiree's benefits fell below 100 percent of the poverty level. 
   Another plan, the only bipartisan plan that has been introduced so far, is sponsored by Representatives Jim Kolbe and Alan Boyd. This proposal also features carve-out accounts, but these would not be voluntary. Every worker under age 55 would redirect 3 percent of the first $10,000 of taxable earnings and 2 percent of the remaining taxable earnings to the personal account. 
   Individual workers would also be able to contribute up to $2,000 of their own savings to these accounts, with a match of up to $600 for lower-income workers. The Kolbe-Boyd plan would also speed up the current-law increase in the retirement age to 67 and also increase the FICA earnings cap from the present-law $90,000 to an amount that covers 87 percent of covered earnings, up from 83 percent today. Workers would be guaranteed a retirement benefit at least equal to 100 percent of poverty level. 
   Still another plan is that introduced by Congressman Clay Shaw, who was here this morning, which he developed with Bill Archer back in 1998. That plan would create add-on accounts equal to 2 percent of the FICA tax. Workers would direct the investments among an array of mutual fund-type accounts, which would grow tax free. 
   At the time of retirement, the amount of Social Security benefit would be determined, in part, by the balance in the personal account, which would be annuitized. If the monthly payment from the personal account annuity did not at least equal the individual's current-law Social Security monthly benefit, the Social Security Trust Fund would make up the shortfall. If the amount of the personal account annuity is greater than the current-law Social Security benefit, the individual would get to keep the excess. 
   The most recent reform plan is the one introduced last week by Senator Chuck Hagel. The Hagel plan would allow workers under age 45 to voluntarily invest 4 percent of their FICA tax into personal accounts. There would be no change in benefits for survivors of deceased workers or for disabled workers. 
   Senator Hagel's proposal would achieve solvency over the next 75 years, not by raising taxes, but by increasing the retirement age from 67 to 68, reducing early retirement benefits from 70 percent of the full benefit to 63 percent, and by factoring life expectancy into the traditional benefit calculation. 
   In reviewing these plans, I am struck by three thoughts. The first is how similar they are. The second is the glaring omission of the vital ingredient for enactment - a Senate Democrat - from any of the plans. Finally, though I respect and commend all those who have put forth reform ideas, I am afraid that none of the plans really strikes boldly at the heart of the problem. 
   However, I am intrigued by the progressive indexing plan being floated by my home-state colleague Bob Bennett. This plan is based on a concept developed by Robert Pozen, a Democrat who served on the President's Social Security Commission. 
   Current Social Security benefits are based on wage growth, which has outstripped growth of prices by about one percent per year. The result is that inflation-adjusted benefits are expected to double by 2077, which is a promise younger generations of American workers simply cannot afford to keep, given the change in demographics. 
   Changing from wage to price indexing would solve entirely the solvency problem of Social Security. However, it would probably not attract enough bipartisan support to pass in the Senate. 
   Progressive indexing would keep wage indexing for the 30 percent of workers making the lowest incomes, would switch the formula to price indexing for the 30 percent of workers making the most, and offer a blended indexing for the 40 percent in the middle. Under this idea, no one's benefit would be cut, although the wealthiest workers would see their benefits grow much more slowly. Low-income workers would have no change at all. 
   To me, this is fair, and it makes good sense, economically and politically. By itself it would not go all the way to restoring solvency to the system, but it would go a long distance. I commend both Senator Bennett and Mr. Pozen for this concept, and I hope my colleagues on both sides will consider it as part of the solution. 
   In my view, a successful Social Security reform plan must do more than tinker at the edges, but address fundamentally two basic shortcomings in the way we think about retirement security - the age to retire and how to prepare for retirement. 
   When the Social Security system was enacted in 1935, life expectancy at birth was 61.7 years. Yet, the full retirement age for Social Security was set at age 65. Today, life expectancy at birth is over age 77, but the full retirement age has increased only to between ages 65 and 66, for those retiring this year. 
   More relevant is the fact that the remaining life expectancy for those who had reached age 65 in 1940 was 13 more years. Today, remaining life expectancy at age 65 is over 18 years, and rising. The big question is what will it be when today's 25-year-olds reach 65. 
   With the advances in medical research we are experiencing, there is every reason to expect this age to keep rising, perhaps dramatically. The young people of today may routinely live to well into their 90s and to 100 and beyond. 
   We are very likely moving to a new condition over the next few decades where retirement at age 62 or age 66 or 67 is not just slightly out of synch, but grossly out of touch with the real world and far too young and no longer beneficial, either to the individual or to society. 
   Moreover, the demographics of the retirement of the Baby Boom generation are not going to be favorable to the idea of everyone retiring at the traditional ages we have come to expect. A report by the GAO released in 2003 noted that some economists are predicting a labor shortage of as many as 35 million workers by 2030. 
   Of course, such a huge shortage of skilled workers could have a profoundly negative effect on economic growth and our ability to meet the needs of those who have retired and are depending on Social Security and Medicare. 
   The ramifications of a longer life expectancy in future decades are enormous and reach well beyond Social Security. For example, these changes will require major shifts in public policy in the areas of labor and the workforce, health care, education, Medicare, pensions, housing, tax policy, global competitiveness, and more. 
   In thinking about Social Security reform, we should anticipate these changes and modify the system accordingly, giving it the flexibility it needs to respond to future conditions. This means, I believe, that at a minimum we should index the Social Security retirement age to life expectancy. 
   However, I suggest that rather than merely being reactive and fussing around the edges of Social Security, we be aggressive in reforming the system. This means we should begin to change the culture in America now so that young people will begin to anticipate and plan for a more productive and longer worklife as well as a more rewarding and longer retirement. 
   In order to do this, I suggest we consider offering our young people strong incentives to save more now and to plan to work to an older age. For example, I have been working on a plan that would provide for what I call PURSE Accounts, which is an acronym for Personal Unlimited Retirement Security Accounts. 
   These accounts would be outside the Social Security system but closely related to it. They would be similar in many ways to Roth IRAs, except there would be no allowance for withdrawals from the account prior to age 65, except in the case of death or disability. The accounts would be available for all ages, and have a $5,000 annual contribution limit, with no income limitations. 
   To encourage people to save more for their retirement, I suggest a strong federal match for those with lower incomes. For example, my draft calls for a dollar-for-dollar match for those making less than $20,000 per year, with a maximum match of $1,000 per year. The match would phase down as income rises, and be eliminated by the time income exceeds $80,000. 
   The centerpiece of my idea, however, is a strong financial incentive for workers ages 18 to 55 to voluntarily defer the age at which they will begin to receive Social Security benefits by five or ten years. In other words, in exchange for a lump-sum cash payment to be deposited directly into their PURSE accounts, workers would agree to wait five or ten years to begin drawing their Social Security benefits. 
   The amount of the lump-sum payment would be based on a formula depending on the age at the time the election is made and the number of years of the deferral. For example, my draft calls for a payment of $100 multiplied by the age of the worker for each year of deferral. So, a 25-year-old would get a payment of $12,500 for agreeing to wait for five years to take Social Security and $25,000 for a ten-year deferral. 
   Keep in mind that these lump-sum payments would grow tax free, along with the contributions made by the individuals themselves and the federal matches. By the time the individual reached retirement age, the amounts could be very substantial, especially for younger workers. 
   For example, a 20-year-old who decided to defer Social Security retirement benefits for five years would receive $10,000 in her PURSE account at the time of the election. If she also saved $1,000 each year and thus qualified for the full $1,000 federal savings match, she would have over $900,000 in the account at age 72, assuming the account grew at an annual rate of just 6 percent. 
   Does this mean that someone electing to make this election would actually have to wait until age 72 or age 77 to retire? No. The worker would be able to begin withdrawing funds from the PURSE account anytime after age 64 if they wanted to retire at that time. Then, at age 72 or 77, whenever they had elected, they could also begin to draw their regular Social Security benefits on top of their PURSE account assets. 
   Also, it is important to note that the decision to defer retirement would not be irrevocable. A worker could reverse the decision simply by giving back the lump sum and any earnings attributable to it. 
   I believe an incentive such as this has the power to capture the imagination of younger Americans and make them think about savings and planning for retirement like they have never done before. Polls indicate most of our young people do not believe Social Security is going to be there for them when they retire. 
   Imagine the impact on the attitude of a young worker of a monthly statement in his or her own name with a substantial and growing balance. Combine this with the force of a generous federal match for each additional dollar saved by the worker. Multiply this by millions and you begin to see the potential power of this idea. 
   Think of the additional benefits to the economy of billions of dollars in new savings. In addition, the economy would grow faster and be stronger because millions would decide to keep working instead of retiring at age 62 or 67. These workers would keep paying taxes at a higher rate, which would further shore up Social Security and Medicare. The benefits would permeate throughout the economy and society. 
   One question that might be on many minds is how to pay for these ideas. My first choice would be the same as the President's - that is, we borrow it. Because we would be creating assets to pay for an unfunded future liability, which we will eventually have to fund, we would not be creating a new liability. 
   However, I recognize this approach will not likely get much bipartisan support in the Senate, which is a weakness of all the other plans I mentioned. Therefore, as a last resort I might reluctantly consider other alternatives, such as an increase in the FICA wage cap. 
   While I am not in favor of raising taxes, I believe that an increase in the wage cap might be justified if done carefully, and as a trade-off for the benefits of a properly-crafted Social Security reform plan. Also, I am aware that I am not the only Republican who has suggested this idea. As you know, the President himself has refused to take this increase off the table. 
   Some of my constituents question how we can justify the current-law cap, which forces those making under $90,000 per year to pay Social Security taxes on 100 percent of their income, while multi-billionaires like Warren Buffet and Bill Gates pay only a tiny fraction of their earned income in FICA taxes. 
   My answer to them is that Social Security is very progressive in its benefit structure, meaning the wealthiest workers get a comparatively raw deal, and would get an even worse outcome if there were no cap. While this is a partial justification, it is not a totally satisfactory answer. 
   If we do need to raise the wage cap to get a bipartisan deal, it should be done in a way to minimize the loss of job creation. For example, I am worried about the effect on small businesses and the self-employed. For these, perhaps we could lower the rate or exempt them altogether, at least for the employee's portion. Or, we might consider Lindsey Graham's idea of creating a doughnut hole where people just over the $90,000 are not affected, but have the tax kick in again at say $150,000 or $180,000. 
   Another consideration is that those making over $180,000 are in the best position by far to take advantage of the increased vitality of the economy that would come from vastly increased new savings. 
   Let's face it. If we cannot find a way to attract significant bipartisan support in the Senate, Social Security reform is dead. The President knows this. You know it, and I know it. 
   I hope that as this debate continues, and as the President continues his bold efforts to reform the system, the American people and my Democratic colleagues consider the price of inaction. 
   Opponents of the President's concepts talk about the risk of allowing personal accounts with part of Social Security invested in the bond and equity markets. 
   I submit the real risk to America is to allow scaremongers to frighten us into gridlock. 
   Thank you.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 