SENATE PASSES PENSION REFORM LEGISLATION
  The United States Senate today passed legislation to strengthen and improve the nation's private-pension system, which included provisions pushed by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) that would benefit employers in Utah. The Pension Security and Transparency Act of 2005 (S. 1783) passed by a 58 to 41 vote.  
   "Traditional pension plans are in jeopardy and threatening the retirement plans of thousands in Utah," Hatch said. "This isn't a perfect bill, but it goes a long way toward making sure that traditional pension plans are fully funded." 
   The Senate approved a Hatch-backed amendment to help protect the benefits of airline employees, including Delta Air Lines, by giving airlines extra relief in funding their pension obligations. It gives airlines the option to fund their pension obligation on a manageable, stabilized schedule over 20 years, while freezing their plans at the current level to contain their debt. 
   "The airlines have struggled to recover from the impact of September 11, and the rising cost of jet fuel has made that increasingly difficult," Hatch said. "The airlines shouldn't be allowed to keep digging the hole deeper, but providing this relief is much better than forcing the airlines to shift their burden on the Federal government and taxpayers." 
   As a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, Hatch worked to include provisions in the bill that provide certain protections for multiple-employer pensions plans that are important to many of the electrical and telephone cooperatives in Utah. 
   "These cooperatives provide most of the electrical and phone services throughout rural Utah," Hatch said. "Thousands of employees rely on these pensions for a secure retirement." 
   Hatch also successfully included a provision in the bill that ensures associations, including the Utah Auto Dealers Association, are not forced to give up their health plans that have helped thousands of small businesses across the country control rising health care costs. 
   "We're experiencing a huge spike in health care costs, and this gives small businesses the flexibility they need to continue providing benefits," Hatch said.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 