SEN. HATCH SPEAKS ON ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) delivered the following statement before the United States Senate on the Alternative Minimum Tax. 
   Mr. President, I rise today to discuss an impending crisis for the American taxpayer. The cause of this crisis is the failure of Congress to deal honestly with the Alternative Minimum tax, or AMT. 
   Debate over what to do about the AMT has become a yearly ritual on Capitol Hill. 
   But this year we are dragging our feet, and the more we delay the more likely it is that millions of Americans will get socked with an unexpected tax bill next year. Millions more will have their refunds delayed.  
   Now it appears that we are not going to address the AMT until December. 
   Failure to address the AMT promptly on our return will be a pretty terrible Christmas surprise for the families impacted by congressional ineptitude. 
   But it will certainly be a surprise they never forget. 
   I can see it now. 
   Surprise! You need to write a check for $3,000 to the IRS by April 15th. 
   That's right up there with-Surprise! You have been served. 
   And yet, Congress delays. 
   Congress fiddles. 
   This is grossly irresponsible. 
   According to Secretary Paulson and the Department of the Treasury, unless we fix the AMT, 25 million taxpayers will be subject to it in 2007. That is 21 million more than in 2006. And 25 million other taxpayers will face delays in the processing of their returns, and receiving of refunds. 
   In my state of Utah, the Joint Tax Committee estimates that we will jump from 19,000 AMT filers, to 150,000 AMT filers. 
   This is unacceptable. 
   Most of the taxpayers who are at risk have not planned for the eventuality of AMT liability. After all, year after year, like clockwork, the Republican-controlled Congress passed AMT relief. 
   We are already too late to avoid some problems. 
   IRS has warned Congress that unless we fixed the AMT by early November, there would be serious delays in the processing of tax returns. 
   We are now pushing toward Thanksgiving. 
   Secretary Paulson has made clear that based on historical filing patterns, enactment of an AMT fix in mid-to-late December could delay issuance of approximately $75 billion in refunds. That is 25 million tax refunds delayed. 
   It is always a bad idea for Members of Congress to get between their constituents and their tax refunds. 
   Yet, here we are. 
   How did we come to this pass? 
   The story of the AMT should be a case study for limited government. 
   Give Congress long enough, and it will find a way to mess things up. 
   In 1969, the press reported that 155 high-income Americans paid no federal income taxes in 1966. 
   And Congress came to the rescue, creating an AMT that would make sure that all Americans paid their fair share. 
   The AMT would prevent tax avoidance by disallowing certain credits and deductions. 
   As if it is not bad enough figuring out one tax system, now many Americans would have to compute their tax a second way-once under the traditional income tax and once under the AMT. 
   And naturally, the tax that gets paid is the one which is highest. 
   Still, this AMT was originally meant to apply to a small number of filers. 
   Today, it is a menace threatening millions of Americans. Absent changes, estimates show that by 2010 nearly 89 percent of married couples with two children earning between $75,000 and $100,000 will be hit by the AMT. And make no mistake about it, elected officials are responsible for this train wreck. 
   In 1986, Congress failed to index the AMT exemption for inflation. 
   In 1993, a Democratic Congress and President Clinton took us a bit further down the road toward this fiscal debacle. They raised the 24% rate on the first $175,000 of AMT-taxable income to 26%. The rate on income in excess of $175,000 was raised to 28%. 
   Republicans in Congress attempted to right the ship. In 1999, we passed a provision repealing the AMT in its entirety. 
   Done. 
   Finito. 
   Vaya con dios AMT. 
   Had President Clinton signed this bill, we would not be having this debate today. 
   Millions of Americans would not be staring down the barrel of an unfair and unplanned-for tax hike. 
   But we know how this story ended. 
   President Clinton vetoed the bill. 
   This was the coup de grace. 
   And so the AMT would continue to haunt us, growing bigger and more destructive each year. 
   The tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 only further emphasized the insidiousness of the AMT. These tax cuts promised tax relief to middle class families and economic growth. Yet as the economy grew, and income rose, more and more middle class families fell into the AMT trap. 
   Economic growth, income growth, tax cuts, and a failure to index the AMT for inflation created one costly cocktail for many families. 
   So there you have it. Congress manages to take a tax designed to target a handful of super-rich tax avoiders, and 40 years later millions of middle class families are being hit by that tax. 
   For what it is worth, this experience should give pause to any American who wants to hand management of the nation's health care system over to the good people on Capitol Hill. 
   Nonetheless, since 2001, Congress has patched the AMT. 
   In layman's terms, on a yearly basis we have increased the AMT exemption. The result is that fewer Americans have an AMT liability greater than their liability under the ordinary income tax. 
   These patches have done the trick. They have prevented the AMT from hitting ever more families. 
   Republicans dutifully passed that patch as sure as the sun rising in the morning. 
   Do not get me wrong. 
   A yearly patch is no substitute for complete repeal of the AMT, which I have been advocating for many years. Only complete repeal will remove the uncertainty faced by millions of Americans with potential AMT liability. 
   And as is on full display this year, that uncertainty is growing. 
   The problem now is the insistence by my colleagues on the other side that we follow the so-called PAYGO rules. Under a Democratic Congress, any tax cuts must be paid-for. 
   Let me translate that for you. 
   This Democratic Congress is going to raise your taxes. 
   And to pay for the AMT, a Democratic Congress is going to have to raise a lot of taxes. 
   Under PAYGO rules, if Congress passes a provision that reduces revenues to the Treasury, it must make up the balance from somewhere else. This is true even if the provision does not cut taxes, but merely prevents a tax increase from hitting middle class American families. 
   The Democratic Congress is very proud of these rules. These rules supposedly demonstrate a commitment to fiscal responsibility. 
   But as some wags have suggested, the Democrats misnamed their rule. 
   It would be more accurate to call it TAXGO. 
   You see, in the hands of a Democratic Congress, the way to balance the books after a tax cut is NEVER to cut spending. 
   It is always to raise taxes. 
   You have to love the logic. 
   We are going to cut taxes by raising taxes. 
   This is a public policy of Robbing Peter to Pay Paul. 
   Do not take my word for it. 
   This is what Congressman Tim Mahoney, a Florida Democrat, had to say. "You want to reward people for taking risks. How about budget cuts to make government more efficient? We need to show people we are good managers and stewards of their money. I've been here 10 months and I haven't seen one proposal to cut spending." 
   I think that about hits the mark. 
   For the Democrats, fiscal responsibility means one thing-raising taxes. 
   They have a one-page playbook. 
   And with the AMT fix passed by the House last week, they ran that play right down the throats of the American people. 
   Touchdown Democrats! 
   Unfortunately, the American people are the big losers here. 
   A one-year patch for the AMT costs $50 billion. 
   For two years, we will need to come up with $135 billion. 
   Permanent repeal of the AMT, will cost $872 billion. 
   But let's just start with the one-year patch. In order to pay for this, the House had to come up with $50 billion in tax increases. 
   One of the most talked-about tax hikes in that bill involves treating carried-interest income, currently taxed as capital gains, as ordinary income. 
   This is an old-school soak the rich play, honed before the adoption of the forward pass. 
   I think for this one, the Democrats pulled out FDR's playbook. 
   Go after private equity managers. Raise taxes on the 50,000 people nationwide earning carried interest, and keep taxes level for the 23 million people whose financial security is jeopardized by the AMT. 
   Never mind the fact that this could create perverse disincentives for one of the engines of our economic growth. 
   Never mind that it would reduce risk taking in venture capital firms and real estate partnerships and other entities that create jobs and economic growth. 
   And never mind the fact that we are paying for a one-year AMT patch by permanently raising taxes. 
   No. 
   What is really pathetic about this proposal is that the Democrats want to permanently raise taxes to pay-for revenue THAT WE NEVER THOUGHT WE WOULD HAVE IN THE FIRST PLACE. 
   People, this is phantom revenue. 
   We were never going to collect this money. 
   We never WANTED to collect this money. 
   But with a twisted sense of fiscal responsibility, we are now going down the road of permanently increasing taxes to make one-year offsets on money we never thought we would have. 
   This is some seriously warped tax policy. 
   The House Majority Leader sees these misguided tax hikes as a model of virtuous statesmanship. "Raising revenues takes political courage." 
   If that is true, then the House Democrats are the Spartans of tax hikes. 
   In the end, I doubt that we will raise taxes to pay for AMT relief. I certainly hope that we do not. 
   I understand why the Democrats feel the need to blame someone else for this problem. 
   While Americans everywhere could be hit by the AMT, it really is the high-tax states represented by Democrats that will suffer the most if Congress fails to act. 
   Taxpayers in California, Connecticut, Maryland, New Jersey, and New York filed 44.2% of all AMT returns last year. 
   This disparity is only growing. 
   If Congress does not fix this problem, in states like Connecticut, Maryland, and New Jersey, nearly 25% of filers will be forced into the AMT. 
   Absent AMT relief, New York would have 1,000,000 additional AMT this year compared to last year. 
   In California, the number of new AMT filers would increase by 1.7 million. 
   These individuals and families never thought that they would be subject to the AMT. And so they did not withhold accordingly. 
   The worst case scenario then is that they will actually have to cut checks for thousands of dollars come April. 
   And let's not forget the 25 million lower-income taxpayers who are facing long delays in getting their refunds. 
   This would be devastating. 
   And yet we continue to dither. 
   The answer is easy. 
   Just repeal it! 
   Just do it! 
   Get rid of it already! 
   But Democrats do not seem inclined to do the sensible thing. 
   They want to let the AMT linger and fester. 
   Year after year, repeal will become ever more expensive, and the Democrats, armed with their PAYGO rules will have to find a way to balance the books when they do repeal it. 
   And what do they propose? 
   How will they offset the nearly trillion dollars that AMT repeal or reform will cost? 
   If you look closely enough, you can just make it out on the horizon. 
   The motherload. 
   The mothership. 
   The mother of all tax reforms, according to the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. 
   AMT relief is at the center of the central Democratic proposal for tax reform. 
   And while this tax reform is going nowhere right now, make no mistake about it. This is what we have to look forward to from a Democratic Congress and White House. 
   My friend from New York, the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, has a way of getting what he wants. He is smart, and persistent, and he knows how to cut a deal. 
   And this mother is his baby. 
   Of course, that relief is not real relief, since we never intended those families to pay the AMT in the first place. Calling this tax relief is like someone getting ready to hit you in the head with a hammer, deciding not to hit you, and then telling you that he's doing you a favor. 
   And what she gives with one hand, this mother takes away with the other, by assuming that the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, so essential to our economic growth, will expire. 
   The mothership already comes fully loaded with the largest tax increase in history. 
   Allowing the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts to expire would dwarf even that. 
   This is not a recipe for happy taxpayers. This is bitter and unnecessary medicine. 
   And the Democrats in Congress seem prepared to make the American taxpayer take the dose. 
   We do not need to go down this track. 
   To borrow from an old movie, we should throw momma from the train. 
   It would be a real mistake to continue the practice of paying for fake, temporary tax cuts with real, and permanent tax hikes. 
   Contrary to the assertions of some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, the only responsible and the only realistic action we can take, is to repeal the AMT in its entirety right now. And we should do so without raising taxes. 
   We are going to have a debate in the next few years over fundamental tax reform. And we are going to have debates over fundamental health care reform. 
   We should do so without the specter of the AMT hanging over this chamber. 
   I urge my colleagues to repeal it in its entirety, right now. You cannot be fiscally responsible without being fiscally honest. 
   This phantom income should play no part in broader debates over tax reform. 
   At the very least, we should not pass permanent tax hikes that would have ugly economic ramifications in order to pay for one year of AMT relief. 
   Thank you. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 