SEN. HATCH TAPS FIVE UTAH COLLEGE STUDENTS FOR SENATE INTERNSHIPS
 Five Utah college students are learning about life on Capitol Hill with a semester internship in the Washington, D.C., office of U.S. Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). 
   Interns in Hatch's office help his work for Utah constituents. Exploring a variety of Capitol Hill experiences, the interns also attend press conferences, hearings, and committee meetings.  
   "These students are a welcome addition to my D.C. team," Hatch said. "Interns can bring energy and enthusiasm to the work in our nation's capital that is a real asset to my office. They help me, and they learn a lot along the way that will help them in their futures." 
   Each semester, Hatch selects interns from Utah from the dozens of students who apply for the office's few openings. Schools recommend a group of applicants to the internship program based on their grade point average, extra-curricular activities and other accomplishments, then Hatch makes the final cut. Students may also apply on their own by clicking here. 
   "Internships in Congress are very tough to land," Hatch said. "There is competition among the students, but there is also competition among the various organizations and offices for the best interns. It's fortunate that so many young people in Utah are eager to come here and serve their country." 
   A native of Pleasant Grove, Utah, Brigham Young University student Jon Bradshaw, 24, is assigned to aid Hatch's work on the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
   "In my studies, I learned more about the political process and developed a desire to come to D.C.," Bradshaw said. "It has been a dream of mine to work with Utah's congressional delegation. There is no substitute for a first-hand view of the Senate in action." 
   A native of Providence, Utah, Utah State University student Kandice Crompton, 20, is assigned to aid Hatch with his work on health care and public lands issues. 
   "Living in Washington, D.C., and seeing how our country is run is something I've dreamed of doing since high school," Crompton said. "To actually be here, living it, is more than I ever imagined I was capable of, and I feel very fortunate to be having this experience." 
   A native of Hyde Park, Utah, Utah State University student Sean Durham, 23, is assigned to aid Hatch on tax policy. 
   "I have been a politics junkie for years, but participating in this internship has helped me realize how much is really involved in the Senate," Durham said. "The excitement about politics is all around, which in turn, makes me even more excited to be in the middle of it." 
   A native of Idaho Falls, Idaho, University of Utah student Natalie Roos, 22, is assigned to aid Hatch with his media outreach. 
   "I have always been interested in the role politics play in American culture," Roos said. "And it is great to have an up-close experience of the important roll that media and press play in shaping public political opinion." 
  A native of Sandy, Utah, University of Utah student Will Thompson, 21, is assigned to aid the administration of Hatch's personal office. 
   "I'm really excited about having the opportunity to gain such a unique insight into the legislative process and the mechanics of government on Capitol Hill," Thompson said. "Working here is proving to be a fascinating, growing experience."
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 