SEN. HATCH: AMERICANS SUFFERING FROM TAX OVERLOAD
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) marked today's income tax filing deadline by taking to the Senate floor and outlining his support for reducing the tax burden for Americans. 
   Hatch's full floor speech follows: 
   Mr. President, today the taxman cometh. Americans have April 17 circled on their calendars, and not with a smiley face. 
   This year, roughly 135 million Americans sat down to complete their tax returns. Many have made the unfortunate discovery that they owe additional money to the IRS. Others are shocked to learn that they owe something called the Alternative Minimum Tax.  
   I would like to emphasize one point today, a point that many of my constituents have learned the hard way: their tax burden is already too high. For middle-class Americans, tax day has become an aggravation at best, and an outrage at worst. Many Utahns, as well as distraught taxpayers throughout the nation, know the look of tax overload. They see it when they look in the mirror, and they see it when they look at their spouse. 
   There is the kitchen table. A late night. Some scattered papers and receipts. An elbow on the table. And a hand on the forehead in disbelief. 
   This is the look of overtaxed Americans. It is the look of misery and confusion. It does not need to be this way. There are economic burdens as well, and that burden is only going to grow if the Democrats get their way. Many of us pay too much in taxes already. But the policies of the congressional majority are a blueprint for even higher taxes. 
   Neither our citizens nor our economy can bear much more. Middle class Americans are overtaxed. According to the Tax Foundation, this year Americans will work 120 days to pay their total tax burden. Let's put this in perspective. 
   They will work 62 days to pay for their house and home. 
   They will work 52 days for health and medical care. 
   They will work 30 days for food. 
   But they will work 120 days to pay their taxes. 
   If you told my parents' generation that their tax burden would be that high, they would have thought we lost a war to France. 
   But the Democrats are not satisfied. They want the so-called rich to pay more of their so-called fair share. Let me translate. By rich they mean anyone with a job. And by fair share, they mean empty your wallet. 
   According to recent data from the IRS, persons making more than $30,122, or the top 50 percent of all income earners, paid 97 percent of all income taxes in 2004, the latest year there was data available. Those who made more than $60,041 in 2004, the top 25 percent, paid 85 percent of all income taxes. These people are not rich. 
   As one of my Democratic colleagues noted earlier this year, a mother and a father making $90,000 a year in a place like Virginia or New York or California are not rich. They are doing the best they can to provide for their families. And once you factor in taxes, housing, clothing, medical care, and college savings, those paychecks do not go that far. 
   The middle class is already paying out much more in taxes than is spent by the government on its behalf. According to the Tax Foundation, an individual making over $65,000 a year pays $7,217 more in taxes every year than is spent for him or her. But for some members of this body, our system is still not progressive enough. 
   I know that there are some policy wonks and political strategists who think the days of tax revolt are over. Apparently we are at some post-partisan, end of history, where Americans just accept big government and big bites out of their paychecks. I for one am not buying it. 
   It seems some things never change in this country. One of those things is the commitment of Americans to their rights of life, liberty, and property. Americans remain very jealous of their liberties. And rightly so. Chief among our liberties is the freedom to use the money that you earn, through your hard work and initiative, to build your business, buy a home, and take care of your family. 
   Working hard to fund some new government bureaucracy is not at the top of the list. And if taxes go up significantly, the party responsible is going to be in for a rude awakening. They are going to be reminded, with grave electoral consequences, that the government can only take so much. 
   Along with many of my colleagues on this side of the isle, I think that our tax burden is still too high. Many Americans still pay too much. The estate tax still destroys family businesses. Too many start-up businesses are killed off by taxes before they have really begun. We need to be providing tax incentives so people can responsibly save for their retirement and health care. 
   We need to be coming up with innovative tax policies and entitlement reforms. Instead, the Democrats are keeping mum as Medicare and Social Security take on water, keeping to themselves their foolproof plan to bail us out: raise taxes. The combined unfunded liability for Social Security and Medicare is $84 trillion. 
   Where is that money coming from? They are having a hard time coming up with money today for a $50 billion one-year fix for the AMT. Where are they going to get $84 trillion? Do not worry, they tell us. They are going to fix Social Security and Medicare. 
   But fixing it their way will break the backs of middle class taxpayers. Mark my words. They will raise taxes on the middle class, taking away or limiting savings vehicles for health and retirement. They will raise taxes on individuals, hiking rates and hurting families. And they will raise taxes on businesses, killing industry and choking initiative. 
   Conservatives are fond of saying that ideas have consequences. They certainly do. There are important differences between the parties. 
   In their guts, Democrats distrust markets, believe that more government intervention and government programs are the answer, and willing to hike taxes to achieve their goals. Those of us on this side of the isle believe in personal responsibility, low taxes, and encouraging the freedom, entrepreneurialism, and dynamism of the American people. 
   Ideas have consequences. One leads to economic prosperity. The other leads to national stagnation. 
   I want my constituents to know that in these debates to come, I stand with the taxpayer. We need to be encouraging industry. We need to be growing our economy. We need to be lowering and simplifying our tax burden. 
   Today's Democratic majority promised real change. Instead, we are getting the same tired song. They are not taking our nation's fiscal woes seriously. They are hoping that Americans will not object when their taxes are hiked to pay for our coming entitlement train wreck. 
   They should think twice before going down this road. Middle class Americans, like my constituents in Utah are trying to get their taxes done by tomorrow and they want their tax burden lowered? and so do I. 
   I promise to do all that I can to see that that happens.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 