SENATE PASSES SEN. HATCH BILL TO COMBAT DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
  Last night, the United States Senate unanimously passed legislation reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), a 1994 law sponsored by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Sen. Joseph Biden (D-Del.). Since its inception, VAWA has played a vital role in protecting women and families from the tragedy of violence and abuse, and the bill that passed today would reauthorize and expand VAWA through 2011.  
   "Domestic violence is a crime that strikes at the very foundation of society -- our families," Hatch said. "VAWA assists states and local communities as they attempt to prosecute and prevent these heartbreaking and home-wrecking crimes. I consider passing VAWA to be one of my greatest achievements as a Utah Senator." 
   Hatch noted that VAWA has contributed to decreasing violent crimes against women by 49 percent since 1992. Incidents of rape are down 60 percent, and attempted rape is down by 57 percent over the same period. And, importantly, more women are reporting domestic violence and receiving the necessary legal, financial, and social support they need for protection. 
   "The problem of violence against women does not always get the attention it deserves," Hatch said. "By providing important resources and encouraging the efforts of local law enforcement, VAWA has drawn attention to the human costs of these crimes. Today's unanimous vote shows the overwhelming consensus that these crimes can no longer be tolerated." 
   The original Act and subsequent legislation created new criminal penalties for federal interstate domestic violence, stalking and firearms crimes. It strengthened federal penalties for repeat sex offenders and required states and territories to enforce protection orders issued by other states. The 1994 law also created the Office on Violence Against Women, currently directed by Diane Stuart of Utah, which coordinates the federal funds that support rape prevention education, domestic violence intervention programs, battered women's shelters and law enforcement and prosecution services. Since its enactment, VAWA has provided more than $1.6 billion in grants to help states and local governments train personnel and establish domestic violence and sexual assault units that assist victims of violence. 
   The reauthorization currently before Congress would continue this commitment to law enforcement, victim service organizations and health care providers. In addition, it would expand resources to vulnerable rural and Native American communities and provides new protections for the elderly and young children exposed to abuse.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 