SEN. HATCH CORD BLOOD BILL PASSES SENATE
  Last night, the United States Senate unanimously passed legislation sponsored by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) to develop a national infrastructure for cord blood stem cell collection and research that could, in time, save the lives of thousands of gravely ill Americans. The Majority Leader attempted to pass the bill Thursday but was defeated, yet Hatch and Republican leaders were able to persuade those blocking the bill to release their objections and were able to secure its passage last night.  
   "This bill offers a rare opportunity to make an immediate impact in the lives of those who have a serious illness, and it was critical that we pass it right away," Hatch said. "Cord blood therapies have the potential to defeat untimely death and disease. Cord blood transplantation has already made a difference in many people's lives, and this bill creates the best possible system to provide patients, clinicians, and families with access to these life-saving treatments." 
   H.R. 2520, the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005, is the culmination of three-years' effort by Hatch to enact legislation that commits the federal government behind the new, widely supported field of cord blood stem cell research. Based on Hatch's Senate bill, S. 1317, the measure was developed in close consultation with the House of Representatives and is expected to quickly pass Congress and be signed into law by the President. 
   The compromise bill would create a network of qualified public cord blood banking centers nationwide and establish an inventory of 150,000 cord blood stem cell units that reflect the diversity of the United States. In conjunction with 5 million bone marrow donors registered with the National Marrow Donor Program, this inventory would enable 95 percent of Americans to receive an appropriately matched cord blood stem cell transplant. The cord blood inventory would provide a critical resource for those in need of transplants and allocate a certain proportion of units to sustain further research on cord blood stem cells. 
   H.R. 2520 also reauthorizes the National Marrow Donor Program, creates a demonstration program for families with sick children and establishes a patient advocacy program for both bone marrow and cord blood. It also incorporates recent recommendations from the Institute of Medicine on a national cord blood program and places cord blood and bone marrow under a single program. 
   Research has shown that cord blood may be used as an effective alternative to bone marrow in the treatment of as many as 70 diseases, such as sickle cell anemia and leukemia.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 