SENS. HATCH, GRASSLEY RESPOND TO PRESIDENT BUSH VETO THREAT OF CHILD HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM
  Senators Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today responded to the Bush Administration's veto threat of the reauthorization of the State Child Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), a bipartisan compromise that the two Republicans helped negotiate on the Senate Finance Committee. The SCHIP program has successfully provided insurance to more than 6 million children who otherwise would not have access to health care for the last 10 years.  
   "Tax legislation to expand health insurance coverage is badly needed, but there's no Democratic support for it in the SCHIP debate," Grassley said. "My goal is to work for a broad-based tax policy initiative to address the fundamental problems of rising health costs and the uninsured. In the meantime, our SCHIP initiative in the Finance Committee takes care of a program that's about to expire in a way that's more responsible than current law and $15 billion less than the budget resolution calls for." 
   "I respect the President's desire to craft a fiscally responsible plan for providing health care to the children of the working poor, who urgently need SCHIP to continue," Hatch said. "But compared to the $60 billion alternative presented by Democrats, this deal is a conservative compromise. It also addresses many of the concerns conservatives have with states which are covering adults and children with well-off parents with SCHIP funds. The President knows I want to help him change the tax code to expand health coverage. I've met with the Administration several times about this. Unfortunately, that plan is a non-starter with Democrats, and we need to act on SCHIP before it expires this September." 
   The fundamental question has been how much to add to the continuing baseline of $25 billion over the next five years: Democrats wanted to spend as much as $60 billion extra, whereas Republicans negotiated the plan down to only $35 million extra. If changes are legislated, the SCHIP program will continue at $24 million above the baseline. Grassley, Hatch, and others find this unacceptable since some problems have developed in SCHIP that the Senate Finance Committee aims to fix. For example, the Department of Health and Human Services has been authorizing insurance waivers for childless adults, contrary to SCHIP's original vision of focusing exclusively on children. The SCHIP reauthorization explicitly prohibits such waivers.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 