SENATE APPROVES LONG-TERM TRANSPORTATION BILL
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today joined an overwhelming majority in the Senate to invest $295 billion in the nation's transportation infrastructure.  
   "Utah desperately needs these funds to fight congestion," Hatch said. "Travel on Utah's roads has grown twice as fast as its population, but federal funding has remained flat. This bill will help Utah improve roads, increase capacity, and provide more transportation options." 
   Transportation officials and business leaders in Utah stress transportation needs are so great the state cannot delay new construction. Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) estimates that in 10 years, peak congestion along the Wasatch front will increase from one hour in the morning and in the evening to more than three hours. 
   "Utah's top priority right now is transportation funding because we simply do not have the money to meet the tremendous demands on our roads," Hatch said. "The legislature just made a significant boost in state funding last session, and now it's time the federal government live up to its end of the bargain." 
   Last year, Utah received $254 million in federal highway funding, yet UDOT maintains the state is unable increase capacity or maintain existing infrastructure at this level of funding. Responding to Utah's serious transportation needs, Hatch voted to increase total federal funding in the multi-year transportation bill by $11.2 billion, which would raise Utah's portion from the 
  $269 million originally included in the bill to $282 million. 
   The bill may significantly affect many transportation projects throughout Utah, including new I-15 interchanges in Ogden, Layton and Provo; commuter rail service from Ogden to Provo and light-rail lines to the airport and South Jordan; highway projects on US-6 in Carbon County and State Road 92 in Utah County; a railroad overpass in Kaysville; and building the Northern Corridor in St. George and a replacement bridge on US-89 in Pleasant Grove.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 