SEN. HATCH AIMS TO SHIELD RURAL PATIENTS, SMALL BUSINESSES FROM UNINTENDED MEDICARE CRUNCH
  Concerned the new Medicare competitive bidding process could hurt rural patients, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) introduced legislation today to ensure that small businesses are not squeezed out of the market for homecare devices. Hatch's bill would protect rural Medicare beneficiaries who rely on these small businesses to provide their walkers, wheelchairs, diabetic supplies, and other durable medical equipment (DME). A growing number of people with disabilities over the age of 50 are choosing to live at home instead of in assisted-living facilities or nursing homes. These patients often require DME so they can live independently at home.  
   "People in rural parts of Utah could be really hurt if their local provider is forced out of business," Hatch said. "Of course we want competition, but in some rural areas, you just don't have the infrastructure for a truly competitive market." 
   This year, Medicare implemented a competitive-bidding program to drive down the cost of DME and save taxpayer money through market discipline. Medicare determines reimbursement rates for DME based on a competitive process, and limits the number of suppliers who will be awarded Medicare contracts. That could shut out small business that lose the bid, but can still compete at the bid rate. 
   "When we passed the Medicare Modernization Act, we knew that Medicare was overpaying substantially for certain durable medical equipment," Hatch said. "And we have all seen the advantages to Medicare beneficiaries and to the federal government of competitive bidding in Medicare Part D. The government and beneficiaries are paying lower prices for prescription drugs as a result of fair competition." 
   Hatch's bill keeps the new contracting process in place, while making modest changes to help small suppliers continue to compete in Medicare's bidding process. The measure would require quality standards in equipment, so beneficiaries are not forced to use cheap, low-quality equipment, and it would also allow small businesses that provide homecare equipment to continue to participate in the Medicare Program if they qualify and meet a competitively bid price. The bill exempts rural areas and metro areas with populations under 500,000 from competitive bidding, along with items and services with savings under 10 percent from the fee schedule in effect January 1, 2006. 
   The bill would also restore the right of DME providers participating in the program to administrative and judicial review, and it would protect beneficiary access to care by requiring the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to conduct a comparability analysis for areas that are not competitively bid to ensure the rate is appropriate to costs and does not reduce access to care. 
   "People should have the same level of access to this equipment no matter where they live," Hatch said. "If we make these small changes, small businesses - including many in Utah - will be able to continue providing medical equipment to those who need it. Twenty-five small Utah DME suppliers have banded together to support this legislation and I believe they speak for hundreds of small suppliers around the United States." 
   The lead cosponsors of Hatch's bill are Sen. Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) and Pat Roberts (R-Kan.).
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 