SEN. HATCH: SENATE BUDGET MUST TRIM DEFICIT
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today expressed his qualified support for the Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Resolution currently before the Senate, calling it an imperfect balance between funding important programs and reducing spending. 
   "As with many of my fellow Utahns, I am very concerned about the large and persistent deficits with which our federal government still wrestles," said Hatch. "While this budget resolution does not go as far as I would like to see in reducing the deficit and addressing spending growth, it is probably as strong as we can make it and still get it through the House and Senate."  
   Hatch noted that the budget resolution would cut the deficit in half within five years. "In relative terms, the deficit is projected to be 1.8 percent of GDP (Gross Domestic Product) by 2008 and just 1.3 percent by 2010," said Hatch. "While still too large, these deficits are certainly more manageable than those of recent years." 
   Hatch also said that while he would like to see more fiscal responsibility, spending necessities such as the military effort in Iraq make tighter budgets very difficult. 
   "We need to remember that this Nation is at war, and we still face tremendous challenges in protecting our homeland from further terrorist attacks," said Hatch. "This budget resolution reflects these facts. At the same time, it places a virtual freeze on the growth of other discretionary spending. 
   "Given the circumstances," said Hatch, "the balances achieved in the budget resolution may well be the best we can do." 
   Hatch's full floor statement follows: 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate
   Mr. President, I rise to express my support for the concurrent budget resolution presently before the Senate. 
   I want to start by congratulating Senator Judd Gregg, the new chairman of the Budget Committee, along with the other members of that committee, for accomplishing the difficult task of putting together and reporting to the Senate a budget resolution that begins to address our spending and deficit challenges in a modest, yet significant, way. 
   As with many of my fellow Utahns, I am very concerned about the large and persistent deficits with which our federal government still wrestles. I continue to hear from constituents who seem discouraged that the government has not been able to find more success in bringing the budget into balance, particularly after the several years of surplus we enjoyed in the latter part of the last decade. 
   Many Utahns have written to me to express their concerns that this generation is leaving a huge and growing burden on our children and grandchildren, one that perhaps will be too onerous for them to bear. As a long-time advocate of fiscal responsibility in families and in government, I understand and agree with these concerns. The deficit and the mountain of public debt owed by the Federal government do matter, and will make life harder for Americans in the future. 
   And so, those of us from Utah share a collective frustration that this budget does not make more progress toward cutting the deficit. 
   As I examine the budget resolution, however, I am struck by the fact that we, as a nation, are still facing turbulent conditions that seem to defy our best efforts to control our fiscal destiny. As we get farther and farther from the monumental events of the early part of this decade that have shaped our current landscape in so many ways, perhaps it is becoming easier to think that things are slowly returning to normal in our country. 
   But we need to remember that this Nation is still at war, and we still face tremendous challenges in protecting our homeland from further terrorist attacks. These needs are paramount and eclipse even the importance of balancing the budget. This budget resolution reflects these facts and provides for increases, although a relatively modest 4.1 percent growth in defense and homeland security spending. 
   At the same time, the budget places a virtual freeze on the growth of the remainder of discretionary spending accounts. This is in stark contrast to recent years, where such spending has grown at a relatively high rate. I believe this non-defense/ homeland security freeze is a very important feature of this budget. Even though this restraint is rather modest, it is being met with a great deal of concern from many who had hoped to see more growth in the programs that fall under this category. 
   The budget also makes some small progress in bringing mandatory spending under control. Over the five-year budget period provided by this resolution, this type of spending growth is cut by $32 billion. Although this is just a fraction of the growth in entitlement spending projected over this period, it is significant that this budget represents the first attempt to cut mandatory spending growth since 1997. 
   The results of these changes on the deficit are not dramatic, but they are noteworthy. The President set a goal last year to cut the deficit for fiscal year 2004, which was $521 billion (or 4.5 percent of GDP), in half within five years. The budget resolution before us projects this goal being met in fiscal year 2008 with a deficit of $258 billion that year, and falling to $208 billion by 2010. In relative terms, the deficit is projected to be 1.8 percent of GDP by 2008 and just 1.3 percent by 2010. While still too large, these deficits are certainly more manageable than those of recent years. 
   To meet these goals, the resolution provides some pretty tough discretionary spending caps for the next three fiscal years, and retains the pay-as-you-go rule from the fiscal year 2004 budget resolution. 
   Some of my colleagues are questioning the need for the budget to provide for approximately $70 billion in tax relief over the next five years. We need this money set aside to prevent tax increases that would be damaging to our growing economy. 
   Specifically, two provisions that have shown to be very important to increasing Federal revenue growth and helping the economy to recover are set to expire at the end of 2008. These are the reduced tax rates for dividend income and capital gain income that were enacted as part of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003. 
   If Congress allows these lower tax rates to expire, we would, in effect, be placing a significant tax increase on the economy. Capital gains rates would increase from a maximum of 15 percent to 20 percent, and the tax rate on dividends would leap from 15 percent to as high as 35 percent. 
   Mr. President, there is no doubt that these tax rate reductions, combined with the other tax cuts we passed in 2001, 2002, and 2003 have contributed to the recovery of the economy. After declining for three years (2001-2003), Federal collections began increasing again in 2004, rising by 5.5 percent that year. For the current fiscal year, 2005, revenues are projected to jump by an impressive 9.4 percent. Moreover, revenues are expected to increase by an average of 6.4 percent each year until the end of the decade. This demonstrates to me the wisdom of our earlier decisions to cut taxes to get the economy growing again. 
   Allowing tax rates to increase might seem to some to be a smart way to fight the deficit, but I believe these revenue trends illustrate that such a move would be counterproductive and exactly the wrong thing to do. Therefore, it is very important that this budget include the reconciliation instructions that provide the opportunity for the Finance Committee to report the legislation that will prevent these tax cuts from expiring. 
   I look forward to working my colleagues on the Finance Committee in crafting a bill to extend both the dividends and capital gains tax rate reductions, as well as extending other important tax provisions that expire later this year. 
   While this budget resolution perhaps does not go as far as I would like to see in reducing the deficit and addressing spending growth, it is probably as strong as we can make it. I also recognize that this resolution has to garner a majority of votes in both the Senate and the House for it to take effect. Each one of my colleagues also has his or her own ideas of what would be the best combination of spending priorities for this coming fiscal year. In the end, what counts is what we can get a majority of us to agree upon - the lowest common denominator. 
   Given the circumstances, the balances achieved in the budget resolution may well be the best we can do. It is not perfect, but it is a start and it deserves our support.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 