SEN. HATCH TO CHAIR NEW INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY SUBCOMMITTEE
  The Senate Judiciary Committee today created a new Intellectual Property Subcommittee, which will be chaired by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah). The subcommittee will have jurisdiction over all intellectual property laws and oversight on patent, copyright, trademark, and international intellectual property policies. Hatch named Bruce Artim, former staff director and chief counsel for the Judiciary Committee, the subcommittee's staff director and chief counsel.  
   "I have an aggressive agenda for this subcommittee, starting with comprehensive patent reform," Hatch said. "We need strong patent protection to give incentives for innovation and economic growth." 
   Over the next few weeks, Hatch and Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), the subcommittee's ranking minority member, intend to initiate a series of hearings on patent reform with the objective of developing any necessary and appropriate legislation. The issues Hatch would like to address include increasing the quality of patent reviews, considering new post-grant opposition procedures, and shoring up the long-term resources of the Patent and Trade Office. 
   "I believe we need to ensure that our intellectual property is protected, especially overseas," Hatch said. "Intellectual property rights are the backbone of America's creative industry, and we are losing billions to pirates in places like Asia and South America who steal our patented, copyrighted and trademarked products." 
   Hatch has long been a pioneer on intellectual property issues and authored the landmark digital copyright law, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, as well as the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act. He continues to fight for legislative and diplomatic solutions that encourage innovation and consumer choice while preventing the rampant piracy of copyrighted works. 
   Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Penn.) also named Hatch to serve on the Antitrust Subcommittee and Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security Subcommittee.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 