UTAH DELEGATION TO NRC: DENY SKULL VALLEY LICENSE
  The Utah Congressional delegation today made clear to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) their opposition to granting a license to Private Fuel Storage (PFS) to build an above-ground nuclear waste repository at the Skull Valley Goshute Indian Reservation in Utah.  
   "Due to the possibility of an accidental or deliberate aircraft crash, concerns over the safety of the waste during transportation and storage, and uncertainty regarding liability, the Utah Congressional delegation strongly opposes the granting of this license," wrote all five members of Utah's delegation. "We expect the Commission to review the administrative record diligently prior to making a final decision on issuing a license to PFS and accordingly reject it." 
   Recently, the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board of the NRC rejected the State of Utah's assertions that the Skull Valley site is too risky because 7,000 overflights occur each year over the site by armed F-16 single-engine jets from Hill Air Force Base for bombing runs at the Utah Test and Training Range. The final determination on the PFS license will be made by the five Commissioners who head the NRC. In the case that the license is granted, Utah's delegation has already begun to focus the fight on other fronts. 
   "The PFS proposal is a reckless, short-term fix for a pressing national problem," said Senator Orrin Hatch. "We're going to fight this with everything we've got. They picked the most dangerous site in the nation to locate most of our nation's high-level nuclear waste. That's not political rhetoric - it's a fact. The NRC needs to realize that PFS will never be able to ensure that the Skull Valley site will be safe." 
   "I oppose any decision that would allow storage of nuclear waste in Skull Valley, and will continue to pursue all available options to prevent this from taking place," Senator Bob Bennett said. 
   "The potential granting of this license so close to a major military installation just doesn't make sense," said Representative Rob Bishop. "This storage site could limit the future value of the Utah Test and Training Range, a key military asset, and in turn prove problematic as we try and meet the future defense needs of this nation. It's the wrong thing to do, and we will use every effort and tool to stop it."
   To view related document go to http://hatch.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=DataPipes.ViewPDF&Id=1313.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 