SEN. HATCH GIVES TRIBUTE TO UINTAH COUNTY SHERIFF'S DETECTIVE ORR
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) delivered the following tribute into the Congressional Record on behalf of Uintah County Sheriff's Detective Kevin Orr. 
   Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to a special man who died in the line of duty in Utah - Uintah County Sheriff's Detective Kevin Orr. His wife Holley and their four children: Tyler, Kaylee, Jessica and Ashlee, were in Washington, D. C., this week to participate in a ceremony where Detective Orr's name was added to the National Peace Officers Memorial. The Orr family had the opportunity to join with other survivors of law enforcement officers to commemorate their loved ones' lives and sacrifices.  
    I had the pleasure of meeting with the Orr family as they were paying respects to him through his addition to the National Peace Officers Memorial. Many from his extended family visited with me in my office, including Kevin's parents Eugene and Claudia Orr, and Holley's parents, Glen and Dixie Hartle. Extended family members who were also visiting included Eric Hartle, Lisa Howe, Julie Luceor, Jolynn Orr, Jeffrey Orr, Larry Orr, Damon Orr, and Jason Pazour. Their loss is tragic, but their unity as a family is unbreakable. 
   Detective Orr sustained fatal injuries in November 2006 when he joined in a search for a missing 25-year-old woman. The helicopter he was riding in hit an unmarked power line hanging across the Green River and plummeted to the ground. Sadly Detective Orr lost his life early the next morning as a result of the injuries he sustained in the accident. 
   At the time of his death, Detective Orr had worked for the Uintah Sheriff's Department for 11 years, and was known for his dedication and commitment to law enforcement and the people he served. In 1999 he was named Uintah County Deputy of the Year for the example he set and the work he performed. He spent several years working with people in the Drug Court making a difference in the lives of many who passed through the program. One young woman who had been a participant in Drug Court stated, "she owed her life to Kevin." He believed in people and wanted to see them succeed and become happier, more productive citizens. 
   I was touched by what retired Vernal Police Officer Robert Roth said about Kevin. He stated: "He was the caliber of person that lived his life as an example to all of us...We traditionally think of gun battles or car chases, but it's about service. Some of us are willing to die for that cause and some of us have." 
   When I met with Kevin's family this week, I was touched by their humble, courageous spirits and their commitment to the legacy he left behind as a valiant law enforcement officer. It reminded me of a quote I have always appreciated by an unknown source that says: "You make a living by what you get, but you make a life by what you give." 
   Mr. President, Officer Orr was willing to give it all to help others. He truly epitomized the ideals of sacrifice and service. I know that his family misses him and grieves for their loss, but I also know that they can find great peace and comfort from the example he left behind. He was a valiant, dedicated public servant and his influence will be felt by many generations.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 