SEN. HATCH: REIGN IN FEDERAL DEBT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) joined 20 other Senate Republicans in calling on President George W. Bush to work with them to reduce government spending.  
   "Our government has a spending problem, and we do not want to encourage it," Hatch and his fellow Republicans wrote in a November 17, 2004, letter to the President. "We were elected on a platform of small, responsible government and we owe it to our country to fulfill that promise." 
   Earlier this year, Hatch introduced legislation, S. 2752, that would overhaul the federal budget process and hold the line on Federal spending. Although it is not expected to pass this year, Hatch is committed to working with his colleagues to reform the budget process and eliminate the tendencies for higher spending. 
   "The biggest threat to a strong economy and a balanced budget is uncontrolled government spending," Hatch said. "I intend to hold President Bush accountable to his campaign promise to take the lead in promoting a fiscally responsible government." 
   The full text of the letter to President Bush follows: 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   Congratulations on your recent re-election as President of the United States. We look forward to working with you on the issues that conservatives hold so dear: family values, small government, and fiscal accountability. 
   Last night, we reluctantly voted for the debt limit increase so that our government would not default on its outstanding debt, but we have concerns about the precedent set in doing so. Our government has a spending problem, and we do not want to encourage it. 
   Thomas Jefferson once said: "[t]o preserve the faith of the nation by an exact discharge of its debts and contracts, expend the public money with the same care and economy we would practice with our own, and impose on our citizens no necessary burden...are the landmarks by which we are to guide ourselves in all our proceedings." We were elected on the platform of small, responsible government and we owe it to our country to fulfill that promise. 
   There is a need for budget process reform and your leadership in this arena is critical. We are confident that your budget submission next year will contain a bold plan for reducing spending and eliminating ineffectual, unnecessary programs. We look forward to working with you next year to dramatically curtail both discretionary and mandatory spending, to reduce the federal deficit, to lessen the burden of taxes, and to promote economic freedom and prosperity in our great country.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854. 
 
 