SEN. HATCH ADDRESSES WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS
  Canadian Embassy:
   Thank you very much for that introduction and for the opportunity to address you today. Let me say that it is a pleasure to be among you. 
   If you are in attendance at this conference, there is a good chance you are part of the small but growing group of individuals who recognize - not only that there is a worldwide energy crunch looming in our future - but that an economical and domestically available solution to that problem already exists in North America's vast unconventional oil resources, namely in the form of liquid fuel from oil sands, oil shale, and coal.  
   You also may have recognized the profound geopolitical shift that will likely occur over the next decade or two as the supply of conventional oil begins to dwindle in the Middle East, and the commercial production of our unconventional resources takes off in North America. 
   We need to recognize the implications of this shift for our region. 
   And the governments of Canada and the United States absolutely should be taking a proactive approach to preparing for that future. Those who state otherwise, in my opinion, are underestimating either the economic viability of developing our unconventional resources, or overestimating the world's ability to keep up with international energy demand, or both. 
   In the United States, our thirst for oil has increased by about 12 percent in the last decade, but during that same time our production of oil has grown by less than one-half of one percent. Is it any wonder that we rely on foreign countries for more than half our oil needs? 
   And any hope that a worldwide increase in oil production will solve our domestic shortage is based on an unlikely scenario, because the supply shortage is being felt worldwide. World demand for oil is growing at an unprecedented pace - about two and a half million barrels per day in 2004 alone, and production is not keeping up. Moreover, new discoveries are certainly failing to keep pace. 
   The United States imports 56 percent of its oil, and, if existing circumstances persist, that is projected to grow to 68 percent within 20 years. 
   But who says that we are trapped by existing circumstances? I, for one, don't. 
   The United States Congress has spoken loud and clear on this subject. 
   I believe the recently enacted Energy Policy Act takes a strong, proactive approach to addressing our nation's future energy needs by actively changing the circumstances we currently face - changes which I believe will improve the lives of our people. 
   We are willing to pay high prices for oil because it is so critical to our way of life. Humans initially enjoyed important advances using early fuels such as wood, coal, whale oil, and then gas and steam. But it was liquid petroleum that allowed us to advance into the Space Age and then the Information Age. 
   For a century, we have relied on a steady supply of light crude, which is the easiest oil to get. Those days are not quite over, but their decline is in sight, and there is no upside to ignoring the fact. 
   I have been a leader in Congress in promoting the use of alternative sources of energy. I was the author of the CLEAR ACT, which will promote the use of alternative fuels in our transportation sector. The CLEAR ACT was enacted as part of the Energy Policy Act, and I believe it will make a real difference. 
   At the same time, I also recognize that our society will be dependent on liquid petroleum into the foreseeable future. It's not a fact that I like to admit, but it is a fact, nonetheless. 
   The world has experienced tremendous growth of service sector, but we shouldn't let that mask the fact that the global economy remains dependent on abundant and affordable natural resources. Even the service industry must have buildings, computers, paper, transportation, communications, and let's not forget food. Other than our bodies and the air we breathe, it would be nearly impossible to find something in this room that is not produced from agriculture, mining, or oil and gas production. Keep in mind that liquid and gas fuel remains the principal engine driving the production of those natural resources we need to maintain our way of life. 
   We may have dodged a bullet in the United States with our recent spikes in energy prices. I believe our strong economy has helped to diminish the economic effects of recent sharp increases in energy costs. 
   This summer, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan stated: 
   "Markets for oil and natural gas have been subject to a degree of strain over the past year not experienced for a generation. Increased demand and lagging additions to productive capacity have combined to absorb a significant amount of the slack in energy markets that was essential in containing energy prices between 1985 and 2000." 
   I shudder to think what the effect of these high prices would have on our way of life if they were to occur during a serious economic downturn. I am also intensely aware that sustained high prices could themselves cause such a downturn. 
   We should take note that our major oil companies, including Chevron and ExxonMobil, are beginning to state publicly that we may be reaching peak oil. And with the economic growth in India and Asia and other regions, it looks like we'll have high oil prices into the foreseeable future. 
   This is a new scenario for the world, and it forces us to shift our focus to our unconventional resources. Shell Oil Company has, for years, been preparing for such a shift. Its successful activities in Alberta with oil sands and their investment in new technologies to produce oil from oil shale are a testimony to Shell's recognition that unconventional oil is in our future. 
   Those who doubt that unconventional fuels are economically viable probably are suffering from a neck ailment that keeps them from looking north. 
   The 800-pound gorilla is sitting just above Montana, and let's face it, it's hard to miss. 
   Alberta is now second only to Saudi Arabia in proven oil reserves and ninth in the world in annual oil production. This is owing mostly to their successful development of oil sands. In Alberta, you have dozens of major oil companies, using a variety of technologies and recovery methods, going after very different types of oil sands resources, and in almost every case doing so for less than $20 a barrel, including during their very tough winters. It is a gigantic success story, and it began with Alberta's government deciding to promote the development of this resource and not giving up. 
   Anyone watching what is happening up north will recognize that, before long, Canada will inevitably overtake Saudi Arabia as the world's oil giant. And Alberta clearly has its sights on increased annual production to match its growing reserve. Already at about a million barrels a day, Alberta's production is expected to double in the next five or six years. 
   What does all this mean for the United States? I think it means a great deal. 
   First, it means that the United States can enjoy a new gigantic source of oil from a friendly neighbor. 
   Here, we have one of the largest energy producing nations sharing a very large border with one of the world's largest energy consumers. Our proximity to one another facilitates our energy relationship in countless ways - the most obvious being the ability to transport energy products cheaply through pipelines and other means. 
   My state of Utah is an oil producing state, and we also have our nation's largest deposits of recoverable oil sands. Although we are not yet developing our sands commercially, one-fourth of all of our oil imports come in a pipeline from Alberta oil sands. It's an unlikely scenario, but it is possible because of the interdependence our two nations already enjoy. 
   Alberta's success in developing oil sands is important to the U.S. in another way. It provides our nation with a successful model for developing our own unconventional resources. A number of important U.S. companies are very active in Alberta's tar sands, and are only waiting for the U.S. government to adopt of policy similar to Alberta's which promotes rather than bars the development of our unconventional resources. 
   Utah has more recoverable oil in oil sands than the entire U.S. reserve. That's a significant number, but it is overshadowed by the fact that the largest recoverable hydrocarbon resource in the world rests within the borders of Utah, Colorado, and Wyoming in the form of oil shale. 
   Energy experts agree that there is more recoverable oil in these three states than there is in all the Middle East. The U.S. Department of Energy estimates that recoverable oil shale in the western United States exceeds one trillion barrels and is the richest and most geographically concentrated oil shale resource in the world. 
   This gigantic resource of oil shale and tar sands is well known by geologists and energy experts, but it has not been counted among our nation's oil reserve, because it is not yet being developed commercially. And it is not being developed commercially because, the U.S. government has not allowed industry access to the resource. 
   Every signal from the U.S. government has been to keep this resource off limits. 
   That is, until now. 
   With the help of industry, government officials, energy experts, and the chairmen of the relevant congressional committees, I sponsored and was able to pass the Oil Shale Tar Sands Development Act as a part of the Energy Policy Act. My legislation represents a necessary shift by our government from an almost complete reliance on conventional sources of oil toward a focus on our vast unconventional resources, such as tar sands and oil shale. 
   My legislation will establish a task force to, among other things, to develop a five-year plan to determine the safest and steadiest route to developing oil shale and tar sands. It will also establish a mineral leasing program in the Department of the Interior to provide access to this resource. 
   Recognizing the tremendous national interest in this resource, my legislation provides a number of programs to encourage oil shale and tar sands development, including federal royalty relief, federal cost shares for demonstration projects, and advance procurement agreements by the military. 
   Some have said that oil shale has a great future and will always have a great future. It's a cute saying that reflects the view held by a dwindling few that oil shale is just too expensive ever to develop commercially. 
   The fact of the matter is that producing oil from oil shale is fairly straightforward, and there are a number of technologies that could be used economically to develop this resource, now that the government is making it available. 
   Many point to the large oil shale operation in Colorado that went bust in the late seventies as an example of how oil shale cannot be commercially developed. However, that was the result of the price of oil dropping down to ten dollars a barrel, not of a lack of efficient technology. 
   Last time I checked, oil prices were above ten dollars a barrel. 
   To be honest that old technology could still work efficiently today, but fortunately many new processes have been developed since then, some of which have proven to be very efficient and economical. 
   I was disappointed with a recent report by Rand Corporation titled Oil Shale Development in the U.S.; Prospects and Policy Issues. The report relied on 30-year-old data for its model to show that the price of oil would have to reach $70 a barrel before mining and surface retorting of oil shale would be economical. 
   Of the various experts involved in the on-the-ground development of these technologies, none believes that the price of oil needs to be higher than $40 a barrel for the economic development of oil shale, and some of the most knowledgeable experts are confident the price could be even lower than that. 
   I was especially disappointed that the report used its $70 a barrel model to argue that government should not actively promote the commercial development of oil shale in this country. That conclusion can only be made if a blind eye is turned toward the global supply and demand trends that are widely acknowledged to be a major concern for policymakers. 
   The report assumes that industry will step forward without the help of government to develop this resource. Such a scenario is contrary to the successful Alberta model and ignores the fact that 80 percent of the resource in the United States sits on federal land, which poses certain regulatory impediments to major investment in the development of the resource. 
   I recall that offshore drilling was once considered an unconventional source of oil too risky and too expensive to pursue. However, with significant government support, the cost burden was overcome, and offshore oil is now considered a conventional resource. 
   Similarly, getting oil from oil sands in Alberta was once considered by some to be too expensive and risky. Now the province is producing huge quantities of oil from tar sands at less than $20 a barrel, as a result of government support. 
   I have to say the Rand report appears to be a bit out of touch with what is happening on the ground among the various industry groups actually pursuing the development of oil shale in the United States. 
   I have been on the ground and seen how the newest technologies can work, and I have been very impressed with the advances that have been made in this area. 
   I have no doubt that once industry is given access to our unconventional resources, we will quickly follow in the footsteps of Alberta, Canada. 
   I have no doubt that the abundance of existing technology and continued growth in the global demand for oil will inevitably lead to a major shift toward the development of unconventional oil resources. 
   And as this scenario unfolds, I believe the United States and Canada will emerge as the dominant energy powers in the world. It has been slow in coming, but the United States is slowly awakening to this fact. 
   I commend our friends in Alberta for their active effort to call this to our attention, and their success in leading the way down this path. 
   The United States and Canada have much to learn from one another and much to share with regard to meeting America's energy needs. By working together in this regard, we can only become stronger, and I have no doubt that all Americans will benefit from it. 
   Again, I want to thank the sponsors of this conference for the chance to address you. It has certainly been my pleasure. Thank you.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 