SEN. HATCH PAYS TRIBUTE TO LDS LEADER JAMES E. FAUST
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today delivered the following statement on the passing of LDS President James E. Faust into the Congressional Record. 
   Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to a revered Utahn who was taken from us a little more than a month ago during our summer recess: President James Esdras Faust, second counselor in the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. On August 10, President Faust peacefully passed away, called home by the God whom he had served for 87 years. He left behind a legacy of faith and service, an example to which we should all strive for in our own lives.  
   President Faust was a wonderful leader for the LDS Church and a tremendous counselor to its President, Gordon B. Hinckley. He was a great friend and guide to Elaine and me, and our entire family, and to millions of others around the world. He was a person of great dimension, wide-ranging abilities, and deeply spiritual capacities. He was the consummate gentleman and treated both Elaine and me with kindness unfeigned. We pray that everyone in the Faust family will be comforted in the days and months ahead with peace through their memories of this great man. 
   Beyond his day-to-day duties as a church leader, President Faust led opposition to gambling initiatives in Utah, oversaw construction of the BYU Jerusalem Center, managed an improved public relations strategy for the church, and enhanced relationships with foreign officials. During his ministry, he saw the Latter-day Saint faith move from primarily one of the Western United States to a truly world-wide religion. 
   His kindness was not limited to those of his own faith, nor was his service limited to that which he performed inside his Church. Before President Hinckley extended him a call to serve 35 years ago as a senior, full-time church leader, Faust served his country in the military, served his community as an attorney, served his stats as a legislator, and served his family as a devoted husband and father. 
   A native of a small town in Utah's west desert, Delta, President Faust studied at the University of Utah, eventually receiving both a bachelor's degree and a law degree. But he interrupted his studies when he was called to his country's defense in World War II, honorably serving in the U.S. Army Air Force and earning the rank of First Lieutenant while opposing the tyranny of the Axis. 
   Beyond his service to America, President Faust also gave two years of his youth in service to his church as a missionary in Brazil. He was one of the first Mormon missionaries to that nation and by sharing his testimony of the Lord gently moved the first pebbles of what has become a mighty avalanche of faith - today Brazil is home to nearly one million Latter-day Saints. Later in life, any time his church service took him to Brazil he was extremely happy to be reunited with his friends there. In 1998, Faust was named an honorary citizen of Sao Paulo in honor of his lifelong ties to the city and the nation. Only two other men have received this recognition -- Pope John Paul II and the Dalai Lama -- which puts President Faust in very good company. 
   During a short period of leave from the Air Force in the spring of 1943, President Faust married his high school sweetheart, Ruth Wright, in the Salt Lake Temple. The sunrise and the sunset to all his happiness, Ruth walked hand-in-hand with him for almost 65 years. Together they raised five children: James H. Faust, Janna R. Coombs, Marcus G. Faust, Lisa A. Smith, and Robert P. Faust. They were the proud grandparents of 25 grandchildren and 28 great-grandchildren. 
   While practicing law, President Faust made time to serve as a member of the Utah Legislature, an advisor to the American Bar Journal, and as president of the Utah Bar Association. Fellow church leader Elder M. Russell Ballard said of Faust that he "loved America, the state of Utah and Salt Lake City." He was always examining issues and events "for what was right and what needed to be done to see that we were working for the benefit and blessing of the people." 
   Mr. President, we have lost a friend, we have lost a leader. But we look forward to a time when we can see his smiling, optimistic face again and hear his soothing, uplifting voice. To President James Esdras Faust the people of Utah would like to say, "Thank you for your time among us, it was not nearly long enough. God be with you, till we meet again."
   Contact: Heather Barney, 801/524-3341; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 