SEN. HATCH: NO BETTER HEALTH SECRETARY THAN GOV. LEAVITT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today urged the Senate to quickly confirm Michael O. Leavitt as Secretary of Health and Human Services at a Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee nomination hearing. Leavitt will appear before the Senate Finance Committee Wednesday.  
   Hatch, who introduced Leavitt at the hearing, issued the following statement: 
   It is my honor and privilege to introduce to you my good friend and fellow Utahn, Governor Mike Leavitt, and to urge that his nomination be approved on an expedited basis. 
   I must also recognize his beautiful wife, Jackie - who herself has assembled quite a record in working on issues this Committee cares about, such as childhood vaccines - and their five wonderful children. 
   I have known Mike Leavitt for a long time, and have worked closely with him on many key issues, not only Utah issues, but national issues as well. In short, Governor Leavitt is bright, energetic, dedicated, and fair. I say with all respect to those who have gone before him, I can think of no better Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
   Mike has devoted considerable time to public service, first in our home state of Utah, and more recently in Washington. He has proven himself to be a good manager, a smart decision-maker, a tireless worker, and a successful executive. He has an established record of fiscal management, a demonstrated knowledge of health care, and a solid reputation as a decent, family man. 
   An important hallmark of Mike Leavitt's service that I wish to commend to this Committee is his fairness. You can count on him to look at all sides of an issue before making a policy decision, and you can count on the result to be the right decision. His record as EPA Administrator bears out this fact. This should give great comfort not only to those of us in government, but also to the hundreds of millions of people that HHS serves as well. 
   As our time is short, Mr. Chairman, I just want to leave you with one short story. After attending several briefings with the Secretary-designate, a senior official at the FDA told me the other day: 
   * "At our first briefing, Governor Leavitt was good. 
   * At the second meeting, he was excellent. 
   * And, at the last briefing, he was teaching us!" 
   That is the kind of man Mike Leavitt is. He will be a great Secretary. So, with pride and admiration I introduce to this Committee Governor Mike Leavitt. 
   Let us get him confirmed and in the job as soon as possible.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 