SEN. HATCH: KOREA COULD SOON REOPEN ITS BORDERS TO U.S. BEEF IMPORTS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and other Senators met yesterday with South Korean Ambassador to the United States Lee Tae-sik, urging Korea to reopen its borders to American beef after one incident of "mad cow disease" prompted a ban four years ago. Hatch believes the two nations have now crafted a compromise to resolve the issue quickly.  
   "Our meeting with Ambassador Lee was very productive, and I'm optimistic that Korea is on its way to accepting our beef exports again," Hatch said. "This will mean more business for American and Utah cattle ranchers and more choices for Korean consumers." 
   In 2006, Korea re-opened its ports, but only for cows younger than 30 months and beef off the bone. Unfortunately, Korea rejected initial shipments of boneless American beef after finding tiny bone fragments - which are typical in any meat shipment of this kind. 
   "While the U.S. respects the Koreans' concerns, it's next to impossible to keep tiny bone fragments out of these types of shipments," Hatch said. "It's also clear that these fragments pose no risk. I'm pleased that we are cooperatively working to resolve these issues, and I believe we are moving toward greater access to the Korean market." 
   At Wednesday's meeting, the Senators expressed their bipartisan concerns that Korea was unfairly discriminating against American beef. Ambassador Lee outlined a framework for resolving this issue, which while still under negotiation, Hatch believes will quickly satisfy the interests of both trading partners. Hatch is optimistic that this framework will expand market access after the Korean-U.S. Free Trade Agreement is finalized. 
   Before the ban, Korea was an $830 million market for U.S. beef and 60 percent of these exports were beef on the bone. Utah currently produces more than $600 million worth of beef products, which represents almost half of Utah agricultural income.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 