SEN. HATCH: SENATE BACKS EXPANDING STEM CELL RESEARCH
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today joined the Senate in approving legislation critical to aggressively pursuing embryonic stem cell research, a breakthrough field of medical research that scientists believe may hold the keys to curing some of the world's deadliest and most debilitating diseases. 
   "Today the Senate made a commitment to the millions of patients who are waiting for cures," Hatch said. "Together, Republicans and Democrats, we said: We hear you. We won't stand idly by and allow Federal policy to hamstring one of the most promising fields of research." 
   By a 63 to 37 vote, the Senate approved H.R. 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, which would expand the current federal funding policy for stem cell research. Passed overwhelmingly by the House in May 2005, the legislation allows federal funding for stem cell research using stem cell lines derived under strict ethical requirements from excess in vitro fertilization embryos, regardless of the date they were derived.  
   "I come to this issue as a proud Right-to-Life Senator," Hatch said. "While I admire and respect those who do not share my views on this, I do believe, very strongly, that it is possible to be both anti-abortion and pro-embryonic stem cell research. A critical part of being pro-life is to support measures that help the living. And this research enhances, not diminishes, human life. If encouraged, it can improve the lives of millions of Americans and could lead to new scientific frontiers not now in sight." 
   President Bush is expected to veto the bill, voicing concerns about supporting research dealing with embryos. Hatch praised President Bush for being the first President to permit federal funding for embryonic stem cell lines created prior to August 2001. 
   "The President deserves a lot of credit here, that was a big step," Hatch said. "But the President's policy - which was intended to promote this research to the fullest - must be improved. The number of embryonic stem cell lines actually available and functional are only a small fraction of what President Bush originally intended. To fulfill his vision, an expansion of embryonic stem cells available for research must be increased." 
   Hatch also backed two other related bills, S. 3504 and S. 2754, which codify current policies within the medical research community. S. 2754 encourages the National Institutes of Health to continue supporting alternative means of producing pluripotent cells without impacting human embryos. S. 3504 would ban the use of tissue from fetuses gestated for research purposes. The scientific community welcomes the ban, since there is no known scientist pursuing this activity, and Hatch has consistently opposed implanting an embryo in a womb for research purposes. 
   "H.R. 810 is the one bill in the package that offers promise to millions of Americans," Hatch said. "Our top scientists want this bill. Patients are pleading for this bill. The American people overwhelmingly support this bill. Their future - and the future of modern medicine - lies in aggressively pursuing stem cell research." 
   The Senator's full floor statement follows. 
   I plan to vote in favor of each of the three bills that we will be considered today. I call upon my colleagues to pass all three of these bills. I call upon the President to sign all of them into law. 
   Make no mistake about it. This is an important debate. We will cast important votes today. 
   Even with all the events taking place the world today, including the developments in Lebanon, Syria, and Iran, it is my hope -- and the hope of many others -- that when the history of our time is written, the ultimate outcome of today's debate over stem cell research will have been a major breakthrough in our understanding of, and ability to promote, human health and prevent and treat disease. 
   I admire and respect President Bush tremendously for being the first President to dedicate federal funds for stem cell research. As many may recall, in August 2001, the President announced that federal funds would be used for research on 60 stem cell lines that were created from embryos that have already been destroyed. Unfortunately, many of these stem lines became contaminated so the cells could never be used for scientific research. I believe that H.R. 810 must be signed into law in order to make the President's policy work because in my view, the President already made the decision to use the cells. H.R. 810 just changes the guidelines for stem cell research by allowing embryos that would otherwise be discarded to be made available for research. I believe that by using these embryos for medical research, we are, in fact, promoting life. 
   One of the reasons why so many are so interested in this debate is that literally everyone either has, or knows, a loved one who has, one of the diseases or conditions that may one day benefit from stem cell research. 
   One reason why I support stem cell research so strongly is because I have heard from so many of my fellow citizens of Utah and fellow Americans about how important this issue is to them and their families. 
   That is the reason why Nancy Reagan wrote me the following letter about stem cell research: 
   May 1, 2006 
   Dear Orrin, 
   Thank you for your continued commitment to helping the millions of Americans who suffer from devastating and disabling diseases. Your support has given so much hope to so many. 
   It has been nearly a year since the United States House of Representatives first approved the stem cell legislation that would open the research so we could fully unleash its promise. For those who are waiting every day for scientific progress to help their loved ones, the wait for United States Senate action has been very difficult and hard to comprehend. 
   I understand that the United States Senate is now considering voting on H.R. 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, sometime this month. Orrin, I know I can count on friends like you to help make sure this happens. There is just no more time to wait. 
   Sincerely, 
   Nancy 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that this letter be submitted for the record. 
   I want to make it clear that there is broad consensus among leading scientists that among the three bills we will vote upon today - the Stem Cell Research and Enhancement Act, 
  H.R. 810; the Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act, S. 2754; and the Fetus Farming Prohibition Act of 2006 -- it is H.R. 810 that can most immediately advance science. 
   The vote on H.R. 810 is the one that really counts. 
   Some in this debate suggest that passage of the Specter-Santorum alternatives bill would obviate the need for H.R. 810. Neither Senator Specter nor I believe that. Nor do the leading scientists in America believe that. Nor should you believe that. 
   To put a point on it, the other two bills, S. 2754 and S. 3504, are most emphatically not a substitute for H.R. 810. These bills complement H.R. 810. In no way can, or do, they replace 
  H.R. 810. 
   I support the alternatives bill, S. 2754, for a lot of the same reasons why I co-authored the Cord Blood Stem Cell Research bill that President Bush signed into law last year. I believe that all scientifically credible and ethically sound avenues of stem cell research ought to be pursued. I might add that when we passed the cord blood legislation, that form of research had already yielded tangible results for several types of diseases, such as some forms of bone marrow cancer. 
   In sharp contrast, whatever benefits the alternatives bill may yield, experts tell us that they are largely unrealized today and, as often the case with cutting edge science, uncertain in the future. But that is the way science works. Advance in science often progresses in fits and starts. Sometimes, actually most of the time, particular avenues of research are found to be blind alleys and advances do not come. Many seeds of discovery have to be planted for the flower of progress to bloom. 
   Today's votes give us an opportunity to move forward on several fronts. 
   Let us be clear that the centerpiece of today's debate is H.R. 810. This is the bill that will help provide the long overdue expansion of the number of stem cell lines eligible for Federally-funded biomedical research. This is what our leading scientists have told us they want and need to move the field of stem cell research forward. 
   I have worked with leading scientists throughout my 30-year career in the Senate. Few, if any, issues have created the genuine sense of excitement among the scientific community as have the current opportunities in stem cell research. 
   Listen to what Dr. Harold Varmus has said about the promise of stem cell research. Dr. Varmus is a Nobel Laureate. He is the former Director of the National Institutes of Health. He currently runs the prestigious Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. By all accounts, he is one of the leading scientists in the world. I met with Dr. Varmus on several occasions to learn what scientists think about stem cell research. 
   Here is Dr. Varmus' assessment: "(t)he development of a cell that may produce almost every tissue of the human body is an unprecedented scientific breakthrough. It is not too unrealistic to say that this practice has the potential to revolutionize the practice of medicine." 
   More than 40 other Nobel prize-winners and as well most of our Nation's leading scientists, disease advocacy organizations, and many other interested citizens and organizations share this view. 
   For example, here is what Dr. Edward Clark of the University of Utah Department of Pediatrics has told me about stem cell research: 
   "... I can assure you that the scientific progress of stem cell research is extraordinary. 
   In pediatrics, stem cell research offers therapy, and indeed possibly a cure, for a wide variety of childhood diseases, including neurologic disease, spinal cord injuries, and heart disease... 
   I can think of nothing that will provide as much meaningful therapy for children and children's problems than the promise offered by stem cell research." 
   It is not hard to understand why the additional stem cell lines that can and will be used by federally-funded scientists if H.R. 810 becomes law is so exciting for scientists and important for the American public. 
   The stakes of today's debate are high. As a report of the influential National Academy of Sciences Institute of Medicine has stated: "(S)tem cell research has the potential to affect the lives of millions of people in the United States and around the world." 
   This Institute of Medicine Report goes on to cite the following high prevalence diseases as likely candidates for stem cell research: 
   * Cardiovascular Disease 58 million U.S. patients 
   * Autoimmune Diseases 30 million U.S. patients 
   * Diabetes 16 million U.S. patients 
   * Osteoporosis 10 million U.S. patients 
   * Cancer 10 million U.S. patients 
   * Alzheimer's Disease 5.5 million U.S. patients 
   * Parkinson's Disease 1.5 million U.S. patients 
   What family in America does not include someone afflicted with a disease on this list? And a complete list includes many other diseases and conditions such as spinal cord injuries, burns, and many birth defects. Experts believe that upward of 100 million Americans -- and hundreds of millions of others around the world -- may one day benefit from stem cell research. 
   For example, let us consider spinal cord injuries. Who does not know, or know of, someone whose life has been devastated by a spinal cord injury? 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to place in the record a letter I received just last month from Michael Armstrong, Chairman of the Board of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. 
   This letter describes groundbreaking research conducted by a Johns Hopkins scientist, Dr. Douglas Kerr, on how mouse embryonic stem cells have been able to regenerate damaged nerve tissue in paralyzed rats. According to the letter from Johns Hopkins University, one of the world's most respected biomedical research institutions in the world, Dr. Kerr's "breakthrough represents the first time that scientists have actually re-grown damaged components of a nervous system, and it could lead to human therapies that seemed previously to be beyond our reach. Treatments not only for paralysis, but for ALS, multiple sclerosis, and similar diseases of the brain now seem possible." 
   The current Director of the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Elias Zerhouni, has said that this research is "a remarkable advance that can help us understand how stem cells can begin to fulfill their great promise." 
   However, unless H.R. 810 becomes law and the number of stem cells lines eligible for federal funding is expanded, this promising research could die on the vine. 
   As Mr. Armstrong explains in his letter: 
   "The level of funding that will that will ultimately be required to advance this field of science to human clinical trials, however, suggests that federal funding will be necessary. Yet, under current federal policy, the only stem cell lines eligible for federal funding were created using mouse feeder cells and could never be used in clinical trials with humans. It is therefore crucial that current stem cell policy be revised." 
   The precise type of revision that the scientists at Johns Hopkins tell us is needed is precisely the change in federal policy that H.R. 810, the Castle-DeGette bill, will bring about. 
   And the scientists at Johns Hopkins are hardly alone. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to place in the record a letter from Dr. Darrel Kirch, President of the Association of American Medical Colleges. 
   This organization represents our nation's 125 accredited medical schools, 400 teaching hospitals, and more than 105,000 medical school faculty in 94 academic and scientific societies. This letter, sent to all Senators last Tuesday, call for us to support H.R. 810. The AAMC letter states, "The therapeutic potential of pluripotent stem cells is remarkable and could well prove to be one of the important paradigm-shifting advances in the history of medical science. 
   Support for H.R. 810 is not confined solely to academicians. Last year, when the House took up and passed H.R. 810 on a bipartisan basis, over 200 organizations gave their wholehearted support for this legislation. This includes many leading patient advocacy organizations such as the Coalition for the Advancement of Medical Research, the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric Aids Foundation, the Christopher Reeve Foundation, the American Association for Cancer Research, and the Alliance for Aging Research, to name a few. 
   Mr. President, I request unanimous consent to include in the record a list of organizations that support the passage of H.R. 810. 
   Support for the passage of H.R. 810 is not limited to the not-for-profit sector. While it is sometimes typical for the private sector to keep out of some controversial issues, this is not the case with stem cell research. 
   Last week, I received a letter of support for H.R. 810 from the Biotechnology Industry Organization. BIO represents more than 1,100 biotechnology companies, state biotechnology centers, and academic institutions. The BIO letter notes, "Expanded support of embryonic stem cell research could also go a long way toward reducing the time and expense needed to develop drugs because new chemical or biological compounds meant to treat diseases could be tested in specific human cells prior to their use in live human beings." 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to include in the record the July 12, 2006 letter from BIO calling for passage of H.R. 810. 
   Mr. President, some aspects of this issue involve complicated scientific facts and complex moral questions. Elected officials and the American public alike have had much to learn and consider since this issue first arose on the scene in 1998. 
   The more the American public thinks about this issue, the more it coalesces around the policy embraced by H.R. 810 which will significantly improve and expand tax-payer supported stem cell research. 
   Public opinion polls show that U.S. citizens are squarely behind stem cell research and H.R. 810. 
   For example, a poll commissioned by the Coalition for the Advancement of Stem Cell Research and taken in May of this year found that 72 percent of Americans support embryonic stem cell research and 70 percent favor the Senate adopting H.R. 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. This finding of broad public support is consistent with other previously conducted polls. For example, a Harris poll taken in August 2004 found that 73 percent of Americans think stem cell research should be allowed and a June 2004 Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll placed public support for this research at 71 percent. 
   Some may try to quibble about how particular poll questions were phrased in particular surveys, but few would question the fact that for some time most Americans have wanted the type of research that H.R. 810 will help enable to go forward. 
   I can tell you this. The poll results I have just cited are consistent with what I hear from my neighbors and constituents in Utah. I come from a conservative state. But whenever the issue of stem cell research comes up at one of my meetings in Salt Lake City or other places in my state, somebody will come up to me to tell me their personal story with the diseases of a loved one and tell me that I am doing the right thing on stem cell research. 
   One of the reasons why I got involved with the issue of stem cell research in the first place was because of a little boy named Cody Anderson, whose family used to live in West Jordan, Utah. 
   Cody and his family came to visit me in Washington in 2001 to tell me their tragic family struggle with diabetes. Cody's grandfather succumbed to diabetes at age 47 after a series of painful amputation operations. Cody, his grandfather's namesake, never got the chance to meet or know his grandfather because of diabetes. 
   Let me read you part of a letter that Cody and his family wrote me: 
   "I don't want other small children like me to have to go through the things that I have already had to go through. I do not want to suffer the effects that my grandfather did throughout his life because of this disease. I want to grow old and not have to worry about all the bad things that could happen to me because of diabetes. We have seen what diabetes can do to an innocent life. Please don't let this happen to me in my life now. I hope you will take it in your hearts to listen to us, the people who live with this disease for every minute of every day for now and the rest of our lives." 
   In a few hours we can pass a bill that can only help Cody and thousands of others suffering from diabetes and millions of others who suffer from other diseases and conditions that may benefit from stem cell research. 
   How do you think young Cody's parents felt when they learned of their son having the same diagnosis as his grandfather? 
   How would you feel if you were told that your child would lead a life revolving around multiple daily blood tests, insulin injections, and a tightly regulated diet and constricted activity schedule that no child would relish? 
   The answer of any parent is that you would want your government to leave no stone unturned in finding a cure for that disease. And you would want the cure found as soon as possible. 
   Let me say a few sobering words about the immediacy of the promise of stem cell research. Cures are not around the corner. While stem cell research may prove in time to be a revolutionary advance in science such progress does not come quickly or on the cheap. 
   If we start a vigorous program of federally-funded stem cell research program progress will not likely be measured in hours and days. It will take years, perhaps 10 or 20 years, before American patients are administered a new class of products and treatments derived from stem cell research. 
   In this regard I am reminded of an instance in which, when advised that a certain type of rare plant took years and years to bloom if placed in a certain hostile environment, a great French General simply said, "Then we must not delay, we must plant today." 
   We have to proceed with stem cell research with a passion and urgency today precisely because we do not know how long it will take to find tomorrow's cure. But we do know that the sooner we start, the faster we will get there. 
   Nor will this research be inexpensive. No doubt one reason why the biotechnology industry is supporting H.R. 810 is because since the end of World War II basic biomedical research in this country has primarily been funded by taxpayers through the programs conducted or supported by the National Institutes of Health. Today, about 80 percent of the $28 billion NIH budget is invested in highly-competitive, peer-reviewed research that is undertaken by universities and research hospitals. 
   There has been a continuum of effort between the public sector basic research and private sector applied research that attempts to translate the new basic knowledge gleamed from federally-supported NIH research into tangible FDA-approved products or other treatments before they can reach even the first patient's bedside. Americans should take pride in the fact that virtually every major advance in the biological sciences in the last 50 years emanated in some way from our investment in the NIH. 
   In my view, it would be in tragic and nearly incalculable mistake for our country to continue our present policy that materially constricts the cadre of investigators leading over 46,000 ongoing university based, NIH research grants from pushing the envelope of stem cell research. To cede our leadership in such a promising field of endeavor of biomedical research as stem cell research can only be short-sighted in the long-run. 
   For example, the University of Utah is the proud home of one of the world's foremost mouse stem cell researchers. His name is Dr. Mario Capecchi and he has already won one of the most prestigious awards in American science, the Lasker Award. A great deal of the support for Dr. Capecchi and other researchers at the University of Utah and other research universities across the country come from NIH grants and contracts. 
   I want Dr. Capecchi to stay in Utah. I want the world's leading scientists to stay in the United States. It is critical to relax the current straight-jacket on testing new stem cell lines if we are to keep the best stem cell researchers in this country. 
   Some might say good riddance to this research and to stem cell researchers. Look what happened in South Korea when a group of stem cell researchers conducted unethical experiments, faked the results and lied to the public. 
   I say that if the NIH is involved in this research and it is conducted in America, federally-supported researchers will have to live within longstanding NIH ethical guidelines and principles as well as special rules that will apply only to stem cell research. In this way, as we have done so many times in the past with breakthrough research such as with recombinant DNA technology and organ transplants, the United States can help set a moral and ethical climate that our neighbors in the world community will emulate and follow. 
   I hope we never reach the day when the best biomedical researchers trained in America must go elsewhere to conduct the most cutting-edge basic biomedical research. Once that happens, we could face the day when sick Americans must actually leave our country to get the latest in treatments. I sure would not want to see a day when a citizen of Salt Lake City has to go to South Korea or any place else to get the best medical treatment possible. 
   Today, for all of its warts, the USA is widely recognized as the world's leader in developing and disseminating the latest in medical breakthroughs. 
   Passage of H.R. 810 will help us keep it that way. 
   The purpose of H.R. 810 is to expand the opportunities for the type of federally-funded basic biomedical research that has proven so beneficial to the American public time and time again in the past. 
   Having described how many experts and interested parties believe that the promise of stem cell research is so great, I want to spend the next few minutes describing why some are opposed to this research and why I think their opposition is misplaced. 
   In order to do this, I feel compelled to spend a few minutes to define and discuss some technical scientific terms. I know that others have used many or all of these terms during the course of the debate but please bear with me if I am repeating some one or get too technical. 
   Perhaps the best place to start a discussion of stem cell research is with a broader term that many scientific experts believe more accurately describes the field and what is at stake. 
  The term is regenerative medicine. 
   Regenerative medicine seeks to uncover knowledge about how healthy cells contained in tissues and organs are formed and how they are lost through normal wear and tear or impaired more extensively through injury or degenerative disease. 
   The growing field of regenerative medicine is increasing our understanding of embryonic development, birth defects, organ transplantation, and the developmental biology of both healthy and diseased tissues. A key avenue of research of regenerative medicine involves stem cells. A stem cell is an undifferentiated cell that has the unique capacity to renew itself and give rise to specialized cell types. These stem cells are called pluripotent because of this ability to develop into different kinds of specialized cells, perhaps into all or most of the 200 known types of tissues that comprise the human body. Stem cells have the ability to divide and replicate for long periods of time in a laboratory colonies called cell lines. 
   The flexibility of these pluripotent stem cells is distinct from most cells in the body, because most cells are typically dedicated to performing a specific task such as heart muscle cells and specialized nerve cells. Scientists, like Dr. Kerr, the Johns Hopkins nerve cell researcher whom I talked about earlier, hope to be able to use stem cells to study how healthy and diseased cells work and, one day use this knowledge and use stem cell lines to treat or repair diseased tissues or organs. If this research is successful, many currently untreatable diseases and conditions may go the way of small pox and polio. 
  There are several different sources of stem cells. 
   Adult stem cells are undifferentiated cells that are found in specialized adult tissues. These cells can renew themselves and, with certain limitations, can differentiate to yield all the specialized cells types of the tissue in which they are found, and perhaps others as well. Adult stem cells have been found in many tissues including bone marrow, blood, the brain, skeletal muscle, dental pulp, liver, skin, eye, and the pancreas. 
   There is no serious opposition to adult stem cell research. I fully support this research. 
   There is, however, much debate over the potential limitations of adult stem cell research. For example, the seminal 2001 National Academy of Sciences study I mentioned earlier summarized the concerns: 
   "(I)t is not clear whether ... adult stem cells ... truly have plasticity or whether some tissues contain several types of stem cells that each give rise to only a few derivative types. Adult stem cells are rare, difficult to identify and purify, and when grown in culture, are difficult to maintain in the undifferentiated state. It is because of those limitations that even stem cells from bone marrow, the type most studied, are not available in sufficient numbers to support many potential applications of regenerative medicine." 
   Although some opponents of H.R. 810 have taken exception to this characterization of the limitations of adult stem cells, it is my understanding that most experts in the field believe that embryonic stem cells offer advantages over adult stem cells because of the reasons I have just reported from the NAS study. 
   Moreover, some proponents of adult stem cell research claim that many diseases have been effectively treated with adult stem cells. Unfortunately, the weight of evidence does not support many of these claims. Nor do most of the leading experts in the field agree with the notion that adult stem cell research exceeds the promise of embryonic stem cell research despite the fact that adult stem cell research has at least a 40 year head start on embryonic stem cell research and has enjoyed a sustained funding commitment from the NIH. 
   The current issue of Science magazine contains a detailed letter written by three scientists, Shane Smith, William Neaves, and Steven Teitelbaum challenging claims made by a leading advocate of adult stem cell research, Dr. David Prentice. I understand that most experts come down on the Smith-Neaves-Teitlebaum side of the debate concerning the scientific limitations and opportunities of embryonic stem cells relative to adult stem cells. 
   Additional sources of stem cells are those acquired from placental and umbilical cord blood. Last fall the Congress passed and President Bush signed into law legislation that I co-authored to expand the use of the valuable and proven source of stem cell therapy. Due to the work of pioneers like Dr. Joanne Kurtzberg from Duke University and Dr. Pablo Rubinstein of the New York Blood Center, cord blood has become an important mode of treatment for diseases like bone marrow disorders and has proven to be particularly useful in the African-American community where it is often difficult to find suitable bone marrow matches. 
   Yet another source of stem cells is those derived from human embryos. Public debate and discussion have centered on two types of embryonic stem cells. 
   First, stem cells may be derived from embryos created for, but no longer needed in, the in vitro fertilization process. 
   Second, stem cells can potentially be derived from so-called cloned embryos through the process of somatic cell nuclear transfer. 
   Today's debate centers on the first source of embryonic stem cells -- excess embryos formed in fertility clinics slated for destruction. 
   Under the terms of the unanimous consent agreement - and it is an agreement I fully support and commend Senators Frist and Reid for negotiating - the bills we debate today do not involve cloned embryos formed by somatic cell nuclear transfer. This is the process whereby the nucleus of an egg and its complement of 23 chromosomes is removed and replaced with the nucleus of one of the standard 46-chromosome containing somatic cells that constitute the 200-plus tissues of the human body. 
   Senator Feinstein and others have developed legislation that would ban and criminalize the act of using the somatic cell nuclear transfer process to give birth to a cloned human being. In addition, our bill, the Human Cloning Ban and Stem Cell Research Protection Act, S. 876, would set forth a tightly defined set of ethical restrictions and NIH oversight for anyone in the private sector that undertakes somatic cell nuclear transfer in order to produce new stem cell lines. 
   Others, led by Senator Brownback, have offered legislation that would effectively ban somatic cell nuclear transfer altogether, even for purely for research purposes and even with tight ethical controls that will govern wholly private sector funded experiments. 
   One day we will have that debate. We will not have it today under the rules of this debate. As I will describe, those opposed to deriving additional stem cell lines through the somatic stem cell process also oppose using spare embryos as a source of additional stem cell lines and do so for the same basic argument. 
   The great topic of today's debate is whether it is ethical and proper for taxpayer funded scientists to use stem cells derived from embryos no longer needed in fertility treatment. 
   The process of in vitro fertilization consists of fertilizing a woman's egg in a laboratory and then placing the fertilized egg in a woman's womb so that gestation and childbirth can occur. This is what is done when couples have fertility problems. Although IVF procedures were very controversial when they were first developed and used back in 1983, over 200,000 Americans have been born through this technique that is widely accepted today. 
   Many had grave reservations about the IVF process when it was developed. Some of the fiercest opponents of IVF back then are also the most ardent opponents of S. 810. While I respect their views -- and these are sincere and earnest individuals -- I think they were wrong then and wrong now. 
   As part of the fertility treatment process, it is inevitable that there will be some test tube embryos that will not be needed and will never be implanted in a mother's womb. And let me be clear here, I believe that the highest and best use of a human embryo is to be used by loving parents to add to their family. I wholeheartedly support adoption of spare embryos and would give adoption precedence over use for research. I think most would agree with me on this. 
   But the fact of the matter today is that there may exist at any point in time more than 400,000 such unused embryos in the United States and each year tens of thousands of such spare embryos are routinely and unceremoniously discarded and destroyed. It is important to note that more than 11,000 of these embryos have already been used for research. 
   It is from these embryos that scientists have derived stem cell lines. 
   Here is how it works. 
   During the first few days of embryo development, whether in a mother's womb or in a Petri dish inside a fertility clinic, the fertilized egg -- called a zygote -- begins to divide and transform into a sphere of cells called a blastocyst. Depending on its stage of development, a blastocyst is comprised of about 30 to 150 cells. It is from the inner layer of the blastocyst that scientists can derive the unspecialized but pluripotent stem cells that hold so much promise. 
   As I said earlier, while there is some debate on this issue, the great bulk of the evidence and consensus view of leading experts is that, at this point in time, research on the embryonic stem cells holds at least as much, and probably a lot more, promise than research on adult stem cells and cord blood. That is because the experts believe that embryonic stem cells appear to be easier to identify and work with and appear to be more flexible than other sources of stem cells. 
   The sole purpose of H.R. 810 is to expand the number of stem cell lines eligible for federal funding. If H.R. 810 passes and is signed into law, Americans will finally get the vigorous program of federally-funded stem cell research complete with a rigorous system of federal oversight of the ethical protections that the National Institutes of Health will place on this research. 
   The policy dispute that requires the legislative fix set forth in H.R. 810 revolves around the moral status of a spare embryo. Some, including President Bush and some in Congress, have reservations about using stem cells derived from embryos for research purposes. This concern is anchored in the perspective that human life begins at the moment of conception, be it in the womb or in the lab of a fertility clinic. 
   While I respect this view and those who hold it, I do not agree with it. 
   Let me say that I come into this debate as long-time, Right to Life Senator. I oppose abortion on demand. I think that Roe v. Wade was wrongly decided. I have worked to return the power to outlaw abortion from the courts to the states. In 1981, I proudly worked to report an anti-abortion Constitutional Amendment from the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
   In the 108th Congress, I served as Chairman of the House-Senate Conference Committee that finalized long-overdue legislation to outlaw the barbaric practice of partial birth abortion. I was at the President's side when he signed this bill into law. 
   When it comes to a Right to Life philosophy, I do not take a back seat to anyone in this Chamber or the House of Representatives. I will put my pro-life track record up against anyone inside or outside of Congress. 
   When I considered the question of the moral status of stem cells created for, but no longer needed in, the in-vitro fertilization process, I did so from a long- and fervently-held pro-life philosophy. 
   I have discussed this issue with many experts in science and ethics on all sides of this issue. I spoke to many Utahns and other citizens about their views on this matter. I consulted books ranging from medical texts and the Bible. 
   I thought long and hard about this matter. 
   Sometimes, I simply prayed to God for guidance. 
   I take my pro-family, pro-life philosophy very seriously. 
   I believe the worth of each soul is absolute. 
   Accordingly, I reject any purely utilitarian argument that the promise of stem cell research is so great that the ends justify the means. 
   I do not think that research can ever justify the taking of even a single human life, no matter how frail or defenseless that person may be. 
   Let me just say that there is not a fairer or finer man in the U.S. Senate than my friend from Kansas, Senator Sam Brownback. As he has attempted to frame the issue: 
   "The central question in this debate is simple: Is the embryo a person or a piece of property? If you believe... that life begins at conception and that the human embryo is a person fully deserving of dignity and the protection of our laws, then you have to believe that we must protect this innocent life from harm and protection." 
   After much thought, reflection, and prayer, I concluded that life begins in, and requires, a nurturing womb. Human life does not begin in a Petri dish. 
   I do not question that an embryo is a living cell. 
   But I do not believe that a frozen embryo in a fertility clinic freezer constitutes human life. 
   To my knowledge, as a matter of law, no member of the United States Supreme Court has ever taken the position in even a dissenting opinion, let alone a majority opinion, that fetuses, let alone embryos, are constitutionally protected persons. 
   I cannot imagine, for example, that many Americans would view an employee of a fertility clinic whose job it is to destroy unneeded embryos as a criminal -- and a murderer at that. Yet, this is a task that is performed thousands of times each and every year by hundreds of fertility clinic employees. 
   As well, the logical extension of Senator Brownback's life-begins-at-conception view might be to criminalize the actions of a woman or her doctor from using, or recommending the use of, some longstanding forms of contraception that impede fertilized eggs from attaching onto the uterine wall. 
   I simply do not believe that passing H.R. 810 and allowing federally-funded researchers to use new stem cell lines derived from spare embryos from fertility clinics is somehow ethical. 
   It seems to me that you would have to believe that the in vitro fertilization process was unethical to begin with if you believe that it is unethical to use spare embryos that would never be used for fertility purposes and were slated for routine destruction. 
   I find both fertility treatment and embryonic stem cell research to be ethical. 
   I believe that being pro-life involves helping the living. 
   Regenerative medicine is pro-life and pro-family; it enhances, not diminishes human life. 
  My friend and colleague, Senator Gordon Smith, and I share a similar perspective on this important issue. Here is Senator Smith's eloquent response to the concerns raised by our friend, Senator Brownback: 
   "...when does life begin? Some say it is at conception. Others say it is at birth. For me in my quest to be responsible and to be as right as I know how to be, I turn to what I regard as sources of truth. I find this: 'And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul.' This allegory of creation describes a two-step process to life, one of the flesh, the other of the spirit... 
   Cells, stem cells, adult cells, are, I believe, the dust of the earth. They are essential to life, but standing alone will never constitute life. A stem cell in a petri dish or frozen in a refrigerator will never, even in 100 years, become more than stem cells. They lack the breath of life. An ancient apostle once said: 'For the body without the spirit is dead.' I believe that life begins in the mother's womb, not in a scientist's laboratory. Indeed, scientists tell me that nearly one-half of fertilized eggs never attach to a mother's womb, but naturally slough off. Surely, life is not being taken here by God or by anyone else." 
   I find much wisdom in Senator Smith's remarks and ask all of you to reflect upon his thoughtful and valuable perspective. 
   When the roll is called on H.R. 810, I will vote yea. I urge my colleagues to do likewise. 
   I applaud President Bush's decision to allow federal funds to be used in connection with a limited number of stem cell lines that pre-existed his August 9, 2001 speech. Frankly, I had hoped back in 2001 that President Bush would announce a more expansive policy. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to include in the record a letter I wrote to President Bush on this matter in June, 2001 on the issue of stem cell research as well as an accompanying letter to then Secretary of Health and Human Services, Tommy Thompson. 
   Although at one time it appeared that as many as 78 stem cell lines might qualify under the President's policy, as many had feared, the number of lines that might be practically accessed today is no more than around a dozen at best. Moreover, all of these cell lines were grown with so-called mouse feeder cells so could never pass muster with the FDA for use to make products for humans. Thus for the President's initial goals to be accomplished, new embryonic stem cell lines must be made available. 
   It has been over a year since he House has taken its historic action of passing H.R. 810 by a bipartisan 235-1899 vote. I commend the leadership of Representatives Mike Castle and Diana DeGette for moving the bill through the House. 
   I must pay special respects to Senator Arlen Specter and Senator Tom Harkin for their dogged determination in conducting a series of some 15 oversight hearings on the issue of stem cell research since this breakthrough science was first reported in 1998. In fact, it was the work of the Specter-Harkin Labor-HHS Appropriations Subcommittee that developed the factual basis and legal analysis that resulted in the legislation that became H.R. 810. 
   At long last, today the Senate will finally vote on this important legislation. 
   I hope that it will pass and if it does, I will strenuously urge President to reconsider his position and sign this bill into law.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 