SENATE PASSES SEN. HATCH'S RE-EXPORT BILL
  The U.S. Senate passed legislation last week sponsored by Sens. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Joseph Biden (D-Del.) to help level the playing field for drug manufacturers in Utah and throughout the nation that compete in the global market.  
   "This bill makes a minor, but long-overdue change that will protect high-paying American jobs while maintaining strong safeguards on exports," Hatch said. "A number of Utah companies have had significant difficulties exporting their prescription drugs because they are operating under laws written more than 30 years ago. The global economy has changed dramatically since then, and it is time that we modernize our laws." 
   Under current law, U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers are permitted to export most controlled substances only to the immediate country where the products will be consumed, while prohibiting shipments to centralized sites for further distribution across national boundaries. Only the United States prohibits re-exporting controlled substances, and the prohibition causes logistical challenges and financial burdens that have forced some domestic pharmaceutical manufacturers to move production overseas. 
   The Hatch-Biden bill, S. 1395, would address this problem by revising the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act to allow the export of controlled substances to companies in one country that could then re-export the drugs to other nations. The new rules maintain the Drug Enforcement Agency's full authority to regulate drug exports, and it would apply only in foreign countries that have signed international agreements that govern narcotic and psychotropic drug policy. 
   Cephalon, Inc., an international biopharmaceutical company with a large facility in Utah, knows firsthand the challenges facing domestic drug companies competing in foreign markets. 
   "We are very pleased that this important legislation has again passed the Senate with the critical support of Senators Hatch and Biden," said John E. Osborn, Cephalon's Senior Vice President and General Counsel. "Cephalon's commitment to manufacturing in the State of Utah for European distribution can be sustained over the long run only if we enact these export control reforms into law."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 