SEN. HATCH VOTES WITH JUDICIARY COMMITTEE MAJORITY TO APPROVE MARRIAGE PROTECTION
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) voted today with the majority of the Senate Judiciary Committee to approve a Constitutional amendment protecting traditional marriage. Committee members voted along party lines - 10 Republicans to eight Democrats. The bill now advances to the full Senate, which is scheduled to vote on it the week of June 5.  
   "We must amend the Constitution to defend traditional marriage from being undermined," Hatch said. "The bedrock of society is the family, and it is traditional marriage that undergirds the family. But recent court decisions have proven that some courts are usurping the role of legislatures by creating their own definitions of marriage." 
   American history is "dotted with instances of judges who ignored their limitations to replace public policy with their own will," Hatch said. He wants an amendment to the Constitution that protects traditional marriage and prevents activist judges from redefining this institution according to their own "freewheeling moral intuition." 
   "Such judges might act with the best of intentions, but they are mistaken to replace the opinions of the American people with their own," Hatch said. "They feel democracy is moving too slowly or in the wrong direction, so they usurp legislative judgments and help to move the process along. History has demonstrated that such good-hearted actions are almost always a mistake." 
   Since this bill would authorize a Constitutional amendment, its passage requires approval by two-thirds of both houses of Congress, after which the bill would require ratification by three-fourths of the nation's state Legislatures. The House of Representatives has not passed an amendment protecting marriage. 
   "This is an important issue, and it deserves a straight up-or-down vote on the floor," Hatch said. "I support this amendment, and I urge my colleagues to do the same."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 