SEN. HATCH: NO TAX HIKE ON MIDDLE AMERICA
  Last night, the United States Senate passed legislation to prevent a dramatic tax increase on middle-class Americans. As a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee,  
   Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) played an integral role in developing the Senate bill, the Tax Relief Act of 2005 (S. 2020), which passed the Senate by a 64 to 33 vote. 
   "Many Utahns would be hit hard by high taxes if we don't pass this bill," Hatch said. "And our robust pro-growth tax policy has made a direct impact on our economy. Last year, we had an unprecedented 15 percent increase in tax revenue -- a whopping $250 billion more in revenues than last year. That alone helped to drive down the deficit by $100 billion this year. This bill is critical in helping to keep the economy strong." 
   The tax package contains a Hatch-sponsored provision to extend the research tax credit that gives a boost to thousands of research-based companies in Utah. Since its enactment in 1981, the research tax credit has become a powerful and effective incentive for firms to increase research spending. With the research credit scheduled to expire December 31, 2005, Hatch's provision would extend the credit through 2006 and establish a new simplified credit that addresses changes in business models and economic circumstances that prevent some businesses from using the credit. 
   "Technology is one of Utah's leading exports, and many companies rely on this tax credit to remain competitive and innovate," Hatch said. "Research and development is the lifeblood of not only Utah's but the nation's economy. In short, our nation's future economic health depends on the innovations of today." 
   However, Hatch criticized the compromise bill for several reasons, including its restriction of married couples to claim a deduction from charitable donations below $420 on their itemized taxes. 
   "Taking away this benefit mistreats many Utahns who make small contributions to their churches and local charities," Hatch said. "I see absolutely no reason for this limitation. A high percentage of Utahns make charitable donations, and most of them itemize their taxes. Why should they be penalized for doing the right thing?" 
   Hatch also pressed his colleagues to extend the lower tax rates for capital gains and dividends, which provide a strong incentive for Utahns to save and invest in the nation's economy. 
   "Everyone agrees that Americans are not saving enough, so the last thing we want to do is decrease the incentives to save," Hatch said. "Allowing the low rate for dividends and capital gains to expire leads us in exactly the wrong direction."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 