SENATE RECOGNIZES NOBEL PRIZE WINNERS FOR MEDICINE
  The U.S. Senate yesterday passed a resolution to honor University of Utah geneticist Mario R. Capecchi, who recently won the Nobel Prize for medicine. Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) sponsored the measure, which was cosponsored by Sen. Bob Bennett (R-Utah).  
   "Our state has been fortunate to have a scientist of Dr. Capecchi's caliber at the University of Utah for the last 35 years," Hatch said. "Through both his life and work, Dr. Capecchi has demonstrated that hard work and determination can produce world-class results even in the face of overwhelming adversity. I have the highest praise for him and for his dedication, perseverance, and intellect." 
   The resolution also honored Sir Martin J. Evans and Oliver Smithies, who share this year's Nobel Prize for medicine with Cappechi. The three scientists discovered methods for introducing specific gene modifications in mice by the use of embryonic stem cells. In the late 1980s, after years of research and experimentation on mouse-derived stem cells, these doctors were able to develop the first knockout mice, genetically engineered mice that have had one or more of their genes isolated and made inoperable. Through the techniques developed by these three doctors, researchers are able to inactivate specific mouse genes and study the mice for any resulting differences. From this process, they are able to infer the probable functions of the individual genes. 
   This gene-targeting technology has led to a vast expansion of human understanding of genetics. Indeed, it has impacted virtually every area of biomedicine. The successful isolation of genes has allowed researchers to determine their roles in embryonic development, adult physiology, aging, and disease. In addition, the use of knockout mice has led to the production of more than 500 different mouse models of human disorders, including cardiovascular disease, neuron-degenerative disorders, cancer, and diabetes. 
   "As the Senate has considered medical issues, particularly stem cell research, Dr. Cappechi has been an invaluable resource and adviser to the Senate," Hatch said. "I appreciate how willingly he has shared his expertise as we aim to craft the best research policy for the American people."
   Contact: Heather Barney, 801/524-3341; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 