HOUSE PASSES SEN. HATCH 'FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT' BILL
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today welcomed House passage of his Family Entertainment and Copyright Act of 2005 as a key step in the effort to give parents greater control over the material their children are exposed to in movies.  
   "This bill will help give parents more say over what their children see," said Hatch, the principal sponsor of the bill. "It is a constant struggle for parents today to control the objectionable material our kids see in movies and on television. With this bill, we will give parents an important tool in winning that struggle." 
   Hatch said one of the bill's primary purposes is to protect companies like Utah-based ClearPlay, which has developed technology to allow viewing of DVDs with inappropriately violent or sexual content omitted. 
   "This is important legislation both to parents who want the ability to use new technologies to help shield their families from inappropriate content as well as the technology companies, such as ClearPlay in my home state of Utah, that are working to develop these technologies," said Hatch. "It also closes some significant gaps in our copyright laws that are feeding some of the piracy so rampant on the Internet." 
   The Hatch bill, S.167, is co-sponsored in the Senate by Sens. Pat Leahy (D-Vt.), John Cornyn (R-Tex.), and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.). Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) was the key sponsor of a similar provision in the House. Along with the technology measures, the bill contains a number of provisions to protect intellectual property, including an important statutory tool to help law enforcement officials combat the growing problem of music and movies being distributed on filesharing networks and circulating on the Internet before they are even released. It also contains a measure to reauthorize an existing program for the preservation of certain historically and culturally significant films. 
   "I hope President Bush will quickly sign this bill into law to assist parents in Utah and across America in protecting their children from depictions of violence and sex in the movies," said Hatch.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370. 
 
 