SEN. HATCH BIDS FAREWELL TO CHIEF OF STAFF
  The following is the statement of Sen.Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) before the United States Senate on the retirement of his long-time chief of staff, Patricia Knight. 
   Mr. President, I am grateful for the opportunity today to pay tribute to a wonderful woman, dedicated public servant, health policy expert and my Chief of Staff, Patricia Knight, or as many know her in the Senate - Trisha. 
   We were all sad to learn last week that, after over 34 years of public service, Trisha has decided to leave the Senate family at the end of the year, which in the arcane ways of the Senate could be any number of days between now and December 31st! In fact, had I been able to convince her to stay until January 7th,, we would have been able to celebrate with her the 34th anniversary of her first job on Capitol Hill. 
   Trisha was born here in the District and grew up in Arlington. She progressed through Jamestown Elementary School, Williamsburg Junior High School and Yorktown High School. We like to kid her about the fact that this is the pathway that launched CBS newswoman Katie Couric.  
   When I first approached Trish about being my Chief of Staff, she quickly pointed out that she was not from Utah. However, always thinking on her feet, she rapidly concluded that graduating from Syracuse University, or Syracuse U, was close enough to four years in Syracuse U-tah! And that became her story. 
   I might add that she graduated magna cum laude from Syracuse University, where she majored in anthropology and photojournalism, which makes her in my mind uniquely qualified to work in this body. Trisha never intended to work on Capitol Hill. She is the daughter of a pair of Washington journalists, both deceased. But, I know they are watching over her and are very proud of what she has accomplished. 
   She always reminds the young people who come to work in my office that she got her first federal job by walking up and down Constitution Avenue passing out resumes and the old Civil Service form SF-171. 
   She was initially hired as a temporary typist at the U.S. Department of Commerce, which it turned out was a lucky career start, because she found out later she had flunked the typing test but they hired her anyway. 
   That became her launching pad for work in the office of our former colleague, and then House member, Senator Jim Broyhill of North Carolina, the ranking Republican on the Energy and Commerce Committee. 
   He trained her well - she moved from caseworker, to legislative correspondent, to legislative assistant. I would like to say it was a meteoric rise - but in those days the average Hill staffer stayed no more than two years. Trisha was there for almost eight years - day, night, and many weekends. 
   I knew she would be a real asset to my staff because of her considerable government experience. 
   Before coming to the United States Senate, Trisha served in the Executive branch for Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush. It is interesting that she worked at two cabinet agencies twice - the Commerce Department and Health and Human Services. The Cabinet Secretaries she served include Richard Schweiker, Margaret Heckler, Otis Bowen, M.D., Lou Sullivan, M.D., and Bob Mosbacher. 
   Trisha is perhaps best known for her work at HHS - she served twice as a Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Department of Health and Human Services and is considered by many as one of the top health policy experts in Washington, D.C. In that job, she was a line officer in the Public Health Service, as well as a staffer for the Secretary, and she worked for some of my favorite people - Dr. Ron Docksai, Dr. Bob Windom, and Dr. James O. Mason. 
   In addition to her work for Senator Broyhill when he served in the House, she has also served on the staff of the House Appropriations Committee, where she was minority clerk for the legendary Silvio Conte of Massachusetts on three appropriations bills: Commerce-State-Justice; Legislative Branch; and Foreign Operations. 
   I felt very fortunate when Trisha agreed to work in my office as a volunteer after the defeat of President George H. W. Bush. In fact, I tried to hire her the first week, but she flippantly informed me I didn't have the budget to do it. 
   A few months later, I found that money, and she joined my health staff, rising quickly to become my health policy director. 
   She is one of the shrewdest, smartest, most effective legislative minds in the Senate. She deeply understands the legislative process and has cultivated relationships with health policy experts throughout this country and around the world. She truly knows everyone and the proper way to get things done, on health care, and a whole range of issues. She has a rare combination of policy expertise and legislative know how. In other words, she not only knows what to do, she knows how to make it happen. 
   She is very proud of her work in Senate infrastructure development, including her active membership in the Senate Chief of Staff organization and its executive committee. She has been a real leader in that organization. She has worked hard to be a capable administrator and manager and to help develop our staff and our institutional knowledge. 
   She also takes pride in the young people whose careers she has helped launch on Capitol Hill. I often hear her tell young legislative staff - in the words of her good friend and mentor, Don Hirsch: "Read the bill!" 
  The legislation she has worked on is really among the most important in my career. Trisha was by my side when we finally persuaded Congressman Waxman and Senator Kennedy to allow the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act to go through. 
   It was a journey of several years. It was a legislative campaign that has served as the model for many pieces of legislation since. And, I might add, it was the only major health bill to be enacted in 1994, the year of President Clinton's Health Security Act. 
   She was by my side in 1997, when Senator Kennedy and I worked with Senators Chafee and Rockefeller to enact the CHIP legislation in a record 144 days. I know she had hoped to stay on and see the reauthorization finished this year, but we'll do all we can to get it done next year. 
   She has had an influential role in development of so many other pieces of law - reforming the Food and Drug export laws, allowing medical volunteers at Community Health Centers to be covered under the Federal Tort Claims Act, so many of the budget reconciliation bills, including the landmark Medicare Modernization Act, all of the major FDA bills we've considered in the past two decades, including the Prescription Drug User Fee Acts and the Medical Device User Fee Acts. She also served on the Judiciary Committee where she worked on nominations, patents and controlled substances issues, among many, many others. 
   This week, as she is delighted to note, she assisted in seeing the first bill she drafted pass unamended - legislation to rename the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development as the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. 
   The list of accomplishments goes on and on ..... 
   And there are some that have not become law ...yet - and I know she regrets that - but I think we may still see the Knight agenda enacted. Two of these are allowing vitamins to be purchased with food stamps - a commonsense measure for good nutrition, and even more importantly, allowing FDA approval of biosimilars, my high priority. 
   Trish spear-headed for me the Kennedy-Hatch Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2007, reported earlier this year by the HELP Committee. 
   Trisha also is a walking rolodex. She knows everyone - including just about every health policy expert in the country. When she made her announcement on Friday, a flurry of emails came into the 
   office. I would like to share just a few of them which I think you will enjoy, and which show her true character. 
   One of my former staff directors for the Senate Labor Committee noted in response to her announcement: "I can't believe you plan to hang up your whip. Ringmasters occasionally take breaks, but that doesn't mean they quit the circus. Senator Hatch thinks the world of you, as do we all. Whatever your final decision, I hope it keeps you in public affairs." 
   One of Senator Kennedy's former staff directors said, "The planets are realigning. The tectonic plates of the earth are shifting. The sea is parting. The world will never be the same again." (Those Kennedy staffers always do go in for the hyperbole don't they? That's why they are so successful.) 
   A leadership staffer noted, "It truly will be a loss to the whole Senate." 
   A Utah mayor and CEO told Patricia, "I cannot tell you how much we have appreciated your help. You will be sorely missed. Your ability to make a difference on Capitol Hill is evident. You have been a great friend and ally. Your work ethic is unmatched by anyone I have seen on the Hill. When you combine that with your knowledge of key areas like HHS issues, you have been a very effective government operative." 
   A Utah political leader noted, "Trisha is the brightest political strategist I have known in all my years in politics. She has the ability to put together a long-term strategy to deal with a crisis before the crisis occurs. Her perspective and insight into issues is unsurpassed." 
   And one last example, a former Robert Wood Johnson fellow in my office noted: "You know, you were singlehandedly responsible for my whole perspective change on the reality of government and its operation ... The amount of information you have in your mind, from your experiences, and all that you have done for others, is staggering. 
   You will always be a close and dear friend and my life/career has been better for knowing you in that role. No matter where you find yourself, my admiration and respect will only grow. While I was there (and since), you made sure that I had a life changing experience and got to see and hear it all." 
   People on the "outside," who deal with many, many congressional staff, hold Trisha in the highest regard - for her expertise, her masterful strategic thinking, and for her straightforwardness, scrupulous honesty and sense of fair play. But more importantly, they genuinely like her because she is, above all, a wonderful, generous person. 
   Over the years, Trisha has spent weeks traveling through Utah, meeting with county and city officials and getting a good feel for the issues and challenges Utahns are facing throughout our state. She has made it a point to get to know our great state and know it well. She brought to that task all she had learned in her government career, an experience that undoubtedly helped our state in innumerous ways. In fact, when he heard she was leaving, our House colleague, Representative Chris Cannon, said, "It is the State's great loss." 
   Trisha has the love and respect of everyone in the Senate, in Utah and those whose lives she has touched. 
   I will always appreciate her wise counsel and deep commitment to me, to my staff and to the citizens of Utah. Her sense of humor has defused many a tense time. 
   She has been my right hand for many, many years - indeed, she is my longest serving Chief of Staff. In fact, one wag blogged upon hearing this news in the Salt Lake Tribune - I hope when she leaves she'll take Hatch with her! 
   I ask unanimous consent that that article and the article which appeared in the Deseret News be inserted in the Record at this point. 
   I will always be extremely grateful for the service she has rendered. But more than that, she is a dear friend who could always be counted on to tell me the truth. 
   Mr. President, I have been blessed to have superb staff in my 31 years here in the Senate. The devotion staff have to the institution of the Senate is understandable - we are all privileged to serve an institution that embodies the liberty and deliberation among free people that the Senate represents. 
   But the devotion of staff to a member is, for me, quite humbling. For 15 years, Trisha Knight has given me and the Senate her expertise, her knowledge, and her advice. 
   I have been able to rely on her, literally, 24 hours a day during these 15 years. I have depended on her to help me pass landmark legislation, and surmount difficult challenges. I have relied on her advice - even when she felt obliged to tell me what I didn't want to hear. 
   I have relied, without exception, on her integrity, and I am grateful for every day I have had the pleasure of her good character. 
   We will all miss Trisha, but I suspect we'll be seeing a lot of her in the future. We do have a saying "once a Hatch staffer, always a Hatch staffer" and we will expect her to adhere to that rule! (And all the other applicable rules and laws, I hasten to add!) 
   So, as the first session of the 110th Congress draws to a close, I hope my colleagues will join me in expressing appreciation for Patricia Knight for her loyalty, her service, her counsel, her sacrifice, and her commitment to good policy. I want to wish her the very best in whatever she chooses to do next and pray for her continued good health, success and happiness.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 801/524-4380.
 
 