COMMITTEE STATEMENT: STEM CELL RESTRICTIONS 'HANDCUFF' SCIENCE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today participated in a joint meeting of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, & Pensions and Appropriations committees to discuss increased federal funding of stem cell research, which promises treatments for spinal cord injuries, diabetes, and other afflictions. He delivered the following speech, "Can Congress Help Fulfill the Promise of Stem Cell Research?" 
   Thank you, Chairman Kennedy and Chairman Harkin, for giving me the opportunity to speak today at this important joint hearing. I want to thank all of our distinguished scientists for taking the time to join us, and I especially want to thank Lauren Stanford for gracing us with her presence.  
   Mr. Chairmen, this hearing is vital because opponents of embryonic stem cell research point to the fact that there are no treatments with embryonic stem cells and say that it is failed science. 
   I say it is handcuffed science. 
   Think of these handcuffs while you listen to the expert scientists assembled here. They will tell us that they and their colleagues are holding the line against spinal cord injuries, Parkinson's disease, diabetes, and other illnesses. They are exploring the potential of stem cells from umbilical cord blood, of stem cells from amniotic fluid, and of stems cells taken from adults. But they are not advancing as rapidly against these afflictions as they could by ethically using stem cells from frozen and unused embryos - because their hands are bound. 
   While all forms of stem cell research should be aggressively pursued, scientists see great potential in the use of embryonic stem cells because they have the unique ability to become any kind of cell in the body. Yet we are placing unnecessary and potentially disastrous obstacles in the way of scientists who wish to pursue this research to develop breakthrough treatments. 
   Let me give you a few examples. 
   Dr. Marie Cseta is an anesthesiologist and cell biologist from Emory University who works with embryonic stem cells. She tells us that the restrictions that current federal policy places upon her and her colleagues are, in her words "... so odious that many scientists just do not try." We are wasting researchers' time, we are wasting their resources, and - in the final analysis - we are wasting the lives of those they could have saved. 
   I commend President Bush for authorizing federal funds to study approved human embryonic cell lines, cells isolated before August 2001. But this was hardly the key to unlock the treatments of the future. 
   What in 2001 were 71 approved cell lines has dwindled to 21 useable lines. And an NIH-funded stem cell researcher at the University of Texas, Dr. Ping Wu, told me that in reality there are only 12 useable lines - the others will not grow. Dr. Wu says the few useable cell lines are not enough to represent the general population anyway. Furthermore, these lines are contaminated with animal cells and, therefore, can never be placed in humans. 
   Dr. Linda Kelley is associate professor of medicine at the University of Utah. Dr. Kelley told me that the approved cell lines are so unstable that, in her words, "You are lucky if you can recover 10 percent of the cells they send you." She said the cells have been reused for so long that they have degraded and no longer represent the human population at all. 
   Another unintended consequence of the President's policy is the creation of monopolies. Many owners of these few approved cell lines have used their monopoly to make the cells very expensive and difficult to obtain. Dr Rick Wetsel at the University of Texas Health Science Center told me of paying $5,000 for one approved cell lines only to find that the cells were worthless, forcing him to pay another $5,000 and wait six months for a new batch. Another scientist, Dr. Cseta, was charged $20,000 for what should have been a $500 cell line. The cells they purchased have been reproduced so many times that they do not live very long and cannot be used with normal laboratory techniques. So they are spending more money for less valuable material. 
   These restrictions also waste time and effort. NIH funds are the bedrock of every university's research program. Hardly a piece of equipment or a technician in a medical school is not in some way supported by the NIH. Medical school deans and scientists are afraid of violating federal law by allowing equipment and personnel funded by the NIH to touch a non-approved cell line. Dr. Wetsel in Houston spent several years obtaining enough funds from a private donor to work with a fresh cell line derived from a discarded, frozen embryo. He was forced to use most of the precious funds to buy duplicate equipment and then place it in a small laboratory that was isolated from the rest of his NIH-funded facility. Dr. Cseta told me that she is unable to send her doctors-in-training to study stem cell techniques in expert laboratories that work with non-approved lines because their salaries were funded by NIH. 
   Scientists in the U.S. are either walking away from human embryonic stem cell research or walking away from the U.S. 
   Mr. Chairmen, let me just cite one more proof of how our current policy is handcuffing this promising research. 
   In the first six years after embryonic stem cells were discovered at the University of Wisconsin in 1998, half of the 20 most-quoted publications on this research came from the United States. But a closer look at those publications is troubling. Seven of those 10 U.S. publications came from the University of Wisconsin and Geron Corporation - both heavily endowed with private funding. Only three of the 125 U.S. academic medical centers contributed a top human embryonic stem cell publication in the six years after their discovery. If the U.S. is to remain among the world's leaders in this research, that must change. 
   We must give scientists who want to work with embryonic stem cells a chance, just like we do for stem cells from cord blood, amniotic fluid, and from adults. 
   As Professor Kelley told me, "There is so much to be learned and it is terribly frustrating." 
   It shouldn't be that way. It doesn't have to be that way. Let's unlock the handcuffs. 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairmen.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 