SEN. HATCH: LEAVITT WILL GET THE JOB DONE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today voiced his strong support for Micheal O. Leavitt as Secretary of Health and Human Services at a Senate Finance Committee confirmation hearing. 
   Hatch, who introduced Leavitt at the hearing, issued the following statement:  
   It is my honor and privilege to introduce, along with Senator Bennett, my good friend and fellow Utahn, Governor Mike Leavitt. I have known Mike Leavitt for a long time, and have worked closely with him on many key issues, not only Utah health issues, but national health issues as well. 
   We are all aware of Mike's distinguished record. But what I want to commend to you is how qualified Mike Leavitt is for this job. In short, he is bright, energetic, dedicated and fair - all of the qualities necessary for this important job. I say with all respect to those who have gone before him, I can think of no better Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
   Mike has devoted much of his life to public service, first in Utah, and more recently in Washington. He is a smart decision maker, a tireless worker and a successful manager and executive. He is fair. He is knowledgeable about health care. He is a decent family man. Bottom line - he will get the job done. 
   As Governor of Utah, Mike Leavitt was a leader in issues with which this Committee is very familiar, important issues such as welfare reform, health care delivery, and Medicaid. During a difficult financial time for our state, he was able to create a fiscally responsible budget, and, at the same time, provide important services to lower-income Utah citizens of all ages. 
   While we were working on the CHIP legislation in 1997, I talked to Mike frequently to get his perspective as a leader in the National Governors Association. He provided me with valuable insight and has continued to do so as the program grew. 
   And, I would be remiss if I did not also cite Governor Leavitt's great work in providing health care coverage not only to CHIP-eligible children but to lower-income adults of our state as well through innovative new state health care insurance programs like the Primary Care Network. 
   On a personal note, I want the members of the Committee to know that Mike Leavitt is fair man. He will look at all sides of an issue before making a policy decision and you can count on the result to be the right decision. His record as both the governor of Utah and the Administrator of EPA proves this and he will continue to be a great leader when he becomes Secretary of HHS. 
   I can promise you he will be an excellent leader for the programs we work on daily - Medicaid, CHIP, welfare and FQHCs to name just a few. And, importantly, we can count on Mike Leavitt along with CMS Administrator Mark McClellan to work closely with the Committee on the difficult task of fully implementing the Medicare prescription drug program next January. 
   Although FDA is not within this Committee's jurisdiction, I just wanted to close with one anecdote a senior official at the agency related to me the other day. 
   After attending several briefings with the Secretary-designate, the FDA official said: 
   -"At our first briefing, Governor Leavitt was good. 
   -At the second meeting, he was excellent. 
   -And, at the last briefing, he was teaching us!" 
   That is the kind of man Mike Leavitt is. He will be a great Secretary. So, with pride and admiration I introduce to this Committee Governor Mike Leavitt. Let us get him confirmed and in the job as soon as possible.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 