SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF MYERS FOR U.S. COURT OF APPEALS FOR NINTH CIRCUIT
  Statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate
   Mr. President, I rise today in strong support for the confirmation of William G. Myers III, who has been nominated to fill the Idaho vacancy on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Let me emphasize, when current Circuit Judge Trott takes senior status at the end of this year, and if the Senate refuses to even vote on Mr. Myers' nomination, there would be no Idaho representation on the Ninth Circuit.  
   Now, federal law, 28 US Code Section 44(c), requires that each state within a Circuit must have at least one judge on that Circuit. We have heard a lot of discussion over the past few months about how Circuit Court seats should not be switched from one state to another, out of respect for home-state Senators. I just hope the Senators who have raised those valid concerns afford Senators Craig and Crapo the same respect that they believe they themselves, and their states, deserve. Again, this is not about Idaho having two or three, or even one or two seats on the Ninth Circuit. It is about whether the Senate will refuse to even vote on filling Idaho's ONLY seat on the Ninth Circuit. 
   And, as I will discuss further, it is about whether a qualified nominee can be blocked by a minority of Senators because he represented farmers, ranchers, and miners in their efforts to make balanced uses of public and private lands in the Western United States. 
   Bill Myers was nominated by President Bush in May 2003, over a year ago, and his nomination was carefully examined, debated, and favorably reported out of the Judiciary Committee in early April. Democrats who opposed him in Committee voted against him, and that is their right. But they should not now deny all Senators the right to vote on his confirmation. Bill Myers deserves, and is overdue for, an up or down vote on the Senate Floor. 
   I will remind my colleagues that the Ninth Circuit is the most notoriously liberal federal court in the United States. It is, and has been for at least a decade, quintessentially out of the mainstream of American jurisprudence. The infamous case in which this court held that our Pledge of Allegiance is unconstitutional because it contains the word God, is but one of many examples of its all too frequent perversions of federal jurisprudence. Fortunately the Supreme Court unanimously reversed the Ninth Circuit in that case-one of 16 times in the 2003-2004 term alone that the Court unanimously reversed or summarily vacated the Ninth Circuit. 
   This past Supreme Court term the Ninth Circuit was reversed or vacated 81% of the time. Even my liberal friend from New York, Senator Schumer once noted the Ninth Circuit is "way out of the mainstream on the left." 
   As Senator Feinstein has noted, in the 1996-1997 term, the Ninth Circuit was reversed in 20 of 21 cases. While some Circuits had similar reversal rates, no other Circuit came close to the number of cases considered and reversed. The same has been true since then. The Ninth Circuit has been reversed 86.5% of the time since 1998. In 58 cases, the Court didn't even need to hear argument-they simply vacated the Ninth Circuit summarily. In the 2003-2004 term, Ninth Circuit appeals accounted for about one-third of the Supreme Court's docket-suggesting that the Court feels the need to focus disproportionately intense scrutiny on decisions from that circuit. And as I noted, about two-thirds of the Ninth Circuit's reversals this past term, 64%, to be exact, were UNANIMOUS. 
   This is a court that is desperately in need of good, non-activist judges who are faithful to the Constitution; there is no doubt that Bill Myers would be such a judge. One would think that the Senate would welcome the confirmation of an expert on public lands and natural resources law to a court that has enormous influence over how disputes over the uses of those resources are resolved. Western Senators know all too well that the Ninth Circuit is the 900 pound gorilla of public lands, natural resources and environmental law-its decisions have significant and often adverse impacts well beyond the borders of its jurisdiction. 
   Yet today I'm sure we will hear that it's Bill Myers who is out of the mainstream and not fit to join the ranks of Ninth Circuit judges who routinely ignore law and precedent to rule based on their own personal policy preferences, both on natural resources issues and in many other areas of the law-including but not limited to the constitutionality of the Pledge of Allegiance and the death penalty. The prejudices against Bill Myers reflect today's poisoned confirmation process: nominees who somehow offend any well-funded liberal interest group are subject to distortions and baseless personal attacks, which the media echo chamber dutifully resound as proof positive of unfitness for the federal bench. And with Bill Myers and his record, the distortions continue, baseless as ever. 
   His record as the Interior Department's Solicitor, where he was doing his duty to represent the policy positions of the United States, has been attacked because the liberal environmentalists do not like those policies. He has been vilified for daring to represent farmers, ranchers, and miners while in private practice-as if ranchers and those who make economic uses of Western lands are less entitled to representation than the elite, liberal environmental groups that attempt to dictate Western land policy from Eastern cities while they derisively refer to most of our nation as flyover country. 
   So what is really at stake is this: Is a judicial nominee disqualified from service on the federal bench solely because he or she has advocated, successfully and competently, for people or policies that liberal groups of various stripes dislike? If the answer from my Democratic colleagues is yes then I do not want to hear one more word, not one, from any of them about how it is Republicans who are politicizing the judiciary. 
   There is no more blatant way for Senators to politicize and degrade the confirmation process than to reflexively disqualify nominees who have represented people and groups, or advanced policies, that they don't like. Ask yourselves, is this vote on Bill Myers really about Bill Myers? If it is, you know and I know there is no reason, on the merits, to deny him an up or down vote. Or will this vote be a reflection of liberal disdain for policies favored by farmers, ranchers, miners, the Bush Interior Department, or anyone else who advocates balanced uses of Western lands? 
   If the latter is true, let me emphasize again, for those who still do not get it: the Constitution did not and does not establish federal courts as the policymaking branch of the government. Federal judges should not make policy, though too often, especially on the Ninth Circuit, they do. Policy debates ought to have no place in our consideration of a nominee's qualifications to serve as a federal judge-unless we think that he or she doesn't understand the proper role of federal judges under our Constitutional system. Absent absurd and unfair distortions of his record, there is zero evidence that Bill Myers does not understand that proper role. 
   I would also like to remind my colleagues of some facts about Bill Myers that the liberal interest groups and the media have willfully ignored or deliberately misrepresented. 
   He has an exemplary record that includes service as a successful, committed advocate and public servant. As Solicitor for the Department of the Interior-a position to which he was confirmed in 2001 without opposition-Mr. Myers supervised over 300 attorneys and 100 support staff in 19 separate offices throughout the United States, and managed a $47 million annual budget. He has served as counsel here in the Senate, to our former colleague Senator Al Simpson, and in both the Department of Justice and Department of Energy. 
   His confirmation is supported by Democrats-including former Wyoming governor Mike Sullivan and former Idaho governor Cecil Andrus, who also served President Carter as Secretary of the Interior, plus the Democratic Attorneys General in both Colorado and Oklahoma-and Republicans alike. Five Western governors, including the governors of Hawaii, Montana and Nevada, have written to the committee expressing their support and emphasizing "the need for quality judges who will provide a balanced perspective to the Ninth Circuit's extraordinary caseload." 
   I also want to respond to a blatant misrepresentation about Mr. Myers' record that was made by one of my colleagues who suggested - falsely - that Bill Myers "thinks the Clean Air Act and the Endangered Species Act have harmed the environment." 
   Well, as anyone who bothered to read Mr. Myers' hearing testimony and written questions, or conducted even a cursory review of his record, would know, he thinks no such thing. In fact, I don't think he's ever said anything about the Clean Air Act at all. Now, in his responses to Senator Feinstein's written questions, Mr. Myers affirmed that Congressional intent in passing the Clean Water Act was to "restore and maintain the chemical, physical and biological integrity of the Nation's waters," and that "the health of our Nation's waters is often inextricably connected to the health of adjacent wetlands." This is an extreme conservative position? Only in the sense that Bill Myers failed to endorse the full policy platform of Greenpeace. 
   Similarly, regarding the Endangered Species Act, we all know that there have been cases in which government authorities have abused their power under this law to confiscate private property without compensation. Let me give you just one example, the 2001 Ninth Circuit decision in the Arizona Cattle Growers case. Here, a unanimous appellate panel, composed of two judges appointed by President Clinton and one judge appointed by President Reagan, wrote the following: 
   "[T]he Fish and Wildlife Service acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner by issuing Incidental Take Statements imposing terms and conditions on land use permits, where there either was no evidence that the endangered species existed on the land or no evidence that a take would occur if the permit were issued. We also find that it was arbitrary and capricious for the Fish and Wildlife Service to issue terms and conditions so vague as to preclude compliance therewith." [273 F.3d 1229, 1233 (9th Cir. 2001)]. 
   So, Bill Myers has been an advocate for farmers and ranchers who have challenged such abuses of this law, because their families' lives and fortunes depend on their ability to responsibly use land they own or lease. For such efforts, he is unfit for federal judicial service? Give me a break! 
   And, here's what Bill Myers has actually said about the Endangered Species Act-contrast it with what his opponents believe he thinks. He has said that federal agencies should not use it as a zoning tool on public lands. Is that unreasonable? He argued in a brief, on behalf of the American Farm Bureau and others, that Babbitt Interior Department regulations that defined the term harm in the Endangered Species Act in a way that essentially precluded any private landowner's use of property on which an endangered species might find habitat, should be invalidated. 
   Importantly, the government had no intention of compensating affected landowners if these regulations rendered their land valueless-despite the Fifth Amendment's Takings Clause, and despite provisions in the Endangered Species Act itself that authorize the government to compensate landowners in such situations. So, again, are the positions taken by the American Farm Bureau and other farmers and ranchers, extreme and unreasonable, disqualifying their lawyer from federal judicial service? I think the obvious answer is NO-unless every nominee to the Ninth Circuit must share the policy positions of elitist environmental groups. 
   Let me make one related point. I will refer to a news report, dated March 17, 2004, headlined Grad Student Charged in SUV Arson. According to the article, a student with connections to the radical environmentalist group Earth Liberation Front firebombed and vandalized 125 vehicles at Los Angeles area car dealerships and private homes in August 2002. The words ELF, and Fat Lazy Americans were spray-painted onto some of the vehicles. 
   ELF also took responsibility for a 2002 fire in San Diego that destroyed an apartment building and caused $50 million worth of damage. Just two weeks ago ELF is suspected of carrying out an attack in my home state of Utah at Brigham Young University. 
   When ELF extremists are arrested, they are represented by attorneys. Without in any way suggesting that anything Bill Myers has ever done or advocated approaches such actual extremism, are these attorneys presumptively disqualified from service on the federal bench because of the criminal actions of their clients? Can we assume that they sympathize with the criminals' actions? In light of some Senate Democrats' apparently closed minds against a growing number of President Bush's nominees, perhaps we all need to think more carefully about how we answer such questions. 
   Some Senators apparently believe that nominees who do not think like they do, and will not advocate their pet causes while on the bench, deserve nothing more than to be filibustered-denied an up or down vote because they-a minority-know that a Senate majority stands ready to confirm them. 
   Well, unlike those who are supporting such filibusters for purely ideological reasons, I do not believe that a nominee must share all of my favorite interest groups' policy views in order to deserve an up or down vote. And let me read to you what Bill Myers had to say on this at his hearing. 
   "I would stand on my personal record that I cited a moment ago that I have spent my free time in serving national parks, such as picking cigarette butts out of fire pits. I have a great love for the national parks. That is where we recreate and that is where we go for sustenance, for spiritual refreshment, and that is a personally-held view. The larger view, though, and the one that is really important for this Committee is whether I would carry into a judicial position, if I were so lucky as to be confirmed, an ideology that would result in a bias against or for any litigant. 
   And I think it should be noted that every nominee, I suspect, that comes before you has both proponents and opponents, and some of those people may hope that once that person becomes a judge that they can either count on them to do the right thing or cower in fear that they will do the wrong thing. 
   I hope that both of those groups, the proponents and the opponents, are disappointed; that when a person takes on those robes, takes the oath of office, swears to uphold the Constitution, that that means that they will follow the law and the facts, wherever the law and the facts take them, without regard to personal opinion, public opinion, friends, or foes." 
   Ask yourselves, is this an ideological nominee? Out of the mainstream? As I said before, only in the eyes of the well-funded environmental extremist groups who cannot stand the idea of a Ninth Circuit judge who might not buy into all of their propaganda. 
   Finally, Bill Myers would fill an Idaho seat recently vacated by an Idaho judge. While no federal judge should represent anyone or anything but federal law, to the extent the Ninth Circuit currently represents anything other than embarrassment and summary reversals, it represents President Clinton, who appointed 14 of its active 26 judges-four during election year 2000 alone. And let me note, for the benefit of those who now say it is too late in an election year to confirm judges, that Clinton nominee and current Ninth Circuit Judge Rawlinson was confirmed to his position on JULY 21, 2000. 
   Bill Myers was a successful advocate for people and causes that deserve representation just as much as any environmental activist group, or any liberal's pet causes. As the Interior Department's Solicitor, Mr. Myers defended balanced policy solutions to difficult questions of how our public lands and natural resources in the West should be managed. His confirmation will help balance a very out-of-balance Ninth Circuit, as well as ensuring that Idaho maintains its ONLY seat on that court. I hope my colleagues will join me in voting to confirm this good man to the Ninth Circuit.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 