SEN. HATCH DENOUNCES 'EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACT'
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today spoke on the Senate floor, denouncing the Employee Free Choice Act (H.R. 800/S. 1041), which has been brought before the Senate for consideration. Hatch's prepared remarks follow: 
   Mr. President, later today a great injustice is going to be hoisted upon the American people and the great shame about this injustice it that a great many Americans won't even hear about it. If the Democrats' plans hold, later today they will call up H.R. 800, the horribly misnamed Employee Free Choice Act that would deny workers all over this great country their right to cast a private ballot when choosing whether or not to join a union.  
   Mr. President, I find it pathetic that at a time when our nation is at war, every day additional illegal immigrants enter our borders, and energy prices at their peak, the Democrats are turning away from the important business that the American people sent us here to do and instead insisting on spending the next couple days paying back their unions cronies. If I'm not mistaken, I recall reading that the energy package is the "second highest legislative priority" for the Democrats in the Senate - I guess that means that because we are interrupting that "high" priority - paying back the unions must be their first. 
   Much has already been said about the denial of a National Labor Relations Board (NLRB)-supervised and protected secret ballot election -a private vote - on whether employees want to be represented by a union. 
   It seems to me that the Democrats' and the unions' real objection to private ballot elections is not the form of the vote - a secret ballot vs. card check - their real objection is that ever since the 1947 Taft-Hartley Amendments, the law allows employers to communicate with their employees about union organization. 
   What unions really want is to silence the employer during a union organizing campaign through a card check process. Then union would be able to persuade or even intimidate employees, so the union can be certified based an a card check as soon as the union gets to a majority, no matter how ephemeral that support really is. 
   But the real key for the unions is that the process be within the union's control and before the employer has an opportunity to communicate with employees. In effect, the unions want to force employer neutrality based on the employer's inability to respond to a union organizing campaign. 
   How quick must the quickie certification process be to satisfy unions? NLRB statistics reveal that in 2006, 94.2% of all initial representation elections were conducted within 56 days of the filing of the petition with the NLRB, and that the median time was 39 days. Apparently, for union organizers a little over a month is too long for them to maintain majority support - although it is important to note that under the current secret ballot election procedures unions still win around 60% of all elections. 
   Also, union authorization cards make it virtually impossible for employees to change their minds, which can happen in the privacy of the voting booth. Revoking a signed union authorization card is virtually impossible today, when cards are used to trigger NLRB-supervised elections. You can imagine how hard it would be for an employee to revoke a signed card under a card check process. 
   The U.S. Supreme Court has said that union authorization cards are "inherently unreliable" indicators of employee support. Even unions themselves have stated that union authorization cards are less reliable than NLRB-protected private ballot elections. 
   But the real reason unions seek card check is not because it's more reliable, but because it can be controlled entirely by the union before the employer can address union campaign propaganda. 
   What that really means is that employees will be denied an informed choice. Under current law, to convince employees to vote for a union, the union may use the pressures of employee polls and interrogation, unions may make predictions, they may promise benefits, whether achievable or not, and they may make false statements about the employer. 
   It may well be that labor leaders have never been able to negotiate the wages and benefits that a it promises will result from the formation of a new union. It may be that the union, in fact, has negotiated contracts with other employers in the same industry and geographic area that are less generous than the employees currently receive at the location being organized. The union's claims about the employer's safety record, its compliance with employment laws, its business practices, its executives' compensation, its future business plans, and so forth are grossly exaggerated. If we silence employers, who's going to inform the employees of those facts? Certainly not the union. 
   Of course, employees may know well that in general their employer would prefer not to deal with a union. But if, as a result of card check, employers are prevented from responding to a union's campaign misstatements, who will? 
   That's not a license for an employer to threaten, intimidate, or coerce employees during an organizing campaign. Under current law, employers are not permitted to threaten, coerce, or promise new benefits or threaten withdrawal of existing benefits. But under current law the employer can respond factually to the campaign puffing of the union so that the choice made by the employees is an informed one. Through a quickie card check process that ability will effectively be denied. 
   So let's be clear. When down the road the union lobby offers to compromise by preserving secret ballot elections supported by a majority (even a super majority) of signed union authorization cards, but only where such secret ballot elections are conducted by the NLRB in a week or two from the date the union filed a representation election petition, it will be no compromise. There are still a few of us around who remember the quickie-election provision of the so-called labor law reform bill in 1977-78. The unions then, just as today, were seeking to in effect silence employers during union organizing campaigns. Today, they are seeking that result by denying workers secret ballot elections. If they thought they could get away with it, unions would have congress repeal employer free speech rights entirely. 
   Mr. President, denial of employee secret ballot elections and denial of free speech vital to ensure an informed choice: it doesn't sound very much like employee free choice to me. And it sure doesn't sound very democratic - with a small "d" or a large "D". 
   Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 