SEN. HATCH: FINANCE ENERGY PACKAGE WILL INCREASE THE COST OF GAS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today voted against an energy tax package that would drive up the cost of gasoline in Utah and throughout the country. 
   "With gas prices at record highs this summer, it makes no sense to pass a bill that would make prices go higher," Hatch said. "I have a strong record of supporting alternative and renewable energy sources. That's the future. But we shouldn't pay for it by making it more costly to get gasoline to our cars today. We need a balanced approach."
   The Senate Finance Committee approved a $32.1 billion tax package that supports research and development of unconventional energy sources - which will not reduce the cost of gasoline for perhaps decades - at the expense of conventional sources that Americans rely on today for their energy needs.
   The legislation includes some Hatch provisions designed to help consumers address the high cost of gasoline, though Hatch was disappointed the committee did not include the full scope of his proposals.
   Noting that a new oil refinery has not been built in the United States for 30 years, Hatch proposed legislation for the energy package to allow oil refiners to write-off 100 percent of the costs of new equipment in the first year - rather than depreciating them over 10 years - to help companies overcome the high economic hurdles of expanding their refining capacity. Democrats rejected the provision, but instead extended through 2013 Hatch legislation from the 2005 energy act to allow a 50 percent write-off.
   "You bring the price of gasoline down by producing more of it, not by making it harder to develop," Hatch said. "I cannot support an energy policy which actually works against the goal of increasing the amount of oil and gas available to the people who need it."
   The act includes provisions from Hatch's Fuel Reduction using Electrons to End Dependence On the Mideast (or FREEDOM) Act of 2007, namely tax credits for consumers who purchase plug-in electric-drive vehicles (PEDVs) - including plug-in hybrids - which can get as much as 100 MPG in the city. Regrettably, the energy package the Finance Committee approved today does not include proposed tax credits in the FREEDOM Act for commercial manufacturers of PEDVs and the utilities companies that would power them.
   "Consumers need access to affordable electric cars," Hatch said. "But we also need to support the infrastructure that puts these cars on the market."
   Having cleared the Senate Finance Committee, the energy tax package will be included in the overall energy bill that is currently being debated by the full U.S. Senate.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 