SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON INTRODUCTION OF ?FAIRNESS IN IMMIGRATION LITIGATION ACT' ON SENATE FLOOR
  Statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate 
  On Introduction of The Fairness in Immigration Litigation Act
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Fairness in Immigration Litigation Act. The purpose of the Fairness in Immigration Litigation Act is to reform the statutory scheme governing judicial review of immigration removal orders. Currently, we have an absurd situation in which criminal aliens are entitled to more review and have more opportunities to file frivolous dilatory appeals than non-criminal aliens. The legislation which I am introducing will streamline the process of reviewing final administrative immigration orders, thereby eliminating such unfair results under the current statutory scheme. 
   In 1961, Congress amended Section 106 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, or INA, to specify the circumstances under which final orders of deportation and exclusion could be reviewed in the federal courts. The statute provided that petitions for review in the circuit courts of appeal were the "sole and exclusive" procedure for reviewing deportation orders, and that habeas corpus was available only to challenge exclusion orders of the custodial aspects of immigration detention. The jurisprudence was settled that there were no alternative or additional avenues of judicial review of immigration orders beyond those provided in Section 106.
   In 1996, seeking to provide for the more efficient and expeditious removal of aliens who commit serious crimes in the United States, Congress attempted to streamline the judicial review of immigration orders against such aliens. Passed by wide, bipartisan margins, the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA) eliminated judicial review of immigration orders for most criminals. IIRIRA recognized that criminal aliens had already received a full measure of due process in their criminal cases (as well as in their immigration proceedings), and that additional review typically only served to delay their inevitable removal.
   However, because the 1996 reforms lacked express language precluding habeas corpus review, the Supreme Court decided in INS v. St. Cyr that habeas review remained available to criminal aliens other than or in addition to the review specified in the INA. Consequently, under current law, criminal aliens may seek habeas review of their deportation orders in district courts and then appeal adverse decisions to the courts of appeals. By contrast, non-criminal aliens are governed by INA ? 242, and must appeal directly to the court of appeals without the additional layer of review in the district courts. The result is that criminal aliens who have no claim to relief from deportation file frivolous petitions, causing serious delay in securing final judgment against them. This is a complete perversion of the reforms intended by Congress in 1996, and it must be corrected.
   Mr. President, let me illustrate the extent of the problem. In 1995, just before IIRIRA's enactment, there were 403 immigration habeas petitions filed. In 2003, that number rose to 2,374. Over the same period, the total number of immigration-related cases in federal courts rose from 1,939 to 11,906. This is after Congress passed a law to limit the review for criminal aliens. Clearly, the intent of Congress has been frustrated.
   Consistent with the settled principle that petitions for review should be the "sole and exclusive" means of judicial review for aliens challenging their removal (as reaffirmed in 8 U.S.C. ? 1252(b)(9) requiring that all issues pertaining to removal orders be brought to the circuit courts of appeal), the Fairness in Immigration Litigation Act streamlines immigration review and protects an alien's right to review by an independent judiciary. It also ensures that even criminal aliens may receive review of pure questions of law and Constitutional claims, as dictated by the Supreme Court in St. Cyr.
   With the expanded subject matter jurisdiction in the courts of appeals, the proposed legislation will eliminate the confusing, and indeed inequitable practice of allowing criminal aliens to obtain an additional layer of review through habeas corpus petitions. This legislation is fully consistent with both the Supreme Court's decision in St. Cyr and settled jurisprudence regarding the availability of habeas corpus. These reforms will ensure that aliens will have their day in court, and ensures that the law does not place criminals in a position that is superior to non-criminals. In sum, the Act restores order to the judicial review process in the courts as well as fairness for alien petitioners.
   Moreover, the deportation proceedings too often are frustrated by activist judges who place unreasonable burdens on the government to show why a lawfully issued deportation order should be enforced, and who stop the lawful execution of deportation orders even though the aliens have advanced no legal basis to challenge the deportation order. Such activism combined with murkiness in the law have slowed and in some cases halted the government's ability to deport criminal aliens and others who have no right to stay. It is time we clarify the law so that the government can effectively deport those who should be deported.
   Often, we hear complaints that the government is not doing enough to protect our borders against illegal entry, and that we need to do more to catch and deport the illegal aliens who have made their way into our country. Without question, sealing our borders and arresting every illegal alien is a monumental undertaking. But with this legislation, we can easily address the immediate problem of removing the illegal aliens that we already have in the system, and sometimes even in our custody.
   I want to emphasize that the Fairness in Immigration Litigation Act does not abridge an immigration detainee's right to challenge actual, physical custody through a habeas corpus petition. It is not my intention at all to take away the habeas petition as a legitimate way to challenge physical custody. Instead, this legislation narrowly applies to judicial review of final agency orders of removal, which involve legal issues that should be reviewed through a petition for review by the court of appeals.
   I further want to emphasize that nothing in this legislation deprives deportable aliens of all the procedural and substantive due process that the Supreme Court said was required. It simply bars unnecessary delays through collateral attacks. In fact, the only ones who are affected by this bill are criminals who have had their review, but who want to avoid enforcement of their deportation orders by initiating dilatory, collateral attacks, and perhaps their lawyers who charge thousands of dollars to file petitions that they know to be without merit.
   In sum, the legislation which I am introducing today will expand the subject matter jurisdiction of the court of appeals so that criminal aliens will receive the judicial review to which they are entitled according to St. Cyr. At the same time, the legislation will streamline the process so that we no longer have the absurd result of criminals getting more protection than non-criminals. The legislation also will reduce the possibility that criminals who are without any statutory relief from deportation can abuse the system by filing frivolous petitions solely to delay their eventual removal from the United States. Furthermore, the legislation will properly place the burden of showing eligibility for relief from deportation upon the applicants for relief, and will clarify our statute so that the government can more effectively execute deportation orders without encountering the obstacles that ambiguous statutes have created.
   I ask for the support of my colleagues in passing the Fairness in Immigration Litigation Act, which will restore procedural fairness for all immigrants, but will significantly reduce the backlog in our judicial system created by frivolous and dilatory appeals.
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 