SEN. HATCH: AMERICAN PEOPLE WANT SENATE TO DEBATE, VOTE UP-OR-DOWN
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) took to the Senate floor Thursday to address the Democrat filibusters of President Bush's judicial nominations. Following are his remarks: 
   Mr. President, last week, when the Judiciary Committee considered the asbestos bill, one of our Democratic colleagues referred to proposed amendments to that bill and said something very important: Let's debate them and vote them up or down. He said it the way the American people believe it, that debating and voting is what legislators do. Let us debate them, and vote them up or down.  
   The Senator offering that idea was my colleague from Vermont, Senator Leahy. He was speaking then about legislation, but he and other Democrats once insisted that the Senate should follow the same principle as we evaluate the President's judicial nominations. In October 1997, for example, he said here on the Senate floor: "I hope we might reach a point where we as a Senate will accept our responsibility and vote people up or vote them down. Bring the names here. If we want to vote against them, vote against them." 
   It is always refreshing to see our fellow citizens, from all over this great country, coming here to sit up in the gallery and observe their United States Senate at work. Some of them with us today might actually be asking, why is the Senator from Utah making such a big deal about something that seems so obvious? 
   Mr. President, many of our fellow citizens might be surprised to learn that the Senators they elect and send to Washington are refusing to vote on judicial nominations. They might share the sentiment of former Democratic Leader Senator Tom Daschle, when he said in 1999: "I find it simply baffling that a Senator would vote against even voting on a judicial nomination." 
   Those Senators are blocking votes because they know they will lose those votes. If we debate these nominees, America will better understand why we need judges who will interpret, not make, the law. America will see how these highly qualified judicial nominees meet that standard. And America will see that these nominees have bipartisan majority support. 
   The political forces promoting an activist, politicized judiciary naturally oppose many of these nominees, and their strategy is simple. The Senate cannot confirm nominees if Senators cannot vote on them. We cannot vote if we cannot end debate. These filibusters use Senate rules to prevent ending debate, prevent taking a vote, and prevent confirmation. That is not only baffling, it is unprecedented. This is not a tangent, an academic issue, or a question that will one day be found in the game Trivial Pursuit: Senate Edition. This issue is central to this debate, and our Democratic colleagues know it. Some are so desperate to claim even one, single, solitary precedent for what they are doing that they stretch, twist, and morph the word filibuster beyond all recognition. They want the word filibuster to mean so many things, that it ultimately means virtually nothing at all. 
   Unfortunately, Mr. President, these mischaracterizations of Senate history, tradition, and rules cynically exploit the fact that many of our fellow citizens have not mastered the particulars of Senate history, the peculiarities of Senate procedure, or the idiosyncrasies of the confirmation process. Misleading, confusing, and patently false claims can easily take on a life of their own, echoed and repeated through the media, cybserspace, and here on the Senate floor. 
   We all know that it can take a long time for what is true to catch up with what is false. Judicial filibuster defenders have claimed that when the Senate voted to end debate on past judicial nominations, we were actually filibustering those nominations. They want Americans to believe that ending debate then justifies refusing to end debate now. Or they claimed that when the Senate voted to confirm judicial nominations in the past, we were actually filibustering those nominations. They want Americans to believe that confirming nominations then justifies refusing to confirm them now. 
   Those bizarre claims focus on what happens here on the Senate floor, at the end of the judicial confirmation process. Sometimes, judicial filibuster defenders have focused instead on what happens in the Judiciary Committee, an earlier phase in the process. Some appear willing to try anything to create a precedent for their filibusters. 
   Some even claim that any nomination which is not ultimately confirmed, no matter what the reason, no matter what the step in the process, has been filibustered. Giving a word any meaning you want may help make any argument you want to make, but it does not make that argument legitimate. 
   This gimmick may have some public relations punch. It leads to clichés such as pocket veto or one-man filibuster and creates villains like, well, like me. What kind of campaign would this be without a bogeyman? After all, I was Chairman of the Judiciary Committee for six years under President Clinton. 
   Never mind that the Republican Senate confirmed 377 judges for President Clinton, just five short of the all-time confirmation record set by President Reagan. Never mind that President Reagan had his own party controlling the Senate for six years, while President Clinton had the other party the controlling the Senate for six years. 
   Never mind facts like that. The Assistant Minority Leader yesterday claimed that every Clinton nomination that was not ultimately confirmed was filibustered, and that I personally buried them. My hand alone held back a confirmation wave of apparently mythic proportions. 
   Look for a moment at what it takes to believe that every unconfirmed nominee is a filibustered nominee. It requires believing that the dozen nominees President Clinton himself withdrew were filibustered. President Clinton, for example, withdrew one appeals court nominee fewer than six months after her nomination because of health concerns. Her nomination did not get out of the Judiciary Committee, did not receive a floor vote, and was not confirmed. But was she filibustered? Is her situation the same as Justice Priscilla Owen, who has been waiting for more than four years and cannot get a floor vote because of a filibuster? 
   This line that all unconfirmed nominees are filibustered nominees requires you to believe ill-founded arguments like that. It also requires believing that the 28 nominations sent too late to be considered, or which President Clinton chose not to re-submit, were filibustered. It requires believing that nominations not given hearings because of opposition by their home-state Senators were filibustered. The Judiciary Committee system that gives extra weight to the views of Senators from the nominee's home state has been in place, in various forms, for nearly a century. Democrats as well as Republicans use it. I do not hear the Democrats who now want to call those situations filibusters also calling to abolish that system of home-state senatorial courtesy. They cannot have it both ways. 
   The Majority Leader, Senator Frist, recently offered a proposal that would not only address our concerns about the floor by ensuring up or down votes, but address Democrats' concerns about the committee by guaranteeing reporting of nominees. Democrats rejected that offer. Either they think treatment of judicial nominees in the Judiciary Committee is a problem needing a remedy or they do not. They cannot have it both ways. 
   Democrats know that many factors determining whether a nomination is approved by the Judiciary Committee are not simply up to the Chairman's unilateral discretion. Democrats know that there are procedures in the Judiciary Committee, and here on the floor, for forcing a committee chairman to act if Senators believe the chairman is dragging his feet and that those procedures were never used. 
   Democrats know those things, and they also know that many of our fellow citizens do not. So the spin machine cooks up this tale that all unconfirmed nominees are filibustered nominees, attempting to make people believe there is some precedent, even a totally fictional precedent, for their current filibusters. 
   Saying that ending debate is the same as not ending debate did not work. Saying that confirming nominations is the same as not confirming nominations did not work. Saying that President Clinton's near-record confirmation total is evidence of unfair treatment by Republicans will not work either. 
   On Tuesday, the distinguished Senator from Wisconsin, Senator Feingold, was here making a few other arguments. He pointed out that the text of the Constitution does not require an up or down confirmation vote for judicial nominations. Many of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle attack judicial nominees when they take the Constitution's text this seriously, but I am glad the Senator from Wisconsin is doing so. 
   The word filibuster is not found in the Constitution either. Nor are phrases such as unlimited debate, minority rights, or even checks and balances. None of the phrases used by some to try to give these judicial filibusters a constitutional anchor are in the charter's text. What the Constitution does say, however, is that the President has the power to nominate and appoint judges. Not the Senate, the President. Our role of advice and consent is a check on the President's power to appoint. When the filibuster turns our check on the President's power into a weapon that highjacks the President's power then, yes, it has indeed violated the design that is most certainly in the text of the Constitution. 
   The Senator from Wisconsin also said that the procedure the Majority Leader may use to prohibit judicial filibusters will mean changing Senate rules by fiat. That is a variation on the Democratic mantra that this would break the rules to change the rules. That is a catchy little phrase, but neither of its catchy little parts is true. 
   The Senate operates not only by its written rules, but also by parliamentary precedents established when the presiding officer rules on questions of procedure asked by Senators. What we call the constitutional option would seek such a ruling from the presiding officer. After sufficient debate, the Senate should vote on a judicial nomination. Senate precedents and procedures would change, but Senate rules would remain untouched. No breaking of the rules, no changing of the rules. 
   Senators use the word fiat because it sounds bad and fits with the abuse of power theme probably born in a focus group somewhere. The word attempts to give people a bad impression, but it should give them an even worse impression to know that it is patently false. 
   The Constitution gives authority over Senate rules and procedures to the Senate - not to the parliamentarian, or to the presiding officer, but to the Senate. If the presiding officer rules on a question of procedure, it will not actually change Senate procedure until a majority of Senators vote to do so. Just as American self-government is radically different than monarchy, Senate self-government is radically different than fiat. 
   The Senator from Wisconsin said that whenever the Senate merely takes a cloture vote, or a vote to end debate, a filibuster is always underway. That too is patently false. Mr. President, the Congressional Research Service states it clearly: "it is erroneous to assume that cases in which cloture is sought are always the same as those in which a filibuster occurs." Let me repeat that: "it is erroneous to assume that cases in which cloture is sought are always the same as those in which a filibuster occurs." 
    Let me use two examples. 
   Among President Clinton's most controversial nominees were Marsha Berzon and Richard Paez, nominated to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Our colleague from New York, Senator Schumer, in November 2003 called these nominees "very liberal" and "quite far to the left." That is quite something, coming from a Senator who has never been called even a little to the right. 
   On November 10, 1999, the Majority Leader at the time, Senator Lott, promised that he would bring these controversial nominations up for a confirmation vote no later than March 15, 2000. He correctly said that I agreed with using a cloture vote to ensure that a confirmation vote occurred. On March 8, 2000, that is exactly what we did. The first two names on the petition for a cloture vote were Senator Lott and myself. We took that cloture vote to prevent a filibuster and ensure an up or down vote. We prevented a filibuster, that vote occurred, and the Senate confirmed both nominees. They are today sitting federal judges. The Senator from Vermont, Senator Leahy, said on Tuesday that the constitutional option, which would use a parliamentary ruling to prohibit judicial filibusters, would "use majority power to override the rights of the minority." 
   I have called this parliamentary approach the Byrd option because, when he was Majority Leader, Senator Byrd used it to change Senate procedures. He did so regarding legislation, and also regarding nomination-related filibusters. In 1980, for example, Majority Leader Byrd wanted to prohibit filibusters of the motion to proceed to nominations. Just as a confirmation vote cannot happen if debate does not end, debate cannot start if the Senate cannot vote to proceed to that debate. 
   Today, we hear that any limitation on debate, any restriction of the filibuster, strikes at the very heart and essence of this institution. Maybe it was a different story back then. When the presiding officer ruled against what Majority Leader Byrd was trying to do, he appealed that ruling and the Senate voted to overturn it, effectively terminating those nomination-related filibusters. 
   Let me remind you what my good Democratic friend from West Virginia said when he used the procedure to change the filibuster rule: "I have seen filibusters. I have helped to break them. There are few Senators in this body who were here [in 1977] when I broke the filibuster on the natural gas bill....I asked Mr. Mondale, the Vice President, to go please sit in the chair; I wanted to make some points of order and create some new precedents that would break these filibusters. And the filibuster was broken - back, neck, legs, and arms....So I know something about filibusters. I helped to set a great many of the precedents that are in the books here." 
   On at least three other occasions, Majority Leader Byrd used a ruling by the presiding officer to change Senate procedures without changing the underlying Senate rules. The Senator from Vermont says that using this very same mechanism today would be an outrageous trashing of minority rights. Yet he voted every time to support Majority Leader Byrd's use of that mechanism, including to eliminate nomination-related filibusters. 
   Yesterday, the Senator from Illinois, Senator Durbin, claimed that Senate rules, in his words, from the very beginning, required an extraordinary majority to end debate. 
   Now that is factual claim, and it is factually false. 
   The Senate adopted its first rules in 1789. Rule eight allowed a simple majority to proceed to a vote. The men who founded this Republic designed this Senate without the minority's ability to filibuster anything. 
   Over the last few days, many excuses have been offered why some refuse to debate and vote on judicial nominations that reach the Senate floor. Let me correct that. While these may be their reasons, there are no valid excuses. When procedural obstructive devices such as the filibuster are kept where they belong, in the legislative process, the debate can properly focus on the merits of these nominees. That is what debating and voting should ultimately be about, the President's nominees. 
   The debate we have seen here on the Senate floor regarding nominees such as Justices Priscilla Owen and Janice Rogers Brown is typical of what we will see in the future regarding other nominees. 
   Many of our fellow citizens may know little of the Senate's Byzantine procedures, they may know little about judicial rulings, they may not speak legalese, but I hope they will not be afraid to participate in this process. Let me offer a few pointers, a few tips, for the road ahead. 
   Politics is often about results, about winners and losers, and involves politicians asserting their will. Law is about the process of reaching results, about what the law requires, and involves judges using judgment. Politics and law are two very different things, and our liberty depends on preserving that difference. So if you hear critics of judicial nominees talking only in the language of politics, you know something is wrong. In the last day or two, for example, critics of the nominees before us have reduced them to soundbites, checklists, and litmus tests. Senators begin sentences with phrases such as she ruled that...... or she ruled for....... 
   Mentioning only those results, without exploring how a judge reached those results, amounts to applying political criteria to a judicial nominee, and that is fundamentally wrong. Sometimes the law requires results we may not like, results that may even sound dramatic. Mentioning the political results without the judicial process leading to those results misleads people about what judges do and how to choose the rights ones. 
   Or the critics will characterize what a judge said rather than tell us what she actually said. Or if they do quote the judge, critics will often pluck out only a phrase, or use lots of ellipses. These are signs that spin may be in the air. Or the critics will quote other critics. Imagine if the only thing someone knew about you came from what your critics or enemies said about you. That picture would be distorted, incomplete, and just plain false. 
   So our fellow citizens should not be worried that they do not know the language of lawyers, that they have not read a judicial nominee's writings or rulings, or are not well-versed in the fine points of legal argument. I hope they will listen critically to the debate here in the Senate about these nominees, their qualifications, and their records. I hope our fellow citizens will be very skeptical of critics who make a political case against a judicial nominee, skeptical if the case against a nominee is limited to soundbites about results or characterizations by third parties. 
   Mr. President, let me conclude my remarks by noting that in September 2000, the Senator from Michigan, Senator Levin, said that the Constitution each of us has sworn to protect and defend requires that we debate and vote on judicial nominations reaching the floor. 
   I agreed with that principle then, and I agree with it today. For more than two centuries, we kept the filibuster out of the judicial confirmation process. It is surely not a good sign about our political culture that we must today formalize by parliamentary ruling a standard we once observed by principle and self-restraint. 
   But that self-restraint has broken down, and maintaining our tradition of up or down votes for judicial nominations is worth defending. Once we take unprecedented obstruction tactics like the filibuster off the table, we can focus where we should, on the merits and qualifications of nominees. 
   Mr. President, we must have a standard that binds both political parties. That standard must be fair, it must respect the separation of powers, and it must be consistent with our own Senate tradition. Between 1789 and 2003, we had a strong consistent tradition of voting on judicial nominations once they reach the Senate floor. We should return to that principle and practice. 
   Unfortunately, in 2003, the Democratic leadership broke with this longstanding Senate tradition and took an ill-founded turn down a partisan political path and unwisely changed the confirmation process in an unprecedented fashion. We must turn back from that path. Once a judicial nomination reaches us here, our course should be clear. Let us debate and then let us vote.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 