SEN. HATCH INTRODUCES OIL SHALE BILL
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced legislation that would encourage development of fuel from a vast untapped domestic oil reserve in tar sands and oil shale. 
   "I think it's outrageous that Utah imports about one-fourth of its oil from Canadian tar sands, even though we have a very large resource in our own state sitting undeveloped," Hatch said. "It's clear that we need to increase domestic production, and we have a vast, untapped oil resource right here in the West that could produce more oil than the Middle East."  
   Utah's Congressional delegation and Sen. Wayne Allard (R-Colo.) joined Hatch to voice their support for the Oil Shale and Tar Sands Development Act of 2005, which will make developing this unconventional oil reserve economically viable for our country. 
   "We have seen a policy shift by the government of Alberta, Canada, that provides a good model for what could occur in the U.S," Hatch said. "Alberta recognized the potential of its own tar sands deposits and has set forth a policy promote their development. Now, Canada has increased its oil reserves by more than a factor of 10, going from a reserve of about 14 billion barrels to its current reserve of 176 billion barrels in only a few years." 
   This gigantic resource of our nation's oil shale and tar sands reserves is well known by geologists and energy experts, but it has not been counted among our nation's oil reserve because it is not yet being developed commercially. That is largely because efforts to develop oil shale in western Colorado during the 1970s went bust after a very large slump in gas prices. Hatch noted that today's economics and advances in technology have combined to provide the right scenario to begin the development of the world's largest untapped oil resource. 
   "The size of our nation's energy challenge is enormous, but in Utah, Colorado, and Wyoming we have an answer that more than meets the challenge," Hatch said. "This bill moves us down that path." 
   Hatch's oil shale and tar sands bill only one part of his three-prong energy strategy designed to encourage more affordable sources of energy and greater energy security. Earlier, Hatch introduced the CLEAR ACT of 2005 (Clean Efficient Vehicles Resulting from Advanced Car Technologies), which would provide strong tax incentives for the purchase of alternative and hybrid vehicles, for new alternative fuel infrastructure, and for the retail sale of alternative fuels. He has also introduced legislation to provide tax incentives to increase the nation's oil refining capacity, providing for accelerated depreciation for new refineries or for refineries that are increasing their capacity. 
   Oil Shale and Tar Sands Development Act of 2005 
   Summary
   DECLARATION OF POLICY 
   Declares it the Policy of the U.S. Government that the development of domestic tar sand, oil shale and other strategic fuels should be promoted and accelerated. 
   STRATEGIC FUELS TASK FORCE ESTABLISHED 
   Establishes a Strategic Fuels Task Force to accelerate the commercial development of strategic fuels in an integrated manner. Task Force to include designees of the Secretaries of Energy, Defense, and the Interior 
   FIVE-YEAR PLAN 
   The Task Force is directed to develop a 5 year plan that will 
   * Identify public actions to stimulate strategic fuels development, 
   * Analyze the costs and benefits of the possible public actions, 
   * Make recommendations based on their analysis, publish them for public comment, and 
   * Identify and promote new technologies 
   FEDERAL LEASING PROGRAM 
   Secretary of the Interior is directed to develop and implement a comprehensive leasing program for the development of strategic fuels on Federal lands. 
   ROYALTY RELIEF 
   Federal Share of royalties for initial development of tar sands and oil shale would be reduced on a sliding scale with greater relief when oil prices are low and no relief if prices exceed $60 a barrel. States would receive their full royalty. 
   ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF STRATEGIC FUELS 
   New office to be established within the Office of Petroleum Reserves of DOE to evaluate the strategic importance of unconventional sources of strategic fuels to national security and to promote the development of these resources. 
   COST-SHARED DEMONSTRATION TECHNOLOGIES 
   Directs the Secretary of Energy to provide cost sharing for the demonstration of the most promising technologies to develop unconventional fuels. 
   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROCUREMENT AGREEMENTS 
   Directs the Secretary of Defense to develop strategies to promote the development of unconventional fuels through multi-year procurement agreements. 
   TAX RELIEF FOR OIL SHALE AND TAR SANDS DEVELOPMENT 
   Allows for the expensing of new technology expenditures for tar sands and oil shale development.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 