SENS. HATCH, KOHL URGE RIGOROUS FTC REVIEW OF COMPETITION ISSUES IN GOOGLE-DOUBLECLICK DEAL
  U.S. Sen. Herb Kohl (D-WI), Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy, and Consumer Rights, and Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Ranking Republican Member, have asked the Federal Trade Commission to examine the competition questions raised by the acquisition of the Internet advertising company DoubleClick by Google. Today's letter comes on the heels of a September hearing, held by the Subcommittee, on this transaction.  
   In their letter to FTC Chair Deborah Platt Majoras, the Senators write: "This proposed acquisition would combine the world's largest Internet search company, Google, with DoubleClick, the leading company that places advertising on the Internet. The implications of this merger for the Internet advertising market - and for the Internet as a whole - are profound and potentially far reaching. 
   "While we have not reached any definitive conclusion regarding this issue, we urge that you only approve the merger if you determine that it will not cause any substantial lessening of competition with respect to Internet advertising," the Senators wrote. 
   Kohl and Hatch outline many of the arguments industry analysts made during the September hearing and during the Subcommittee's investigation of this potential acquisition. They added: "Antitrust regulators need to be wary to guard against the creation of a powerful Internet conglomerate able to extend its market power in one market into adjacent markets, to the detriment of competition and consumers." 
   On a related matter, the Senators raise another concern about this proposed merger that many have voiced regarding consumer privacy. Given the enormous quantity of information that Google and DoubleClick collect regarding web users' preferences, "this deal raises fundamental consumer privacy concerns worth of serious scrutiny." 
   Full text of the letter is attached at 111907SubcommitteeLetteronGoogleDoubleclickmergerFinal.pdf (157.4 KBs).
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 