SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON MEDICARE QUALITY IMPROVEMENT MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007
 Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) delivered the following statement on introduction of his Medicare Quality Improvement Modernization Act of 2007. 
   Mr. President, today I join with Senators Rockefeller, Lott, and Kennedy to introduce the Medicare Quality Improvement Modernization Act of 2007.
   As background for my colleagues, Medicare's Quality Improvement Organization (QIO) program has been in existence for 35 years. The program's intent has always been to assure that Medicare's beneficiaries receive high quality medical care. The program has undergone a steady evolution. What began as a program that called attention to hospitals and physicians whose care deviated from the norms of medical practice has morphed into one that seeks to help physicians, hospitals, nursing homes and other providers develop systems to improve their quality of care. 
   The program has changed as the definition of quality changed. When Medicare's peer review program was initiated, high quality care for a Medicare beneficiary was simply not to be among the unfortunate few whose medical care deviated from the norms of local medical practice. Fortunate for them, however, quality today is the routine adherence of providers to nationally accepted standards of care.  
   The legislative changes we propose for the QIO program reflects an ever-advancing definition of quality medical care and a focus on helping providers obtain it. 
   The QIO program has three functions. First, the program reviews the medical care of beneficiaries who have complaints about their care and provides the beneficiaries opinions. Second, the program supports intensive work with practitioners, nursing homes, managed care plans and hospitals to develop delivery systems that improve the quality of their care. Third the program publicly reports system-level performance measures. 
   The bill I introduce today is faithful to the results of a congressionally-mandated review of the QIO program reported in February, 2006. In that review, the IOM concluded "The QIO program provides a potentially valuable nationwide infrastructure dedicated to promoting quality health care." For example, the QIO program is responsible for a substantial part of the National Healthcare Quality Report published by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. 
   The IOM report called for changes in the QIO program. Its principal findings and recommendations were: 
   1. The local QIO boards are heavily physician-dominated with little consumer representation. Existing legislation requires specific levels of physician involvement, an outmoded board structure. 
   2. The QIO functions should be harmonized with other federal quality initiatives. 
   3. It found that the QIOs were "?restricted from contracting with health care providers in its state for technical assistance or review services similar to those covered by its core Medicare contract." The IOM committee concluded that QIOs would be able to serve more providers and expand their function beyond Medicare beneficiaries to the entire healthcare system if they could contract for services to supplement their CMS funds. 
   4. The Committee also recommended removal of restrictions on public access to the QIO's findings. For instance, beneficiaries have been unable to review the results of investigations that they requested. 
   5. The IOM recommended that beneficiary reviews be removed from the local QIOs. 
   6. The IOM committee concluded that Congress and the secretary of DHHS and CMS should improve program management by enhancing the contracting process and improving communication with the QIOs. 
   The legislation I propose seeks to strengthen the QIO's infrastructure to fit with an ever-tightening standard of quality in medicine, believing that doctors and hospitals want to do the right thing but also that patients should have their say. 
   Many of the changes recommended by the Institute of Medicine's experts and accepted by the experts at CMS do not require statutory change, but some do. Some program modifications are sufficiently critical to Medicare's beneficiaries, that while statutory language may not be required to affect them, a Congressional mandate is needed to assure them. 
   First, the Quality Improvement Organization Modernization Act of 2007 specifies that the Quality Improvement Organizations offer education, instruction, and technical assistance to providers, practitioners, and Medicare Advantage plans. It incorporates plans and providers in urban, rural, and frontier areas and providers that treat racial and ethnic minorities. 
   Second, our bill strengthens the review process for individual Medicare beneficiaries. The QIOs must actively educate beneficiaries of their right to bring any concerns to the QIOs. The QIOs must work with providers who are reviewed to correct deficiencies where they exist and to improve communication with patients where they do not. 
   The bill specifies that the findings of the review must be disclosed to the beneficiary requesting the review but not before giving the provider an opportunity to respond to the findings. The review functions are left with the local QIOs and not delegated to other entities to perform. 
   The bill specifies that the findings of reviews may not be used in medical malpractice litigation, otherwise the QIOs would serve more to screen cases for litigation than they would to improve the quality of care. 
   Third, in order to be certain that the QIOs are appropriately judging the severity of the errors they find and appropriately recommending sanctions to the Secretary, the Office of Inspector General will contract for an audit of 10 percent of one year's QIO reviews during each 5-year contract period. 
   Fourth, program administration is strengthened and its goals focused. 
   The program's scope of work must incorporate the priorities of local stakeholders. 
   A strategic advisory committee will advise the Secretary on program goals, on program performance, and on harmonization of the QIO's quality functions with other federal and non-federal quality initiatives. 
   The GAO is instructed to report on implementation of program changes one year after the first five-year contract period following enactment of this legislation. The adequacy of funding allocated to the QIOs for local initiatives has been in dispute among the QIOs. Congress is to receive an independent report about the adequacy of QIQ financing before the initiation of each contract period. 
   Fifth, the contracting process is strengthened by mandating timely contracting with the QIOs by CMS and by lengthening the contract period from three to five years. All QIOs must bid competitively every five years. 
   Fifth, local boards have been physician-dominated with little consumer representation. Our bill eliminates the requirement that QIOs must be physician-sponsored organizations. Our bill improves local QIO accountability by strengthening the authority of the Secretary over board structure and function. It authorizes the Secretary to ensure that non-physician quality experts and qualified consumers are given appropriate representation on state QIO boards. It authorizes the Secretary to ensure that the board structure is appropriate, that the compensation of board members and executives is market-based and that conflict of interest among board members is mitigated. 
   Sixth, as the QIOs focus more of their energies on working with providers to improve quality the demand for their services in this endeavor exceed their resources. For example, the number of doctors requesting help from the Utah QIO in selecting information technology for their offices far exceeds the resources available to it from its CMS contract. 
   Our bill allows a QIO to contract with a provider or organization if it meets one of several requirements. Among them are that the QIO must receive no more than 5 percent of its revenue from a single provider or organization, or if the contracting organization is subject to review by the QIO, conflict of interest must be mitigated by using an out-of-state QIO to perform the reviews that the local QIO would otherwise perform. 
   The QIO program differs from other federal healthcare quality programs in that it does not just measure quality; it works with providers to attain it. The Medicare Quality Improvement Organization Act of 2007 strengthens the rights of beneficiaries, strengthens the administration of the program and the contracting process, provides for more accountability of contractors, and focuses the program on creating quality systems. 
   I urge my colleagues to join with me in strengthening the QIO program. It is one of the cornerstones of the quality initiative not just for Medicare but for all Americans.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 