SENATE APPROVES LEAHY-HATCH AMENDMENT RESTORING $15 M. TO BOYS, GIRLS CLUBS
  The Senate has approved an amendment to the annual budget bill for the Justice Department to boost support for the Boys and Girls Clubs of America by 20 percent. 
   The amendment - introduced by Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), former chairman of the panel and still a senior member - adds $15 million to federal support in the bill for the Clubs, raising the total to $75 million. Their provision was added to the FY 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill ("CJS Appropriations Bill") on Tuesday, shortly before the Senate approved the budget bill and sent it to conference with the House.  
   Original language in the CJS Appropriations Bill would have cut the grants to the Boys and Girls Clubs by $30 million below the authorized funding level for next year. The Leahy-Hatch Amendment restores half of that funding. The President's budget proposal and the House-passed CJS bill both would eliminate funding for the Clubs entirely, leaving thousands of children behind. Leahy and Hatch will work to protect the Senate-passed $75 million funding level for the Clubs in the upcoming House-Senate conference on the bill. 
   Longtime partners in championing Boys and Girls Clubs and other efforts to expand and enhance programs for young people, Leahy and Hatch for several years have pushed for greater federal support for the Clubs, citing the Clubs' value in helping young people become productive, law abiding teenagers and adults. Through their efforts, since 1998 Congress has increased federal support for the nonprofit youth service organization from $20 million to $85 million. As a result there are now more than 4000 Boys and Girls Clubs in all 50 states, serving almost five million young people. 
   In 2004, Hatch and Leahy co-authored a bipartisan law to reauthorize Justice Department grants to establish 1500 more Boys and Girls Clubs across the nation, including in Vermont and Utah. Under this mandate, Congress, the Justice Department and the national Boys and Girls Clubs have committed to moving funds awarded on the national level to the Clubs, particularly those in public housing sites, inner-city neighborhoods and rural areas. 
   "Kids in every community need places they can call their own, free from the influence drugs, gangs and violence," said Leahy, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "Being a prosecutor showed me the value of these programs, because we rarely encountered children from these kinds of programs in the juvenile justice system. The Clubs give young people a chance to find abilities and talents they didn't know they had, and they offer social settings with wholesome influences that can nudge them onto productive paths and away from destructive ones. For some, it's the only safe haven they know." 
   "Congressional support for the Boys and Girls Club has resulted in support for 13 new club start-ups in Utah," Hatch said. "Successes like this are found in every other state in the country. At-risk children in public housing and public schools, on military bases, and on Native American lands have come to know the Boys and Girls Clubs of America as places where they can be themselves and escape the streets. By creating an environment where America's children can learn and grow, Boys and Girls Clubs helps produce better students, better citizens, and stronger families." 
   In Vermont, Boys and Girls Clubs have been a successful partner with local law enforcement agencies and youth advocacy groups in preventing crime and supporting children, Leahy said. The first Club was established in Burlington 63 years ago. Now there are six clubs and 25 other locations throughout the state managed by the Boys and Girls Clubs, serving more than 10,000 youth. Last month Leahy announced an additional $1.5 million for some of Vermont's neediest sites. 
   There are eight Boys and Girls Clubs in Utah, distributed at 31 sites throughout the state and serving more than 55,500 youth. The first BGCA organization in Utah was formed 40 years ago in Murray, and is now called the Boys and Girls Clubs of South Valley.
   Contact: Heather Barney, 801/524-3341; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 