SENS. HATCH, REID CALL FOR ADDITIONAL FLOODING FUNDS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today announced that he and Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.) have requested additional funding to support flooding relief in Utah and Nevada, and prevent future disasters due to flooding.  
   "In Utah ... entire communities were temporarily cut off, and homes well outside the flood plain were damaged," states the letter to Senate Appropriations Chairman Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) signed by Hatch and Reid. "In all, roughly 40 homes were completely swept away or declared uninhabitable. Furthermore, bridges were destroyed, and important infrastructures for electricity, natural gas, water, and phones were permanently ruined." 
   The letter notes that the federal Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) has determined that $66 million will be needed to alleviate problems caused by the flooding in Southern Utah and help prevent future disasters, yet only $9.2 million has been allocated so far to the NRCS for the efforts. 
   The Senate intends to consider a supplemental funding bill to support the effort in Iraq and other emergency spending priorities requested by the Bush Administration. 
   The full text of the Hatch-Reid letter follows: 
   April 1, 2005 
   The Honorable Thad Cochran 
  Chairman, Committee on Appropriations 
  United States Senate 
  Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Mr. Chairman: 
   We are writing to request your support for providing funding in the Supplemental Appropriations Act to assist the victims of the very recent flooding in Utah and Nevada. As you are likely aware, many communities in these two states experienced considerable flooding which caused significant damage. 
   In Utah, unusual precipitation combined with a sudden snow melt from unseasonably warm weather creating a hundred-year flood in the Santa Clara and Virgin rivers which run through highly populated neighborhoods in Washington County. Entire communities were temporarily cut off, and homes well outside of the flood plain were damaged. In all, roughly 40 homes were completely swept away or declared uninhabitable. Furthermore, bridges were destroyed, and important infrastructures for electricity, natural gas, water, and phones were permanently ruined. To make matters worse, above-normal snow pack in the mountains will likely cause record snow melt runoff in the coming weeks potentially resulting in a even larger disaster. 
   The greatest threat to these communities stems from the severely eroded river beds. In an effort to curb this potentially dangerous situation, the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) has allocated $9.2 million to assist in river bed restoration efforts. However, the NRCS subsequently determined that roughly $66 million is needed to help prevent future flooding. While we certainly commend NRCS for their quick action in allocating $9.2 million in emergency assistance, this amount falls far short of the $66 million needed to help prevent a future disaster. Additional funding is desperately needed for the NRCS's Emergency Watershed Program to assist these communities in rebuilding the waterway concourses of the eroded rivers before new flooding occurs. 
   In Nevada, the same flood events caused considerable flooding in both Lincoln and Clark Counties along the Muddy and Virgin Rivers. The most severe flooding occurred in the community of Mesquite where some residents were forced to leave their homes for shelter in nearby hotels. It is estimated that there is approximately $20 million in flood related damages to public infrastructure in both Lincoln and Clark Counties including the repair of a major rail transportation line that was washed out. The NRCS also has substantial river bed restoration work on the Upper Muddy and the Virgin Rivers. While the cost estimate for this work is not complete, it is expected to reach as much at $10 million. 
   Thank you for your serious and timely attention to this matter.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 