SEN. HATCH HONORS FIREFIGHTERS BATTLING BLAZES IN THE WEST
  The U.S. Senate passed Sen. Orrin G. Hatch's (R-Utah) resolution yesterday honoring the thousands of firefighters who, in recent weeks, have literally put themselves in the line of fire to protect communities and rural economies from the countless wildfires that have raged throughout the Western United States. Utah has lost more than 660,000 acres to fire, the second most of any state this year. 
   "At any given time, as many as 15,000 fire personnel are assigned to battle large, uncontained wildfires throughout the West," Hatch said. "My prayers are with those who have lost loved ones to the fires, who have been forced to evacuate their homes, and who have lost property, cattle, and grazing land. Yet it must be noted that without the efforts of these heroic firefighters, Utah's and the nation's losses could have been catastrophic."
   Hatch's resolution furthermore encourages the people and government officials of the United States to express their appreciation to the brave men and women serving in the firefighting services. This year's wildfires far exceed the average, exacerbated by continued drought, record-high temperatures, widespread dry lightning storms, and high winds. As of July 23, more than 55,000 wildfires had been reported this year, burning more than four million acres. That represents an increase of more than 8,000 fires and one million acres over the 10 year average. Utah has not been alone in this recent spike of wildfire activity. Dry lighting storms swept across California, Nevada, Utah, and Southern Idaho, igniting more than 1,200 wildfires between July 6 and 8 alone.
   "Despite the drastic conditions of this season, federal, state, and local fire crews have been relentless in their efforts to control these wildfires, putting themselves between these infernos and our homes, communities, and resources," Hatch said. "This year, and every year, these courageous fighters overcome extremely volatile weather conditions and terrain to contain nearly 98 percent of all wildfires during their initial attack."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 