SEN. HATCH: CONGRESS CANNOT LET COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS DIE ON TABLE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the federal health center program, which provides low-income and underserved patients access to affordable health care via community health centers.  
   "Community health centers are a safety net for more than 15 million underserved Americans," Hatch said. "These centers are worth every cent that the federal government invests in them. They save lives. They provide preventive health care that keeps people out of hospitals. I am pleased and proud to support them by introducing this legislation today. By reauthorizing this program, we will allow health centers to provide low-cost health care to many more uninsured and underinsured individuals." 
   Established 40 years ago, the program has placed community health centers in medically underserved areas to provide care to those who have limited or no access to health insurance. Hatch's bill - the Health Centers Renewal Act - would reauthorize the program for another five years. 
   In 2005, Utah community health centers served more than 84,500 patients and provided almost 305,000 patient visits. Of the Utah patients, 96 percent lived below 200 percent of the Federal Poverty Level. At the start of his administration, President Bush's goals for the community program were 1) 1,200 new or expanded centers and 2) an additional 6.1 million patients served by 2006. Congress has increased funding accordingly since 2001 to provide service to 4 million additional patients and has added new or expanded facilities in more than 750 communities nationwide. 
   "Sen. Hatch has consistently supported community health centers as cost-effective and efficient providers of care for the uninsured and underserved populations of the country," said Bette Vierra, executive director of the Association for Utah Community Health. "To have Sen. Hatch acknowledge the essential role of community centers in America's health-care safety net is indeed an honor for the nation's more than 952 health centers and, especially, for Utah's twelve health center corporations."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 