SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON REBUTTALS TO ARGUMENTS AGAINST S. 1893
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today refuted criticism of S. 1893, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act. As a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee and an original author of the CHIP bill 10 years ago, Hatch has played an integral role in the bipartisan compromise to reauthorize the program. Ignoring the bill's successes, original mission, and urgent necessity, some have criticized CHIP and threaten to derail its reauthorization.
   Mr. President, I rise in support of S. 1893, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act.
   Over the past few days, I have listened to the floor debate regarding the bill being considered on the Senate floor this week. I have to admit, at some points during the debate, the descriptions I am hearing on the Senate floor don't even sound like the bill that I introduced with Senators Baucus, Grassley and Rockefeller. Indeed, I believe there have been many allegations by opponents of S. 1893 that are not accurate. Therefore, I would like to take a few minutes to correct the record so my Senate colleagues hear from both sides before making a final decision on how to vote on this bill later in the week. 
   First, I take issue with the point that our legislation is full of budget gimmicks. The Senate Budget Committee has certified that this legislation complies with pay-go rules on both the six-year and 11-year bases under the pay-go rule. In addition, the Congressional Budget Office Director, Peter Orszag, told us at last week's Finance Committee mark-up that CBO reviewed the bill's five-year and 10-year expenditures and revenue raisers and CBO believes that they are balanced on an on-budget basis. In addition, this bill is a five-year authorization and is fully paid for with offsets. That is how our rules operate.
   Those who talk about its 10-year impact fail to note that this bill is not a 10-year reauthorization. That is an important point to remember. We must look at the CHIP program again in five years and reauthorize it. I assure my colleagues that, when writing this bill, we did everything possible to comply with the budget rules. Further, I want to remind my colleagues that when CHIP was established in 1997, we had a set amount of money and as a result, the budget baseline did not assume any rate of growth for the CHIP program.
   Additionally, the budget rules did not consider the fact that health care costs are rising by nine percent each year. The budget rules also did not consider the increasing number of children enrolling in the CHIP program. Therefore, there is only $5 billion per year for the CHIP program in the budget baseline. To me, this number is unrealistic. It creates a situation which is extremely frustrating, because health care costs continue to increase in the CHIP program, just like every other health care program.
   As a result, we had to come up with the money just to keep the current program functioning, not to mention additional sums for providing coverage to uninsured, low-income children without health care. Just to keep the program running, it will cost the federal government $14 billion. We fixed the problem by addressing the shortfall. Simply put - we had to comply with the budget rules in this bill and we did. So, in five years, the Congress will have to come up with money to keep the program operating - similar to the challenge that we are facing with our $14 billion deficit.
   We need to be realistic - since CHIP is not a permanent program and not an entitlement program, we in Congress will have an even bigger job just to keep the program running efficiently in the next five years. The current budget rules do not include a realistic rate of growth after the program expires. I can only conclude that, with this bill, we are doing the best we can under very difficult circumstances.
   Another issue that I have heard being raised is that our legislation will raise tobacco taxes on cigars to $10 per cigar. Let me make one thing perfectly clear - the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act does not impose a $10 tax on all cigars. In fact, the tobacco tax included in our bill pro-rates tobacco taxes on cigars. The tax imposed on cigars is based on the price of a cigar - in very few instances will an individual cigar be taxed at $10.
   I know that Senators are concerned about what some term crowd out. Crowd-out is having individuals who are currently covered by private health insurance drop their private health insurance to be covered by a government program. This was my concern, as it was Senator Kennedy's, when we enacted CHIP originally, and it is a valid concern today as well. But allegations that this bill increases the crowd-out rate are untrue.
   According to CBO, the fact is that the crowd-out rate will not increase for the basic CHIP program. While crowd-out remains a serious problem, the crowd-out rate is not worsened by our bill. In fact, during the Senate Finance Committee mark-up last week, the CBO Director, Peter Orszag, told us that the crowd-out rate for this bill is the same as the crowd-out rate for the original CHIP program.
   In addition, the CBO Director also told us that in absence of a mandate, this approach is as efficient as you can possible get per new dollars spent to get a reduction in the number of uninsured children. This is because the incentive fund, which was created in this bill to reward states for lowering the number of uninsured, low-income kids, is designed so that it provides a payment per child only for new Medicaid as opposed to new CHIP children.
   This is helpful with crowd-out. First, because Medicaid is for lower-income kids who are less likely to have the option of private coverage, so tilting towards Medicaid is beneficial. Second, the payments for the incentive fund payments are graduated, in other words, they are not based on random "noise." The combination of these two is an efficient outcome. According to CBO, the approach that we take in our bill is probably the most efficient way to have new dollars spent to reduce the number of uninsured children.
   Another issue that continues to be raised is adult coverage under CHIP. Unfortunately, the opponents of the bill have not been very clear about how adults are treated under this legislation. If I were the only one drafted this bill, which I obviously am not, I would like to see all adults removed from the CHIP program tomorrow - I don't think they have any business receiving health care through a program created for low-income, uninsured children. In fact, I am very disappointed with our Administration for continuing to grant federal waivers to states to cover adults through CHIP. This has been extremely frustrating to me. This legislation addresses this matter by phasing childless adults off of the CHIP program and lowering the federal matching rate for parents in states that currently covered under the CHIP program.
   Recently, Senators Grassley, Roberts and I wrote to both the President and my good friend, Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt, urging the Administration to stop granting states any new adult waivers. Unfortunately, unless our legislation becomes law, these waivers will continue to be approved. So, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act prohibits the federal government from granting future state waivers to cover non-pregnant adults through CHIP once and for all. Simply put, our bill puts an immediate stop to states being granted future waivers to cover non-pregnant adults.
   Our bill puts the emphasis back on low-income, insured children. As one of the original authors of the CHIP program, I am here to tell you that we did not create CHIP for adults - we created CHIP for low-income, uninsured children.
   On a related matter, our legislation also eliminates enhanced federal matching rates for adults, with the exception of pregnant women. Today, under CHIP, states receive an enhanced federal matching rate for those covered under CHIP. The Medicaid federal medical assistance percentage, known as FMAP, ranges between 50 percent and 76 percent in FY 2006; the CHIP FMAP ranges from 65 percent to 83.2 percent.
   At the beginning of FY 2009, States will receive lower federal matching rates for childless adults and in FY 2010, childless adults will no longer be covered under CHIP. With regard to parents, at the beginning of FY 2010, only states with significant outreach efforts for low-income uninsured children will receive enhanced match rates for parents; others will receive the lower Medicaid match rate (FMAP) for adults. Starting in FY 2011, all states will receive a lower federal matching rate for parents - those states covering more lower-income kids or with significant outreach efforts will receive REMAP (mid-point between CHIP matching rate and the lower Medicaid matching rate). Other states will receive FMAP for CHIP parents.
   Many have also raised concerns about the income eligibility level of those covered by CHIP. The Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act provides lower-matching rates to states for those individuals with incomes at 300% of the FPL and above, who are covered under CHIP, thus penalizing states that want to cover higher-income children.
   Today, states receive an enhanced federal matching rate for all income levels -our bill discourages states from covering higher-income individuals in the CHIP program. Once our bill is enacted, states that have new waivers approved to cover 300% of FPL and above would only receive the lower FMAP payment for higher income individuals. To me, this is dramatic improvement over current law which allows higher income individuals to receive the same federal matching rate provided to states for covering low-income children.
   Finally, I want to emphasize that the CHIP program is an effective children's health program and a small part of overall health care costs. CHIP is not an entitlement program - it is a capped, block granted program where states are given flexibility to cover their low-income, uninsured children. It is totally voluntary on the part of a state.
   According to CMS, in 2005, we spent a total $1.98 trillion dollars on our nation's health care system. Private expenditures were $1.08 trillion and $900 billion in federal dollars. Total Medicare spending was $342 billion in 2005 and Medicaid was $177 billion in Federal dollars. Our bill today funds CHIP at $60 billion over five years - a fraction of the cost - to provide care for low-income, uninsured children. Covering these children is worth every cent.
   It is my hope that I have cleared up any misconceptions that my colleagues may have regarding the bill that the Senate is considering this week. I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 