SENATE PROVIDES FUNDS TO MOVE MOAB TAILINGS PILE
  Several Utah projects pushed by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) were included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill approved by the Senate late last night.  
   The bill includes $28 million for the Department of Energy to begin the process of moving the radioactive mill tailings pile near Moab, Utah, that has threatened to contaminate the drinking water for 25 million people throughout the Southwest. 
   "Providing funding for this project is one of my highest priorities," Hatch said. "A decade of studying and talking about this issue has not moved the pile one inch. We're finally moving beyond talk and providing money to start cleaning up the mess." 
   The Senate also approved Hatch's amendment to restore funding to the Clean Cities Program, which helps funnel grants to organizations in Utah and throughout the country that promote the use of alternative fuel vehicles and the installation of new alternative fuel filling stations. The Department of Energy program was slated to be cut by $4.1 million in the Senate funding bill, and Hatch's amendment brought the funding back up to its Fiscal Year 2005 funding level of $10.6 million. 
   "This is the one federal program that is actually putting alternative fuel vehicles on the road and alternative fuel infrastructure in place, and it has done a lot of good in Utah," Hatch said. "The Clean Cities Program deserves all the support we can give it, and I'm happy that we could at least get it fully funded." 
   Hatch also helped to secure $1.75 million for the University of Utah's Utah Center for Heavy Oil Research to evaluate the potential for commercial development of the oil sands, oil shale, and coal resource deposits in Uintah County. Geologists estimate Utah has 500 billion barrels of recoverable oil from oil shale in Utah and about two trillion barrels from all the oil shale in the United States. 
   "I can't emphasize enough the importance of studying and developing Utah's oil shale resources," Hatch said. "Utah sits on one of the largest untapped oil resources in the world. If we want to decrease the nation's dependence on foreign oil, we have to get started developing these resources right now." 
   The bill also includes $2 million requested by Hatch for the University of Utah's Center for Ultra-Clean Coal Utilization, which develops carbon capture and sequestration technologies to make existing coal-fired power plants cleaner and more efficient.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 