ACTIVIST JUDGE CHALLENGES BAN ON PARTIAL BIRTH ABORTION
 Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement in reaction to Northern California District Court ruling in Planned Parenthood et al. v. Ashcroft in which Judge Hamilton said the Partial Birth Abortion Act of 2003 is "unconstitutional." 
   "I am very disappointed in the court's decision today, but I am hopeful that the pending decisions in Nebraska and New York will treat the issue more fairly.
   "I find it remarkable that a court would so cavalierly dismiss the Congressional findings of fact on the key issues in this Act. Congress spent eight years examining this issue over and over, including considering the testimony from many doctors and medical organizations. Judge Hamilton refused to even allow a subpoena of medical records for guidance on important findings of facts, including whether the procedure is ever medically necessary. These records - which would have been redacted and subject to a strict confidentiality agreement - would have revealed that partial-birth abortion is in fact never medically necessary. But Judge Hamilton, a Clinton appointee, refused to even consider these highly relevant records.
   "All this law does is ban one particularly offensive procedure. As testimony in the House made clear, the fact is that there is no medical need to allow this type of procedure. It is never medically necessary, it is never the safest procedure available, and it is morally reprehensible and unconscionable.
   "The vast majority of Utahns recognize that the practice of partial birth abortion is immoral and impossible to justify. This procedure is so heinous that even many that consider themselves pro-choice cannot even defend it.
   "I pray that never again will it be legal in this country to perform this barbaric procedure. Today's ruling has been a step back, but I am confident that basic human decency will prevail and that the Nebraska and New York courts examining this issue will reach a different conclusion on the findings of fact and the constitutionality of the Act."
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 