OIL SHALE DEVELOPMENT CAN ALLEVIATE NATION'S FUEL CRISIS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) participated in a field hearing of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources at Grand Junction's City Hall today to discuss the implementation of the oil shale provisions of the Energy Policy Act. The following are Hatch's comments at the hearing. 
   Statement by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch Before the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources  
   Field Hearing on Implementation of Sec. 369 of The Energy Policy Act 
  (Oil Shale and Tar Sands Development Act)
   Mr. Chairman, I am grateful for the opportunity to participate in this hearing, today, on the implementation of Section 369 of the Energy Policy Act. 
   As you know, Section 369 is the result of the Oil Shale and Tar Sands Development Act I introduced with Senator Allard. I appreciate your assistance in drafting this bill and making it part of the Energy Policy Act. Mr. Chairman, I believe your vision and your leadership on this incredibly important issue facilitate what will likely be a turning point in our nation's ability to meet our energy needs in the future. 
   It is important, Mr. Chairman, that Americans understand the truth about our global energy situation, especially as it relates to liquid fuels. Americans need to understand that the global demand for oil far outstrips the global supply. Historically, the world's oil producers have responded to this scenario by dipping into spare capacity and restoring order to the market. Americans need to understand that the world's energy producers are at full capacity, that global demand has now outgrown even OPEC's ability to respond, and that we are facing a very serious energy crunch on a global scale. 
   I am pleased that our nation has begun a new focus on the use of alternative fuels and advanced vehicle technologies which will help to displace our nation's dependency on oil. I was the author of the CLEAR ACT that was included in the Energy Policy Act. The CLEAR ACT, or Clean Efficient Automobiles Resulting from Advanced Car Technologies Act, offers consumer tax credits to lower the cost of hybrid-electric and alternative fuel vehicles, as well as the cost of alternative fuels and new infrastructure to support their use. 
   Alternative fuels and advanced vehicle technologies play a critical role in our nation's energy strategy, but these alternatives will not be sufficient to bridge the widening gap between the global supply and demand for oil. As you know, Mr. Chairman, there is just no escaping our need to increase dramatically our domestic oil production. 
   Just as it is important to recognize the magnitude of our global energy shortage, it is equally important to recognize that North America has a solution that matches the scale of the problem. The gigantic untapped oil shale and tars sands resources found in Utah, Colorado, and Wyoming are sufficient to meet our domestic energy needs while also contributing to the ever increasing global demand for liquid fuels. Experts agree that the United States has more recoverable oil in tar sands and oil shale in this small tri-state region than the entire Middle East. 
   The implementation of Section 369 begins a necessary shift by our government from an almost complete reliance on conventional sources of oil to our vast unconventional resources, such as tar sands and oil shale. We have already seen this shift in focus by the government of Alberta, Canada. Alberta recognized the potential of its own tar sands deposits and set forth a policy to promote their development. As a result, Canada has increased its oil reserves by more than a factor of 10, going from a reserve of about 14 billion barrels to its current reserve of more than 176 billion barrels in only a few years. 
   Most Utahns would be surprised to learn that one-fourth of our state's oil imports already come from Alberta tar sands, even though we have a very large resource of those same tar sands in our own state sitting undeveloped. 
   I have read a number of newspaper articles and editorials raising questions about whether there is enough water, whether there is enough environmental protection, whether it is economical enough to develop our unconventional resources. These are all very valid questions, but I believe they have valid answers. I hope that this hearing will help us begin to address these questions head on. The people of this region deserve to have these issued fully explored and addressed. 
   In drafting the new law, we were mindful of the environment and of states' water resources. We live in a different world than when oil shale and tar sands were first developed in the U.S. We have now implemented several environmental laws such as the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Mining Reclamation Act, and the Endangered Species Act. Also, new technologies make the effort much cleaner and require much less water than in the past. 
   I do not believe there is any aspect of oil shale or tar sands development that would not be covered by existing environmental laws and regulations. But the citizens living in this region deserve to have a high level of certainty that this new activity will move forward in an environmentally and economically sound way. Mr. Chairman, I know that your goal is to ensure that these issues be addressed, and that this hearing is only one step in that process. Again, I thank you for holding this hearing in the region that has the greatest stake in the implementation of Section 369. 
   Mr. Chairman, last year I spoke on this issue at the Canadian Embassy, and I wonder if I could submit that statement to the Committee as part of the record? 
   Again, thank you, Mr. Chairman for the opportunity to give these remarks today and for your leadership on this important issue.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 