SEN. HATCH: CARD CHECK BILL DENIES EMPLOYEE CHOICE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today railed against the House's decision to grant unions the power to intimidate employees into organizing. The House passed H.R. 800, which would take away the right to a private ballot in union organizing elections.  
   "Union bosses have made Congress an offer we can refuse," Hatch said. "This bill is a disgrace, and we're going to fight it in the Senate." 
   H.R. 800 denies a worker's right to a federally supervised private vote when deciding whether or not to join a union. Instead, it allows a union to be officially recognized once a majority of workers simply sign a card - making their votes public to the employer, the union organizers and coworkers. These cards are signed in the presence of an interested party, and the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) has documented that this process results in deceptions, coercion, and other abuses. 
   "We wouldn't allow politicians to intimidate voters when they go to the ballot box, and there's no reason to give unions that power over employees," Hatch said. "Workers should not be forced to reveal their vote, especially when they could face retribution from powerful union bosses." 
   Hatch has a long history opposing efforts to coerce workers to join unions. He is a current member and former chairman of what is now the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, which oversees labor issues. Hatch noted that denying unions the ability to coerce employees to organize has resulted in a steady declining of union membership over the last 20 years. 
   "A private ballot is the only truly fair way to determine if someone wants to join a union," Hatch said. "Union bosses should have nothing to fear from a private ballot. But they're desperate, so they're looking to get an unfair advantage. It's shameful that some in Congress want to give that advantage to them."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 