SEN. HATCH: OPPOSE TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) on the Senate floor today blasted portions of the 9/11 Commission Recommendations bill (S. 4) that would undermine national security by opening the door for collective bargaining in the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). 
   Hatch's full remarks follow: 
   Mr. President, today I rise to voice my strong opposition to section 803 of S. 4 and urge my colleagues to join me in advocating its removal from this important piece of legislation.  
   What is section 803? This provision would permit TSA's Transport Security Officers, our nation's airport security screeners, to engage in collective bargaining - a change that was not among the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. 
   At first look many might say: well why not? The professionals at TSA are federal employees; as such, they cannot strike. They can already join a union, so why not permit collective bargaining? As a former union member, I can see why many believe that such a request is reasonable. But, unfortunately Mr. President, as in much in life, the devil is in the details. 
   The fact remains that we are at war. 
   Through the hard work and dedication of our armed forces and civil servants, such as those at TSA, our nation has, so far, been spared further tragedies such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001. However, our past success must not lull us into a false sense of security. Those who wish to undermine and even destroy Western civilization have been beaten back but still remain a potent adversary. 
   Al-Qaeda is a sophisticated enemy which searches for our weakness and attempts to devise ways to exploit our vulnerabilities. The surest way to play into their hands is act in a business-as-usual manner. In order to defeat this enemy we must be nimble. We must constantly change our tactics and strategies. We must be flexible and unpredictable. 
   That is why the American people demanded that we create the TSA. The people saw that our nation required a professional government agency whose primary purpose is to keep the traveling public safe - an agency that consists of experts who can identify terrorists and their plots before they board an aircraft or other mode of transport. 
   So what has this to do with the ability of TSA employees to engage in collective bargaining? If one looks at the details, it has everything to with TSA's ability to keep several steps ahead of the terrorists. 
   We all know that one of the central aspects of any collective bargaining agreement is setting the conditions by which an employee works. When a person works where he/she work, and how he/she work, are matters which are open to negotiation. Obviously, efficiency and productivity, for better or worse, can be dramatically affected by a collective bargaining agreement. 
   So how would this affect TSA's operations? 
   One must remember the events of this past summer. In August, the security services of the United Kingdom discovered a well-organized conspiracy that reportedly sought to blow up commercial aircraft in flight using liquid explosives disguised as items commonly found in carry-on luggage. Within six hours, due to their professionalism and the current flexibility of their work structure, TSA's Transportation Security Officers were able to make quick use of this highly classified information and train and execute new security protocols designed to mitigate this threat. 
   Six hours - now that is impressive! 
   Yet in contrast to this history of success and impressive performance, the possibility of collective bargaining only raises questions and uncertainties. For example, should the government have to bargain in advance over what actions it can or cannot take when dealing with an emergency situation? 
   If so, how would we know what to bargain for? 
   Remember, before the events of September 11th, what rational person would have thought of using a commercial aircraft as a suicide bomb? What other heinous act might occur that we have not contemplated? Remember this is an enemy who uses surprise. 
   Other questions come to mind. If timely intelligence is gathered that requires an immediate change in TSA's operations, does the government have to inform a private entity, such as the union? Do we not wish to preserve the maximum level of flexibility, not only to catch terrorists but to provide a secure situation where the business of the nation can continue unmolested? 
   Another example of the flexibility of the current system can be found during this winter's snow storms in Denver. Local TSA officials were overwhelmed by the influx of stranded and newly arriving passengers. The agency responded by deploying 55 officers from the mountain state region including - I am proud to say, Utah - so that security screening operations were able to continue around the clock until the situation was resolved. 
   Under collective bargaining, redeployments such as this could be hindered by red-tape and cumbersome procedures, greatly reducing the ability of TSA to respond efficiently and effectively to these eventualities. It also raises the question, under a collective bargaining agreement might not redeployment decisions be subject to seniority rules, rather then sending individuals with the proper skills? Is deployment subject to binding arbitration and, if so, what effect will that have during emergencies? 
   But bureaucratic hurdles preventing the TSA from operating efficiently and effectively during a time of war are not the only problems created by Section 803. The provision also would create an unacceptable drain of resources away from TSA's primary mission: protecting the traveling public. 
   Resources would be diminished because of the cost to implement and execute a collective bargaining agreement. TSA estimates that if this section were enacted it would cost, in the first year alone, $175 million. 
   Why? 
   The agency would be forced to train its employees on union issues and employ labor relations specialists, negotiators, and union stewards. One must also remember that these funds will have to come out of the Department of Homeland Security's budget - a budget which is consistently criticized for being too small by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. 
   So what do the taxpayers lose for that $175 million? 
   Such a reduction in funding is the same as loss of 3,815 transportation security officers, or 11.5 percent of the total workforce. It also equates to closing 273 of the 2,054 active airport screening lanes which is 12 percent of current lanes. Or, in terms that most of the frequent flyers in this body would understand, the loss of capacity to screen 330,000 passengers every day. Imagine that line! 
   This is not to say that TSA employees should bear an unfair burden, far from it. TSA employees and especially Transportation Security Officers should be afforded just compensation and as safe as possible working conditions. 
   Some who advocate collective bargaining say that Transportation Security Officers have not been given a raise in four years. That is not accurate. TSA's pay scheme is based upon technical competence, readiness for duty and operational performance. Accordingly, in 2006 TSA paid out over $42 million in pay raises and bonuses based upon job performance. 
    If a Transportation Security Officer has a complaint, grievance or does not believe that he or she has been paid properly, these are addressed through the agency's Model Workplace Program, where employees and managers form councils to address those concerns. This does not mean that employees' due process protections for the resolution of employment issues have been sacrificed. Transportation Security Officers can seek relief from the TSA's Ombudsman Office and Disciplinary Review Board or from outside government agencies such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. 
   Another misconception is that Transportation Security Officers do not have whistleblower protections. As a result of a formal Memorandum of Understanding between TSA and the U.S. Office of Special Counsel, all Transportation Security Officers now have this protection. 
   Others in favor of collective bargaining point to the Transportation Security Officers' attrition rate. Initially, this was a problem. However, the agency has - and is - continuing to address this issue. I am pleased to report that the Transportation Security Officers' voluntary attrition rate of 16.5 percent is lower then comparable positions in the private sector which are estimated at 26.4 percent. 
   Injury rates are decreasing. 
   The agency has worked hard to reduce lost time claims by 44 percent and, just in 2006, injury claims resulting in lost workdays have been reduced by 32 percent. 
   This is not luck, but part of a comprehensive strategy to look after the well-being and safety of Transportation Security Officers. These safety initiatives include providing a nurse case manager at each airport; utilizing Optimization and Safety Teams to create ergonomic work areas to reduce lifting and carrying heavy bags; and an automated injury claims filing process. 
   Another question some ask is that since Customs and Border Protection agents are permitted to engage in collective bargaining why not Transportation Security Officers? 
   However, when Congress created the TSA the goal was to create a new organization that would meet the unique needs of the War on Terrorism - a modern organization that would have the maximum flexibility to protect the national security of the United States. 
   This, of course, is the same charter as the FBI, CIA and Secret Service and these agencies do not permit collective bargaining. Should we hold the TSA to a different standard, despite the fact that securing our transportation systems is one of the most vital roles that our government can play? 
   Mr. President, is TSA perfect? No, of course not. But look at what has been achieved. 
   Five years ago, TSA did not exist and now we can all take pride in an agency and most importantly in its personnel, who have done such a remarkable job in keeping our nation safe. 
   They deserve our respect, our thanks and fair compensation. 
   But in doing so we must not undermine one of their greatest weapons in this war, their flexibility to change tactics and strategies at a moment's notice. Such as course of action could have calamitous effect on our nation. 
   I urge my colleagues to remove this section from the bill. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 