SEN. HATCH SUPPORTS S. 1082, FDA ADMINISTRATION REVITALIZATION ACT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today spoke on the Senate floor in support of S. 1082, the Food and Drug Administration Revitalization Act. Hatch's prepared remarks follow.
   Mr. President, I rise in support of S. 1082, the Food and Drug Administration Revitalization Act.
   This legislation addresses many critical issues, including the need for provide proper incentives and support for the development and review of pharmaceuticals and medical devices (including products for children), and the need for heightened efforts to assure the safety of medications.
   As we debate this legislation, let us remember we all have the same goals in mind. 
  We want Americans to benefit from life-saving, life-enhancing drug and device products.
   We want Americans to have access to drugs that are safe and effective.
   We want Americans to have all the relevant safety information available on their drugs.
   And, indeed, we want Americans to know that the Food and Drug Administration, the agency responsible for ensuring drug and device safety, has the resources to do its job.
   That's what this bill is all about - protecting Americans and giving the FDA the tools to do its job.
   The legislation before us reauthorizes both the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, better known as PDUFA, and the Medical Device User Modernization Fee Act, better known as MDUFMA.
   It is of critical importance that both programs be authorized by the end of the fiscal year. This legislation embodies the agreements reached by both industries and the FDA, along with refinements added by the Congress.
   Let me make clear that I am supportive of these reauthorizations. It is fair to say that I had reservations about PDUFA when it was enacted in 1992, questioning the wisdom of whether an industry should be required to support a governmental function. To a certain extent, I still have those reservations. That being said, it has become abundantly clear that there are not the resources in the Agriculture Appropriations bill to support these review functions absent a user fee, and thus I recognize their necessity.
   With regard to MDUFMA, I have been particularly concerned about the impact that user fees could have on small medical device manufacturers, many of whom are located in Utah. Indeed, I am proud that there are over 100 medical device companies in Utah, companies that represent the best in American innovation. They are true world leaders in their industry.
   The changes made in the last reauthorization at my request, along with the new structure of the user fee in FDARA and the improved trigger provision satisfy me that the manufacturers are being fairly treated by the user fee program in this bill.
   And, indeed, this is a serious concern.
   In February of 2006, the Lewin Group prepared a report for the FDA entitled "Medical Device Industry Perspectives on MDUFMA."
   That report revealed that senior industry experts felt FDA is generally doing an excellent job in premarket regulation of medical devices and that the industry was generally supportive of the purpose and goals of MDUFMA. However, key among the findings was the fact that the industry perceived little or no evidence of attaining the main intent of the program or in realizing a favorable return on investment from user fees.
   In fact, whenever I return to Utah to meet with medical device executives, I hear the same concern. And it is a concern I share.
   Indicative of that concern is the astounding fact that 70% of responding device manufacturers perceived that MDUFMA goals have not resulted in meaningful improvements in either the predictability or timeliness of reviews.
   In fact, when I reviewed the device approval times, I understood those concerns. For some classes of devices, FDA had made great progress. For others not.
   This was disturbing to me, since we would all hope that progress would have been made across the board.
   It is my hope with the new fee structure embodied in S. 1082, we will make better progress in achieving the approval time goals. And, I am pleased that Chairman Kennedy and Senator Enzi included provisions at my request which make certain the fees for smaller companies are affordable.
   Let me turn to the issue of Direct-to-Consumer advertising, or DTC. This is an issue on which our colleague, the senior Senator from Kansas, Senator Pat Roberts has shown great leadership, both in the HELP Committee, and here in the Senate Chamber. Senator Roberts has led the charge to eliminate the two year moratorium on prescription advertising for newly approved drugs. He has expressed constitutional concerns about such a moratorium. I share those concerns. He is right to bring this up.
   In general, I believe we should by guided by a very simple rule. Advertising about products the FDA regulates should be truthful and not misleading.
   I do understand the arguments that some in this body make with respect to pharmaceutical advertising. Some nights, when I watch television, those ads do become tiresome. But I could say that about a lot of ads!
   Some have argued we need to be particularly careful about what pharmaceutical advertising is allowed, because we have limited knowledge about drugs, especially when they come on the market.
   Those who make such arguments fail to recognize that FDARA will guarantee that consumers have access to greater clinical and safety information about medications because it gives the FDA more authority to review and react to drug safety data. User fees created by S.1082 will bolster the FDA office responsible for reviewing drug advertisements.
   The FDA has told my office and others that drug manufacturers cooperate fully with the FDA when a concern is raised about an advertisement. That would be my preference for how these ads should be handled.
   I am hopeful we will be able to address this issue and I am encouraged by recent discussions involving the Senator from Kansas and others members of the Senate HELP Committee.
   The bill's drug safety provisions are probably its most important component. Indeed, shortly after the Institute of Medicine issued its report on this issue, we all began to see a floor of letters in support of efforts to improve the drug safety program.
   Members of the HELP Committee undertook serious discussions on how to address the problems that have been identified, and the result is this legislation developed by Senator Enzi and Chairman Kennedy. The Enzi-Kennedy bill has benefited from the guidance of our colleagues, former Chairman Gregg and Senator Burr, who have pointed out the necessity for more flexibility in determining when a risk evaluation mitigation plan - or REMS - is needed. Senator Coburn added greatly to the discussion by raising issues relating to the access of our constituents in rural areas to needed pharmaceuticals.
   I believe the product of these discussions strikes the appropriate balance. It requires, for example, that determining whether the FDA should further assess the safety of a drug should be based on scientific evidence. To me, that is probably the most integral part of this bill - when concerns are raised about drugs, these concerns must be based on scientific evidence and not on innuendos or hearsay. This approach allows proper evaluation of relevant information and gives the FDA greater authority to warn consumers when there are problems.
   In addition, the drug safety title strengthens the FDA's existing authority to monitor drugs once they have been approved by making it clear that evaluation must occur before and after approval. One of the most important components of this legislation is that more drug safety information will be made more available to the public. I believe that is an important victory for the American consumer.
   I also want to take a few minutes to talk about the pediatric testing and research provisions included in this bill. I have supported both the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Research Improvement Act. In fact, I have supported these efforts since our former colleague from Ohio, Senator Mike DeWine, brought the need for additional pediatric testing of prescription drugs to our attention during consideration of the FDA Modernization Act of 1997. He fought long and hard to encourage drug companies to conduct clinical trials on pediatric uses of their drugs. His efforts paid off and this program has been extremely successful.
   My good friend and colleague from Connecticut, subcommittee Chairman Chris Dodd, has also shown great leadership on this issue when FDAMA was being considered in 1997. He held a hearing on this issue earlier this year with his Ranking Republican Member, Senator Lamar Alexander. That hearing was very insightful and I believe that many of us are trying to do the right thing as we reauthorize both programs.
   I urge my colleagues not to lose sight of the purpose of these two programs as we make decisions on this part of the bill. We want good, solid information about the safest way to prescribe drugs for children. And by giving companies market exclusivity to conduct clinical trials, we will know the safest dosage levels for children. So let us not lose sight of the original propose of these programs - to help children have the safest dosages for prescriptions. I am hopeful that we will be able to work out our differences on these provisions on these very important issues.
   Food safety is another issue that is on nearly everyone's mind these days. When I was a kid, we were always told to eat our spinach so we could grow muscles like Popeye. Peanut butter is almost a staple for most Americans. And yet these ordinary, common foods have harmed rather than helped. Pets are getting sick and we have discovered that their food has been contaminated. Something needs to be done.
   I have worked with Senators Kennedy, Enzi, Durbin and Allard to figure out a constructive approach to these important issues. I think that we have made a lot of progress and I look forward continuing those discussions as the bill progresses toward enactment.
   One factor that is not discussed enough is the need to appropriate more funding for inspectors and inspector training, especially abroad. I can recall over a decade though when Jim Phillips, a former investigator for the FDA, brought to our attention the woefully lacking FDA resources for foreign inspections. We were shocked then, and unfortunately, we are shocked now.
   Today, only one percent of imported food is inspected. I believe this issue needs to be carefully reviewed by Congress so people no longer have to worry about whether food for them or their pets is safe.
   I offered and withdrew an amendment during the HELP Committee consideration of this bill that would address another important issue. My amendment had several provisions which encouraged innovation and development of safe antibiotics, required the FDA to convene a meeting to determine how the Orphan Drug Act should be applied to antibiotics, and reauthorized the grant programs for the Orphan Drug Act. Finally, my amendment provided for a five year exclusivity for enantiomers of previously approved racemic drugs if and only if 1.) they are approved for new therapeutic uses and 2.) a completely new data set has been created for approval of this enantiomer. It is my expectation that our current discussions on these provisions will lead toward their adoption later in the week.
   I also want to point out that there have been many discussions on ways to ensure that citizens' petitions do not unfairly delay generic drug approvals. I believe this is a problem, although I do not believe it is of a magnitude as some would suggest. I do not oppose making changes to ensure that any abuses in this area are stopped, as long as FDA still has the ability to do the appropriate scientific and legal review of abbreviated new drug approval applications in the timeframe it desires.
   Let me turn now to one provision which is not in the bill: language authorizing a pathway for the Food and Drug Administration to approve copies of biologics. This is commonly referred to as the "biosimilars," "biogenerics," or "follow-on biologics" legislation. Senator Gregg spoke so well about this subject just a few minutes ago.
   While language on this issue is not included in the bill we consider today, I want to make perfectly clear that it is my intention to work toward development of an acceptable compromise that can be included in the final version of FDARA and signed into law. It is my hope Senators will refrain from offering any amendments on this issue until we have time to develop consensus. And I do believe consensus can be developed without delay. It is my intention to do so.
   As my colleagues are aware, I am the Hatch of Hatch-Waxman. I have a serious interest in making certain the law Chairman Waxman and I developed in 1984, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, is used as the basis for development of legislation to provide an abbreviated pathway for approval of follow-on biological products. In so doing, we must make certain we include the appropriate incentives for development of those products.
   Indeed, that is my high priority.
   By any estimate, the Hatch-Waxman law has done consumers tremendous good by fostering today's modern generic drug industry. It has saved patients literally billions of dollars. Similarly, using it as a basis for development of a pathway for follow-on biologics will help consumers with access to the innovative, life-affirming biologic products. But in so doing, we must be mindful of the fact that we need to encourage and nurture the innovation that provides the biologics that the generic companies seek to copy.
   This is a tremendously complicated task, but it is one worth doing.
   In 1984, when Chairman Waxman and I undertook a series of negotiations that led to approval of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act., it was a very different time.
   There were no cell phones, no DVDs, almost no one had a personal computer, and a stamp cost 20 cents
   It was a much less complicated time. Generic drugs were a small, struggling industry, with no discernible footprint in the pharmaceutical world. The innovators had yet to respond to their first Paragraph IV certification.
   In 1984, brands versus generics largely an American endeavor.
   Today, the pharmaceutical market - both innovator and generic - is an international market ... ...for research, development and marketing.
   Biological products were not an issue in 1984. Today, they are becoming an increasingly larger part of pharmaceutical spending.
   It is my strong belief that we can learn from this experience and build another solid law that will help consumers - both by supporting the incentive to discover and develop new biologics, and by fostering a climate that will lead to lower prices. This is a classic win-win situation.
   And why is that so important?
   A February report by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services paints the picture very well:
   America's health care spending in the next ten years will double to $4.1 trillion.
   Or, to look at it another way, that's 20 cents out of every dollar spent.
   We spend about $7,500 per capita on health care in the U.S.
   Yet, in 2016, that will rise to an astounding $12,800 per person.
   Greater spending for pharmaceuticals is expected to fuel much of the increase, the report's authors concluded.
   And there it is in a nutshell.
   The good news and the bad news.
   Not much worries Congress more than the costs of medical care - both from the perspective of a balanced budget, and from the view of our constituents' pocketbooks.
   In many ways, it is an embarrassment of riches.
   We have exciting new therapies to treat our medical ills - new drugs, new devices, stem cell treatments. Their potential to improve human health and well-being is almost limitless.
   And yet, the cost of those treatments, the impact they have on the budget, at times seems equally limitless!
   In fact, in 2005, prescription drug spending was estimated at $214 billion, a healthy amount by anyone's measure. That same year, spending on biologics was estimated at $32 billion.
   Since biologicals are generally more expensive products, ways to reduce their costs interest policymakers and other stakeholders in expenditure of the health care dollar, foremost among them employers, insurers, pharmacy benefits managers, and of course, the government.
   Comes now the generic drug industry, which has been proven to provide alternative, safe and effective therapies in a much more cost beneficial manner.
   We look to them to be part of the solution to this problem.
   And they, in turn, look to us to help them be part of that solution.
   It is no secret that several senators have been meeting to develop a bill that would establish a pathway for biosimilar products to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration. We had hoped to have it ready for inclusion in FDARA, but it was not, despite the talks of the four Senators.
   I am referring to Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Ted Kennedy, the Committee's ranking Republican, Mike Enzi, Senator Hillary Clinton, and me. All members of the HELP Committee, we have worked to develop consensus on what legislation would include.
   Senator Kennedy and I began these talks several months ago. He is committed to developing a bill on a priority basis. Our staffs literally have been working night and day.
   Our work has been aided immeasurably by the leadership of Chairman Waxman, and in the Senate, Senator Chuck Schumer and Senator Clinton, who have introduced the companion to the Waxman bill. Their legislation, the Access to Life-Saving Medicine Act (H.R. 1038/S. 623), provides a solid starting point for discussions. It is an important work that has added immeasurably to the congressional dialogue.
   It is my hope that our discussions will also be informed by the work of Representatives Jay Inslee, Gene Green and Tammy Baldwin, who recently introduced the Patient Protection and Innovative Biologic Medicines Act of 2007 ( H.R. 1956), and by the views of the many, many stakeholders in this legislative effort.
   The time to develop a pathway for approval of biosimilar products is long past overdue.
   It should be our priority, and it should be our high priority, to get it done this year.
   But, we should get it done right.
   Our deliberations must be based on science.
   The original balance of the law must be maintained, but we must also recognize the emerging realities of this new world.
   And what are those realities?
   First, biotechnology products are not drugs; they are very complicated molecules that are not easily reproduced.
   An inadvertent change in the structure of that molecule can lead to very devastating consequences.
   Second, today, it is unlikely that any follow-on company will be able to produce an exact copy of a biotech molecule, a generic biologic if you will, at least at first.
   Third, because science advances, and because American researchers are very good at advancing science - stem cell research is one example that comes readily to mind - we must hold open the possibility that one day there will be true biogenerics.
   And we must also develop a pathway so that biosimilar products can be approved without a full biologics license application, a time-consuming and expensive process.
   But whatever policy we develop, it must be based on soundness of science, rather than the practicalities of politics.
   Fourth, we must take into account the unique nature of today's industry. This is so much more than an exercise between big Pharma and the generics, or even between big bio and the generics.
   Indeed, there are about 1400 biotech companies in the United States. How many of them are profitable? Astoundingly, only 20.
   Many of these companies are small, with revenues of under a million dollars per year. Many do not even have a product on the market.
   We must examine closely the issue of who will be making biosimilars? Will it be the Barr Labs and Tevas of the world? Undoubtedly.
   But it may also be generic subsidiaries of innovator companies.
   It is also very likely to be companies in India and China. As we have seen with the recent concerns over pet food, inspecting foreign manufacturing plants has historically been a problem for the resource-constrained Food and Drug Administration.
   Fifth, we must use the framework of Hatch-Waxman where we can, but we must recognize there may be ways to improve it.
   There are obvious differences between regulating a pathway for biosimilars and for copies of chemical drugs.
   For example, as I mentioned, today's science will probably not allow identical copies of today's biologics. So, the concept of bioequivalence cannot be imported into this debate. Instead, we must work carefully to define biosimilarity.
   Another difference today is the fact that process patents are much more integrally tied to the manufacture of biologics. Current law does not require listing of process patents in the orange book.
   Waxman-Hatch is inherently a litigious process. But its framework - the patent holder (or drug manufacturer) vs. the generic - does not easily translate to a system in which multiple patent holders may exist, including, for example, major universities and research centers.
   Sixth, the incentives for development of biotech products must be maintained, enhanced where it advances public policy. But at the same time, we cannot seed a new generation of roadblocks that preclude biosimilar entry. This is the nub of the key, crucial balance.
   Seventh, the role of the FDA must be carefully evaluated. We must empower the agency to evaluate pure, safe and potent copies of biotech products, but we must all recognize that there must be a bright line that separates a safe copy from a new product which should be subject to a full biologic license application.
   We need to free the agency and provide it with the flexibility to evaluate the adequacy of a biosimilar submission based on good science, but we must also recognize that, as Commissioner von Eschenbach has said, there may be some products which cannot be copied safely with today's science.
   Eighth, we must make certain the resources are there for the FDA to do the job right. I must note that negotiations between the agency and the pharmaceutical industry on the Prescription Drug User Fee Act reauthorization, or PDUFA, took over one year. Every indication I have is that review of a biosimilar application is very likely to be more complex and time-consuming than that for a new biologics license application.
   There must be authority for a fee to be collected that reflects this complex workload. If we do not provide adequate resources to the FDA, then review of new products could suffer at the expense of cheaper copies as reviewers become siphoned off from new products to the biosimilars. We should not design a system in which this occurs.
   And I must digress at this point to underscore that the FDA is already cash-strapped and that situation simply must be corrected.
   The dire FDA resources issue appears to have manifested iself in such recent revelations as to the inadequacy of food inspections for some of the most ubiquitous products in American life, including pet food and peanut butter.
   Federal policy-makers must take this into account when legislating, and the Food and Drug Administration Revitalization Act is a good place to start.
   Enacting follow-on biologics legislation is a top priority for me. I want us to finalize a bill on a priority basis, and it is my hope it can be included in the final version of FDARA that emerges from the conference committee.
   Before I close, I want to talk about one other issue that is often debated when FDA-related legislation is considered on the floor: importation of prescription drugs.
   This morning, I listened to our colleague, the Senator from North Dakota, Senator Dorgan, talk about his legislation which allows prescription drugs from other countries to be imported into the United States from other countries. My colleague refers to this as drug reimportation which I believe gives people the false impression that these drugs are originally manufactured in the United States, exported to another country and then imported back to the United States. I just want to clarify that is not typically the case.
   In addition, I saw the Senator from North Dakota hold up two bottles of Lipitor and say that there is no difference between a drug manufactured in Ireland and a drug manufactured in the United States. He suggested that the pills may be different colors but the bottles are the same and the medicine in the bottle is the same.
   That may be true for the two bottles of drugs that he had on the Senate floor. But how could we be assured that is always case? Can we always guarantee that pills in a bottle labeled from Ireland are actually manufactured in Ireland? I don't think so.
   This issue is the crux of the problem -- unless the FDA has approved these medications, we have no way of knowing what is actually in the bottle. In fact, when I served as Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I held a hearing on drug importation and this issue was raised by one of the members of the Committee. At that July 14, 2004 hearing, one senator specifically asked about a prescription drug bottle labeled as being from Canada. William Hubbard, the Associate Commissioner for Policy and Planning for the FDA, told her that even though the label said the bottle was from Canada, the FDA had no idea where that bottle had originated.
   In fact, at that hearing, Mr. Hubbard said:
   Although some purchasers of drugs from foreign sources may receive genuine product, others may unknowingly buy counterfeit copies that contain only inert ingredients, legitimate drugs that are outdated and have been diverted to unscrupulous resellers, or dangerous sub-potent or super-potent products that were improperly manufactured. Furthermore, in the case of foreign-based sources, if a consumer has an adverse drug reaction or any other problem, the consumer may have little or no recourse either because the operator of the pharmacy often is not known, or the physical location of the seller is unknown or beyond the consumer's reach. FDA has only limited ability to take action against these foreign operators.
   On a related issue, I would like to share Mr. Hubbard's insights on the safety of drugs that have been imported from other countries.
   FDA remains concerned about the public health implications of unapproved prescription drugs from entities seeking to profit by getting around U.S. legal standards for drug safety and effectiveness. Many drugs obtained from foreign sources that either purport to be or appear to be the same as U.S.-approved prescription drugs are, in fact, of unknown quality. Consumers are exposed to a number of potential risks when they purchase drugs from foreign sources or from sources that are not operated by pharmacies properly licensed under state pharmacy laws. These outlets may dispense expired, subpotent, contaminated or counterfeit product, the wrong or a contraindicated product, an incorrect dose, or medication unaccompanied by adequate directions for use. The labeling of the drug may not be in English and therefore important information regarding dosage, warnings and side effects may not be available to the consumer. The drugs may not have been packaged and stored under appropriate conditions to prevent degradation, and there is no assurance that these products were manufactured under current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) standards. When consumers take such medications, they face risks of dangerous drug interactions and/or of suffering adverse events, some of which can be life-threatening. More commonly, if the drugs are subpotent or ineffective, they may suffer complications from the illnesses that their prescriptions were intended to treat, without ever knowing the true cause.
   Mr. President, this was a sobering hearing and I urge my colleagues, especially those who support the importation of prescription drugs into this country, to take the time to review the testimony from the July 14, 2004 hearing. We had many witnesses who provided valuable insights on this issue.
   To address Sen. Dorgan's other point regarding the cost of prescription drugs, I want to make one thing perfectly clear -- I want Americans to have access to affordable drugs, but I also want these drugs to be safe and effective. As one of the authors of Hatch-Waxman, I understand the problem of pharmaceutical costs, and I have a record of working to find solutions. But bringing potentially unsafe medicines, medicines uncertified by the FDA, into the United States is not a solution.
   In conclusion, I ask my colleagues who are skeptical about this bill to reserve judgment and listen carefully to the debate. While I supported this bill when it was considered by the Senate HELP Committee two weeks ago, I honestly believe that members of the HELP Committee have worked hard together to make the reported bill even better. So I urge my colleagues to take the time to review the bill because there are a lot of good provisions in it.
   I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the hard work of the staffs of both our Committee Chairman, Senator Kennedy, and our Ranking Minority Member, Senator Enzi. I would specifically like to thank Amy Muhlberg and David Dorsey for their dedication and hard work on this issue - they have been working on drug safety legislation for over two years and I want both of them to know how much all of us appreciate their efforts. I also want to recognize Shana Christrup and David Bowen for their leadership in helping their bosses get this bill to the floor under very difficult time constraints. All of the HELP Committee members' staff have worked long hours and many weekend hours and I just want you how much I appreciate all of you.
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 