SEN. HATCH, CHAIRMAN LIEBERMAN INTRODUCE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, UTAH HOUSE VOTING BILL IN SENATE
  Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee Chairman Joe Lieberman, ID-Conn., Tuesday introduced bipartisan legislation that would for the first time give voting representation in the House of Representatives to the residents of the District of Columbia and would add a fourth congressional seat for the State of Utah, in accordance with 2000 Census data. Sen. Robert Bennett, R-Utah, also supports the bill.  
   Lieberman said he would hold a hearing on the bill sometime in May. 
   "There is no question we feel slighted by the results of the 2000 census and this bill will provide Utah with the fourth seat we have sought for several years now," Hatch said. "According to the 2000 Census, Utah missed an extra seat to North Carolina by just 856 people, which is an uncomfortably thin margin of error since Utah is seeing some of the fastest growth in the nation." 
   Under the Senate bill, Utah is free to redistrict into four equal districts rather than creating an at-large seat, and the fourth member will begin work at the start of the 111th Congress, rather than requiring a costly special election this year. The House version which would create an at-large district clearly violates the one man, one vote doctrine outlined in the Constitution. 
   "I must say that, not only is the at-large requirement of the House bill unconstitutional, it is also too heavy-handed," Hatch said. "It creates a federal mandate that denies Utahns their right to redistrict how they see fit. Utah leaders made a full-court press last year in developing a fair, bipartisan four-district map. We have shown it is possible to come to a consensus to develop a new fourth district, so the Federal government need not dictate to us how our representative districts should be drawn." 
   Non-voting D.C. Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton and Rep. Tom Davis, R-Va., shepherded a similar proposal through the House Government Reform Committee on March 13, 2007, by a vote of 24-5. The full House approved the measure April 20, 2007, by a vote of 241-177. The people of the District of Columbia deserve voting rights in part, the Senators said, because they pay taxes and fight for the nation's democracy like other voting citizens. In fact, they pay more taxes: Per capita, District residents have the second highest federal tax obligation. 
   "I am most grateful for Senator Hatch's support for this bill and am certain his co- sponsorship will lead to the breakthrough we've been searching for to bring an end to the 200-year disenfranchisement of District residents," Lieberman said. "Today, we have an historic opportunity finally to bestow upon the citizens of the District of Columbia the civic entitlement every other tax-paying American citizen enjoys no matter where he or she resides - democracy's most essential right, voting representation in Congress." 
   * To View related PDF, visit http://hatch.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=DataPipes.ViewPDF&Id=1799.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134; Leslie Phillips, 202/224-0384.
 
 