SEN. HATCH: DNA BILL 'GROUNDBREAKING' BOOST TO JUSTICE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today applauded President Bush's signing of the "Justice for All Act of 2004" that provides much-needed funding and assistance to American criminal justice efforts to help realize the full potential of DNA technology to solve crimes and protect the innocent.  
   "The signing of this bill is a critical step toward getting rid of the backlog of nearly 400,000 rape kits across the country. It will help provide justice for victims of crime as well as those who are wrongfully accused and convicted of crimes," Hatch said. "This bipartisan, bicameral legislation is one of the most significant bills to come out of the 108th Congress and be signed by the President." 
   "This is a groundbreaking crime bill that will allow us to unleash the evidentiary power of DNA. It will boost the ability of law enforcement to find and punish the guilty," Hatch continued. "Thanks to President Bush's DNA Initiative, we are able to provide $755 million in grants for DNA analysis throughout the nation's crime labs. The President has often indicated his commitment to unlocking the power of DNA to solve these crimes, and with this signing, the President has followed through with his pledge." 
   The bill combines President Bush's DNA Initiative, Senator Patrick Leahy's (D-Vt.) Innocence Protection Act and Senator Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) and Dianne Fienstein's (D-Calif.) Victims Rights legislation. The bill includes provisions that authorize $500 million to be used to improve the capacity of federal, state and local crime labs to conduct DNA analyses. It will train criminal justice personnel in the use of DNA evidence, create a federal post-conviction DNA testing process to protect the innocent from wrongful prosecutions, and help states improve the quality of legal representation in capital cases and increase compensation for wrongful conviction in federal cases.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 