SEN. HATCH CONTINUES EFFORTS TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM CRIME
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today praised the Senate's passage of S. 2882, a bill to extend the pilot program for national criminal history background checks for volunteers who work with children, and S. 2883, the Prevention of Child Abduction Partnership Act.  
   "I am proud to have worked with my colleagues in a bipartisan fashion to pass these important bills that protect children," stated Senator Hatch. 
   "I am committed to protecting our Nation's children from vicious criminals who prey on the smallest and most vulnerable in our society," continued Hatch. 
   Senator Hatch's statement to the United States Senate upon passage follows: 
   "I commend my colleagues for passing by unanimous consent two bills which I sponsored-a bill to extend the pilot program for national criminal history background checks for volunteers who work with children, and the Prevention of Child Abduction Partnership Act. 
   "The first bill extends the pilot program created by the PROTECT Act. The pilot program allows the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), in cooperation with the FBI, to provide a background check process for volunteers working for organizations, such as the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, National Mentoring Partnership, and the National Council of Youth Sports. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children provides its expertise to assist volunteer organizations in evaluating the criminal records of volunteers to determine if the volunteers are fit to interact and provide care for children. 
   "So far, the NCMEC has processed over 2500 checks. Through these checks the Center has been able to prevent criminals, including child molesters, from applying and securing volunteer positions with youth organizations. Of those applicants whose files showed an offense, over 50 percent of the applicants lied and indicated they did not have a criminal record. Some of the startling examples of people who were found unfit to work with children included: (1)one a convicted manslaughter, (2) one found guilty on charges of Aggravated Criminal Sexual Assault as well as domestic battery, (3) convicted of 3 charges of endangering the welfare of a child, (4) one was convicted of lewdness and was charged for kidnapping, (5) one charged with sexual contact with a child under the age of 16, (6) one charged with 31 counts, including multiple rapes and assaults, indecent liberties, eluding, and prostitution, (7) one charged with aggravated battery of a pregnant woman, and (8) one charged with oral copulation by force, rape by force, and oral copulation by force, in one case, with the victim under 14 and in another the victim was 10 years or younger. My bill would allow this invaluable program to continue to prevent criminals such as these working with children. 
   "The Prevention of Child Abduction Partnership Act grants private entities, including the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, immunity from tort liability when they are assisting the United States State Department in carrying out its functions."
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 