SENS. HATCH, DODD CORD BLOOD STEM CELL BILL SIGNED INTO LAW
  A bill coauthored by Sens. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Chris Dodd (D-CT) that advances the potential for life saving treatments using bone marrow and cord blood was signed into law today by President Bush. The Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act will help patients suffering from disease such as leukemia, Hodgkin's Disease, sickle cell anemia, and some immunodeficiencies. Bone marrow and cord blood can both be used to treat patients in need of a blood stem cell transplant, and this law will significantly increase a patient's chance of finding a suitable genetic match when faced with a grave disease.  
   "Cord blood therapies have already been successful in treating those with serious, life-threatening illnesses," Hatch said. "Because Congress and the President acted so quickly, more patients will now have access to these life-saving treatments." 
   "Those brave individuals suffering from the painful effects of debilitating diseases need their physicians to be armed with every possible therapeutic weapon in their medical arsenal," said Dodd. "Researchers have found the use of bone marrow and cord blood stem cells to be a powerful tool to battle disease, fight pain, ease suffering and save so many precious lives. We must do all that we can to further resources for and raise awareness of this important science." 
   The measure will increase access to the use of bone marrow and cord blood treatments in three ways. First, it creates a single national Cell Transplantation Program that will connect patients to donors. The effort will recruit bone marrow donors, collect umbilical cord blood units, and maintain a registry of those donors and units. When a patient needs a transplant, their physician will be able to search this registry to find a match, and work with the Cell Transplantation Program to ensure that the match - whether it's a marrow donor or a cord blood unit - reaches the patient for a transplant. By putting both bone marrow and cord blood under the auspices of a single entity, the law reflects the complementary nature of bone marrow and cord blood, and will ensure that physicians and patients can more easily find the best possible match for transplantation. 
   Second, this law represents a significant national commitment to expanding the availability and use of cord blood. The use of cord blood as an alternative to bone marrow is relatively new, but has already shown incredible promise. It has been used successfully in treating a number of diseases, including sickle cell anemia and certain childhood cancers. However, the use of cord blood is still in an early stage relative to the use of bone marrow, and may have even broader applications in the future. This initiative will provide grants to cord blood banks to help them collect and store a large number of high quality cord blood units and sets a target of 150,000 units over the next five years. This number is consistent with a recommendation made by the Institute of Medicine (IOM), and would be enough units to provide a suitable genetic match for approximately 90 percent of the U.S. population. 
   Lastly, this law provides a significant commitment of resources. It authorizes $60 million over four years for the expansion of the cord blood inventory, and $186 million over five years for the creation and operation of the Cell Transplantation Program.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 