SEN. HATCH: FOURTH PFS MEMBER PULLS OUT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) received a letter from Entergy today announcing it will withdraw its financial support for the plan to store spent nuclear fuel rods at Skull Valley, Utah. Entergy joins Xcel Energy, Southern Company and Florida Power and Light, who have also withdrawn their support in the last few weeks. The four companies hold 67.8 percent of PFS stock.  
   "When a large majority of PFS shareholders are willing to admit that PFS isn't likely to happen, then we know our work has been paying off," Hatch said. "I have no doubt that the actions taken by the Bush Administration, combined with our success in securing Congressman Bishop's wilderness language, have put Utah over the hump in our fight against the Skull Valley plan." 
   Entergy's withdrawal is part of a lengthy effort Hatch has engaged with the nuclear industry to drive home that private fuel storage -- especially at such a potentially dangerous location at Skull Valley -- is not in the nation's public interest. 
   "I want to thank Entergy for doing the right thing today," Hatch said. "The Federal government committed to take possession of the nuclear industry's spent fuel rods by January 1998, and the nuclear industry has paid the government $24 billion to do so. Here we are eight years past the deadline, and the government has not lived up to its commitment. It's no wonder the nuclear industry is seeking other solutions. That is why I am working with the industry and the Bush Administration find a good, safe solutions to our nation's storage problem." 
   Hatch also noted today that Congress is about to pass Rep. Rob Bishop's (R-Utah) Cedar Mountain Wilderness language, which he believes would effectively block the rail spur sought by PFS to ship waste to Skull Valley by rail. As part of its license request, PFS is also seeking a right of way from the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) for an intermodal transfer facility, which would allow the consortium to transfer spent fuel casks from rail cars to trucks, thereby leaving open the possibility that PFS could use the existing road. 
   "Re-opening the comment period on this right of way puts the decision back into the hands of Utahns," Hatch said. "We've basically killed the rail spur with a wilderness designation, but now Utahns need to use the comment period to kill the right of way for the transfer station. Without a transfer station, I do not see how PFS could use the existing road to Skull Valley and that would help bring an end to this plan once and for all." 
   * For EntergytoHatch_12202005, see http://hatch.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=DataPipes.ViewPDF&Id=1501
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 