SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON NOMINATION OF MYERS FOR U.S. COURT OF APPEALS FOR NINTH CIRCUIT
  Statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate
   Mr. President, I think it's important to get on record exactly what's happened here with Bill Myers' nomination. We originally asked for 5 or 6 hours of debate; Democrats objected. We settled on 4 hours of debate, equally divided, during yesterday's session, and not a single Democrat came to the Senate Floor to debate. It is puzzling to me why those who oppose him so vehemently did not come to the floor, stand up and defend their objections. It seems to me that if Senators can't defend their objections to a nominee, they certainly shouldn't object to an up or down vote. I appreciate that today we have at least heard some of their arguments, though I think they are not reflective of this qualified nominee nor his outstanding record.  
   So I want to return to what this debate is about, or at least what it should be about. While this nomination has been hijacked by another unparalleled filibuster - the seventh nominee to be subjected to this unprecedented form of obstruction - it should have been about the qualifications of Bill Myers to be a Ninth Circuit judge. And in that respect, let me remind my colleagues, that Bill Myers' nomination to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals is supported by a wide, bipartisan range of individuals and organizations, particularly those who value expertise in Western land use issues. 
   Let me provide just a few examples from several support letters received by the Judiciary Committee: 
   The Farm Bureau Federations of California, Oregon, Idaho and Montana, the Oregon Cattlemen's Association, the Oregon Forest Industries Council, the Oregon Wheat Growers League, the Oregon Women for Agriculture, and eight additional county farm and stock grower bureaus in Oregon, among others, wrote on February 18, 2004: 
   "Mr. Myers' background and legal career provide enormous experience that could only serve to benefit the citizens of the [Western United States]. His professional history shows clear leadership skills in resolving many complex issues. It is clear that Mr. Myers has an ability to analyze problems and make rational decisions that conserve our national heritage while at the same time move us forward in a responsible manner. Time and again he has shown a capacity to set aside the rhetoric and to objectively evaluate the respective interests of the parties involved.... Our organization and membership has found, whether through first hand experience or simply as interested observers, that Mr. Myers conducts himself with integrity, competence, professionalism and an unprecedented respect for the law." 
   The Tulalip Tribes of Washington State wrote on March 9, 2004: "The Tulalip Tribes [write] to support the nomination of [Bill Myers]. ... We find that he has a balanced record [of defending] the interest of Native Americans. The [Ninth Circuit] is in need of an appointment by an individual experienced and knowledgeable in Federal Indian Law." 
   And the Attorney Generals of South Dakota, North Dakota, Delaware, Hawaii, Nevada, Alaska, Colorado, Idaho, Ohio, Oklahoma, Wyoming, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Utah, and Guam wrote on January 30, 2004: 
   "As Attorneys General, we observed that Mr. Myers, while dutifully representing his client, the federal government, always maintained an objectivity and practical understanding of the conflicting demands relating to those interests. In our view, his thorough understanding of relevant legal precedents, decisions and key policy interests and his outstanding legal reasoning as Solicitor demonstrate his keen intellect, sound judgment and the skills suitable to the bench. ... [W]e appear before the Circuit Courts of Appeal with considerable frequency. Clearly, we value judges who display a temperament that is even-handed, respectful and thoughtful-the temperament displayed by Mr. Myers. Mr. Myers would bring to the Ninth Circuit strong intellectual skills, combined with a strong sense of civility, decency and respect for all." 
   Now, while such endorsements from these types of people-farming and ranching organizations, Indian tribes who do not have ideological axes to grind with the Department of the Interior, and 15 state Attorneys General-may not matter much to Senate Democrats, they do to me, and to most Westerners. They matter to Senators Craig and Crapo, whose state will effectively lose its representation on the Ninth Circuit by means of a stealth filibuster. This is grossly irresponsible and unworthy of the U.S. Senate. They matter to a majority of Senators who stand ready to vote and confirm Bill Myers to a Ninth Circuit that so badly needs qualified, non-activist judges who respect the law and the Constitution. 
   Now, Mr. President, let me just talk about the process here of confirming judges. We have confirmed 198 judges so far, which I might add, is fewer than President Clinton's first term. Yet some of my colleagues think that the Constitutional duty to advise and consent has a time clock attached to it and that the time has run out for the Senate to do its duty. I reject this analysis, either that the previous agreement to allow the vote on the twenty-five judges was the sum total of our work in the Senate; or the notion that judicial nominations cannot be confirmed after some mythical deadline is announced. 
   There are plenty of examples of confirmations of judges in Presidential election years during the fall, some which occurred after the election was held. Stephen Breyer, confirmed to the First Circuit Court of Appeals, is just one example. Under the Senate Democrats theory, the remaining 25 judges pending before the Senate should be dismissed out of hand. This is not logical, nor is it the proper approach to take under the Constitution. 
   So it appears that the Democrats' newest tool of obstruction takes the form of a stealth filibuster. Sure, we object, my colleagues say, but we're not going to bother to explain to the American people why. To the Senator whose states are in the Ninth Circuit - Senators Craig and Crapo, Senator Smith, Senator Ensign, Senators Stevens and Murkowski, Senators Kyl and McCain, Senator Burns - guess what? You are told by Senate Democrats that they are not going to allow you to vote on this nominee, that you need for the Ninth Circuit, and that the position papers of the extreme environmental groups that have distorted the record of and attacked Bill Myers for over a year should adequately explain their opposition and basis for refusing a vote. 
   Yesterday, I said that Senators should ask themselves, is this vote on Bill Myers really about Bill Myers? Well, it's clear that this cloture vote, this denial of an up or down vote, is NOT about Bill Myers. It is, in fact, nothing more than a reflection of special interest group disdain for policies favored by farmers, ranchers, miners, the Bush Interior Department, or anyone else who advocates balanced uses of Western lands. It is, as Senator Sessions put it so well yesterday afternoon, a demonstration of the conceit of the elite, that Senate Democrats refuse to allow an up or down vote. 
   Bill Myers has been nominated to the Ninth Circuit, but I want to emphasize that the impact of this vote-or the Democrat minority's obstruction of an up or down vote-will be felt not only in the states within the Ninth Circuit, but throughout the West, as Senator Enzi so eloquently emphasized yesterday afternoon. 
   And it is, quite simply, a slap in the face to those farmers, ranchers, miners, and others who make their livings off of the public and private lands of our Western states to say that because a nominee has represented their interests, he does not even deserve a fair vote in the United States Senate. And, almost silently now, he is filibustered because he is too extreme to sit on a Ninth Circuit with a demonstrated record of leftist judicial activism. 
   Such a position is untenable, objectively, and I predict it will play even more poorly in the West. Let me read a recent Letter to the Editor, which was sent by a representative of South Dakota farmers and ranchers to that state's largest newspapers: 
   Rapid City Journal and Argus Leader (South Dakota) 
   July 9, 2004 
   Support nomination 
   Agriculture producers in South Dakota and throughout our great country need elected representatives who understand our needs and respond to them. An important issue is currently before the U.S. Senate and Sen[ator] Daschle, the nomination of Bill Myers to serve on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. We urge Sen[ator] Daschle to support the interests of South Dakota agriculture producers by allowing an up or down vote on the merits of the nomination on the floor of the Senate. 
   The Ninth Circuit issues many important decisions on resource use and environmental matters. Much of the opposition to Mr. Myers has been by environmentalists who have not liked his representation of people who make their living from the land in the West, including ranching interests in particular. 
   South Dakota producers would be well-served by having someone with direct knowledge of their concerns sitting on the Ninth Circuit, helping to set environmental legal policy for the entire country. 
   We hope Sen[ator] Daschle will hear our call and allow the Myers nomination to come to a full vote in the Senate. We are constantly reminded how powerful the minority leader position is. Bill Myers deserves a vote by the full Senate. 
   CHANCE DAVIS 
  President 
  South Dakota Public Lands Council 
  Belle Fourche, South Dakota 
   Indeed, I do hope that Senate Democrats hear this call. I hope they listened to Senators Craig, Sessions and Enzi yesterday, when they were too busy to even engage in a reasoned debate about why they insist on obstructing a qualified nominee. 
   In closing, the Senate should show the Constitution some respect by voting up or down on Bill Myers' nomination. I urge my colleagues to reject the filibuster of judicial nominations now and in the future, reject the smears of the extremist special interest groups who have poisoned this process. I urge my colleagues to support the cloture motion and allow the Senate to do its duty and vote up or down on the nomination.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 