JUDICIARY COMMITTEE REPORTS CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT TO PROTECT AMERICAN FLAG
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement regarding the committee's action to approve S.J. Res. 4, the Hatch/Feinstein constitutional amendment to allow Congress to prohibit physical desecration of the American flag, to the full Senate for consideration.  
   "The Flag Amendment is very important to our country - and to me personally. That's because the flag represents, in a way that nothing else can, the common beliefs about our system of government that are shared by an otherwise diverse people. 
   "I think everyone understands why Americans have been displaying the flag so prominently since September 11, 2001. It is a symbol of solidarity and bravery and honor that provides comfort and resolve during the current war on terror. This phenomenon is not new; it has merely been revitalized. 
   "Whatever our differences of party, race, religion, or socio-economic status, the flag reminds us that we are very much one people, united in a shared destiny, bonded in a common faith in our nation and the profound belief in personal liberty that our nation protects. Because our flag transcends our fellow citizens' differences and our diversity as a nation, it symbolizes the love of freedom and love of country felt by the American people. 
   "This is an especially appropriate moment in history for us to reflect upon the meaning of the flag. Our nation has just celebrated the Fourth of July, the 60th anniversary of D-Day, and the life of President Ronald Reagan. All three of those events have focused the nation's attention on America's proud history, our current place in the world, and the labor and sacrifice it takes to be the beacon of hope and freedom. 
   "Since the day it was adopted, the flag has been more than a symbol. It is neither a mere piece of cloth nor just a corporate logo. It is an act of war to remove the flag from a US Navy vessel. It is a violation of American sovereignty to pull a flag off our embassy. A nation that is powerless to protect its flag from harm and disgrace is a nation that lacks authority and respect. 
   "Most importantly, it is time to let our fellow citizens speak on this issue. Polls have shown that as many as 80 percent of the American people want the opportunity to vote to protect their flag. All 50 state legislatures have passed resolutions asking Congress to pass the Amendment and send it to the states for consideration and ratification. The House of Representatives has passed it several times, including in this Congress. Only the Senate stands as a bar to the process of state debate and ratification. We should not deprive the American public the right to express their view on this subject any longer. 
   When the Senate passes the flag amendment, the nationwide debate over state ratification will be one of the greatest public discussions in American history. It will encourage a deeper study of our nation's history and values. It will inspire our young people to understand and appreciate the heroic selflessness displayed during this and previous generations. And it will cause many Americans to renew their faith in - and commitment to - the ideals and values of America that are greater than anyone's personal self interest.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 