MILLIONS ADDED TO RADIATION EXPOSURE COMPENSATION ACT TRUST FUND
  Today the United States Senate approved an omnibus appropriations bill containing an additional $27.8 million in funding for radiation exposure victims. Pushed by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), the funding will help offset a projected shortfall in funds to compensate victims under the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA).  
   "We've been fighting for this funding all year," said Hatch, the principal author of RECA. "No RECA claimant should receive an IOU because the program ran out of funds. I'll continue pressing for the government to give radiation exposure victims in Utah and across the West the compensation they deserve." 
   The Department of Justice (DOJ), which oversees the RECA program, testified before Hatch's Judiciary Committee in August regarding the long-term financial solvency of the program. During that hearing, both DOJ officials and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) told Congress the RECA trust fund will run out of money and claimants will be issued IOUs unless additional funding is found. This additional funding will now ensure RECA is financially solvent through 2007. 
   The increased funding also follows another provision already signed into law that was moved by both Senator Hatch and the House Judiciary Committee Chairman, Jim Sensenbrenner. This provision allowed uranium miner, miller and transporter RECA claims to be paid by the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA). By moving these RECA workers to the EEOICPA program, more RECA trust fund dollars are now available for other RECA claimants, such as downwinders, thus lowering the likely that they will be issued IOUs. In addition, this provision ensured that all RECA workers who processed and developed our atomic weapons program would all be treated the same by the federal government. 
   Utah has the second-largest number of RECA claimants in the U.S.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 