ECO-TERRORISTS GETTING NASTIER, SO SEN. HATCH WANTS LAW TO GET TOUGHER
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) yesterday urged the House leadership to pass legislation protecting citizens from violent threats and intimidation by eco-terrorists. Sen. Hatch is a leading cosponsor of the bipartisan Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act (S. 3880), which passed the Senate by unanimous consent on Sept. 30. Recent harassment of Huntsman Corp. employees in Utah prompted Hatch to send a letter to his House colleagues, pushing for them to make passing the bill a priority.  
   "It is no stretch to label these extremists as terrorists," Hatch said. "Following a sick doctrine that devalues human life, these fanatics target and attack peaceful organizations and individuals - sometimes with violence. They do not legitimately advance their cause and promise no breakthroughs to society. If that's not terrorism, I don't know what is." 
   An alarming trend among animal activists is a shift from peaceful protest to extreme intimidation, including threats against children. The aim of S. 3880 is to put an end to this escalating harassment. Under this act, even conspiracies and attempts to harass would be criminalized. The act also increases monetary and criminal penalties for these crimes. 
   "Peaceful protest is a sacred American right, but some of these fanatics go well beyond what any reasonable-thinking individual would consider peaceful," Hatch said. "Some eco-terrorists' tactics include vandalizing and pipe bombing research facilities, credit card fraud, harassing employees of businesses and research companies, terrorizing their children, and posting death threats against employees - along with their names, addresses, and phone numbers - on the Internet." 
   Hatch sent the letter - enclosed below - yesterday to Rep. John Boehner, House Majority Leader; Rep. Dennis Hastert, Speaker of the House; and Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Congress will be back in session starting Nov. 13, at which time Hatch hopes to see them pass the bill.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854, Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 