HELP COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. HATCH COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS BILL
  The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) today unanimously approved Sen. Orrin G. Hatch's (R-Utah) Health Centers Renewal Act of 2006. The bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the federal health centers program, which grants access to affordable health care via community health centers to low-income and underserved patients. Hatch's bill has 49 cosponsors - Republicans and Democrats.  
   "With the HELP committee's approval and the overwhelming support from so many of my colleagues - fully half the Senate - I am confident that this bill will pass," Hatch said. "I have long said that community health centers are the safety net for more than 15 million underserved Americans, and I am gratified that so many of my colleagues agree." 
   Established 40 years ago, the program placed community health centers in medically underserved areas to provide care to those who have limited or no access to health insurance. Hatch's bill - S. 3771 - would reauthorize the program for another two years. The bill also increases the FY 2008 funding by 6 percent over the President's current budget request for community health centers. 
   "These centers are worth every cent that the federal government invests in them," Hatch said. "They save lives. They provide preventive health care that keeps people out of hospitals. By reauthorizing this program, we will allow health centers to provide low-cost health care to many more uninsured and underinsured individuals." 
   In 2005, Utah's 24 community health centers served more than 85,000 patients and provided almost 305,000 patient visits. Of the Utah patients, 96 percent lived below 200 percent of the Federal Poverty Level. Congress has increased funding accordingly since 2001 to provide service to 4 million additional patients and has added new or expanded facilities in more than 750 communities nationwide. 
   "We are so appreciative of Senator Hatch's leadership in obtaining reauthorization of the Health Center program," said Bette Vierra, executive director of the Association for Utah Community Health. "Care received at health centers ranks among the most cost-effective and reauthorization assures continued access to quality, affordable health care to more than 85,000 Utahns." 
   With the HELP Committee's approval, S. 3771 is now ready to be considered by the full Senate. Hatch is optimistic that Senate leadership will bring the bill before the Senate before it adjourns this Congress.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 