SEN. HATCH INTRODUCES HUMAN CLONING BAN, STEM CELL RESEARCH ACT
 Sen. Orrin G. Hatch today introduced the Human Cloning Ban and Stem Cell Research Protection Act of 2005, with a bipartisan group of cosponsors including Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Arlen Specter (R-Penn.), Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Tom Harkin (D-Iowa).  
   Hatch's statement follows: 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch 
   "The Human Cloning Ban and Stem Cell Research Protection Act of 2005"
   I'm very pleased to be here today with this distinguished, bipartisan group of Senators. I want to thank Senators Feinstein, Specter, Kennedy and Harkin for their support of this important legislation. 
   We're here today to announce the reintroduction of a bill, The Human Cloning Ban and Stem Cell Research Protection Act of 2005, that, simply put, could help usher in the next great era of medical treatment. At the same time, it will criminalize the offensive practice of reproductive cloning. 
   If you think back and remember when Jonas Salk discovered the polio vaccine - and I realize I'm probably one of the few here old enough to remember that - but remember what a revolutionary step that was, to be able to stop ravaging diseases before they hit their victims. It led to a whole new way of practicing medicine and paved the way for the vaccines and treatments that we take for granted today. 
   I believe we are on the verge of a similar step, a new generation in medical research and treatment, thanks to the incredible potential of stem cells. Stem cell research - particularly, embryonic stem cell research - holds great promise. To quote Nobel Laureate Dr. Harold Varmus, "The development of cell lines that may produce almost every tissue of the human body is an unprecedented scientific breakthrough. It is not too unrealistic to say that this research has the potential to revolutionize the practice of medicine and improve the quality and length of life." 
   As Dr. Varmus noted, embryonic stem cells appear to have the amazing potential to transform themselves into any of the more than 200 types of cells that form the human body. These cells could be the key to understanding much about human health and disease and may yield new diagnostic tests, treatments, and cures for diseases such as diabetes, cancer, heart disease, Parkinson's, autoimmune diseases, and many, many others. 
   Stem cell research could potentially be the scientific advance that takes the practice of medicine not just to the next level, but to five or ten levels above and beyond. I won't go into all the details of the science or the bill today, but we have a fact sheet available that explains just what this bill will promote, and ensure that America remains the world leader in. 
   Senator Feinstein will go into some detail about the urgent need for uniformity in the rules governing stem cell research in America. But let me just stress one aspect of that need: ethics. Without the National Institutes of Health setting the ethical guidelines for stem cell research, we invite a host of problems. Most of us feel strongly that human reproductive cloning is wrong, for example. But where should the lines be drawn with regard to embryonic stem cell research - particularly, somatic cell nuclear transfer and the use of cell lines derived from IVF embryos? 
   The NIH is the obvious and crucial choice to help set the ethical boundaries. Our bill will ban outright any attempt at bringing to life a cloned human being. It will also prohibit research on any embryo created through somatic cell nuclear transfer beyond 14 days, require informed consent of donors, prohibit profiteering from donated eggs, and mandate separation of the egg collection site from the research laboratory. 
   The NIH will help determine other suitable ethical guidelines in allowing this critical research to go forward with federal funding and at federally-funded institutions. There is no question in my mind that, when they do, the rest of the world will follow. 
   Now, the last time we introduced this bill, there was interest in the fact that I, as a strongly pro-life senator, would be the lead sponsor. I think we have put that issue behind us, as more pro-life lawmakers have expressed their support for this research. The fact is, I have never believed that life begins in a Petri dish. And as I travel across my home state of Utah, more and more Utahns, whether they are pro-life or not, come up to me and say, "Orrin, we're with you on this. You're doing the right thing." 
   That support is building across the country, and we must act. If we do not seize this opportunity, other countries could take the leading role in medicine's next great advance. We will lose the chance to set ethical guidelines, we will lose doctors to overseas research institutions, and most importantly, we will lose the chance to offer new hope to American and other patients who are waiting in desperation for treatments and cures. 
   I appreciate the tremendous support for this bill among my colleagues in the Senate, and I look forward to the work ahead. Thank you.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370. 
 
 