SEN. HATCH, FINANCE COMMITTEE TO PHRMA: KEEP DRUG ASSISTANCE FOR MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES
  Leading senators are urging pharmaceutical drug makers to continue offering prescription drugs to Medicare beneficiaries through programs designed to help individuals with high prescription drug costs.  
   Sens. Chuck Grassley, Max Baucus, Orrin Hatch, and John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV also have pressed for the Inspector General for the Department of Health and Human Services to issue clear guidance addressing the legal concerns of pharmaceutical manufacturers about offering drug assistance programs after May 15, when the first sign-up period ends for Medicare's new prescription drug benefit. 
   We've got a situation where it looks like the May 15 date has become an excuse for dropping the assistance that many Medicare beneficiaries rely on, and that's not right," Grassley said. The Inspector General issued more guidance earlier this week, and some companies have announced that they'll continue their programs, so legal avenues do exist." 
   "Pharmacy assistance programs provide invaluable assistance to people working hard to get by," said Baucus. "The Medicare prescription drug benefit does not prevent drug companies from continuing to provide this help to those in need, and the Inspector General has made that clear. I hope that drug companies resolve their concerns and continue to provide this much needed help." 
   "Drug companies now have the green light to complement the new Medicare program with their assistance programs, and I encourage them to continue giving generously to help our seniors," Hatch said. 
   "Now that the Inspector General has provided some concrete guidance, it's time for pharmaceutical companies to fulfill their obligation," said Rockefeller. "Simply put, these companies should not halt this vital assistance to Americans who cannot afford the prohibitively expensive prescription drugs they need in order to survive. The lives of many Americans depend on these companies being good citizens." 
   The text of the Senators' letter to PhRMA, the association representing the nation's leading pharmaceutical research and biotechnology companies, follows here in PDF format, along with statements made earlier this week about an advisory from the Inspector General, and the text of a letter sent on Monday from Grassley, Baucus, Hatch and Rockefeller to the Inspector General. 
   * For 04212006FinalPhRMALetter, see http://hatch.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=DataPipes.ViewPDF&Id=1557
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854, Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 