SEN. HATCH: BUDGET BILL NEEDED TO CURB SPENDING
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today joined his colleagues in the United States Senate to approve legislation to reduce Federal spending by $39 billion over the next five years. The conference report to S. 1932, the Deficit Reduction Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 2005, passed the Senate by a 51 to 50 vote. Because the Senate made technical amendments to the measure, the conference report must be approved again by the House of Representatives before it goes to the President for signing.  
   "This was a close call in the Senate, and a close call for me and many of my colleagues," Hatch said. "The bill the Senate passed in November, I believe, struck the right balance. This compromise was important because we're working to curb the unsustainable growth in entitlement spending, but the conferees had to make some hard choices to get there. Understandably, people will focus on the impact of changes in some social programs, but there are several provisions in this bill that will help seniors, low-income families, and children." 
   Before deciding to cast his vote in favor of the compromise, last night Hatch spoke with Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt to express his concerns about how the reconciliation bill might affect social services in Utah. 
   "Secretary Leavitt assured me that he believes the budget bill will not hurt our more vulnerable citizens," Hatch said. "He is going to maintain a watchful eye over implementation of this law to make sure that all Utahns' interests are protected." 
   The reconciliation bill restrains the growth of Medicare spending by $6.4 billion over five years. The bill stops a scheduled 4.4 percent cut for Utah's doctors in 2006, and it modifies a rule issued by the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services that penalizes rehabilitation services providers. 
   The compromise bill allows international missionaries, including those sponsored by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who are eligible for Medicare to be relieved of paying their Part B premiums while serving overseas, with no penalty upon their return to the United States. He also helped to expand the availability of the Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) program, which is of interest to those providing long-term, acute care for frail elderly in rural areas, including Grand County in Utah. 
   "The Medicare provisions are more in line with the Senate version, and overall it targets Medicare's resources to better serve our seniors and disabled," Hatch said. "We're making sure that beneficiaries don't lose their doctors because of budget cuts, and we have expanded services while making significant budget savings in non-critical areas." 
   To reduce the growth of spending in Medicaid, early this year President George W. Bush recommended cutting Medicaid's budget by $60 billion over ten years. The conference report contains net savings of $4.8 billion over five years, with much of the savings resulting from prescription drug payment reforms. The bill includes a provision co-sponsored by Hatch, the Family Opportunity Act, which would allow working parents of severely disabled children to buy into Medicaid so they do not lose coverage if they have income and resources above the poverty level. 
   "Medicaid has been a tremendously successful program, but also a very costly one," Hatch said. "We have a responsibility to address the dramatic growth in spending, but I was not happy that some of the key provisions have not been considered thoroughly by the Senate. Given expressions of concern voiced to me by my constituents, it was with the greatest reluctance that I gave my support to the overall measure. I would have preferred the Senate language, which did not change the law with respect to beneficiary eligibility. That is why I will be working closely with Secretary Leavitt and other cabinet-level officials to ensure Utah is treated fairly as this law is implemented. But in the end, deficit reduction had to win out as it threatens every one of our children and grandchildren with an unbearable tax burden." 
   Hatch also helped to secure an additional $1 billion over five years for the child-care development block grant. 
   "This marks the first time in two years that this program has received new funding," Hatch said. "I would have preferred much more funding, but this additional money will help to stabilize a program whose reauthorization has been stalled for years in Congress." 
   As a member of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee (HELP), Hatch helped create a new program in the reconciliation bill called SMART grants, which will provide assistance to students studying math, science, technology, engineering, or a foreign language. The bill also permanently extends the Taxpayer-Teacher Protection Act and makes additional loan deferments for members of the Armed Services or the Reserves.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 