SEN. HATCH ANNOUNCES NEW CHIEF OF STAFF, LEGISLATIVE DIRECTOR
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) announced that he has promoted Jace Johnson to be chief of staff. Johnson has spent the last two years serving as Hatch's legislative director. Johnson will oversee all of Hatch's operations as he serves Utah and the nation in Congress.  
   "When the time came to name a new chief of staff, I knew Jace was the right person to lead my capable Utah and D.C. staff," Hatch said. "Jace is an accomplished leader with a wealth of experience inside and outside the Beltway. Utah and the nation will benefit from his sensible, business-like approach to getting things done." 
   A Brigham Young University graduate, Johnson first worked for Hatch in 1994 before earning his MBA from George Washington University. Before rejoining Hatch's office more than five years ago, Johnson was instrumental in building Corvis Corporation, a fiber-optic telecommunications company, from a small business to a large international corporation. Prior to working at Corvis Corporation, he served as a Manager of Finance for VISA InterActive, a wholly-owned subsidiary of VISA International. 
   While serving as Hatch's legislative director, Johnson was on the front lines of fighting such important Utah battles as getting the Legacy Highway built and preventing the dumping of high-level nuclear waste at Skull Valley. Johnson has also worked extensively on securing record amounts of transportation funding for the state's airports, roads, and transit rails. 
   "He has extensive experience growing businesses and working with management and employees to build effective organizations," Hatch said. "He shares my vision for Utah, and he has the respect and trust of those who know him in Utah and back in Washington." 
   Hatch is also promoting his deputy legislative director, Chris Campbell, to fill the position left open by Johnson's promotion. Campbell will help implement the Senator's legislative agenda in D.C. 
   "Chris has contributed to my efforts to serve Utah for years," Hatch said. "Chris is exceptionally adept at helping business and local leaders overcome the often challenging task of interfacing with the federal government. 
   Campbell is a graduate from the University of California at Santa Barbara. Prior to earning an MBA degree from Thunderbird, The Garvin School of International Management, Campbell served on Hatch's Judiciary Committee staff for three years. Campbell has worked as a consultant to businesses and Republican political campaigns, including Hatch's 2000 Presidential and Utah Senatorial campaigns. His mother and father are from Provo and Hurricane, respectively. 
   "Chris is successful and hard-working," Hatch said. "Both in Washington and on the ground in Utah, he has spent much of this year involved in the Crandall Canyon mine tragedy response. He will become an even more valuable asset to Utah and the Senate with this promotion."
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 801/524-4380.
 
 