SEN. HATCH: HYDROGEN VITAL TO ENERGY SECURITY
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today joined Senate leaders to promote hydrogen fuel cell technology incentives in the Senate energy bill, provisions that would move hydrogen-powered cars from the laboratory to the showroom.  
   "We are 97 percent dependent on oil in the nation's transportation sector," Hatch said. "I don't like our nation being so dependent on a single energy source. If just 20 percent of cars used hydrogen technology, we could cut oil imports by 1.5 million barrels a day. We need to take steps now to bring greater energy security in our future. Failure to do so is neglecting our responsibility to our country and its economy." 
   Just last week, the Senate Finance Committee included Hatch's CLEAR ACT in the energy tax bill that is part of the Senate's comprehensive energy legislation. The CLEAR ACT uses tax credits to promote consumer acceptance of alternative fuel and advanced technology vehicles, including those powered by hydrogen fuel cells. CLEAR ACT credits would also be offered for the installation of alternative fuel infrastructure and for the retail sale of alternative fuels. 
   "There's no doubt about it - incentives work," Hatch said. "Some areas, for example, allow owners of hybrid vehicles to ride in the high-occupancy-vehicle lanes, and sales of hybrid cars in those areas have skyrocketed. I intentionally drafted the CLEAR ACT to provide the technologies and infrastructure improvements necessary to bring us closer to a commercially available hydrogen cell vehicle." 
   The Senate is on its second week of deliberation of the energy bill, which authorizes $3.7 billion over five years for hydrogen and fuel-cell research, as well as infrastructure to support hydrogen-powered cars. Provisions in the energy bill, particularly the CLEAR ACT, will help overcome the critical technology barriers in production, transportation, storage, and use of hydrogen. 
   The energy bill also includes several other Hatch provisions, including legislation that would increase the capacity of the nation's refineries, promote geothermal and other renewable fuels, and develop energy from vast oil shale and tar sands resources located principally in Utah, Colorado, and Wyoming.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370. 
 
 