SEN. HATCH: PROTECT KIDS FROM ONLINE SEXUAL PREDATORS
  As part of National Internet Safety Month, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today joined business and community leaders to highlight steps parents can take to protect their kids from sexual predators on the Internet.  
   "We need to get the message out about protecting children online," Hatch said. "The Internet is an incredible resource, but it has some very real risks. At least one-fifth of youth have received a sexual solicitation online - though very few of them tell their parents. I recommend that all adults educate themselves on ways to better protect their children and loved ones." 
   Today, the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC) and Qwest Communications announced they have developed online tools, www.incredibleinternet.com and www.NetSmartz.org, to help educate parents, guardians, and mentors about online child safety issues. In addition, NCMEC is launching a national campaign to address online sexual exploitation targeted to teen girls this month. 
   Hatch also highlighted his bill, S. 1086, the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act, that would make attempts to lure children via the Internet sex crimes and require the convicted offender to register with the state as a sex offender. His bill would also help states register and keep tabs on the more than 550,000 registered convicted sex offenders in the United States. The bill would place the responsibility on sex offenders to register with local authorities and require them to notify those authorities when they move or change jobs. Failure to comply could mean prison time. 
   "For too long, too many sex offenders have been treated like petty criminals," Hatch said. "As a result, too many children and too many lives have been lost. These online tools will help parents learn how to monitor their children's online activities and teach kids cyber-safety. And my bill will close some of the gaps in the law and ensure our children have the highest possible protection from sexual predators."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370. 
 
 