SEN. HATCH INTRODUCES SENSE OF CONGRESS ON FEDERAL SENTENCING GUIDELINES
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today introduced a concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress asking the United States Supreme Court to expeditiously consider whether the federal sentencing guidelines can be constitutionally applied in light of Blakely v. Washington. It passed the Senate by unanimous consent. Senator Hatch's introductory statement before the United States Senate follows:  
   "Mr. President, I rise to introduce today a resolution expressing the sense of Congress that the Supreme Court should expedite consideration of the applicability of Blakely v. United States to the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. 
   "As one of the original co-sponsors of the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, which created the United States Sentencing Commission, and a proponent of reducing sentencing disparity across the nation, I have a strong interest in preserving the integrity of the federal guidelines against constitutional attack. Congress enacted the Sentencing Reform Act to reduce unwarranted disparity in federal sentencing, including racial, geographical, and other unfair sentencing disparities by establishing standardized sentencing rules while leaving judges enough discretion to impose just sentences in appropriate cases. 
   "As many here may already know, criminal defendants are routinely sentenced by judges who decide sentencing facts based upon a preponderance of the evidence standard. This has all changed in recent weeks. On June 24, 2004, in Blakely v. Washington, the Supreme Court held that any fact that increases the maximum penalty under a state statutory sentencing guidelines scheme must be presented to a jury and proved beyond a reasonable doubt even though the defendant's sentence falls below the statutory maximum sentence. 
   "Although the Supreme Court explicitly stated in a footnote that "The Federal Guidelines are not before us, and we express no opinion on them," it also characterized the government's amicus brief as questioning whether differences between the state and federal sentencing schemes are constitutionally significant. The ambiguity apparent in Blakely and the strong suggestions by the dissent that it will apply to the federal sentencing guidelines, has understandably created angst throughout the federal criminal justice system. 
   "In just two and a half weeks after the Supreme Court's decision, we already had a split among the federal circuit courts of appeal. In addition, at least two dozen lower federal courts-and probably many more-have ruled the Federal Sentencing Guidelines unconstitutional. Some judges disregard the Federal sentencing guidelines in their entirety. Other judges apply mitigating sentencing factors but disregard any relevant aggravating factors. Still other judges are convening juries to decide some of these sentencing facts. 
   "In fact, as I learned when the Judiciary Committee held a hearing on this very issue just last week, in my home state of Utah, the district judges adopted four different approaches to sentencing defendants after Blakely. 
   "Let me briefly describe a couple of examples of the havoc caused by this Blakely decision. I'm sure we all recall Dwight Watson, the man who sat in a tractor last year outside the U.S. Capitol for 47 hours and threatened to blow up the area with organophosphate bombs. The day before the Blakely opinion, Mr. Watson was sentenced to a 6 year prison sentence. Less than a week after the Supreme Court's opinion, he was re-sentenced to 16 months, which was essentially time served. He is now a free man. 
   "A defendant in West Virginia had an offense level that was off the sentencing charts. Although he would have been subject to a life sentence under the guidelines, the statutory maximum penalty was 20 years. He was given a 20 year sentence three days before Blakely was decided. A week later, his sentence was drastically reduced to 12 months. The judge did not rely on any relevant conduct or any sentencing enhancements in calculating the defendant's sentence. In other words, he only applied a portion of the sentencing guidelines-those that he thought remained valid after Blakely. 
   "The concurrent resolution I introduce today urges the Supreme Court to act expeditiously to resolve whether the Federal sentencing guidelines can be constitutionally applied in light of Blakely v. Washington. While I wish we could have done more, unfortunately, we were unable to do so in such a short period of time. 
   "As we go forward, I believe we should adopt legislation that would render the Federal sentencing guidelines constitutional regardless of whether Blakely applies. Unfortunately, while I have worked diligently with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in both Houses, we simply just ran out of time. While I hope that the Supreme Court will find application of the Federal sentencing guidelines constitutional under the Sixth Amendment, I will continue to work with my colleagues over the next several months in preparation of a contingency plan to ensure that regardless of what the Supreme Court decides, that we will be able to preserve a system that promotes uniformity and reduces sentencing disparity across this country."
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 