SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF SAAD TO BE U.S. CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR SIXTH CIRCUIT
  Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate
   Nomination of Henry W. Saad to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit
   Mr. President, as we begin the debate on this nomination, I want to put it in the larger context of the judicial nomination process. On May 9, 2001, President Bush nominated eleven outstanding individuals to serve on the bench. I would note that this was months earlier than previous new presidents, giving the Senate plenty of time to begin considering his nominees.  
   In the three plus years - over 1100 days - since those nominations, the Senate has confirmed eight of those first eleven nominees. By comparison, the previous three presidents saw their first eleven appeals court nominees all confirmed in an average of just 81 days following their nomination. Not so for President Bush. While three of his first nominees were confirmed within six months, many others waited for 2 years or more before they were confirmed. But even this long wait was better than the fate of the three remaining nominees who have been subjected to filibusters. One of those, Miguel Estrada waited for more than 2 ? years and became the target of the first filibuster against a judicial nominee in American history. Though a bipartisan majority of Senators supported him, he withdrew after an unprecedented seven cloture votes. 
   Several weeks prior to those first nominations, shortly after President Bush's inauguration, the Democratic leader stated that the Senate minority would use "whatever means necessary" to block judicial nominees they did not like. We have seen the fulfillment of that statement as a variety of techniques have been employed to delay or obstruct the confirmation of nominees, including - bottling up nominees in Committee; injecting ideology into confirmation process; seeking all unpublished opinions; requesting nominees to produce government owned confidential memoranda; repeated rounds of written questions; and multiple filibusters. It is a sad commentary on the deterioration of the judicial confirmation process that we are now approaching double digit filibusters. 
   Now, Mr. President, let me reiterate a few points which I made yesterday concerning the process of confirming judges. Despite this range and frequency of obstructionist tactics which we have seen, some of them entirely new in American history, the Senate has confirmed 198 judges during the past three years. I would note, though, that this is behind the pace of President Clinton in his first term. And the minority has made even these confirmations as difficult as possible. 
   Yet some of my colleagues think that the Constitutional duty to advise and consent has a time clock attached to it and that the time has run out for the Senate to do its duty. I reject this analysis, either that the previous agreement to allow the vote on the twenty-five judges was the sum total of our work in the Senate; or the notion that judicial nominations cannot be confirmed after some mythical deadline is announced. 
   There are plenty of examples of confirmations of judges in Presidential election years during the fall, some which occurred after the election was held. Stephen Breyer, confirmed to the First Circuit Court of Appeals, is just one example. I helped facilitate that confirmation which took place after the November 1980 presidential election. That nomination was made by President Carter, who had just been defeated by President Reagan, and yet we acted on it. I would note that Senator Thurmond was the ranking member at that time, yet his name continues to be invoked as the authority of a binding precedent. I reject the notion of this purported rule and would hope that the service of the longest serving and oldest member to have served in this body would not be used in the manner I have heard repeated over and over in the Committee and on the Senate floor. 
   Under the Senate Democrats theory, the Senate has apparently confirmed enough judges. The remaining vacancies, half of which are classified as judicial emergencies because of the backlog, just don't seem to matter to them. According to their analysis, because of some acceptable vacancy rate or because of the mythical time clock, the remaining 25 judges pending before the Senate should be dismissed out of hand. This is not logical, nor is it the proper approach to take under the Constitution. 
   I would also respond to some of the arguments made that Senate Democrats have only rejected six or seven nominees. The fact is, the Senate has not rejected the nominees which have been filibustered. If they have the votes to defeat the nominee then let those votes be cast and let the results stand. But a minority of Senators are denying the Senate from either confirming or defeating some of these nominees. That is what we are seeking today - an up or down vote. 
   Mr. President, unfortunately one of the battlegrounds of this judicial obstructionism has been the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. Despite President Bush's attempt to fill four critical vacancies on that Court, and two District vacancies in Michigan, these nominations remained stalled in the Senate. There are many factors contributing to the stalemate we have found ourselves in with regard to confirmations on the Sixth Circuit; some which go back to the Clinton administration. I will discuss that in detail at a later point, but for now, everyone knows that I have been working to reach an accommodation that would help move this process forward. 
   I have great respect for Senators Levin and Stabenow. I have worked for many years with Senator Levin and have reached agreements with him on many difficult issues. For example, Senator Levin and I worked with Senators Biden and Moynihan to dramatically revise the regulations pertaining to heroin addiction treatment. That effort is paying off. I remain hopeful that can do so here. 
   On this issue I have continued to work with Senators Levin and Stabenow. I have carefully listened to their concerns. And while the Michigan senators' negative blue slips were accorded substantial weight - indeed, I delayed scheduling a hearing on any of the Michigan nominees because of the Michigan senators' views - their negative blue slips are not dispositive under the Committee's Kennedy-Biden-Hatch blue slip policy. I don't think there is any doubt that I have attempted to reach an accommodation that would fill these seats. Unfortunately my efforts have not yet been successful. I remain hopeful that we can come to a resolution, and I will keep trying to do so. But, I must emphasize, in my view, integral to any accommodation is the confirmation of Judge Saad, Judge Griffin and Judge McKeague. 
   These are exceptional individuals. Judge Saad and Judge Griffin both serve on the Michigan Court of Appeals. Judge McKeague is a District Judge for the United States District Court for the Western District of Michigan. He was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate. 
   It has been nearly one year since the Judiciary Committee first considered the nomination of Henry W. Saad, who has been nominated for a position on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. This is an historic appointment. Upon his confirmation, Judge Saad will become the first Arab-American to sit on the Sixth Circuit, which covers the states of Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee, and Michigan. 
   It is long past time for the Senate to consider Judge Saad's nomination. He was first nominated to fill a federal judgeship in 1992, when the first President Bush nominated him for a seat on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. The fact that he did not get a hearing may have worked to his benefit, since he was appointed in 1994 by Governor Engler to a seat on the Michigan Court of Appeals. He was elected to retain his seat in 1996 and again in 2002, receiving broad bipartisan support in each election. 
   On November 8, 2001, President Bush nominated Judge Saad for a seat on the Sixth Circuit, the position for which we are considering him today. When no action was taken on his nomination during the 107th Congress, President Bush renominated him to the Sixth Circuit on January 7, 2003. All told, Judge Saad has been nominated for a seat on the federal bench three separate times. It is high time the Senate completed action on his nomination. 
   Judge Saad's credentials for this position are impeccable. He graduated with distinction from Wayne State University in 1971 and magna cum laude from Wayne State University Law School in 1974. He then spent 20 years in the private practice of law with one of Michigan's leading firms, Dickinson, Wright, specializing in product liability, commercial litigation, employment law, labor law, school law and libel law. In addition, he has served as an Adjunct Professor at both the University of Detroit Mercy School of Law and at Wayne State University Law School. 
   Judge Saad is active in legal and community affairs. Some of the organizations he has been involved with include educational television, where he serves as a trustee, the American Heart Association, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, and other nonprofit organizations that serve the elderly and impaired. As a leader in the Arab-American community, Judge Saad has worked with a variety of organizations in promoting understanding and good relations throughout all ethnic, racial, and religious communities. He is an outstanding role model. 
   Judge Saad enjoys broad bipartisan support throughout his state, as evidenced by endorsements in his last election by the Michigan State AFL-CIO and the United Auto Workers of Michigan. He has received dozens of letters of support from leading political figures, fellow judges, law professors, private attorneys, the Michigan Chamber of Commerce, and a variety of other groups. 
   Let me quote from just a few of the letters received in support of Judge Saad's nomination. Maura D. Corrigan, Chief Justice of the Michigan Supreme Court, wrote: "Henry Saad has distinguished himself as a fair-minded and independent jurist who respects the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, and the constitutional role of the judiciary in our tripartite form of government. ... Judge Saad is a public servant of exceptional intelligence and integrity. He has the respect of the bench and the bar." Other judges have written that he is "a hard-working and honorable individual" and that he is "an outstanding appellate jurist with a strong work ethic." Roman Gribbs, a lifelong Democrat and retired judge, wrote, "Henry Saad is a man of personal and professional integrity, is fair-minded, very conscientious and is above all, an outstanding jurist." Judge Saad has clearly earned the respect and admiration of his colleagues on the Michigan state court bench. His nomination deserves consideration by this Committee. 
   I hope that our consideration of Judge Saad's nomination is not overshadowed by collateral arguments about the propriety of his nomination, the committee blue slip process, an attack on his personal character and qualifications, or other diversionary arguments. The question before the Senate is the qualifications of Judge Saad to sit on the federal bench. 
   We have heard from the other side about the President just steamrolling these nominations, without consulting with the home state Senators. A review of the record will show that in the case of Judge Saad, as with the other Michigan nominees, there is a clear record of consultation by the Bush White House with the Michigan Senators. White House records indicate that beginning on April 10, 2001, White House Counsel Alberto Gonzales began discussions with the offices of the Michigan senators regarding the vacancies on the Sixth Circuit and in the Eastern District of Michigan. 
   On May 17, 2001, Judge Gonzales provided the names of the individuals being considered for the Michigan vacancies, and invited both Senators to provide feedback. The record is clear that over the next year through subsequent telephone conversations, as well as written correspondence, there was extensive consultation and repeated invitations to the Michigan Senators to provide their input into the nomination process. In fact, I understand the White House offered to consider nominating both of the individuals championed by the Michigan Senators to federal judgeships. 
   Although President Bush ultimately did not nominate those individuals, the consultation requirement was undeniably fulfilled in the case of Judge Saad and the other Michigan nominees. 
   The historic significance of Judge Saad's nomination was noted by Judge George Steeh III, a distinguished Arab-American appointed by President Clinton to the Eastern District of Michigan. He said, as quoted in the Detroit Free Press on November 9, 2001, that President Bush's nomination of Judge Saad in the wake of the September 11 attacks "conveys an important message to all the citizens and residents of this country that we embrace and welcome diversity and that we are extending the American dream to anyone who is prepared to work hard." 
   Again, Mr. President, Judge Saad is an outstanding candidate for the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. He received a majority Qualified/minority Well Qualified rating from the American Bar Association. He has the experience, character and temperament to successfully serve in this position and will be an excellent addition to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. So I hope we can get past the procedural obstructions and process issues as we turn to the substantive qualifications of this nominee. There is an urgent need to move this nomination to fill a seat which has been vacant for far too long and has been designated a judicial emergency. It is time to give him and up or down vote. Vote no if you oppose the confirmation of Judge Saad. But it is wrong to continue to block the Senate from expressing its will on the confirmation of this and other judicial nominations.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 