SEN. HATCH'S STATEMENT: DIETARY SUPPLEMENT AMENDMENTS TO DOD AUTHORIZATION BILL
  STATEMENT: DIETARY SUPPLEMENT AMENDMENTS TO THE DOD AUTHORIZATION BILL  
  Mr. President, the amendment number 3225 offered by our colleague from Illinois, Senator Durbin, is a solution in search of a problem. 
   It is neither wise nor necessary. The Harkin-Hatch substitute should be approved in the alternative. The Durbin amendment is yet again another attack on dietary supplements and it should be rejected.  
   Instead, I ask colleagues to vote in favor of the second degree amendment Senator Harkin and I have drafted, an amendment which will put us firmly on record in favor of enforcing the law we passed - not once, but twice - by unanimous consent. 
   This law gives FDA all the enforcement tools it needs to act against problem supplements, a fact that has been confirmed by the FDA Commissioner in the Clinton Administration, Dr. Jane Henney, by the first FDA Commissioner in the Bush Administration, Dr. Mark McClellan, and by today's head of the FDA, Dr. Lester Crawford. 
   The law I reference, the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act, provides all the tools we need to ensure consumer access to safe dietary supplements and information about their benefits and potential problems. 
   But for that consumer protection to be a reality, the law must be implemented through regulation and enforced in the courts, and Congress must provide the resources for the agency to do its job. 
   There is no question that FDA has been slow to act on problem supplements. But, it is coming around and is doing a much more vigorous job, taking many more enforcement actions against illegally marketed products in recent months. 
   I believe this new emphasis on enforcement, - albeit under our prodding -- is due to both the leadership of Dr. McClellan - who has committed to me and Senator Harkin that he would compel the agency to implement DSHEA more vigorously - and to our colleagues, Chairman Bob Bennett, before him Chairman Cochran, and Ranking Minority Member Herb Kohl, who have acted to put more funding in the hands of the FDA to enforce the dietary supplement law. 
   By and large, dietary supplements - vitamins, minerals, herbs and amino acids - are used safely by hundreds of millions of Americans each year in order to help them lead healthy lifestyles. Critics of the industry point to the very few supplements that raise safety or labeling concerns, concerns that I firmly believe the law is adequate to address. 
   I hope it comes as no surprise to Senators that Senator Harkin and I have been as critical as Senator Durbin about the agency's lack of action in enforcing against problem supplements. 
   We have pressed FDA to remove from the market products which are harming young athletes, products such as androstenedione or "andro". Earlier this year, under the leadership of Dr. McClellan and HHS Secretary Tommy Thompson, andro was removed from the market. It can no longer masquerade as a dietary supplement. 
   We have also been concerned about ephedra. I have said for a number of years that if the agency believes this product is unsafe, it should remove it from the market under the abundant authority we provided in DSHEA. This includes seizure, fines and injunctive relief against misbranded or adulterated dietary supplements. And again - although belatedly - the agency has acted against ephedra products. 
   Mr. President, as my colleagues are aware, I am one of the original authors of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994. I would like to take a few minutes to talk about the history of DSHEA which will shed some light on why the Harkin-Hatch language is preferable to the Durbin amendment. This may be helpful for some of our colleagues who were not here when President Clinton signed DSHEA into law. It may also help reassure those who voted for the measure that it is working. 
   At the outset, it is important for Senators to realize that the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act established a rational, regulatory framework that provides the Food and Drug Administration with the tools it needs to assure the safety of products consumed by the American public, and to provide consumers with access to safe products and information about those products. 
   Indeed, the DSHEA law allows more than 150 million Americans who regularly consume dietary supplements to have access to products in order to achieve health benefits. 
   DSHEA enables Americans to buy relatively inexpensive dietary supplements, including vitamins and minerals, which may achieve a wide array of health improvements. 
   The passage of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act followed decades of Food and Drug Administration antipathy toward dietary supplement products. This animosity - well documented by hearings in the Labor and Human Resources Committee and by the Committee's 1993 report - and the lack of clear regulatory structure for supplements were the basis for our Senate votes. 
   That is also why a majority of the Senate, two-thirds of our membership, cosponsored the bill. And that also helps explain why the bill passed without one dissenting vote in the Senate. 
   As I believe Senator Harkin has noted, there is a great need to set the record straight here. Dietary supplements are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration. In fact, the FDA has had this authority for a century. 
   What we did in 1994 was to clarify and strengthen that authority. Thus, media reports that supplements are "unregulated" are patently false. 
   The basic structure of DSHEA allows all products marketed as dietary supplements at the time the bill was enacted to continue to be marketed as dietary supplements, unless they are determined to be unsafe or otherwise violate prohibitions in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to labeling, purity, and manufacturing. 
   This is the so-called "grandfather" provision. In addition, for new dietary ingredients, those not marketed in the United States before the law was enacted, manufacturers must provide evidence of safety to the FDA seventy-five days in advance of marketing. Again, new dietary ingredients must also comply with the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act requirements for safety, purity and labeling. 
   Responsible companies have followed the rules. Over 150 times they have notified the FDA, as the law requires. About half of those were rejected because there were safety concerns or because the products were not appropriately marketed as dietary supplements. The law works. 
   The law specifically prohibits supplements that present "significant or unreasonable risk of illness or injury under...conditions of use recommended or suggested in labeling." A supplement not meeting that requirement is deemed adulterated, and thus, illegal. This requirement does not require the agency to prove harm to anyone, rather, to make a determination that a significant or unreasonable risk of illness or injury is present. 
   In addition, the law prohibits any poisonous or deleterious substances in dietary supplements. A supplement is illegal if it is "unfit for food," a very broad authority which allows the agency to act against a product that is not fit for human consumption. 
   Under DSHEA, a dietary supplement cannot claim that it will diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat or prevent a disease. Any labeling to that effect immediately makes the product subject to regulation as a drug and thus illegally marketed as a supplement. 
   Under DSHEA, the labeling for a product must be truthful and informative. If the labeling is "false or misleading" in any way, the product is misbranded, and thus illegal. 
   Senators should be aware that there are substantial sanctions for violations of these requirements. 
   Violations subject the products to recall, seizure, condemnation, and destruction. Persons committing the violations could be subject to both injunction and criminal prosecution. So, this law has teeth. 
   The hallmark of DSHEA is the balance between allowing for beneficial dietary supplements while at the same time maintaining regulatory authority for FDA to remove any supplements that are detrimental to health. 
   Any objective analysis of the law must conclude that it has produced public health benefits of enormous dimensions. 
   The growth in the dietary supplement market since enactment of DSHEA is astounding. Today, there are hundreds of thousands of safe, well-labeled products on the market offering consumers who want to maintain or improve their health with a panoply of options. Many of these products are manufactured in my home state of Utah. 
   There also is much greater information available to consumers about these products as a result of DSHEA. Indeed, the provisions of the law clarifying what information could be provided with a supplement are nothing but consumer-friendly. Before the law, it was FDA's official position that it was illegal for a store owner to distribute a Centers for Disease Control (CDC) publication touting the benefits of folic acid use for pregnant mothers. Ironically, the CDC is a sister public health agency of the FDA. Congress wisely recognized that had to change and public health authorities believe hundreds of babies have been born without spina bifida because of now-wide use of folic acid. 
   Are there problems with DSHEA? If there are problems, I believe they lie largely in the fact that it has not been enforced vigorously. 
   As many of our colleagues, I have been frustrated with the agency's slowness in implementing certain provisions. For example, the law authorized FDA to develop good manufacturing practice guidelines - or GMPs - specific to supplements. The agency failed to act on this provision until 1999, only submitting a proposal to the Office of Management and Budget in the last month of the Clinton Administration. Delays and rewrites occurred for two years. Finally, the proposed regulation was published earlier this year. 
   Why are GMPs so important? They are the standards FDA inspects against to make sure the products are manufactured with purity and sanitation, to make sure they are properly labeled. So, these are important rules to have on the books. This delay has been very troubling. 
   But that has changed, as I cited earlier noting the FDA's actions against androstenedione and ephedra, among other products. 
   We have a carefully crafted safety standard in the law, a standard that was agreed to by then-Chairmen Kennedy, Dingell and Waxman. When the FDA took action against ephedra-containing products earlier this year, it was the first time, the first time in 10 year history of the law that the safety standard was invoked. It is hard to maintain a law is not working if its powers are not used. 
   I am heartened that the FDA acted to remove andro from the market earlier this year, thus helping to protect young athletes from its numerous adverse health effects. But it shouldn't have taken that long for the agency to act. 
   We do have tools within the law that give the FDA the authority to act against problem supplements, as I have just outlined. 
   I might add, that to assure Chairman Dingell, we also gave the FDA a very broad safety authority, a tool so broad I was reluctant to provide it to the FDA given the agency's animosity against supplements. That authority, the ability of the Department of Health and Human Services to declare a product an "imminent hazard" and remove it from the market, no questions asked, has never been invoked either. 
   Some have alleged it has not been invoked because it is ill-defined. On the contrary, it was deliberately crafted to be defined by HHS to meet any safety concerns the agency may raise. So, here is another powerful tool the agency can use against a product if it has safety concerns. 
   Finally, with regard to the safety profile of so-called stimulants, I am aware this is a special concern of Senator Durbin and Senator Kennedy. 
   Under the law, a dietary supplement - be it what Senator Durbin considers to be a stimulant or any other product - must be safe. If it is not, the FDA can act against it. 
   It is hard to segregate one type of product or define it, an inherent problem in trying to tailor the law to address stimulants only. 
   Should we include caffeine? What about colas and chocolate? Why shouldn't they be included? 
  What about over-the-counter stimulant products? Generally, there are no requirements for adverse events reporting for them either? Why the differentiation? 
   In 2002, estimates are that 182 persons died from taking acetominophen as directed. Why shouldn't there be AER requirements for such over-the-counter products as well. 
   Perhaps we should look the very notion that an AER system would prevent death or injury. 
   AERs tell us that 55 men died in the first few months that viagra was marketed. What was the response? FDA did not move to pull the product from the market. Instead, it moved to include warnings for those men who may have been at risk due to cardiac disease. And believe it or not, Congress didn't even have to take action. 
   It is important for our colleagues to understand this background about the law, as it is useful for evaluating the Durbin amendment. I hope it will help my colleagues understand why voting in favor of the Durbin amendment at this time is premature. 
   This amendment would amend the DOD reauthorization bill to prohibit military installations from selling stimulant-containing dietary supplements unless the manufacturer agrees to mandatory reporting of any serious adverse events to FDA related to use of the product. 
   It may surprise some to know that I am not opposed to better reporting of adverse events connected with supplements. Nor, for that matter, am I opposed to better reporting of adverse events for over-the-counter drugs, which many erroneously believe are generally subject to adverse event reporting, or "AERs". 
   Indeed, Senator Harkin and I have been working to improve adverse event reporting for dietary supplements and over the counter drugs. Funding has been included in a number of appropriations laws to give FDA resources for adverse event reporting for supplements. 
   If there is a serious problem with an aspirin, a vitamin, an herb or a cold remedy, shouldn't our policy be the same, that authorities are alerted to that serious problem? 
   But the Durbin amendment is not the way to go about this. 
   First, it is extraneous as an amendment to the Department of Defense bill, especially at a time when our nation is at war. This is the wrong time and the wrong place for this discussion. I just wonder if families of our service members are bewildered, watching us spend so much time talking about they products they can buy at the commissary, especially when the DoD already has the authority to limit any sales. 
   If there is an issue with a dietary supplement or supplements - and in this case, I do not believe there is - it should not be considered only in the context of military installations, but rather as a matter of overall food and drug policy. Indeed, it is inconsistent with standing food and drug law to establish a policy governing a regulated product sold throughout the nation and apply that policy only to certain facilities such as military installations. 
   Surveys have shown that 70% to 90% of soldiers are users of dietary supplements. Military personnel and their families, as all other Americans, benefit from the protective effects of supplements and from their positive health benefits. What is the rationale for singling them out for different treatment? 
   I find this particularly peculiar given that the Department of Defense has the ability to decide what is marketed on military bases. In fact, DoD removed ephedra from commissaries long before the FDA banned the product for general use. If the Department of Defense perceives a problem with these supplements, it can preclude their sale to the military, as the DoD has already acted on ephedra. 
   But beyond that, I am not aware of any reported problem relating to the sale of "stimulant" dietary supplements on military bases, and thus see no reason to place the restrictions contained in the Durbin amendment. 
   Second, in a similar vein, in view of the FDA's too-long, ridiculously-long, lag time in coming to grips with the regulation of ephedra - which I can only assume gave rise to this amendment - I recognize that the Durbin amendment has a certain curbside appeal. I urge my colleagues to look beyond that. As a matter of food and drug law, there is no basis for separating one type of dietary supplement from another. 
   I maintain that if there are serious adverse events associated with any legally sold dietary supplement, then there should be a better reporting system so that the FDA can take appropriate action. I remain ready to work with my colleagues to create such an adverse event reporting system. 
   Third, as a matter of food and drug law, it does not make sense to have what amount to inter-party agreements between a manufacturer and a defense installation for an FDA-regulated product to be marketed. We have a long history of tradition in this country, grounded in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, that policies governing FDA-regulated products are national in nature, applying across points of sale, across manufacturers and across States. 
   Let us say for the sake of argument, that a certain dietary supplement is found to cause respiratory problems. Should the FDA only become aware of problems when the product has been sold in a commissary? As a matter of public health, wouldn't we want to know that is the case wherever the product is sold, in whatever store, in whatever State, so that appropriate public health safety measures can be considered? 
   Fourth, the timing of this amendment is premature. It has not been studied by the Committee of jurisdiction, nor has the Food and Drug Administration, the administering agency, taken a position. Surely, they should have a hand in the development of any such policy, as I believe should Senator Harkin and I, as the prime Senate authors of the 1994 law governing regulation of supplements. 
   I am deeply troubled that the Senate HELP Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, has not even considered this proposal. Since this is such an important matter, I believe that it must be considered by the Committee of jurisdiction before it is considered by the full Senate. 
   I have learned after many years in the Senate that the most successful legislative proposals are those that are properly considered and debated by the Committees of jurisdiction. 
   I would like to see consultation with the HELP Committee, with the Food and Drug Administration and other scientific organizations, with appropriate input from the dietary supplement industry before any proposal is voted upon by the full Senate. 
   The final reason this amendment is unnecessary is that the FDA is already investigating products that the Senator from Illinois terms "stimulants." The FDA is well aware of issues associated with products Senator Durbin refers to as "stimulants" (although there is no such category in food and drug law). FDA is looking closely at products such as ephedra, which it recently banned -- and ephedra substitutes, such as citrus aurantium or bitter orange. FDA and the National Institutes of Health are studying the safety of citrus aurantium. 
   The proposed amendment singles out supplements that contain stimulants, including those that contain caffeine. As a point of fact, some military personnel are encouraged to use stimulants; pilots use them on long flights. 
   I submit that many service members use more caffeine through coffee, tea and soft drinks such as Coca-Cola, Pepsi, Mountain Dew, and Dr. Pepper, than they do in dietary supplements. 
   In fact, I got an email from a service member's father this morning about his son who is currently serving in Baghdad. His division commanders have now banned the consumption of the Red Bull, the highly-caffeinated, energy drink after reports of several soldiers collapsing and perhaps dying while patrolling in 120 degree heat after consuming this drink. 
   This both shows the defects in the Durbin amendment - since it would not even address high levels of caffeine use - and the fact the system works, since military leaders are taking action to preclude unwise use of the product. 
   As many in this body are aware, Senator Durbin has a companion bill, S. 722, that proposes one way to set up an AER system for supplements. The Durbin bill, as with the amendment, is very troubling. 
   One huge concern I have with his bill is that it could lead to premarket approval of so-called "stimulants". For this body to impose a pre-market approval system on dietary supplements would be a blunder of vast proportions. 
   If my colleagues contemplate the matter, they will quickly realize that it would not be practical for manufacturers to seek marketing approval of dietary supplements, most of which cannot be patented. How would a company underwrite the high costs of FDA approval, costs which can run into hundreds of millions for pharmaceutical products? 
   The answer is simple: companies could not sustain this cost and consumers will lose their ability to choose the dietary supplement products they will purchase. A premarket approval requirement would be the death knell for the dietary supplement industry. And, beyond that, there is no need for preapproval of dietary supplement products. 
   Indeed, the grandfather provision in the law was suggested by House Democrats, who no doubt recognized that the majority of supplement products on the market pose no safety concerns. 
   That, coupled with strong enforcement authority for the FDA, gives consumers assurance they are taking safe products. Back to the amendment at hand. 
   It is obvious to me that the target of this amendment is FDA regulation of certain stimulant-containing dietary supplements, not the health and readiness of the armed services. Let me emphasize that the DoD reauthorization bill is the wrong vehicle to amend the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act. This amendment will not, I repeat, will not, ensure the health and readiness of the armed forces. 
   For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to vote against the Durbin amendment. The Hatch-Harkin amendment is a much better alternative. 
   It states the sense of Congress that the FDA should make it a top priority to fully and effectively implement the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act, including taking appropriate enforcement action against unsafe supplements. 
   Our amendment urges the Department of Health and Human Services to work with outside scientific organizations and the industry, as appropriate, to develop a proposal for better adverse event reporting both for dietary supplements and for OTC products for Congress to consider. 
   Finally, our amendment restates the obvious: that adequate resources must be made available for the effective oversight of dietary supplements and sound, scientific research about their benefits and problems. 
   Mr. President, on April 19, just two short months ago, Dr. Crawford outlined a science-based plan for dietary supplement enforcement. He said, "FDA is absolutely committed to protecting consumers from misleading claims and unsafe products." He noted, that in the past six months, the agency had inspected 180 domestic supplement manufacturers, sent 119 warning letters to distributors, refused entry to 1,171 foreign shipments of supplements, and seized or supervised voluntary destruction of almost $18 million worth of mislabeled or adulterated products. 
   "We will continue to aggressively enforce DSHEA against unsafe or mislabeled products," the Acting FDA Commissioner said. 
   Congress should support him in that effort. 
   That is the aim of the Harkin-Hatch amendment, and I ask that my colleagues join with us in supporting this measure. 
   Millions of Americans enjoy the benefits of dietary supplements. Among them are military families. 
   Let's not act precipitously. Let's not upset an agency that is finally starting to do its job and enforce the law we wrote 10 years ago. Let us pass the Hatch-Harkin amendment and guarantee American consumers continued access to the safe, beneficial, products they want.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 