SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. HATCH'S DEFENSE REQUESTS
  The U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee yesterday approved the Department of Defense and the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs spending bills for the next fiscal year. These will fund several key programs that Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) requested for Utah military installations, including $20 million for Hill Air Force Base (HAFB).  
   "With these appropriations, the military is meeting its needs with Utahns' expertise," Hatch said. "Military officials know that when they want the job done right, they need to come to Utah." 
   The following are the top four Utah projects Hatch requested, all of which were included in the DOD spending bill: 
   1. Automated Composite Technologies Initiative - Hill Air Force Base, $10 million 
   Today's military strives to increase the affordability and domestic access to equipment vital for national defense. With this project, Hill Air Force Base personnel will improve current production standards for fiber-placed composite products, such as those needed for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, where demand far exceeds domestic supply. HAFB is a world leader in composite technologies. 
   2. Senior Scout - Special Signal Processing Threads - Utah National Guard, $2 million 
   Senior Scout is an Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) suite of aircraft equipment that has received universal praise for its performance in foreign operations in support of the War on Drugs and the War on Terrorism. With this appropriation, Utah National Guard personnel will replace components of the Senior Scout systems which have become obsolete. 
   3. Dugway Testing and Infrastructure Upgrade - Dugway Proving Ground, $2 million 
   Dugway Proving Ground tests a broad range of chemical and biological sensor technologies across a variety of scenarios and conditions, including those encountered in urban operations. As part of this effort, Dugway is developing a modular version of an eye-safe Light Detection and Ranging System (LIDAR) capable of detecting aerosols, such as those used in chemical and biological warfare, at 10 kilometers or farther. With this appropriation, double the amount the program received last year, Dugway personnel will also use LIDAR data to enhance Dugway's virtual testing capability. 
   4. Hydrolysis Demilitarization Demonstration Program - Tooele Army SCWO/Depot, $2 million 
   This project will fund an environmentally friendly, economically viable method to render chemical agents into inert organics that can be safely processed. These funds provide for a system to reduce pollution and remove heavy metals from the agents. The hydrolysis process will significantly reduce Toole Army Depot's existing backlogs. 
   With the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs spending bill, the committee approved $10 million for a new Air Logistics Center Warehouse in Ogden for Hill Air Force Base. The facility will house equipment vital to world-wide operations, equipment currently stored in 1940s' era wooden warehouses, many with structural damage. The buildings have deteriorated to the extent that when 5 inches of snow accumulate on the roofs, a common occurrence in Utah, no one is permitted inside for fear the structure will collapse. Obviously, this is dangerous for military personnel and has a profoundly negative impact on operations.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 