SEN. HATCH FIGHTS TO PRESERVE TRADITIONAL MARRIAGE
  In a speech before the United States Senate, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today called on Congress to protect traditional marriage now by passing a Constitutional amendment. Hatch's full floor statement follows:  
   Mr. President, I rise today to speak about preserving traditional marriage - an institution which is under attack from so many directions today. This past week - as everyone by now undoubtedly knows - the Goodridge decision by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court went into effect in Massachusetts. This 4-3 decision by the court found a constitutional right to same-sex marriage and prohibits the state from defining marriage as between and man and a woman. 
   According to reports, more than 1,000 same-sex couples have been "married" pursuant to the radical change handed down by the split court. 
   Mr. President, we all know that it is the legislative branch, and not the judiciary, that makes the laws. But there are some courts, such as the one in Massachusetts, that want to take away the public policy role that the legislatures and the people have always had. Senator Talent and I wrote an opinion-editorial on this issue that was published in Monday's Washington Times, and I would like to submit it for the record. 
   I will not read it, but I will say that people have the right to govern themselves. When a court which forces a radical decision on the people - well before the people have the opportunity to oppose the change - it dramatically undermines democracy's vitality and legitimacy. 
   Some of the comments from the first same-sex couples to take advantage of the Massachusetts court decision underscore what is wrong with deviating from traditional marriage. According to the Boston Herald, the first recipients of a Provincetown Massachusetts same-sex marriage license said "the concept of forever is overrated." One gentleman in this couple added that he, as a bisexual, and his partner, who is gay, "think it's possible to love more than one person and have more than one partner. In our case, it is, so we have an open marriage." 
   I am sorry, but this is not a marriage. I simply do not understand why these two men felt they needed to be declared to be married by the state. There is not even a pretense of fidelity here. 
   The reason that maintaining traditional marriage is so important can be summed up in one word: children. Children are simply better off with a mother and a father than with two mothers or two fathers or any other alternative arrangement. Advocates for same-sex marriage cite studies to the contrary, but as Prof. Steven Nock, a leading marriage scholar at the University of Virginia, points out, "not a single one was conducted according to generally accepted standards of scientific research." 
   Marriage is not about adult desires for affirmation and benefits - it is about the well-being of children. Two men being intimate are simply not the same as a husband and a wife, and alternative family forms are not just as good as traditional families. 
   The fact is that mothers and fathers both matter to children. The science confirms this, but common sense tells us the same as well. 
   Some advocates for same-sex marriage argue that traditional marriage will continue the same as before. Unfortunately, this has not been the experience in other countries. Scandinavia, for example, witnessed a dramatic drop in traditional marriages once same-sex marriages were permitted. The net effect was to diminish the importance of marriage altogether, and that is what will happen here if we do not maintain the traditional definition of marriage as one man and one woman. 
   It has become clear, Mr. President, that we need a Constitutional solution to this problem. There is simply no other means of reining in activist judges who seek to impose their will, and not their judgment. Some say the Defense of Marriage Act is adequate enough - but based on decisions such as Lawrence v. Texas, this statute will undoubtedly be struck down. People across the political spectrum, including such liberal stalwarts as Prof. Lawrence Tribe, agree that this is inevitable. 
   Without a Constitutional amendment, we are headed for a resolution by the United States Supreme Court. We should not and cannot wait for this to happen. We must protect traditional marriage now by passing a Constitutional amendment. 
   Some suggest that it is not "conservative" to amend the Constitution over such an issue. Baloney. Traditional marriage is perhaps the most fundamental institution in culture and history. It dates back some five thousand years. If the only way to protect this institution is by amending the Constitution - and we know that to be the case - then we have an obligation to do so. 
   Thank you, Mr. President, I yield the floor.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 