SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON GANG ABATEMENT AND PREVENTION ACT
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) delivered the following remarks regarding passage of the Gang Abatement and Prevention Act. 
   I rise today to congratulate my fellow Senators on the passage of the Gang Abatement and Prevention Act of 2007. This vital legislation makes important changes to the federal criminal code which will allow a more effective response to the ever growing threat that violent street gangs present to our society. 
   Americans are acutely aware of the myriad problems brought about by the influence and prevalence of criminal gangs in this country. I have long shared this concern, and introduced legislation over 10 years ago that attempted to address the problem. Senator Feinstein joined me in that effort, and since that time has pursued this matter with a vigor and tenacity that should make the residents of California proud. I want to offer my heartfelt congratulations and appreciation to Senator Feinstein for her tireless efforts in sponsoring this bill, and am pleased that our combined efforts over the years have brought us one step closer to having this legislation signed into law.  
   I believe that all members of the Senate share their constituents' desire to see a diminished role of gangs and associated violence in our communities. The question is very simple: How do we achieve this goal? 
   The prevailing thought is to either modify the criminal code or provide financial assistance that enhances procedures and programs that have been proven to effectively reduce gang participation. The bill that passed today does both of these things, and it is my hope that the vital tools in this initiative can be utilized by state and local personnel to provide for a greatly diminished threat from criminal street gangs. 
   One thing I want to make perfectly clear is that my involvement with this issue does not diminish my concerns with the federalization of crimes. I want to read a few sentences I said on the Senate Floor in 1996 when introducing the Federal Gang Violence Act of 1996: "Our problem is severe. Moreover, there is a significant role the Federal Government can play in fighting this battle. I am not one to advocate the unbridled extension of Federal jurisdiction. Indeed, I often think that we have federalized too many crimes. However, in the case of criminal street gangs, which increasingly are moving interstate to commit crimes, there is a very proper role for the Federal Government to play." 
   I said this in 1996, and my thoughts have not changed. The federal government too many times hands out money like a broken ATM, subsidizing projects that are more appropriately left to the states. However, the fact that Gangs have operations which spread throughout our country necessitates a federal law enforcement response. I am confident that Americans would approve of their tax dollars being effectively utilized in attempts to reduce gangs and criminal activity, and provide a safer environment for their families. 
   The young people who join criminal gangs have made an unfortunate choice to squander all of the opportunities available in their life, opportunities which are abundant in our great nation. But even worse, their choice to participate in violent gang crimes put the lives of innocent Americans in danger. The same innocent people who have rightly chosen to live their life in a productive manner benefiting fellow citizens. 
   Numerous cities in my home state of Utah, such as Orem, St. George, and Provo are facing an increase in gang activity. National gangs, like MS-13, are expanding their presence in Utah. Law enforcement is also reporting an increase in gang members relocating from areas of Southern California. It is vital that we provide immediate assistance to cities that are in the beginning stages of a battle with highly sophisticated national gangs. If a city can't deal with this problem swiftly and severely, then the gangs will fester like a disease, amplifying to an unmanageable level. We have seen this throughout the country, and I am dedicated to ensure that the cities in Utah and other states receive appropriate and necessary assistance from Congress to increase community prevention efforts. 
   I applaud the efforts of lawmakers whose tireless efforts produced this bill, and am hopeful that the funds provided for prevention and mentoring can be utilized to help negate the persistent efforts of gangs to augment their ranks with additional kids. Life provides many choices, and I hope that our youth will find the strength and courage to resist the gang lifestyle. 
   I recognize that there is no mechanism which can easily remove the scourge of criminal gangs, but am confident that this bill will provide resources which can enhance and amplify the efforts of dedicated personnel who endeavor to bestow positive influence to our communities. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 