SENATE COMMITTEE TAKES UP SEN. HATCH'S BILL TO ENLARGE WEBER'S WATKINS DAM
  The Senate Subcommittee on Water and Power today considered Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah)'s bill to help Utahns in the Weber Basin make better use of their water resources. The subcommittee's consideration of his bill is necessary for the full Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources to send the measure to Senate floor for a vote before Congress adjourns. 
   "Utah is the second-driest state in the country, and Weber County doesn't have enough water to meet its growth needs right now," Hatch said. "Thousands rely on the Weber Basin reservoirs for drinking water and agriculture. Weber's one of the fastest-growing areas in the state, so it's crucial that we increase water capacity to meet the increased demand."  
   Hatch's bill, the Arthur V. Watkins Dam Enlargement Act of 2005 (S. 1811), would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to conduct a feasibility study on raising the height of the Arthur V. Watkins Dam in Weber County, Utah. The dam is a 14.5 mile-long earthfill dam which encloses Willard Bay Reservoir. The reservoir has a storage capacity of roughly 215,000 acre-feet of water. It is estimated that raising the dam by 5 to 10 feet would increase the reservoir's storage capacity by 50,000 to 70,000 acre-feet. 
   "This study is the first step we need to expand Weber Basin's capacity," Hatch said. "I'm certain the study will determine that this approach will be easy, cost-effective and environmentally sound." 
   Below is the statement of Tage I. Flint, General Manager and CEO of Weber Basin Water Conservancy District, who addressed the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power today. 
   The Weber Basin Water Conservancy District (District) appreciates this opportunity to present written testimony in support of S. 1811 to authorize a feasibility study to enlarge the Arthur V. Watkins dam. The District was created in 1950 to serve as the local sponsor to operate, maintain and repay the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation's (USBR) Weber Basin Project (Project). The District is a regional water-supply agency, which develops and supplies both urban and agriculture water to lands and municipalities within Weber Davis, Morgan, Summit and part of Box Elder Counties. These areas are experiencing explosive growth rates. Utah as a whole grew nearly 30 percent in the last decade. Some urban areas are growing at a rate of double digits per year. Utah, being the second driest state in the nation, with an average annual precipitation of only 13 inches per year, faces unique challenges with inadequate existing water supplies compounded with high growth rates and widely varying annual precipitation. 
   The USBR has prepared an assessment of where existing water supplies are likely to be inadequate to meet water demands for farms, ranches, cities, recreation and the environment over the next 25 years. The greater Wasatch Front areas (including Davis, Summit and Weber Counties) were identified by the USBR as to where the next crisis over water may occur. This conflict potential was identified as "highly likely", the highest potential on the scale. 
   The Arthur V. Watkins Dam, Willard Bay Reservoir, (Willard Bay) a major Project feature, was constructed in four planned phases. The first three phases were constructed between 1957 and 1964 and the fourth phase occurred between 1989 and 1990. Willard Bay is a vital water source for the Project. It stores and regulates winter power releases, surplus high flows originating below the upstream reservoirs, upstream spills, fish releases, and return flow from higher diversions. These flows are diverted at the Slaterville Diversion Dam built on the Weber River, and travel through the Willard gravity canal to Willard Bay. 
   Willard Bay is a multiple use reservoir providing water for: a) irrigation of approximately 190,000 acres of project lands, b) municipal and industrial water for a growing population of over 500,000 people, c) recreation; Willard Bay has one of the very highest use rates for recreation in the state of Utah, and d) fish and wildlife including the Harold S. Crane and Ogden Bay Water Fowl Management Areas. 
   Currently, the Willard Bay water rights (Utah Water Right Number 35-831) are approved at 250,000 Acre Feet per year. However, Willard Bay was constructed to capture and store only 215,000 Acre Feet. The difference of 35,000 Acre Feet could be stored and utilized in an enlarged Willard Bay. Additional storage capacity is needed to utilize the full Willard Bay water right. In addition, since the Weber Basin Project has already received Warren Act Authority to store non project water in an enlarged Willard Bay facility to better manage and coordinate water deliveries. Because of the large surface area of the reservoir, the additional storage capacity can be achieved by adding just a few feet to the height of the dam. 
   The most recent drought cycle demonstrated the absolute reliance the District has on Willard Bay water to bridge between prolonged drought cycles. In each of the last five drought years, Willard Bay levels were lowered and used. In 2004, the water level was so low that extensive dredging was required to access and pump practically all the stored water. The reservoir was drawn down to only 10 percent of its capacity. 
   In order to continue serving water to the growing population of the District and to help bridge the certain reality of future droughts, additional stored water in Willard Bay is vital. A study is recommended to investigate the feasibility of enlarging Willard Bay, Utah to provide additional water for the Project to fulfill the purposes for which the Project was authorized.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 