SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING JUDGE MUKASEY, OTHER NOMINATIONS
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) delivered the following speech before the United States Senate regarding judicial nominations. 
   Mr. President, I want to address my colleagues for just a few minutes on the subject of nominations to the Department of Justice and to the federal judiciary. 
   Our obligation is the same for each, to focus on the qualifications of nominees through a process that respects the separation of powers. 
   First, let me say that the President has made a first-rate nomination by choosing Judge Michael Mukasey as the next Attorney General of the United States.  
   He will bring to this vital leadership post 16 years of private legal practice, four years as a federal prosecutor, and 19 years as a federal judge. 
   He headed the Official Corruption Unit during his service as Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York. 
   And he served as Chief Judge during his last six years on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. 
   By any reasonable or objective measure, Judge Mukasey is clearly qualified to lead the Justice Department. 
   I want also to draw attention to an aspect of Judge Mukasey's experience and record that makes him particularly qualified to lead the Justice Department at this challenging time in our history. 
   The U.S. District Court is divided into 94 geographical districts. 
   These districts' caseloads vary widely, reflecting the characteristics, demographics, and realities in those districts. 
   The Southern District of New York, where Judge Mukasey served for 19 years and which he led for six years, is no different. 
   Serving in that key judicial district led Judge Mukasey to confront the terrorist threat to America long before the 9/11 attacks. 
   He presided over the prosecution of Omar Abdel Rahman and sentenced him to life in prison for his role in the 1993 plot to blow up the World Trade Center. 
   When the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed Judge Mukasey's decision, it took the unusual step of commenting specifically on how he had handled the trial. The appeals court said [refer to chart]: 
   Judge Mukasey "presided with extraordinary skill and patience, assuring fairness to the prosecution and to each defendant and helpfulness to the jury. His was an outstanding achievement in the face of challenges far beyond those normally endured by a trial judge." 
   That is a remarkable statement. 
   Appeals courts review lower court decisions, but very rarely do they comment in this manner on lower court judges. 
   That case occurred before the 9/11 terrorist attacks. 
   Ten years later, after those attacks, Judge Mukasey ruled that the president had authority to designate Jose Padilla as an enemy combatant against the United States and that, even as an enemy combatant, he must have access to his lawyers. 
   Padilla was eventually convicted of providing material assistance to terrorists. 
   Legal analyst Benjamin Wittes wrote about this case in the journal Policy Review and said that Judge Mukasey's decision was "the single most compelling judicial opinion yet written on the due process rights of citizens held as enemy combatants." 
   That is high praise indeed. 
   This background and experience with national security and terrorism cases make Judge Mukasey especially qualified to lead the Department of Justice at this time in America's history. 
   The Justice Department is being re-tooled and re-directed in light of the war on terror, including creation of its new National Security Division. 
   Many of the issues in this area may begin with legislation, but end up in the courts. 
   Having someone at the helm with experience not only as a prosecutor but as a judge evaluating these very issues will be invaluable. 
   In addition to these qualifications are important personal and character qualities which I believe we need in our leaders. 
   A federal judge's law clerks probably know better than anyone how the judge thinks, how he approaches the law, how he handles tough issues, and how he treats others. 
   I ask unanimous consent to put in the record a letter signed by 43 of Judge Mukasey's former law clerks. 
   This letter describes his decisiveness and mastery of the law, as well as his fairness, humility, and commitment to public service. 
   We must evaluate Judge Mukasey's qualifications and character through a process that respects the separation of powers. 
   The Constitution gives the president authority to appoint members of his Cabinet, including the Attorney General. 
   While the Senate has a role in checking that authority, ours is not a co-equal role with the president and we may not use our confirmation role to undermine the president's appointment authority. 
   Some of my colleagues may want to use these nominations to fight policy or political battles. 
   Those fights are for the legislative process or the oversight process, but not the confirmation process. 
   Some of my colleagues have even hinted that they may manipulate the confirmation process for Judge Mukasey in an attempt to force compliance by the Bush administration with certain demands on other issues. 
   That kind of political extortion would be wrong. 
   The Justice Department needs leadership now, and Judge Michael Mukasey is qualified and ready for duty now. 
   During my 31 years in this body, we have taken an average of three weeks to move an Attorney General nominee from nomination to confirmation. 
   There is no reason we cannot meet that standard with the excellent and well-qualified nominee now before us. 
   The same two obligations apply to nominations to the federal bench. 
   Let me repeat, we must focus on a nominee's qualifications through a process that respects the separation of powers. 
   It is a curious fact of recent American history that, like the situation today, the last three presidents each faced a Senate controlled by the other political party during his last two years in office. 
   Two of those presidents were Republicans, one was a Democrat. 
   During those last two years of a president's tenure, the Senate confirmed an average of 91 judges, 74 to the U.S. District Court and 17 to the U.S. Court of Appeals. 
   This is only one way of measuring confirmation progress, and I realize some may not care a bit about what has happened in the past. 
   But for those who do, I simply offer this as a yardstick, a gauge of the progress we are making today. 
   The last two years of those previous presidents' tenure are an obviously parallel measure for us today, since we are in the last two years of President Bush's tenure. 
   We are nearing the end of September and have confirmed just three judges this year to the U.S. Court of Appeals. 
   The last one was nearly five months ago. 
   At the same point in this same year during those last three administrations, the Senate had confirmed an average of six appeals court nominees, twice as many. 
   Meanwhile, the vacancy rate on the U.S. Court of Appeals continues to rise, and is nearly ten percent higher than when President Bush was re-elected. 
   By raising this issue, I run the risk of some talking about what they like to call pocket filibusters of Clinton nominees. 
   This cute but profoundly misleading phrase is intended to suggest that the Republican Senate blocked Clinton judicial nominees - the number they use varies all the time - who all could have been confirmed. 
   I will say just two things about this well-worn mantra. 
   First, a certain number of nominees of every president remain unconfirmed for a variety of reasons. 
   Anyone who pretends otherwise is trying to mislead the American people about how the confirmation process actually works. 
   Some Clinton nominees were withdrawn, others were opposed by home-state Senators, others were nominated too late to be evaluated. 
   Honestly taking these and other factors into account shows that the margin of error by these critics tops an astonishing 400 percent. 
   The second response is simpler. 
   President Clinton appointed 377 federal judges with a Senate controlled by the other party for six of his eight years in office. 
   This is second only to President Reagan's 383 judicial appointees with a Senate controlled by his own party for six of his eight years in office. 
   We need to make more progress confirming judicial nominees. 
   The needs of the judiciary and the yardstick of history indicate that we are not doing our duty. 
   President Bush has the lowest judicial confirmation rate, overall and for appeals court judges in particular, of any president during my three decades in this body. 
   Instead of making the confirmation progress that we should, we see a series of steadily changing standards, whatever it takes to defeat the nominations of good men and women. 
   I have spoken here on the floor several times about the attack on Judge Leslie Southwick, nominated to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 
   Opponents urge his defeat on the basis of just two of the 7000 cases in which he participated, on the basis of two concurring opinions he did not write. 
   Not because he applied the law incorrectly, but because the opponents do not like the result of him applying the law correctly. 
   That standard is wrong and I hope it does not succeed. 
   I have here the Washington Post editorial from last month [refer to chart], and I agree with its title. 
   Judge Southwick is indeed qualified to serve. 
   The editorial says that while the Post does not like the results in the two cases that opponents highlight, they cannot find fault with Judge Southwick's legitimate interpretation of the law. 
   Judges are not supposed to deliver results that please this or that political constituency. 
   Judges are supposed to correctly interpret and apply the law. 
   Judge Southwick is committed to that judicial role and he should be confirmed. 
   Now we see an attack on another nominee to the same court, Judge Jennifer Elrod. 
   When the Judiciary Committee reported her nomination to the floor yesterday, one of my Democratic colleagues questioned her qualifications for the position. 
   Judge Elrod, who currently serves on the state court trial bench in Texas, graduated cum laude from Harvard Law School and joined the state trial court bench after eight years of private practice. 
   For a dozen years, she served on the board and eventually chaired the Gulf Coast Legal Foundation, one of the largest legal aid organizations helping the poor in southeastern Texas. 
   Judge Elrod has as much judicial experience as did Sandra Day O'Connor when she was unanimously confirmed to the Supreme Court of United States. 
   In fact, when you include Judge Elrod's two years clerking for U.S. District Judge Sim Lake, Judge Elrod has more judicial experience, and more federal court experience, than did Justice O'Connor. 
   I voted for Justice O'Connor, I certainly believed she was qualified for the Supreme Court, and I know that Judge Elrod is qualified for the Fifth Circuit. 
   But Democratic colleagues in the Judiciary Committee also questioned Judge Elrod's fitness for the Fifth Circuit because of her race. 
   One colleague said that we must consider the race of sitting judges as well as judicial nominees as we proceed through the confirmation process. 
   The implications of this view are troubling, to say the least. 
   This means that no matter what a nominee's qualifications, no matter what her experience or background, no matter what she would bring to the bench, a nominee's race can, and some apparently believe even should, trump her merit. 
   Appointing judges based on race is an inappropriate standard that I cannot accept. 
   Like Judge Southwick, Judge Elrod has been nominated to a vacancy open so long that the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts has designated it a judicial emergency. 
   Like Judge Southwick, Judge Elrod should be confirmed without further delay. 
   Evaluating nominees and deciding whether to consent to their appointment is a unique and profound responsibility of this body. 
   As we examine the nomination of Judge Mukasey to be Attorney General or the nominations of Judge Southwick and Judge Elrod to the Fifth Circuit, I urge my colleagues to focus on their qualifications. 
   I urge my colleagues to fulfill our responsibility through a process that respects the separation of powers. 
   I urge my colleagues to reject inappropriate standards such as political litmus tests or race. 
   Our judiciary is the best and most independent in the world, and I hope we will preserve this tradition in our confirmation actions and decisions in the weeks and months ahead. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 