SEN. HATCH: 9-11 COMMISSION REPORT - 'HONEST APPRAISAL OF WHAT WENT WRONG'
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) called the report released today by the 9/11 Commission "an honest appraisal of what went wrong" with American counterterrorism efforts prior to September 11, 2001, and said the report contains several useful ideas for improving counterterrorism efforts.  
   "An event as historic and catastrophic as 9/11 requires a hard look at what happened. You can't pull any punches," said Hatch. "The 9/11 Commission report released today is an honest appraisal of what went wrong prior to September 11th, and the Commission has done a great service to the American people with its blunt review of our counterterrorism systems." 
   The 9/11 Commission ended its lengthy examination of the events leading up to September 11, 2001 on Thursday with the public release of its report, including conclusions as to how to make America safer. 
   "I appreciate the attempts made, in addition to an in-depth narrative review, to provide ideas for strengthening our counterterrorism efforts," said Hatch. "These ideas will contribute to the significant efforts already made and programs implemented by the Congress and the Administration. I am skeptical that creation of a so-called 'Intelligence Czar' or other restructuring is either necessary or helpful. I'll remain open-minded, but frankly, I do not want a politicized intelligence czar, nor do I understand how another or different layer of bureaucracy will address the reform that must occur inside the intelligence community." 
   "I would also differ with some aspects of the Commission's criticism of Congressional oversight," Hatch added. "In particular, I do think that some of us recognized the growing threat that terrorism presented, as far back as the 1980s. But I look forward to discussing the Commission's conclusions with my colleagues in Congress, including the idea of unified homeland security oversight."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 