SEN. HATCH SAYS AMERICA CAN'T CUT, RUN IN IRAQ
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) spoke today on recent proposals to set deadlines for pulling American troops out of Iraq. Deadlines based on an arbitrary date rather than progress invite further terrorism and show a lack of support for the Iraqi people, Hatch said. The complete speech follows. 
   I am disappointed that we are considering legislation that would force the United States to withdraw our troops before we've finished the job in Iraq.  
   It's ironic. Some of my friends on the other side of the aisle fight over judicial nominations, they fight the President while he's trying to protect our country, and they fight each other. Just about the only thing they're unwilling to fight is an actual war. 
   Mr. President, let me be clear: We got into the war committed to success, and I'm never going to allow us to cut and run. 
   Let me remind everyone that Bin Laden inspired his followers with his view that America was easy to defeat. Let's not do anything to confirm his skewed vision. When we leave Iraq, let's make sure it's stable and secure enough to defend itself. 
   Last Thursday, we had our first vote on pulling out the troops. We voted on a proposal by the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts who seeks to require the President to set a date for withdrawal by December 31, 2006. Wisely, my colleagues voted down the proposal, with by a 93 to 6 vote. Now that's a pretty telling vote in today's partisan atmosphere. 
   The minority is now seeking a scheduled phase-out withdrawal, which would set an artificial deadline that would only encourage and embolden our nation's enemies. I'm sure this will get more votes than the previous proposal, but it clearly doesn't have the votes to pass. 
   And it shouldn't. 
   The enemy will use this estimate and tell the Iraqi population that the United States is leaving. This could have tremendously harmful repercussions. 
   The United States clearly has a strategy for meeting this difficult challenge in Iraq. Some of those on the other side insist on focusing on the difficulties, while asserting that we have no strategy. 
   Our goal is to stay in Iraq as long as necessary, but not one day longer. 
   Our strategy is to ensure that the Iraqi people have developed a secure constitutional government that embodies a national compact between all Iraqi groups. 
   And it's training their forces to provide for their own security. 
   We have made significant progress. The Iraqis have formed a national government, and they're taking more and more responsibility for their security. 
   In fact, Iraq has nearly 265,000 trained security forces now - including 115,000 for defense - and that's building daily. Our troops are serving with Iraqi units and running joint combat operations. 
   We also have - in conjunction with Iraqis - put Al-Qaida, the Saddamites and the Sunni insurgents on the defensive. They spend more time running from us than they do attacking us, although we all agree they are still lethal. 
   I think it's shameful that we are even considering proposals to withdraw our troops before the job is done in Iraq. 
  We've seen the cost of U.S. withdrawal before, and we should learn from our past history. 
   If our nation sets an artificial deadline for the removal of our forces, all our adversaries need to do is husband their resources until we leave and then emerge, possibly destroying all of the accomplishments to date. 
   That's not a plan for success - that's a plan for failure.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 