SEN. HATCH: REP. GOSS RIGHT MAN FOR CIA POST
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch spoke on the floor of the United States Senate today in support of the nomination of Rep. Porter Goss (R-Fla.) to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). The Senate confirmed Goss by a 77-17 vote. 
   "The next person to head the CIA will lead the organization at its most demanding time in history," Hatch said. "President Bush made the right call when he chose Porter Goss to fill this role. He has worked within the intelligence community, and he has performed years of congressional oversight over that community. He respects the community, and he knows what is expected of it."
   A senior member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Hatch also addressed the major intelligence reform efforts currently underway in Congress. 
   "The reform that will be promoted should not be a mere bureaucratic reshuffling; it should be a reform of our intelligence community that enhances and strengthens our ability to understand, penetrate, co-opt and neutralize the threat of armed groups to our national security," Hatch said. "And the next Director of Central Intelligence must understand that the new initiatives we are debating this month will be the beginning, not the end of reform." 
   "Everyone agrees that we need better results from our intelligence community," Hatch continued. "But the next Director of Central Intelligence must recognize that our goal should not be to rebuild a capability, but to build a new capability. We need better results - and we need a strategy for achieving them. Porter Goss should know right now that this will be the issue I will address in our first closed hearing." 
   Hatch also stressed the critical need for aggressive Congressional oversight of the intelligence community. 
   "When the next Director comes before our committee, we should not settle for reports, we must demand strategy for achieving reform and measurement standards," Hatch said. "Our legislative initiatives can only do so much. Our oversight, and the stewardship of a responsible and experienced Director, will be what really advances reform. If we do our jobs, I can assure Porter Goss that, when he is confirmed, he will be more accountable to Congress than any Director in the history of intelligence community oversight."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 