SOFTWARE FACILITY UNDERWAY FOR 150 NEW ENGINEERS AT HILL AIR FORCE BASE
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) has announced that Okland Construction Company, Inc., received a $17.4 million contract to build a new Software Support Facility at Hill Air Force Base. Hatch has been a leading supporter of the center since its inception, and has rallied to get money for the facility in President Bush's Fiscal Year 2006 and 2007 budgets.  
   "This software center is vital to the long-term success of Hill Air Force Base," Hatch said. "The military awards these contracts to the best firms in America, and I congratulate Okland for its achievement." 
   The new structure will be a 72,500 square foot, two-story addition to existing facilities, where engineers develop, test and maintain software and hardware for the Air Force, including the F-16 fleet. Hill's Software Engineering Division currently does not have adequate space for the 150 new engineering personnel the Air Force will assign to the division, and Hatch has worked to obtain funding to augment Hill's work in protecting the United States. 
   "Hill's software engineers are at the top of their game," Hatch said. "They are doing their very best to make sure our Air Force is running efficiently and well." 
   The Air Force is increasing the division's workload because of Hill engineers' track record for excellence and efficiency. Hill's engineers afford the Air Force a $40 per-hour labor-rate savings over its major industry competitors. Furthermore, Carnegie-Mellon University evaluated Hill's software model as "Capable Maturity Model Level Five," which indicates the facility is in the top 2 percent of all software-development centers in the world. 
   The first phase of expanding the Software Support Facility is financed by $17.4 million through FY 2006 military construction funding approved by Congress last September. Hatch worked closely with the Department of Defense to ensure the President's FY 2007 budget included an additional $19.5 million for a second phase. Hatch promises his best efforts to keep that money in the budget through the legislative process. 
   "This addition to Hill is my highest defense priority," Hatch said. "The servicemen and women at Hill Air Force Base are first-class, that's why the Air Force is coming back to them to get the job done. With this extra money, they can increase the vital role they play in today's military."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 