SENS. HATCH, KOHL INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO HELP LAW ENFORCEMENT TRACK EXPLOSIVES IMPORTED INTO U.S.
  Sens. Herb Kohl (D-WI) and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced the Imported Explosives Security Act to enable law enforcement to trace explosive materials imported into the United States. While domestic manufacturers - for security reasons - are required to place identification markings on all explosive materials they produce, markings are not required of explosives manufactured overseas and imported into the U.S.  
   Each year, more than 25,000 pounds of stolen, lost, or abandoned explosives are recovered by law enforcement. Identification markings enable law enforcement officers to determine the source of these explosives and help them solve crimes. 
   "Millions of pounds of unmarked explosives have already been distributed in this country. Each day we delay closing this loophole, we let more untraceable explosive materials cross our borders and undermine our national security. This is sensible legislation that will help law enforcement's ability to solve crimes," Kohl said. 
   Senator Hatch added: "There is simply no reason why explosive materials that are imported into the United States should not be required to meet the same safety standards as those produced domestically. In today's environment, we cannot afford to allow loopholes like these to go unclosed." 
   Kohl and Hatch's legislation would require all imported explosives to carry the same markings currently placed on domestic explosives. It would require the name of the manufacturer, along with the time, date and shift of manufacture to be placed on all explosives materials, whether they are manufactured in the U.S. or abroad. 
   According to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the explosives can then be tracked through records kept by those who manufacture and sell them, often leading them to the criminal who has stolen or misused them. At a recent Senate hearing, FBI Director Robert Mueller said that "determining the source of the components to any explosive device will assist you in determining who was responsible for any act using such a device."
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 