HAFB, OTHER UTAH MILITARY INSTALLATIONS, RECEIVE FUNDING IN DEFENSE SPENDING BILL
  The U.S. Senate gave final approval to the Department of Defense spending bill Thursday night, which provides funding for the next fiscal year for several key programs at Utah military installations, particularly Hill Air Force Base.
   Sen. Bob Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee responsible for the funding measure, said "the continued commitment by the Congress and the administration to invest in Hill Air Force Base and other state facilities shows how important they are to our nation's military operations. I anticipate this kind of federal support to continue."  
   Added Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), who helped procure the funding for the SELDI, the Avionics Shop, and the Tooele demonstration program, "This funding ensures that Utah will continue to play a vital role in our nation's military. Supporting our bases - and especially Hill Air Force Base - will continue to be our number-one priority." 
   In addition to the funding for Utah bases, the spending measure also includes a 3.5 percent military pay raise and increase in the military housing allowance. 
   Following are Utah highlights in the spending bill: 
   Hill Air Force Base 
   * $4.6 million - Aging Landing Gear Life Extension (ALGLE) 
  As the Air Force continues to face challenges related to aging aircraft, maintenance and reliability of the aircraft landing gear system has been identified as one of the highest priorities. Hill is responsible for 70 percent of the DoD landing gear maintenance work. This funding will provide for continuation of the program. 
   * $4.9 million - Science and Engineering Lab Data Integration (SELDI) 
  A program at Hill, SELDI supports all intercontinental ballistic missiles and most aircraft. SELDI provides a maintenance and logistics information management tool that improves missile and aircraft readiness and safety. Through SELDI, personnel can track lab results relating to maintenance and overhaul operations, as well as equipment failures. These results provide for proactive aircraft inspection and maintenance. 
   * $3.9 million - Avionics Intermediate Shop Station (AIS) 
  F-16 avionics are currently repaired at Hill using 66 AISs. These stations are 20 years old, and increasingly more costly to maintain. A new AIS with state-of-the-art technology has been developed, reducing the time needed to evaluate the F-16 equipment by 62 percent. These funds will be used to purchase the new equipment, Rack-Mounted Improved AIS, R-IAIS. Expedited evaluation of the aircraft will help maintain the critical on-time delivery rates of the aircraft so efficiently performed at Hill. 
   * $3.5 million - A-10 Thunderbolt Service Life Extension Program 
  The depot maintenance for the A-10 aircraft is performed at Hill. When first developed in the 1970s, the A-10 was expected to accrue only 6, 000 flight hours before its retirement. As a result of valuable performance in both Gulf Wars and Afghanistan, the Air Force has extended the service of the aircraft through 2028 which will require it to perform 16,000 flight hours. Funds for this program will provide for efficient, appropriate extension of aircraft's service life and related equipment upgrades. 
   Tooele Army Depot 
   * $5 million - Hydrolysis Demilitarization Demonstration Program 
  Currently, Tooele Army Depot stores the obsolete devices used in pilot ejection systems. With a current device inventory of 4, 500 tons, and more added daily, the Depot has no acceptable method for demilitarization of the items. Testing has shown "hydrolysis demilitarization" to be an effective, viable technology for destruction of these devices. Funding will build a prototype facility for this purpose at Tooele Army Depot. 
   National Guard 
   * $8.2 million - Senior Scout 
  Funds will be used to upgrade and improve the intelligence gathering system utilized by Utah National Guard. 
   The House of Representatives also passed the conference report Thursday afternoon, and it now awaits the review and signature of the president.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 