SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON 'PROPOSED JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SUBPOENA'
  Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate on 
  Proposed Justice Department Subpoena
   Mr. President, I rise today to respond to some comments made yesterday by several of my Democratic colleagues. They have attacked the President and the Administration for not being forthcoming in releasing documents, notwithstanding the fact that they just declassified and released approximately 260 pages of legal memoranda.  
   Let me take a moment to review the history here. 
   On June 8, 2004, the Judiciary Committee held an oversight hearing of the Department of Justice. During the course of the hearing, Senator Kennedy asked the Attorney General for three legal memoranda that had been leaked to the public. Contrary to the suggestions of some, the Attorney General at no time refused to answer any question posed by any Senator of the Committee. He just gave answers with which my Democratic colleagues did not agree. 
   Specifically, the Attorney General declined to agree-on the spot-to produce internal Executive Branch legal memoranda citing the President's right to have confidential advice from his staff. The Attorney General believed he did not have the authority to release these documents. He believed that only the President could release them. 
   Instead, that same day, after the hearing, the Department of Justice wrote a detailed letter responding to the Ranking Democratic Member of the Judiciary Committee's inquiries on legal issues related to wartime decisions. The letter summarizes the Justice Department's legal opinion on whether various statutes and treaties apply in this war on terror, including the Uniform Code of Military Justice, the Special Maritime and Territorial Jurisdiction, the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act, the Torture Statute, the Geneva Conventions, and the War Crimes Act. These topics are precisely the subject matter of the documents at issue in the hearing. 
   Mr. President, the Attorney General is not trying to cover anything up. There can be no question that the Justice Department wanted to be responsive to the Committee, but felt it was not in a position to release the documents without further consultation within the Administration, including the White House and the Defense Department. That is only fair - and prudent during a time of war when some of the documents reveal potential interrogation techniques. 
   In fact, just last week, the Attorney General and the White House Counsel both assured me that they would work with me to fairly resolve the matter. 
   Last Tuesday, the Democratic members of the Judiciary Committee submitted a letter to the Attorney General, not just seeking the three documents that were at issue in the hearing, but are seeking a total of 23 legal memoranda! In addition to that, they provided a laundry list of document requests so broad that it could take a year to search the files of the entire federal government to comply with such a request. Let me give some examples: 
   They ask for "any other memoranda or documents from Alberto Gonzales, William Haynes, William Howard Taft IV, or any senior Administration official, and in the possession of the Department of Justice, regarding the treatment or interrogation of individuals held in the custody of the U.S. Government." Any other senior Administration official? That involves hundreds - if not thousands - of people. Come on! 
   For each of the 23 requested memos, the Democratic Senators want to know what has been redacted, and why, they want an explanation for each classification status, and they want an indication of to whom each was circulated with copies of all cover letters and transmittal sheets. 
   In addition to the 23 requested memos, this request includes 19 other broadly worded questions that require lengthy investigation and responses. 
   And they want all of this by June 30. That is, in just 15 days. 
   This document request appears to be an old fashioned fishing expedition of the highest order. Any objective observer would have to conclude that this is not a legitimate exercise of our oversight function. 
   They just want to use the typical go-to-the-mattresses, scorched earth, litigation-like tactics to bury the Attorney General in requests so broad that no one could possibly comply with them. 
   Last Wednesday - before the ink was dry on the document request letter submitted last Tuesday - the Ranking Minority Member circulated a proposed resolution to subpoena formally documents from the Department of Justice. The Democrats did not even give the Attorney General the courtesy of a few days to respond to the original document request. 
   Yet, while the Democrats were engaging in this conspiracy, I have been working with the White House and the Department of Justice. I told the entire Committee of all my efforts last week. In fact, it is because of my efforts, and the efforts of the President, the Department of Defense and the Justice Department, that these documents have been declassified and disseminated so quickly. 
   Significantly, the three documents that were originally at issue in the Attorney General's hearing have been produced. 
   Of course, that is not good enough for some of my colleagues. The Administration could have sent a thousand memos and some of my Democratic colleagues would not have been satisfied. Their strategy is transparent: No matter what is sent, some will no doubt scream and complain that it is not good enough. 
   Such a lack of good faith suggests that this is more about trying to attack the Attorney General than about obtaining documents necessary for a legitimate exercise of oversight. It is clear they want a subpoena to build a case to hold the Attorney General in contempt of Congress. This threatens to rapidly devolve into a political witch hunt of the worst order. It is sad to see this blatant political posturing during an election year. It is particularly sad to see this uncalled for partisan wrangling over an issue of national security in an election year. They are not fooling anyone by their histrionics. 
   The amendment offered yesterday by the Senator from Nevada, and the amendment offered here, is not limited to the three documents that were at issue in the hearing, since those documents have already been produced. It is not been limited to the 23 documents listed in the first part of their document request. It is a broadly worded subpoena that would encompass all documents and records on this subject since January 20, 2001-regardless of whether the documents were written by someone at the Department of Justice. Talk about a fishing expedition, we are talking about deep sea fishing. Do you know how many people work at the Department of Justice? It would take forever just to ask each of the 112,000 individuals at the Justice Department if they possess any relevant documents. 
   Moreover, the Justice Department subpoena is poorly written. It requests all documents and records "describing, referring or relating to the treatment or interrogation of prisoners of war, enemy combatants, and individuals held in the custody or physical control of the United States Government ... in connection with the investigation of terrorist activity." 
   And the subpoena is not limited to Justice Department records, but also records possessed by the Department of Justice that were written by other agencies, including the CIA, or any military branch. This is simply too broad! 
   In addition, the subpoena requires records relating to the treatment of prisoners. That broad term would appear on its face to include all of the interrogation or treatment records and all of the medical records of Zacarias Moussaoui and any other individual that DOJ is prosecuting, or has prosecuted, on terrorism-related charges subsequent to 2001. 
   This language could include any interrogation and medical records shared between the Department of Defense and the FBI relating to detainees held at Guantanamo Bay or in Iraq, Afghanistan or elsewhere. 
   This information request could involve hundreds, if not thousands, of POWs and other enemy combatants, and hundreds of thousands of pages of records. 
   I do not see the practical utility of providing all of these records pertaining to individual detainees to the Judiciary Committee. Under the proposed subpoena, this information could conceivably include prosecution strategy memos, surveillance materials, information provided by, and the identities of, confidential informants, as well as FISA materials. We normally do not get these types of documents in either Democratic or Republican administrations. 
   This language is simply too broad. I am troubled by the way in which the language appears to stray far away from general policy questions concerning the legal status of certain classes of detainees, such as suspected Al Qeada members, into matters affecting on-going intelligence gathering from, and the prosecution of, individual terrorist suspects. 
   Let me just say that when the shoe is on the other foot, the Democrats have advocated just as I have. Four years ago, when President Clinton was in office, my colleague from Vermont advocated the following practice: "Our standard practice should be to issue subpoenas only when attempts to obtain documents by other means have failed. At a minimum, we should at least request documents in writing before attempting to compel their production . . . As part of this duty, the Committee should take every reasonable effort to see whether subpoenas are actually necessary before publicly requesting them." 
   Here, the Democrats are not making any reasonable effort to attempt to obtain any of the documents by other means. They did not even give the Justice Department a day to respond to their written questions before drafting a subpoena. 
   We know what the Democrats are up to because the Senator of Vermont told us what the purpose of a subpoena was just four years ago. He said that "issuing subpoenas may make for a good show of partisan force by the majority but certainly continues the erosion of civil discourse that has marked this Congress." 
   Well, let me suggest that my Democratic colleagues are trying to take this one step further. The minority is attempting to make a show of partisan force by distorting the facts for the American public. 
   Especially where the Administration has indicated its willingness to be cooperative, issuing a subpoena would not merely continue the erosion of civil discourse, it would accelerate it by exponential proportions. 
   And to suggest that the Senate issue a subpoena before the deadline to comply with a document request has even passed irreparably debilitates the credibility of my colleagues and shows that they are merely grandstanding and not pursuing a legitimate oversight function. 
   Yesterday, the President released not only the three documents at issue in the DOJ oversight hearing, but 260 pages of documents! Thus far, the Administration has released 13 lengthy memoranda relating to the treatment or interrogation of detainees-including relevant documents that were not specifically requested by the Committee. 
   And this may not be the end of the document production. The Department of Justice has until June 30, 2004 to respond to the Democrats' document requests. Now it may well be that after June 30, 2004, there may be additional documents that we will need to see. But to seek such a broadly worded subpoena prematurely makes absolutely no sense. 
   But let me just say that it appears from what we know now - and I will expect the Administration to correct me if I am wrong in this point - we have already gotten the most important documents. I heard my colleague from Vermont mention repeatedly that: Like water, government policy flows downhill. I must say that I agree with him. Clearly, the most important document of those released by the White House is the one that the President of the United States signed on February 7, 2002. You do not get any higher than the President. In that memo, the President acknowledged that even though he was advised that he was not legally obligated to provide the protections of the Geneva Conventions to the Taliban or to the detainees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, that he intended to do so anyway. Let me read just a short portion. The President said: 
   In Paragraph 2b: "I accept the legal conclusion of the Attorney General and the Department of Justice that I have the authority under the Constitution to suspend Geneva as between the United States and Afghanistan, but I decline to exercise that authority at this time. Accordingly, I determine that the provisions of Geneva will apply to our present conflict with the Taliban." 
   Paragraph 3 states: "Of course, our values as a Nation, values that we share with many nations in the world, call for us to treat detainees humanely, including those who are not legally entitled to such treatment. Our Nation has been and will continue to be a strong supporter of Geneva and its principles. As a matter of policy, the United States Armed Forces shall continue to treat detainees humanely and, to the extent appropriate and consistent with military necessity, in a manner consistent with the principles of Geneva." 
   And Paragraph 5 states: "I hereby reaffirm the order previously issued by the Secretary of Defense to the United States Armed Forces requiring that the detainees be treated humanely and to the extent appropriate and consistent with military necessity, in a manner consistent with the principles of Geneva." 
   After hundreds of pages of analysis and after months of research and writing, the most severe punishment that the Secretary of Defense authorized is the "use of mild, non-injurious physical contact such as grabbing, poking in the chest with the finger and light pushing." 
   Why this body would want to issue a subpoena that, (1) failed in Committee, and (2) is not ripe since the deadline to respond to the document request has not even come and gone, is beyond me. 
   I strongly urge all my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote against the amendment. I yield the floor.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 