SEN. HATCH: END TAXATION WITHOUT REPRESENTATION
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today spoke at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on behalf of his bill, the District of Columbia House Voting Rights Act of 2007 (S.1257). Two of his fellow public servants from Utah - Rep. Chris Cannon (R) and Att. Gen. Mark Shurtleff (R) - testified on behalf of the bill as well, which would grant Utah a fourth seat in the House of Representatives. Hatch's prepared remarks follow. 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary for the hearing "Ending Taxation Without Representation: The Constitutionality of S. 1257" 
   I want to thank Chairman Leahy for scheduling this hearing so promptly and you, Senator Feingold, for chairing the hearing today. You are both cosponsors of S.1257, the District of Columbia House Voting Rights Act of 2007. I also want to thank Senator Lieberman, who chairs the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, who introduced the bill and held a hearing on it less than two weeks ago. 
   Mr. Chairman, S.1257 would correct two injustices by giving Utah the additional House seat that many in my state believe we deserved following the 2000 census and giving the half a million Americans living in the District full House representation. Unlike the House version, S.1257 correctly defers to Utah's choice of how to provide for a fourth House member. This avoids potential constitutional difficulties on the Utah side of the equation. On the District of Columbia side, America's founders might not have foreseen the District becoming the major population center it is today. But while they did not affirmatively provide in the Constitution for District representation, I do not believe they negatively denied Congress the power to do so. 
   On numerous occasions, the Supreme Court has approved Congress' application to the District of duties or privileges normally reserved for states. These include the application of direct taxes, court jurisdiction in diversity cases, and regulation of commerce. In each of these and other instances, the Court has not viewed the word states so narrowly as to trump Congress' explicit and exclusive power to legislate for the District. I do not believe we should do so here. 
   I want to emphasize what I said before the Homeland Security Committee. This bill should not be seen as a step toward either statehood or Senate representation for the District of Columbia. America's founders wisely concluded that the nation's capitol should not be one of its constituent states. James Madison said this was an indispensable necessity. And while the House represents people, the Senate represents states, which have equal suffrage in that body. As such, while the District's population supports House representation, its status as a district does not justify Senate representation and I would not support changing that. 
   I acknowledge, as Judge Wald put it in her prepared statement, that this is a close and difficult constitutional question. There are legitimate arguments on both sides. And, I must note, there are both liberal and conservative legal experts on both sides. That said, the commitment of America's founders to representative government, their grant of complete authority over the District of Columbia to Congress, their failure to prohibit District representation in the House, and both congressional and judicial precedent combine to satisfy me that S.1257 rests on sufficiently firm constitutional ground. 
   Mr. Chairman, the distinguished witnesses before us represent different views and perspectives which are well-suited to the question before us, whether S.1257 is constitutional. I am pleased to see the congressional representatives of both Utah and the District, Representative Chris Cannon and Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton, as well as Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff on the first panel. And on the second panel we have a mixture of views, with lawyers and law professors, a former chief appeals court judge, as well as representatives from the Congressional Research Service and the Department of Justice. This is an able and learned group of witnesses and we will all benefit from their testimony. 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 