SEN. HATCH ADDRESSES AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
  I am delighted to be asked to speak to members of AHIP because I believe that the health insurance industry is the backbone of the American health care system. 
   I would like to commend all of you on your efforts to bring forward a proposal to provide access and health coverage to America's uninsured population. I know that was not an easy task but all of you deserve a lot of credit on the work that you have done to close the gap on health care coverage, especially with such a number of diverse groups with completely different health care priorities. 
   There is no question you can teach us on Capitol Hill a thing or two about the art of compromise! Your "Vision for Reform" is a very important document that policy makers in Washington should study carefully. Indeed, its roadmap for reform charts a pathway that is very similar to many of the initiatives I have advanced in the United States Senate.  
   As many of you know, I serve as a top Republican on the Finance Committee. Until the election last year, I chaired the Health Subcommittee; now I am its ranking Republican. I am also the former chair and a current member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee - or HELP. I am one of a very few Senators who sit on both Committees, and I worked hard to get these dual assignments because of my keen interest in health care developed over three decades in the Senate. 
   Overview of Health Care Agenda 
   I was asked to speak on the health care agenda for the 110th Congress. In a nutshell, this boils down to two categories: there are a handful of must do items, and then there are the many, many more want to do items. 
   In the category of must do legislation, I would list: 
  * Reauthorization of the Children's Health Insurance Program; 
   * Extension of authority for the Food and Drug Administration to continue collecting user fees for pharmaceuticals and medical device approvals; 
   * Renewal of incentives to test pediatric drugs; and 
   * Continuation of expiring or expired public health authorities such as the Community Health Centers and the Traumatic Brain Injury programs. 
   I would also list possible programmatic changes to entitlement programs that are necessary to restrain the growth of spending. These changes will be compelled in some measure because our budget presumes that increases in programs such as CHIP will be offset by spending reductions or tax increases. In addition, the budget - which I might add we are currently deliberating - assumes that there will be $15 billion in reductions for what are termed certain overpayments to healthcare providers in Medicare. 
   And before I move to the Want to Do list, I would add another list: the Must NOT Do List. 
   It is important that we allow the prescription drug program authorized under the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act or MMA continue to growth and flourish without major changes. 
   Perhaps the most major change that is being floated - indeed it has passed in the House of Representatives - is addition of the so-called "non-interference" provision. Some advocate that the government should be the one to negotiate pharmaceutical prices, not the health plans. I think this would be a major mistake, and indeed a major reversal of one of the central competitive features of the MMA. 
   Let me move to the Want to Do List. 
   At the top surely would be legislation to address the problem of the uninsured. Following close behind would be legislation to restrain the growth of Medicare and Medicaid spending, provide parity in mental health coverage; add new safeguards for drug safety, and encourage provision of higher quality health care services. 
   Oh yes, and I would also add one issue near and dear to my heart: increase federal support for stem cell research. 
   I have to leave in a few minutes for one of the most unusual events in the Senate year. In recent years, it has become known as the "Vote-a-rama." 
   This, contrary to how it sounds, is not a party, your child's science fair project, or even a fashion show. It is, quite simply, a parade of sequential votes lasting for several hours or even the whole day. Have a nice weekend, right? 
   Under Senate rules, we debate the budget for 50 hours. Then, every Senator who has filed an amendment is allowed the right to have his or her amendment voted upon. With a budget of $2.93 trillion, you can imagine there are many opportunities for amendment. Each of us as Senators feel it is our right, and indeed our serious senatorial duty, to amend this beast as much as we can! 
   As a matter of fact, I do have an amendment to the budget resolution that I think you'll like, but I'll save the best for last! Anyway, the voting today will literally go on for hours, one vote after another with a minute or two of debate in between. The only people who are happy about this are my staff, because I won't be in the office! Trust me, it's true. 
   Before I leave, I want to talk about a few of these issues in more detail. Those issues center around our efforts to provide better insurance coverage to Americans. 
   Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) 
   One of the most important issues on the must do list is addressed in the budget resolution, and that is reauthorization of the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) which expires at the end of September. 
   I noticed in your Vision for Reform that you list as a top priority improvements of CHIP to cover all uninsured children from low-income families. To borrow a phrase from the 60s: Right on! I am with you. 
   And, indeed, yesterday one of the very first amendments the Senate adopted to the budget resolution was that offered by Finance Committee Chair Max Baucus. With adoption of the Baucus amendment the Senate is now on record in stating that reauthorization of CHIP is a top health care priority. 
   You know the statistics as well as I do. More than six million children enrolled in CHIP in 2006. These are children of hard-working families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid - yet don't have enough to pay for health insurance themselves. No matter how hard they try, they simply can't afford medical coverage. CHIP has made a huge difference to these families. 
   And, while our coverage successes under CHIP have been notable, there are still about 5.5 million children with family incomes below 200 percent of poverty who are not enrolled. Over three-fourths of all unenrolled children in this country are eligible now for Medicaid and SCHIP, but are not enrolled. Clearly, we have our work cut out for us. 
   CHIP happens to be something I know quite a bit about. In 1997, Senator Kennedy and I joined together to author a bill providing a new state block grant to allow those states which wished to participate to receive a higher match than Medicaid would provide to provide insurance to children. Our bill, which we called the CHILD bill, became CHIP when melded with the Chafee-Rockefeller Medicaid approach. 
   We fought hard for it. We knew it would be a good program, an important program, even a landmark program. But, we had no idea what a tremendously popular initiative it would become. 
   Today, 10 years later, all 50 states, the District of Columbia and five territories have CHIP programs. Even so, CHIP has not achieved all that we wanted - full coverage of eligible children. Nearly nine million children in the United States still lack health coverage. It is estimated that between two million and two point eight million of these children are eligible for CHIP. 
   It is important to note here that the federal dollars in the budget baseline allocated for the CHIP program over the next 10 years will not even cover current CHIP beneficiaries. The budget baseline assumes $5 billion annually for CHIP over the next 10 years, added to which is $15 billion in new CHIP spending under the President's budget. The Senate's budget supplements this with a budget neutral reserve fund that can include up to $35 billion more for CHIP. 
   In reauthorizing CHIP, our first priority must be to ensure that all eligible children are covered. That is part of the AHIP Vision as well. Hand-in-hand with that goal must be an improvement of outreach efforts, to locate eligible children who are not signed up. I know AHIP supports that goal as well, as well as measures to simplify enrollment. 
   One important focus is reexamination of what populations should most appropriately be covered by CHIP. When we enacted CHIP, we never envisioned that adults would be covered. 
   Indeed, Senator Kennedy and I entertained some very spirited debates over whether pregnant women should be covered, and reluctantly concluded they should not since the several thousand dollar cost of child-birth could be used to cover many, many children over the year. 
   It is a sad fact of 2007 that some states now spend more CHIP funds on adults than children, while eligible children go uncovered. This is plain wrong and I am working to address this matter. 
   That being said, it is obvious we still need to examine ways to provide coverage to low-income adults. In a country as wealthy as ours, it is unconscionable that over 40 million people go without health insurance each year. 
   Health Savings Plans (HSAs) 
   Last year, the House passed Association Health Plan legislation. The Senate debated but did not pass a related measure to establish Small Business Health Plans. Other ideas that have been put forth include expanding current entitlement programs, and allowing new tax incentives such as tax credits or deductions. 
   One idea I have advanced is to expand and improve Health Savings Accounts, so individuals can purchase high deductible plans and self-insure for routine costs below that deductible. Health Savings Accounts were established in the 2003 Medicare law. 
   In 2006 AHIP reported that three million individuals were enrolled in health plans linked to HSAs. The Commonwealth Fund reported that an estimated 8.5 million people were enrolled in plans with deductibles high enough to qualify to make tax-preferred contributions to a health savings account, but did not have such an account. 
   Last year, I worked with Congressman Paul Ryan to make changes in the HSA law to simplify contribution limits and allow individuals to make a one-time tax-free transfer of Flexible Spending Account and Health Reimbursement Arrangement balances to an HSA. 
   The law also makes some administrative reforms and allows employers to make higher contributions for non-highly compensated employees. 
   This was a real achievement by the 109th Congress, one that will make HSAs more accessible to ordinary families with pressing health care needs and for employers who want to provide affordable health care for their employees. 
   President's Health Plan 
   Another idea on the table is the President's proposal to level the playing field for those who must purchase their own insurance. President Bush's plan replaces the unlimited employment deduction with a flat deductible of $7,500 for an individual and $15,000 for a family. This deduction would apply to both income and payroll tax purposes. 
   This is an interesting idea, a new idea, and it has won a measure of interest on both sides of the aisle. That being said, because of its obvious challenges to current generous insurance plans, its future is far from certain in the Congress. 
   I am intrigued by this idea, and believe it merits attention, as do the range of options to help with the uninsured problem that I have cited above. 
   The bottom line is that, to me, it is clear we need to take action to help those who cannot purchase health insurance do so. It is equally clear there is not a consensus in Congress on how to do so. 
   That is one reason Senator Ron Wyden and I authored a 2003 law that established a Citizens' Committee that traveled around the United States to solicit ideas on how our health care delivery system can be improved. 
   It was important to us that ideas for reform come from the bottom up, rather than the top down. 
   And so, reluctantly I predict that this legislation will not be on the top burner this session - not because it is not important, but because the session is very hectic and there is not a consensus on what direction to take. 
   Medicare Advantage 
   Finally, I wanted to close by telling you about a budget amendment I will offer this morning that is intended to help protect Medicare Advantage plans. 
   My amendment would establish a budget-neutral reserve fund so that if Congress implements improvements to Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP, it may not do so in a way that leads to fewer coverage choices for Medicare beneficiaries. It also may not reduce the benefits of those beneficiaries who are enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans. 
   Essentially, my amendment protects Medicare beneficiaries' coverage choices, especially coverage choices for those beneficiaries living in rural areas and low-income Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Let's face it, beneficiaries across the nation - whether they live in a rural state like Utah or urban area like New York City - now have more coverage choices. These choices offer beneficiaries more benefits and lower out of pocket costs. Beneficiaries are satisfied. 
   Let's not forget, bipartisan policy decisions helped achieve those results. And those results, in my opinion, are worth protecting for beneficiaries' sake. So any assistance that you may provide to me in garnering support for this amendment would be greatly appreciated. 
   There are many other issues I'd love to talk about, but I did want to leave some time for a few questions. 
   It has been my great honor and privilege to meet with you this morning. I admire the work you are doing and I recognize the challenges you face in this ever-changing environment. Know that you have a friend in Orrin Hatch. 
   Thank you for your time.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 