SENATE APPROVES SEN. HATCH AMENDMENT FOR MINE SAFETY STUDIES
  The U.S. Senate today approved an amendment to the Labor Department appropriations bill (H.R. 3043), sponsored by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), which aims to gather more information that could be used to improve safety for Western miners. Cosponsored by Sen. Bob Bennett (R-Utah), the measure would provide for a study on retreat room and pillar mining practices. These measures are part of Hatch's ongoing response to the Crandall Canyon Mine disaster in Huntington, Utah, in August.  
   "This summer a tragedy struck the Utah mining community," Hatch said. "As a nation, we need to gather as many facts as we can about what mining practices are safe and what we need to change. This measure will enable the government to collect more information so we can protect those who go into mines every day, ensure the vitality of this critical industry, and honor the memory of the nine miners who lost their lives." 
   Retreat mining involves excavating an underground chamber while leaving behind pillars of material for support. Once the deposit is depleted, miners remove the pillars and "retreat" back towards the mine's entrance. Although a common technique, retreat mining has come under fire because some credit it for the Crandall Canyon Mine disaster. Hatch's study would invite the University of Utah and West Virginia University to participate in a study of this technique in underground coal mines at depths greater than 1,500 feet. 
   "It has been my hope that we can learn from the disastrous events at Crandall Canyon Mine in Utah and improve mining safety in Utah and throughout the United States," Hatch said. "The majority of research performed by the mining community has been in Eastern mines. Western mines are usually much deeper and therefore have their own safety concerns. By approving this amendment, the Senate is putting much-needed attention and funding toward enhancing mine safety in Utah mines and aiding the working environment for this vital industry."
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 