SEN. HATCH SEEKS STUDY ON IMPACT OF FEDERAL LAND ON UTAH EDUCATION FUNDING
  The U.S. Senate today accepted an amendment to the H.R. 3043 appropriations bill, sponsored by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), which directs the Department of Education to conduct a study on the impact on public schools in states with high proportion of federal land, such as Utah, compared to states with a small proportion of federal land. Utah faces chronic public education shortages based in large part because of the vast federal holdings within its borders - approximately 65 percent of the state.  
   "No one cherishes their children and participates in their education more than Utahns," Hatch said. "But we have always struggled to fund education adequately with so much of our land in the federal government's hands. This study will help us understand how federal ownership of land is keeping Utah students from reaching their potential." 
   This amendment is intended to support the Action Plan for Public Land and Education (APPLE) Act of 2007, which Rep. Rob Bishop (R-Utah) and Hatch introduced in September. APPLE would allow Western states to select and take back control of 5 percent of federal public lands within their boundaries that have no specific federal designation. The revenue generated from the sale or lease of these lands would be dedicated solely to public education. Certain existing areas would be excluded, such as National Parks, National Forests, Wilderness Areas, and military installations. 
   As public schools are funded by property tax on privately owned land, Hatch believes that Western students are harmed by their states' shortage of taxable land. To determine the extent of this harm, Hatch's study will determine the impact of a variety of factors, including: 1) current student-teacher ratios, 2) trends in student-teacher ratios, and 3) the proportion of property tax dedicated to education in each state. 
   To compensate schools for money lost to federal lands, the government offers payment in lieu of taxes (PILT). However, these funds are typically inadequate to compensate for lost property tax dollars. Hatch's study would also examine the potential effect of full funding of the payment in lieu of taxes program. 
   "I appreciate the help the government has provided Utah schools with the PILT program, but it's just not enough," Hatch said. "Utah parents and teachers make sure their students do the best they can with the resources available, but imagine how much better off our young people would be if the government were following through on its promise with PILT?"
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 