NEW MEDICARE PLANS OFFER UTAHNS BIG DISCOUNTS FOR DRUG COVERAGE
  Beginning in January, Medicare beneficiaries in Utah will be able to obtain prescription drug coverage for as little as $20 per month, according to an announcement today by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).  
   "These are the plans that Utah seniors have been waiting for," said Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), a key member of the Senate Finance Committee, and the Conference Committee that negotiated the prescription drug coverage legislation two years ago. "Disabled and elderly Utahns will be able to get the coverage they need with little hassle, and with premium costs that are truly affordable." 
   CMS announced that 18 organizations in Utah will offer stand-alone prescription coverage plans for Medicare recipients, including two with premiums of less than $20 per month. The significant private-sector participation is a realization of the Medicare prescription drug coverage bill passed by Congress in 2003, for which Hatch was a key negotiator. Under the program, Utah seniors can also choose Medicare Advantage plans, which provide drug coverage with additional benefits. All Medicare beneficiaries are eligible for prescription drug coverage, although costs are lowest for lower-income seniors and disabled Utahns. 
   "No more pill-cutting, no more confusion," said Hatch. "This coverage should be easy to access, and will most help those who are most in need. Twelve plans will offer coverage with no premiums whatsoever, for those with the lowest incomes who qualify for that extra help." 
   The 18 plans mean Utah beneficiaries will have a range of options in choosing the coverage that best fits their needs. All approved Utah plans are required to provide coverage at least as good as Medicare's standard coverage, according to CMS. That means an average of 75 percent of drug costs will be covered after a $250 deductible, up to $2,250 in total drug spending.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 