JUDICIARY LEADERS INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN, BICAMERAL ORPHAN WORKS LEGISLATION
  Leading members of the Senate and House Judiciary Committees today introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to preserve so-called "orphan works" - copyrighted works for which the owners cannot be found. Potential users of orphan works often fail to display or use such works out of concern that they may be found liable for statutory damages, amounting to as much as $150,000. 
   Legislation to address those concerns was introduced today in the Senate by Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), a senior member and former chairman of the panel, and in the House by Rep. Howard Berman (D-Calif.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property and Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee. The bill is co-sponsored in the House by Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-Mich.) and Rep. Howard Coble (R-N.C.) The legislation would enable users to exhibit orphan works if, after a thorough, documented search, the copyright owners are unable to be located. The legislation outlines the criteria for such a search, and provides for court review to determine if a search has been adequate and done in good faith. If the copyright owner later emerges, the user must pay reasonable compensation to the owner. The bill also includes provisions to further protect owners of these orphaned copyrights, should any user exhibit bad faith.
   "This legislation will help bring together potential users and owners of orphan works," said Leahy. "But also as important, it will allow the public to view works that may remain orphaned. A Vermonter can restore a family photograph from three generations ago, even when the original photographer is no longer available to give permission. With this bill, we can preserve important parts of our personal and national heritage, without giving a free license to infringe on established copyright protections."
   "There are thousands of artistic creations around the country that are effectively locked away and unavailable for the general public to enjoy because the owner of the work is unknown. Identifying the owner of a copyrighted work is difficult in many cases and represents a huge liability to those who would bring the work into the public domain without permission" Hatch said. "This bill represents a commitment from Congress to unlock orphan works so the general public may once again enjoy them."
   "Too many valuable works are unused because their creators are unknown, and potential users fear excessive liability," said Berman. "We must act to lower the legal barriers that keep these works from the public."
   "Millions of copyrighted works are effectively 'locked up' and unable to be enjoyed by the public due to our current copyright system," said Smith. "As a result, investments in new works and expositions by libraries, museums and others are frequently not undertaken due to the possibility of lawsuits and large statutory damage awards. By placing reasonable limitations on liability, while ensuring that owners receive compensation for the use of their works, the bills introduced today will help reduce uncertainty and encourage creativity."
   Leahy, Hatch, Berman and Smith have longstanding interests in intellectual property issues, and have introduced copyright legislation in the 110th Congress, including a bipartisan, bicameral bill to reform the patent system. The full title of the bill is the Shawn Bentley Orphan Works Act of 2008, named in honor of a long-time Hatch Judiciary Committee staff member who died in 2005.
   Contact: Mark Eddington and Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 