SEN. HATCH STAFF TO RAISE CONCERNS AT NUKE TEST SITE
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) will send his top military and nuclear policy aides to Nevada Wednesday for a personal briefing about the proposed large-scale, open-air explosive detonation scheduled for June 2 at the Nevada Test Site. 
   "The more I look into this, the more upset I become," Hatch said. "The good people who live downwind from this test site have already been through enough, and I've given them my word that I'll never allow any nuclear testing that could harm them again. I have directed my staff is going to check into this very closely, and if I'm not satisfied that this will be safe, I'm going to do everything I can to put a stop to it."  
   On Friday, Hatch sent a letter to the director of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), Dr. James Tegnelia, expressing his concerns about the upcoming test, which has been given the name "Divine Strake." 
   "I am deeply troubled by the specific location of the Divine Strake detonation," Hatch said. "From my study, the detonation site will be 1.1 miles from where six underground nuclear weapons tests took place, and this blast will send up a mushroom cloud 10,000 feet. We need good, clear answers explaining how a test of that magnitude will be able to contain the spread of radioactive particles from the previous tests." 
   Hatch's letter follows: 
   Dear Director Tegnelia: 
   I am writing to my express my concern regarding the Defense Threat Reduction Agency's ("DTRA") large-scale, open-air explosive detonation, called Divine Strake, due to take place on June 2, 2006 at the Nevada Test Site ("NTS"). As you well know, the citizens of Utah, Nevada and California have long suffered due to the effects of exposure to radiation caused by nuclear tests conducted at the NTS. Accordingly, I have been resolute in opposing any nuclear testing that could cause harm to human beings. 
   However, I understand that Divine Strake's detonation of conventional explosives will be conducted in order to obtain data to assist in the development of methodologies and technologies that hold the promise of neutralizing hardened underground facilities. As the Ranking Member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I fully recognize the importance of developing this conventional capability due to our potential adversaries' wide spread utilization of hardened underground bunkers, where strategic assets such as leadership and weapons of mass destruction could be hidden. In fact, there are over 1,400 of these sites, many in North Korea, Iran, and Libya. 
   Despite this, I am deeply troubled by the specific location of the Divine Strake detonation. For example, on page 3-3 of the pre-approval draft of Divine Strake's Environmental Assessment, the report states that the detonation site will be 1.5 miles from the location where "from mid-1962 through 1971, six underground nuclear weapons effects tests" took place. Yet on page 4-1, the assessment states that the distance is 2.5 miles. I appreciate the diligence of your staff in correcting this inconsistency, when my office brought this discrepancy to the Agency's attention, though I was further concerned to learn that the true distance between the two sites is only 1.1 miles. This apprehension has only grown upon reading that the tunnel nuclear weapon effects tests ranged from "less than 20 kilotons" to "20-150 kilotons." Therefore, a legitimate question can be offered: "will the Divine Strake detonation, which is expected to create a dust or mushroom cloud reaching 10,000 feet, cause the spread of radioactive particles from the previous nuclear weapons effects tests?" 
   As you know, the draft of the Environmental Assessment concludes that: 
   The site of the proposed Divine Strake detonation? has never been used for any type of nuclear testing activity. Based upon this process knowledge, the aerial radiation surveys performed in the past, the current radiological control status of the area under the existing radiation protection program, and the knowledge of the area from the NTS Environmental Restoration program, radioactive contamination does not exist at [the Divine Strake detonation site]. Therefore, the proposed action would not result in the suspension or dispersion of radioactive materials or human exposure to radioactive materials. 
   However, I was struck by the lack of supporting documentation contained in the report to reach this conclusion. In fact, the possibility of spreading radioactive material was only discussed in a few paragraphs of the assessment. This is especially disconcerting, since the assessment cannot have taken into consideration the true distance between the detonation site and nuclear effects test sites. Further, these concerns are only reinforced since I understand that the ejecta caused by the conventional explosion will be one of the elements that DTRA will be closely studying after the detonation. 
   Accordingly, I accept DTRA's invitation for members of my staff to travel to NTS on Wednesday, April 26thin order to view the proposed detonation site and be briefed on the specific elements Divine Strake detonation. I also respectfully request that the questions I have posed in this letter be answered in writing. 
   Thank you for your attention to this matter and please accept my gratitude for the diligent work that DTRA has performed in providing capabilities to reduce, counter and eliminate weapons of mass destruction.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854, Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 