SEN. HATCH SAYS DELTA-NORTHWEST MERGER COULD BOOST AIR TRAVEL
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today said a proposed Delta-Northwest airlines merger offers exciting prospects for air travel in Utah and elsewhere across the U.S.
   In his remarks to the Judiciary Committee's Antitrust Subcommittee, Hatch said the merger could potentially offer airline travelers across the nation with more connections to domestic and international locations. 
   Sen. Hatch's complete statement to the Antitrust Subcommittee follows:
   As always it is a pleasure to be with you. I appreciate that you have called this hearing so quickly after the announcement of the proposed Delta and Northwest merger. This is a matter of the highest importance to all of our states and, in particular, Utah. I also wish to thank our witnesses for accepting the Subcommittee's invitation to testify here today.
   Mr. Chairman, I am excited about the possibilities that this merger offers. Both Delta and Northwest play important roles in the smaller communities that are found in the Mountain West and the upper Midwest. This merger holds the promise of efficiently connecting those communities not only to additional locations inside our own country but to Europe, Asia, and Latin America.
   The proposed business plan for the merged entity is novel. Instead of eliminating duplicative route service or leveraging similar aircraft fleets, the purpose of the merger is to increase revenue by offering increased route offerings.
   However, this transaction raises important antitrust questions. First, do Delta and Northwest's routes overlap? Second, will the merger result in higher prices? Finally, what type of analysis should the regulatory officials perform when considering this transaction?
   First, Delta and Northwest's routes are largely complementary. In fact, Delta states that the transaction will result in only 12 non-stop domestic "city pair" overlaps. City pair overlaps are defined as those locations that both Delta and Northwest currently offer flights between. Of the 12 overlaps, five cities will have three or more nonstop competitors after the combination, and three other cities will have two competitors after the merger.
   There will be only four city pair overlaps reduced to a single carrier non-stop service. Those city pairs are Salt Lake to Detroit; Salt Lake to Minneapolis; Cincinnati to Detroit and Cincinnati to Minneapolis. Delta contends that these single carrier non-stop service overlaps will affect only 573 origin and destination passengers per day, each way, and compromise only .3 percent of the combined airline's origin and destination domestic traffic.
   Second, many speculate this transaction will result in higher ticket prices. This is a legitimate concern. However, Delta argues that their new business plan is designed to raise revenue. It could be very difficult to raise prices drastically due to potential competition from low cost carriers. Yet, ascertaining the possible range of price increases will be one of the more important aspects of tomorrow's hearing.
   Finally, there is the question of what type of analysis should be performed on this merger. Traditionally, anti-trust regulatory agencies performed their analysis only on the merger "in front" of them. However, other mergers are considered as part of the analysis if they affect a similar market and those mergers occur during the period in which the initial merger is being considered.
   In the case of this merger, the Mr. Mitchell and the American Anti-Trust Institute advocate the Department of Justice perform a scenario analysis. A scenario analysis takes into consideration other possible mergers that could occur even though they have not been announced or negotiated.
   I believe that this could have disadvantageous consequences and I look forward to discussing this matter with you in greater depth, Professor Bush.
   That being said, Mr. Chairman, thank you again for calling this hearing. I look forward to a thorough discussion of these issues.
   Contact: Mark Eddington and Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 