SEN. HATCH, JUDICIARY REPUBLICANS SUPPORT SUPREME COURT NOMINEE ALITO
 Supreme Court nominee Samuel Alito won a victory Tuesday as Senate Judiciary Committee Republicans endorsed him for a full Senate-floor vote. 
   The vote was a straight party split, with all 10 Republicans endorsing Alito and all eight Democrats voting against him. The following text is Senator Orrin Hatch's (R-Utah) opening remarks at Tuesday's mark-up. Following the mark-up, Judiciary Committee Republicans held a press conference at the U.S. Capitol, decrying partisan attacks against Alito and supporting his nomination. Video and audio files of conference are available on this website.  
   Hatch's speech: 
   Before us today is the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. 
   I proudly support this outstanding nominee and will vote to send his nomination to the Senate floor with a favorable recommendation. 
   Under any reasonable, objective, or traditional standard, the Senate would overwhelmingly confirm this exceptional nominee. Only about a dozen years ago or so, the Senate applied such a standard and overwhelmingly confirmed two nominees of President Bill Clinton. They were at least as liberal as Judge Alito is said to be conservative. 
   One of them, Judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg, had what has come to be called in judicial confirmation-speak a long paper trail of provocative and controversial positions on issues which still push hot buttons today. Yet the Senate confirmed her in 1993 by a vote of 96-3 and confirmed Judge Stephen Breyer a year later by a vote of 87-9. These two Clinton nominees received only a dozen negative votes between them. 
   Observers of what the judicial confirmation process has become in the last several years might have a hard time remembering that fair process. Where were the filibusters? Where were the litmus paper and the scorecards? Did people tally up Justice Ginsburg's past appeals court rulings and, on that basis, warn that she would not give certain groups a fair shake in the future? 
   These are just some of the tactics being used to smear and attack the nominee before us. No, the Senate overwhelmingly confirmed Justices Ginsburg and Breyer because we acknowledged their obvious qualifications and judicial temperament, and we gave the president the deference required by the separation of powers. 
   By that traditional standard, Judge Alito would receive at least as much support. Judge Alito is exceptionally well qualified, with 15 years on the U.S. Court of Appeals during which time he has participated in nearly 5000 cases and written more than 360 opinions. 
   After interviewing hundreds of people, reviewing hundreds of opinions and other writings, and examining charges raised by critics, the American Bar Association unanimously gave Judge Alito its highest well qualified rating. The ABA's criteria include a nominee's compassion, open-mindedness, freedom from bias, and commitment to equal justice under the law. 
   Liberal legal scholars, and even liberal editorial pages, have said that while they do not agree with everything Judge Alito has written or concluded, his opinions are thoughtful, well-reasoned, careful, and respectful of precedent. 
   Judge Alito's own colleagues came before this committee to give the kind of insight and perspective that no one but those working most closely with a judge can give. Seven current and former members of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit gave remarkable testimony about Judge Alito's intellect, open-mindedness, character, and judicial independence. 
   Judge Leonard Garth, for whom Judge Alito clerked and with whom he now serves, said that Judge Alito has never expressed anything that can be described as an agenda. 
   Judge Timothy Lewis, describing himself as openly and unapologetically pro-choice and a civil rights activist, said that Judge Alito, whether in the courtroom or behind closed doors, never exhibited anything resembling an ideological bent. 
   All of the evidence, every bit of it, points to a judge who honors his oath to be impartial and to render justice without respect to persons. 
   Under the standards we used not that long ago, this would have been more than enough to confirm Judge Alito in short order. That was then. As the vote we will soon take will show, times have changed. 
   I believe, Mr. Chairman, that the key to this nominee's opposition is indeed to be found in his testimony before this committee. 
   Judge Alito, after all, testified that the judiciary has an important but limited role. His opponents must believe that the judiciary should have an all-important and unlimited role. It seems that some on the left cannot abide a judge who thinks that the Constitution, the supreme law of the land, governs not only the legislative and executive branch, but the judicial branch as well. 
   Judge Alito said that judges do not have authority to change the Constitution. While constitutional principles must be applied to new factual situations, he said, "the principles don't change." That alone, in the eyes of the critics, must be the confirmation kiss of death. How, after all, will they achieve a political agenda that the people reject if the Constitution is not whatever the judges say it is? 
   In deciding cases, Judge Alito said he begins and often ends with the text of a statute, that statutes are presumptively constitutional, and that there is a presumption that precedents will be followed. There he goes again, outlining an important but limited role for judges. I can see why his critics are so worked up. A judge like this is bound to make us legislators act like...well, like legislators. 
   Judge Alito's testimony before this committee was absolutely consistent with the system of limited government and separated powers established by America's founders. His testimony was just as inconsistent with the system of judicial activism that some political interests favor so they can achieve their agenda through the courts. 
   That is what this debate is about. The reason why so many Senators, and the political interests to which they cater, will not support Judge Alito is that they cannot support the kind of limited judiciary that he represents. 
   A limited judiciary will not get them where they want to go. A limited judiciary leaves too many issues, too many questions, too many decisions to the people and to the people's elected representatives. 
   The debate over judicial appointments in general, and over this nomination in particular, is about whether the American people and those they elect still have the power to make the law and define the culture, or whether judges should do it for us instead. 
   Like America's founders, Judge Alito clearly believes in self-government, that the people and not judges should make law, and that judges have an important role but must know and stay in their proper place. 
   That is why his critics oppose him, and that is why he must be confirmed. 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 