SEN. HATCH ADDRESSES CHRISTIAN COALITION ROAD TO VICTORY 2004 CONFERENCE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today addressed the Christian Coalition Road to Victory 2004 conference. His remarks follow: 
   Thank you for inviting me to speak with you today, and for all you do for our country. Psalm 11:3 asks what can we do if the foundations are destroyed. We must regain our bearings to avoid losing our way, and this is critically important when it comes to the judiciary. What America's founders intended to be the least dangerous branch has become the powerful, and liberty itself is at stake.  
   The coming presidential election reminds us what happened in Florida four years ago. The Florida Supreme Court looked at a statute requiring counties to submit recount results within seven days and said seven actually means 19. Yesterday, the same court struck down a state law, calling it "an encroachment on the judicial branch." What about encroachments by the judiciary? 
   America's founders insisted that the people and their elected representatives make the law and that the judiciary be the weakest branch. They wrote a Constitution because writing down words that have meaning would limit the power of government. Does a written Constitution mean anything if unelected judges can find all sorts of unwritten stuff in there? How can the Constitution limit judges if they can make it mean anything they want? 
   Judges changing the meaning of our laws, sweeping aside what the people and their legislatures do, and then huffing and puffing about being left to their imperial selves is a prescription for disaster. 
   When the people made decisions about abortion, they limited and banned the killing of children. Since judges highjacked those decisions, today even partial birth abortion is legal. 
   When the people made decisions about pornography, they limited this scourge and protected their children. Since judges re-wrote the First Amendment, they have made the Internet an obscenity superhighway for children. 
   When the people made decisions about religion in public life, they balanced individual freedom of conscience and the public expression of God's place in our heritage. Since judges took over, they have secularized our public schools and public squares and squelched religious freedom. 
   Judicial activism destroys the people's right to govern ourselves, to have our values influence public policy and define the culture. America needs judges who know their proper place and are committed to stay there. 
   One week ago, we marked the 217th birthday of the Constitution, when the Constitutional Convention sent the new charter to the states for ratification. Judges take an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States. Not some Constitution, or any Constitution, or their own Constitution, not a fake Constitution, but the Constitution. To put it simply, America needs judges who take that oath seriously, who believe there is such a thing as the Constitution that they did not make and cannot change. 
   I was in the East Room of the White House back on May 9, 2001, when President Bush made his very first judicial nominations. Here's how he described the kind of judge he would appoint: "Every judge I appoint will be a person who clearly understands the role of a judge is to interpret the law, not to legislate from the bench....My nominees will know the difference." At the Republican National Convention a few weeks ago, President Bush repeated this promise: "I will continue to appoint federal judges who know the difference between personal opinion and the strict interpretation of the law." 
   America needs that kind of judge, who takes a Constitution he did not make and cannot change and faithfully applies it to the cases that come before him. Judges are umpires or referees, not legislators or dictators. 
   Recent polls show that more that twice as many Americans know the number of Rice Krispie characters as know the number of Supreme Court Justices. Fifty percent more teenagers can name the Three Stooges as can name the first three words of the Constitution. When more than 40 percent of Americans do not even know the federal government has three branches, it is little wonder they do not understand what those branches are supposed to do. 
   No doubt many of you have heard the phrase "a government of laws and not of men." You might not, however, know the origin of that axiom. It comes from the Massachusetts Constitution of 1780. This will be a government of laws and not of men, the charter says, when judges are prohibited from making law. Last year the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court used that very same charter, the one that prohibits judges from making law, to invent a right to same-sex marriage. There's no better example of how judicial activism destroys our liberty. 
   A lawyer went to heaven and was waiting in line at the Pearly Gates when he saw what looked like a judge in black robe go the front of the line, speak to Saint Peter, and disappear inside. When he asked Saint Peter who the judge was, he replied: "Oh that was God all right, he just thinks he's a federal judge sometimes." 
   How many of you wives have given your husbands a list of thing to pick up at the store on his way home from work? Let's say that list included milk, salad dressing, and broccoli and he brings home soda, beef jerky, and fish bait. What would happen if he said he had just interpreted the words on the list a little differently. He would probably be sleeping on the "couch" that night, and there would be absolutely no question what that means. 
   Try telling the state trooper who pulls you over for speeding that you interpreted that 55 to mean 75. You'll probably get a second ticket. 
   We recently had a president who attempted to justify his immoral behavior by playing with the definition of words such as is and alone. Activist judges do the same thing. They look at the Constitution and say what Humpty Dumpty told Alice in Lewis Carroll's classic Through the Looking Glass: "When I use a word, it means what I choose it to mean, neither more nor less." It's the meaning that counts. When judges change the meaning of our laws, they change the law. When judges change the law, we lose our liberty. This is what the battle over judicial appointments is all about. 
   Here's what has been happening with judicial appointments, and what will need to happen in the future. 
   You can't appoint good judges unless you have good nominees. President Bush has kept his promise, and sent the Senate highly qualified men and women who indeed know exactly what judges are supposed to do. The Senate has so far confirmed 201 of President Bush's judicial nominees. This is as many as President Clinton appointed in his first term. Our Republican majority has confirmed more Bush nominees in the 108th Congress than the Democrats confirmed in the 107th. 
   This has not been easy. Just days after President Bush took the oath of office, Senator Tom Daschle vowed that Democrats would use "whatever means necessary" to oppose judicial nominees they opposed. They began a series of obstruction tactics even while in the minority. Ten judicial nominees in the last 50 years have been confirmed with more than 40 votes against them. Half of them belong to this president. 
   The Christian Coalition helped us get some of these tough ones over the goal line. With your help, in 2002 we confirmed Judge D. Brooks Smith to the Third Circuit and Dennis Shedd to the Fourth Circuit; in 2003 we confirmed Timothy Tymkovich to the Tenth Circuit and Jeffrey Sutton and Deborah Cook to the Sixth Circuit; and this year I'm proud to say we confirmed James Leon Holmes to the U.S. District Court. The 46 votes against him were the most against a confirmed district court nominees in at least the last half-century. Yet he will be a fine judge and I thank you for your help getting him confirmed. 
   As Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I have continued to hold hearings and insist on committee votes. More than two years ago, President Bush nominated highly qualified men and women to fill four long-standing Michigan-based vacancies on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. We tried to work with Michigan's two Democratic Senators but eventually fairness required that we hold hearings. Some conservatives thought I waited too long, and liberals objected to any hearings at all. But we have now had a hearing on all four nominees, and so far voted three of them out to the full Senate. That was the right thing to do. 
   Obstruction continues in many forms. The time between nomination and confirmation is longer than under President Clinton. The percentage of appeals court nominees confirmed during President Bush's first term is the lowest of any president since FDR. And now Senate Democrats have launched an unprecedented and unconstitutional filibuster campaign, trying to highjack the confirmation process completely. 
   The Senate cannot vote on a nomination unless we first end debate on it. As you know, our Senate rules require 60 votes to invoke cloture, or end debate, on legislation or nominations. Democrats are using this rule to permanently block votes on majority-supported nominees. Basically, they are trying to raise the bar for confirmations from the simple majority the Constitution requires to 60. These are the first filibusters in American history to defeat judicial nominees, and so far 10 highly qualified nominees, both men and women, blacks and Hispanics, have been kept on the sidelines. 
   Where do we go from here? I'm asking your help on two fronts. First, we must educate our fellow citizens, as well as our elected representatives, about the kind of judge America needs. One-quarter of Americans believe the text of the Constitution itself literally protects a right to abortion, and one-fifth of our fellow citizens believe that only lawyers can understand the Constitution. Let me tell you, given the conditions in most American law schools, I'd say many lawyers are the ones least able to understand the Constitution. Instead, our fellow citizens need to read it and understand how important it is that judges be referees and leave the lawmaking to the people. 
   Second, we have to solve the filibuster crisis. Even as recently as the Clinton administration, every judicial nominee reaching the full Senate received a final confirmation decision. That's when the Democrats behind the current filibusters loudly opposed them. In 1999, for example, Senator Tom Daschle said: "I find it simply baffling that a Senator would vote against even voting on a judicial nomination." Yet he has baffled himself 20 times in the last two years by supporting the current filibusters. 
   I don't have to tell you that this radical filibuster strategy is intended for a future Supreme Court nomination. Only one full-term president in American history has not appointed at least one Supreme Court justice, and we have not gone this long without a new appointment in 180 years. 
   I am convinced that the only solution is to change Senate procedures to ensure a fair confirmation process. I support formally amending the cloture rule, and Majority Leader Bill Frist introduced such an amendment last year. The problem is that a filibuster will block such an attempt to amend the filibuster rule. 
   That's why I also support an alternative strategy of bypassing the current cloture rule altogether through a parliamentary ruling. We could do this during a congressional session by seeking a ruling allowing a vote on an individual judicial nominee. Or we could do this at the beginning of the next Congress by seeking a ruling allowing amendment of the cloture rule by a simple majority. Either way, we have to do what it takes to restore fairness and balance to the confirmation process. 
   America needs judges who respect their oath and who will be the servants, rather than the masters, of the Constitution. Since our liberty is at stake, we must not shrink from fighting to confirm these nominees, even if it means some bold changes to re-establish fairness in the confirmation process. I know I can count on you to help in this great cause.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 