SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON 'PERSPECTIVES ON PATENTS'
 Statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch before the Intellectual Property Subcommittee Senate Judiciary Committee
   Good afternoon. Today I am pleased to chair the first hearing of the newly-created Intellectual Property Subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
   I commend Chairman Specter for his support in establishing the IP subcommittee. I also thank Senator Leahy for agreeing to serve as the Ranking Democratic member on this important subcommittee. We have always worked together in a bi-partisan fashion on intellectual property issues. For example, Senator Leahy and I, along with all Judiciary Committee members, joined together on legislation last year designed to curtail the diversion of patent fees from PTO. I have every hope and expectation that this subcommittee will attempt to continue to address IP issues on a bipartisan basis.  
   In this regard, I want to take just a moment to commend Senator Leahy, Cornyn and Feinstein for all their work last Congress and this Congress in securing passage of an important bill that passed the House last Tuesday - S. 167, "The Family Entertainment and Copyright Act of 2005." 
   I am pleased that this important piece of intellectual property legislation has finally been sent to the President. This bill contains several provisions, including the anti-camcording protections that Senators Cornyn and Feinstein championed in the Senate. The bill also reauthorizes the National Film Preservation Board, a matter of great interest to Senator Leahy and many others. 
   Additionally, the bill contains a provision protecting certain technologies that help parents shield their families from material in motion pictures that is too graphic for young family members. This has been a matter of some interest in my home state of Utah and I am pleased that it has finally been passed by both houses of Congress. I commend Chairmen Lamar Smith and Jim Sensenbrenner and Ranking Democratic Members Howard Berman and John Conyers for their contributions in bringing this bill through the House. 
   Today, we will move to the patent side of the intellectual property arena. This is the first of a series of hearings that we plan to hold on patent reform to discuss in a fairly comprehensive manner some of the proposed changes to the substantive, procedural, and administrative aspects of the system that governs how entities here in the United States apply for, receive, and eventually make use of patents covering everything from computer chips to pharmaceuticals to medical devices to - I am told - at least one variety of crustless peanut butter and jelly sandwich. As the Founding Fathers made clear in Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution, Congress is charged with promoting the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing to for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries. It is my hope that today's hearing will help further that charge by encouraging an active debate on patent reform. 
   There is a growing consensus among those who use the patent system that reform is needed. For example, at least two of the organizations represented here today - the Business Software Alliance and the American Intellectual Property Law Association - have taken the initiative to develop discussion drafts of patent legislation, many key provisions of which have been incorporated in Chairman Smith's Committee Print over in the House. I have also received a number of other suggestions - some of them fairly broad, some very narrow - from a variety of individuals and businesses around the country on changes they would like to see made to the current patent system. I always welcome constructive suggestions throughout the legislative process. 
   There appears to be a high degree of agreement on some issues relating to patent reform -such as the advisability of creating a new post-grant review process. There are other areas, such as modifying the role of injunctive relief in patent litigation, where - at least based on the written testimony before us - significant differences remain. I hope that today's hearing will help to further the important debate regarding patent reform. 
   In order to better understand the current state of affairs of U.S. patents and the climate from which these reform proposals have emerged, we will first hear from Jon Dudas, the Undersecretary for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We welcome Undersecretary Dudas back to this hearing room. 
   Undersecretary Dudas will help describe the growing importance of patent protection in the increasingly inter-dependent global economy. The United States has consistently led the world in many critical area areas of technology development such as computer hardware and software, telecommunications, and biotechnology. To remain in the forefront of developing and translating new ideas into tangible goods and services for the benefit of Americans and other consumers around the world, there must be in place an equitable and efficient patent review and protection system both here and abroad. 
   We should all take pride in the fact that the United States Patent and Trademark Office is widely recognized as one of the leading IP organizations in the world. Thousands of dedicated professionals at PTO are responsible for this success. But the agency faces great challenges in accommodating the ever increasing number and complexity of patent applications being filed each year. As Undersecretary Dudas will detail, U.S. patent applications have doubled since 1992, and last year the PTO issued more patents, some 173,000 patents, that it did during the first 40 years of the agency's existence. 
   We will also hear today where PTO stands in the implementation of its 21st Century Strategic Plan. In addition, we will have an opportunity to discuss how PTO is responding to the key recommendations contained in the September, 2004 Department of Commerce Inspector General's Report entitled, USPTO Should Reassess How Examiner Goals, Performance Appraisal Plans, and the Award System Stimulate and Reward Examiner Production. 
   As well, I plan to explore the degree to which Undersecretary Dudas agrees, or disagrees, with the recommendations made by the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences in its major study, A Patent System for the 21st Century. We are pleased to have the distinguished co-chairs of this report on our second panel today: Dr. Mark Myers of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and Dr. Richard Levin, President of Yale University. 
   On our third panel we will have a collection of inventors and protectors of intellectual property. This panel includes two inventors, William Parker of Waitsfield, Vermont and Dean Kamen, who was recently inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame. I am pleased to have these two independent inventors before us today because it helps to emphasize that, although we lawyers have a modest role to play, the real purpose of intellectual property is to help ensure that the interests of innovators and consumers are both served. 
   We will also hear from David Simon, Chief Patent Counsel of Intel and Bob Armitage, General Patent Counsel of Eli Lilly. Bob is a veteran of testifying before the Judiciary Committee due to his work on improving the Schumer-McCain amendments to the Hatch-Waxman Act that were part of the 2003 Medicare Modernization Bill. 
   We are also particularly pleased to have with us Joel Poppen, Deputy General Counsel of Micron Technologies. While Micron is based in Boise, I understand that they have some outstanding employees and facilities in Utah. I have enjoyed working with Micron on a number of trade issues to ensure that U.S. computer chip makers are treated fairly in Asia and around the world. 
   Last, and by no means least, we have Mike Kirk, Executive Director of the American Intellectual Property Law Association. Dating back to his days at PTO, Mike has long been a calm, clear, and reasonable voice in all intellectual property legislation. I would also like to recognize that there are a number of distinguished authorities on patent law present today that we were not able to invite to testify today. In particular, I would like to note the presence of Herb Walmsley of the Intellectual Property Owners Association as well as representatives from a variety of intellectual property groups here in town. 
   It is my hope that today's hearing will help the members of this subcommittee better understand what works well, and what should be improved, in our current patent system. Before we attempt to fashion any legislative fixes to the patent system, it is essential that we carefully identify the problems we are attempting to solve. 
   We have learned time and time again - the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the American Inventors Protection Act come to mind - that it can take a lot of time-consuming and hard work to forge successful consensus on IP legislation. 
   I stand ready to roll up my sleeves and work with my colleagues in Congress and other affected parties on intellectual property issues. 
   One area where I hope we can join together on a broad bipartisan basis is working to help curtail international piracy of U.S. intellectual property. We must be vigilant in our trade negotiations to make sure that our trading partners do not merely talk the talk - they must walk the walk on enforcing intellectual property laws. 
   Not to put too fine a point on it, many of us in Congress are watching USTR closely to see what the agency will do in relation to IP theft in the next Special 301 Round with respect to countries such as China and Russia. While there may - I emphasize the word may - be a case to support Russia's entry into the WTO, Russia should not be permitted to become the new China when it comes to only half-heartedly enforcing laws, that some experts believe are only half-baked to begin with, intended to protect against the piracy of intellectual property. The Subcommittee plans to hold a hearing on piracy of intellectual property in the week following the next recess. 
   Let me close by saying that I think the fact that thirteen of the very busy eighteen members of the full Judiciary Committee have made it a priority in their already crowded schedules to join this new subcommittee speaks volumes about how important we on both sides of the aisle view intellectual property matters to the continued success and growth of the American economy and the quality of life for U.S. citizens. 
   I look forward to today's hearing and the future work of this new subcommittee. 
   Thank you.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370. 
 
 