SEN. HATCH DISCUSSES FUTURE OF BIOLOGICS BEFORE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
  We are here to discuss a topic that is near and dear to my heart - how we can build on the landmark Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 to establish a pathway for the Food and Drug Administration to approve copies of biological products. 
   It's something I happen to know a little bit about, since the short title of that law has my name on it. Waxman-Hatch. Hatch-Waxman. Some years my name is first, some years Henry's is first, but suffice it to say that we are both very proud of that landmark law which has done such tremendous good for consumers by fostering the modern generic drug industry. 
   I think I have the advantage here, since I get to go second. I must reveal a little secret. Today's presentation will be very useful to me in our negotiations. I'll just listen to what Henry says. Double the numbers. And when we go to conference, we'll split the difference and end up back in the middle where all good policy is made!  
   Of course I am kidding. I only wish it were that easy. This is a tremendously complicated task, but it is one worth doing. 
   As many of you know, back in 1984, Chairman Waxman and I undertook a series of negotiations that led to approval of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act. Although it seems like only yesterday, it was almost 23 years ago. It was a very different time. 
   Let me just remind you how different - that is, those of you who were born then! Ma Bell was THE phone company, the only phone company. The first Apple Macintosh had just gone on sale. In fact, only eight percent of U.S. households had a computer. The top movie? Ghostbusters. The top album? Michael Jackson's Thriller. The top DVD? I just wanted to see if you were listening...of course, there weren't any. 
   And did you know in 1984, the Milwaukee Brewers and the Chicago White Sox played the longest game in Major League Baseball history - 25 innings, over two days? (I had to throw that in for the sports lovers!) 
   In 1984, a stamp cost 20 cents. The space shuttle Discovery took its maiden voyage. Prince Harry was born. Rosie O'Donnell had her first fight with Donald Trump and no one cared! What a year! 
   Oh yes. Henry and I wrote Waxman-Hatch, and I had a root canal. I'll never forget it! 
   It was a much less complicated time. The law, and the parties involved, were much less sophisticated. I say that with great respect ... and perhaps a bit of longing. 
   Generic drugs were a small, struggling industry, with no discernible footprint in the pharmaceutical world. The innovators had yet to respond to their first Paragraph IV certification and no one talked about citizens' petitions. FDA existed happily without an orange book. How far we've come! 
   In 1984, brands versus generics played at your local ballpark -it was largely an American game between American players. Today, the pharmaceutical market - both innovator and generic - is an international market for research, development and marketing. 
   To look at it another way, it is my strong belief that we can learn from this experience and build another solid law that will help consumers - both by supporting the incentive to discover and develop new biologics, and by fostering a climate that will lead to lower prices. This is a win-win, or should I say a win-win-win (because in today's world, you never know how many sides there are!) 
   And why is that so important? A February report by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services paints the picture very well: America's health care spending in the next ten years will double to $4.1 trillion. Or, to look at it another way, that's 20 cents out of every dollar spent. We spend about $7,500 per capita on health care in the U.S. Yet, in 2016, that will rise to an astounding $12,800 per person. Greater spending for pharmaceuticals is expected to fuel much of the increase, the report's authors concluded. 
   And there it is in a nutshell. The good news and the bad news. Not much worries Washington policy makers more than the costs of medical care - both from the perspective of a balanced budget, and from the view of our constituents' pocketbooks. 
   In many ways, it is an embarrassment of riches. We have exciting new therapies to treat our medical ills - new drugs, new devices, stem cell treatments. Their potential to improve human health and well-being is almost limitless. And yet, the cost of those treatments, the impact they have on the budget, at times seems equally limitless! In fact, in 2005, prescription drug spending was estimated at $214 billion, a healthy amount by anyone's measure. That same year, spending on biologics was estimated at $32 billion. 
   Since biologicals are generally more expensive products, ways to reduce their costs interest policymakers and other stakeholders in expenditure of the health care dollar, foremost among them employers, insurers, pharmacy benefits managers, and of course, the government. 
   Comes now the generic drug industry, which has been proven to provide alternative, safe and effective therapies in a much more cost beneficial manner. We look to them to be part of the solution to this problem. And they, in turn, look to us to help them be part of that solution. 
   It is no secret that what some have called the Group of Four have been meeting in the Senate to develop a bill that would establish a pathway for biosimilar products to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration. 
   I am referring to Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Ted Kennedy, the Committee's ranking Republican, Mike Enzi, Senator Hillary Clinton, and myself. All members of the HELP Committee, we have worked to develop consensus on what legislation would include. 
   Senator Kennedy and I began these talks several months ago. He is committed to developing a bill on a priority basis. Our staffs literally have been working night and day. 
   Our work has been aided immeasurably by the leadership of Chairman Waxman, and in the Senate, Senator Chuck Schumer and Senator Clinton, who have introduced the companion to the Waxman bill. Their legislation, the Access to Life-Saving Medicine Act (H.R. 1038/S. 623), provides a solid starting point for discussions. It is an important work that has added immeasurably to the congressional dialogue. 
   It is my hope that our discussions will also be informed by the work of Representatives Jay Inslee, Gene Green and Tammy Baldwin, who recently introduced the Patient Protection and Innovative Biologic Medicines Act of 2007 ( H.R. 1956), and by the views of the many, many stakeholders in this legislative effort. 
   My message to you today is simple. It is a message that I intend to resonate with all sides. The time to develop a pathway for approval of biosimilar products is long past overdue. It should be our priority, and it should be our high priority, to get it done this year. But, we should get it done right. Our deliberations must be based on science. 
   The original balance of the law must be maintained, but we must also recognize the emerging realities of this new world. And what are those realities? 
   First, biotechnology products are not drugs; they are very complicated molecules that are not easily reproduced. An inadvertent change in the structure of that molecule can lead to very devastating consequences. 
   Second, today, it is unlikely that any follow-on company will be able to produce an exact copy of a biotech molecule, a generic biologic if you will. And that is why those who follow this issue have seen the terminology change from generic biologics to biosimilars or sometimes follow-on biologics or FOBs. 
   Third, because science advances, and because American researchers are very good at advancing science - stem cell research is one example that comes readily to mind - we must hold open the possibility that one day there will be true biogenerics. 
   And we must also develop a pathway so that biosimilar products can be approved without a full biologics license application, a time-consuming and expensive process. But whatever policy we develop, it must be based on soundness of science, rather than the practicalities of politics. 
   Fourth, we must take into account the unique nature of today's industry. This is so much more than an exercise between big Pharma and the generics, or even between big bio and the generics. Indeed, there are about 1400 biotech companies in the United States. How many of them are profitable? Astoundingly, only 20. Many of these companies are small, with revenues of under a million dollars per year. Many do not even have a product on the market. 
   We must examine closely the issue of who will be making biosimilars? Will it be the Barr Labs and Tevas of the world? Undoubtedly. But it may also be generic subsidiaries of innovator companies. It is also very likely to be companies in India and China. As we have seen with the recent concerns over pet food, inspecting foreign manufacturing plants has historically been a problem for the resource-constrained Food and Drug Administration. 
   Fifth, we must use the framework of Hatch-Waxman where we can, but we must recognize there may be ways to improve it. There are obvious differences between regulating a pathway for biosimilars and for copies of chemical drugs. 
   For example, as I mentioned, today's science will probably not allow identical copies of today's biologics. So, the concept of bioequivalence cannot be imported into this debate. Instead, we must work carefully to define biosimilarity. 
   Another difference today is the fact that process patents are much more integrally tied to the manufacture of biologics. Current law does not require listing of process patents in the orange book. Waxman-Hatch is inherently a litigious process. But its framework - the patent holder (or drug manufacturer) vs. the generic - does not easily translate to a system in which multiple patent holders may exist, including, for example, major universities and research centers. 
   Sixth, the incentives for development of biotech products must be maintained, enhanced where it advances public policy. But at the same time, we cannot seed a new generation of roadblocks that preclude biosimilar entry. This is the nub of the key, crucial balance. 
   Seventh, the role of the FDA must be carefully evaluated. We must empower the agency to evaluate pure, safe and potent copies of biotech products, but we must all recognize that there must be a bright line that separates a safe copy from a new product which should be subject to a full biologic license application. 
   We need to free the agency and provide it with the flexibility to evaluate the adequacy of a biosimilar submission based on good science, but we must also recognize that, as Commissioner von Eschenbach has said, there may be some products which cannot be copied safely with today's science. 
   Eighth, we must make certain the resources are there for the FDA to do the job right. I must note that negotiations between the agency and the pharmaceutical industry on the Prescription Drug User Fee Act reauthorization, or PDUFA, took over one year. Every indication I have is that review of a biosimilar application is very likely to be more complex and time-consuming than that for a new biologics license application. 
   There must be authority for a fee to be collected that reflects this complex workload. If we do not provide adequate resources to the FDA, then review of new products could suffer at the expense of cheaper copies as reviewers become siphoned off from new products to the biosimilars. We should not design a system in which this occurs. 
   And I must digress at this point to underscore that the FDA is already cash-strapped and that situation simply must be corrected. The dire FDA resources issue appears to have manifest itself in such recent revelations as to the inadequacy of food inspections for some of the most ubiquitous products in American life, including pet food and peanut butter. 
   Federal policy-makers must take this into account when legislating, and the Food and Drug Administration Revitalization Act - which is expected to be considered on the Senate floor next week - is a good place to start. 
   I know that Bruce wanted me to leave a few minutes for questions, so let me just highlight one point for you. Enacting follow-on biologics legislation is a top priority for me, as it is for the great many of you in the audience today. The appearance today of both Hatch and Waxman underscores the great importance we place on enacting such a bill this year. 
   This is eminently achievable and a dialogue like ours today can only help us reach that critical benchmark in the evolution of drug regulation.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 