SEN. HATCH PRAISES JUDGE ALITO, DECRIES PARTISAN OPPOSITION
 Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) praised Judge Samuel Alito and strongly recommended he be confirmed to the Supreme Court in a speech on the Senate floor Wednesday afternoon. 
   The Republican majority on the Senate's Judicial Committee - of which Hatch is a former chair - voted to advance Alito's nomination to the full Senate on Tuesday, but all eight committee Democrats voted against Alito. This is the first time in Senate history that the committee has seen a straight party split on a nominee.  
   Sen. Hatch's remarks: 
   Mr. President, we are in the final stretch of considering the nomination of Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court of the United States. By any reasonable, objective, or traditional standard, Judge Alito deserves overwhelming confirmation. 
   The first reason Judge Alito should be confirmed is that he is highly qualified to serve on the Supreme Court. 
   It amazes me, Mr. President, that some parties to this debate practically ignore his qualifications altogether. They are so intent on manufacturing a case against this nominee that they brush aside this seemingly minor detail of his qualifications as if it were just an annoyance. 
   After serving in the Department of Justice and as a highly regarded federal prosecutor, Judge Alito has served on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit since 1990, participating in nearly 5000 cases and writing more than 360 opinions. He has more judicial experience than any Supreme Court nominee in three-quarters of a century. 
   The American Bar Association, which conducts perhaps the most comprehensive and exhaustive evaluation of Supreme Court nominees, interviewed more than 300 people who know and have worked with Judge Alito. The ABA unanimously gave Judge Alito its highest well qualified rating. 
   Here, too, it is amazing how some Senators and left-wing interest groups just brush aside the ABA rating as if they were dusting the mantle. While the ABA's role in the judicial appointment process has been controversial at times, certainly no one has ever charged it with a conservative bias. It was my Democratic colleagues and their left-wing interest groupies who once lauded the ABA's rating as the veritable gold standard for evaluating judicial nominees. The criteria for the ABA's highest well qualified rating include Judge Alito's compassion, open-mindedness, freedom from bias, and commitment to equal justice under the law. 
   Mr. President, Judge Samuel Alito is eminently qualified to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States. 
   The second reason Judge Alito should be confirmed is that he is a man of character and integrity. 
   I have been struck throughout this process that the level of respect and praise for Judge Alito's character and integrity is directly related to how well people know him, how closely they have worked with him. 
   Without exception, those sounding the direst warnings, creating the most negative caricatures, and painting the scariest picture of Judge Alito are those who know him least. 
   We have heard from those who worked with him in the Department of Justice and in the U.S. Attorney's Office in New Jersey. We have heard from Judge Alito's law clerks and fellow judges. And make no mistake, this is not a bunch of right-wing clones, but a diverse group of men and women, liberals and conservatives, of different religions and backgrounds. They do not agree with him on every issue, or in some cases on virtually no issues at all. But they all praise Judge Alito as a man of character and integrity. 
   Mr. President, Judge Samuel Alito possesses the character and integrity necessary to serve on the Supreme Court of the Untied States. 
   The third reason Judge Alito should be confirmed is that understands and is committed to the appropriately limited role of the judiciary. 
   America's founders established a system of limited government containing three branches, each with its own category of power and ability to check the others. The judicial branch is as much a part of this system of government, and must remain as limited, as the legislative and executive branches. 
   The fight over judicial appointments is a fight over whether we should stick with the system America's founders established. Some want to change that system because, frankly, it does not give them everything they want. Self-government, after all, can be a little messy and sometimes very frustrating. Letting the people and their elected representatives make the law and define the culture means that, on any given day, certain political interests win and others lose. 
   Some who lose in the political process pick themselves sup and try again another day. Others leave the political process behind and go to the courts, trying to persuade judges to impose upon the American people policies and priorities the people would not choose for themselves. 
   The fight over judicial appointments is whether we should have judges willing to take such political bait.It is fashionable in some circles to put the Supreme Court on a pedestal, pretending that a few unelected judges are supposed to lead us to some kind of promised land. 
   During the debates about Chief Justice John Roberts' nomination last fall and Judge Alito's nomination now, we have heard all sorts of grand descriptions of the judiciary's role and purpose. The judiciary, we are told, is the engine of social progress, the protector of all our rights and liberties, even the savior of the environment. 
   Yesterday, in the Judiciary Committee's business meeting, the Ranking Democratic Member said that the very reason the Supreme Court exists is to be "a constitutional check on the expansion of presidential power." 
   The Senator from Massachusetts, Senator Kennedy, said the very same thing yesterday, that the Supreme Court's historic role is "enforcing constitutional limits on presidential power." 
   These grand descriptions give the impression that the Supreme Court alone polices our system of separated power, hands down decrees about issues, opines on abstract theories, and decides how best to order the universe. 
   It does no such thing. The last time I checked, most of the Supreme Court's cases have nothing whatsoever to do with issues such as presidential power, abortion, religion, or the environment. 
   The Supreme Court does not exist to run the country, right all wrongs, and usher in peace and domestic tranquility. The judiciary is part of our system of limited government; it is not a system unto itself. 
   It is that whole system of government, not any one part of it, that protects our rights and liberties, checks excessive government power, provides for social progress, and all the rest. As a part of that system, judges who exceed their proper role and power are no less a threat to liberty than legislators or the president who do so. 
   In the famous case of Marbury v. Madison, Chief Justice John Marshall wrote that the Constitution was designed for the government of courts as much as of legislatures. 
   As Chief Justice Roberts put it last fall, judges are not politicians. The tendency of some in this debate simply to look at the results judges deliver is, therefore, misguided because it suggests that judges, as politicians, are free to take whatever side they choose and the only thing that matters is whose side judges are on. This politicized approach misleads our fellow citizens about the judiciary and its proper place in our system of government. 
   America's founders had a very different view and, I am glad to say, Judge Alito sides with them. As the Constitution puts it, judges exercise judicial power in the context of cases and controversies. Judges do not make the law they apply. Judges are neither school boards nor inspectors general. Judges are neither legislative oversight commissions nor political provocateurs. Instead, judges settle legal disputes by applying already established law to cases that come before them. 
   Because that is what they do, it is impossible properly to evaluate judges or judicial nominees the way we evaluate politicians, by the results they can be expected to deliver. Yet that is exactly what we see in this judicial confirmation process. 
   One Senator said to Chief Justice Roberts last fall that the most important question was whose side will you be on? A few weeks ago, a major newspaper examined Judge Alito's record on the appeals court with a chart titled which side has he been on? This tactic reflects a fundamentally political, and fundamentally wrong, view of the judiciary. 
   Fortunately, Judge Alito knows the difference between judges and politicians. In his hearing, Judge Alito described his approach to judging, his judicial philosophy, to the Judiciary Committee. 
   He said, for example, that "our Constitution gives the judiciary a particular role, and there are instances in which it can override the judgments that are made by Congress and by the Executive, but for the most part our Constitution leaves it to the elected branches of Government to make the policy decisions for our country." 
   Mr. President, how is it that this idea of the elected branches of government making the policy decisions for our country has become so controversial? 
   I am reminded of a September 1997 episode of the ABC television show The Practice in which Ed Asner's judicial character asks whether he should leave legislative policy to the legislature. 
   Why do some legislators want judges to do the legislating for them? 
   Yesterday in the Judiciary Committee's business meeting, the Senator from Massachusetts, Senator Kennedy, attacked Judge Alito for a speech in which he referred to the supremacy of the elected branches of government. Judge Alito had never said that either the legislative or executive branch is above the law or has no limits to its power. 
   But we in the legislative branch represent the people and, in a system of representative government, we are the primary vehicle for self-government. Is the Senator from Massachusetts suggesting that the judicial branch should be supreme? 
   I wonder how the Senator from Massachusetts would respond to Alexander Hamilton who wrote in The Federalist No.44 that in a republic like ours the legislature has "the superior weight and influence." 
   I wonder how he would respond to James Madison who wrote in The Federalist No.48 that in a republic like ours the legislative branch has "superiority." 
   Mr. President, Judge Alito's view of a defined judicial role within a system of limited government comes straight from America's founders. 
   At his hearing, Judge Alito also said: "Results-oriented jurisprudence is never justified because it is not our job to try to produce particular results. We are not policy makers and we shouldn't be implementing any sort of policy agenda or policy preferences that we have." 
   To hear some of my Democratic colleagues and their left-wing interest group friends talk, there is absolutely nothing that's not the judiciary's job. To hear some of them talk, everything is fair game for judges and the only thing that matters is who wins that game. America's founders rejected that view, and Judge Alito should be confirmed because he rejects that view. 
  I hope we find more qualified men and women who believe there is something, anything, that is not a judge's job and appoint them to the judiciary right away. While scorecards are familiar in the political process, they have no place in the judicial process. 
   Judge Alito agrees: "I don't think a judge should be keeping a scorecard about how many times the judge votes for one category of litigant versus another in particular types of cases. That would be wrong. We are supposed to do justice on an individual basis in the cases that come before us." 
   I hope that my fellow citizens are watching this debate, either live right now or when it is replayed later. 
   I ask my fellow citizens, do you agree with Judge Alito? Do you expect judges to do justice on an individual basis, to take each case on its own facts and its own merits, and to decide it solely according to the law? 
   Or do you expect a judge to look at a case not as a legal dispute between real parties, but as a political issue, deciding it based on his opinion of the issue, practically before the case even comes before him? 
   Judge Alito rejects scorecards and tallies, he rejects percentages and patterns, and looks at each case based on its own facts and the law that applies. 
   Judge Alito has expressed another revolutionary idea. At his hearing, he said that "although the judiciary has a very important role to play, it's a limited role....Judges don't have the authority to change the Constitution....The Constitution is an enduring document and the Constitution doesn't change." 
   Let me speak again to my fellow citizens. The first three words of the Constitution are we the people. The Constitution belongs to the people. It does not belong to judges. 
   The Constitution, your Constitution, already has a specific process for changing it, and the only branch of government involved in that process is this one, the legislative branch, the one you directly elect. 
   If America's founders explicitly excluded the judiciary from the process of changing the Constitution, do you think instead that judges should now be able to change the Constitution? Do you believe that the Constitution, your Constitution, is whatever judges say it is? 
   Mr. President, it is the Constitution that ultimately protects our rights and liberties. If the Constitution means whatever judges say it means, then our rights and liberties are whatever judges say they are. 
   If that is what my Democratic colleagues and their left-wing interest group allies mean when they say the judiciary protects us, then do not sign me up for that protection package. 
   Our rights and liberties, and particularly the rights and liberties of the minority, are secure only when the Constitution is solid. Judge Alito is precisely the kind of judge who will protect our rights and liberties because he does not believe that he defines them. 
   So the case for Judge Alito's confirmation is overwhelming. He is highly qualified, he is a man of character and integrity, and he understands and is committed to the properly limited role of judges in our system of government. 
   In the past, this would have been enough for confirmation by a wide bi-partisan margin. Perhaps because this case for confirmation is so strong, Judge Alito's opponents have tried a host of attacks that not only have failed but have degraded this process along the way. 
   One is the familiar guilt-by-association tactic, trying to smear Judge Alito by attacking a group of conservative Princeton alumni to which he once belonged. Membership in this group, mind you, was nothing more than a magazine subscription. Imagine if someone tried to attribute to each of you everything published in every magazine or newsletter you receive. 
   Some Democratic Senators used this very illegitimate tactic on Judge Alito, selecting the most salacious or controversial articles which Judge Alito never read. One Senator even tried to pass a parody of such outrageous views off as the real thing. Our staff spent hours pouring through boxes of documents related to this group and the name Samuel Alito never appeared on a single scrap of paper. 
   The disinformation was even worse in the media. The group in question, or at least some of its members, wanted to preserve Princeton's all-male tradition and opposed affirmative action. On January 6, a well-known pundit claimed on the FOX News Channel that Judge Alito himself was personally "trying to keep women and minorities out of Princeton." 
   I have been around for a long time, and I have seen a lot of bad journalism, but this goes beyond the pale. This goes beyond spin, beyond any reasonable characterization of the facts. 
   Let me address a few of the other arguments by Judge Alito's opponents. 
   Yesterday, at the Judiciary Committee markup, the Senator from New York, Senator Schumer, tried once again to paint Judge Alito as an out of control judge, wantonly disregarding and seeking to disrupt his own court's past decisions. 
   The political or rhetorical value of this tactic is obvious. If Judge Alito played fast and loose with his present court's precedents, the story goes, he would certainly do so on the Supreme Court. 
   The problem is that this claim, this picture of Judge Alito as an activist judge out to re-make precedents in his own image, is patently false. It bears no relationship to reality.At Judge Alito's hearing, the Senator from New York cited a few cases in which colleagues disagreed with how Judge Alito treated the court's prior decisions. 
   The Senator from New York made no attempt whatsoever to determine whether Judge Alito's position in those cases was right or wrong. He simply grabbed quotes supporting his pre-conceived point. 
   With all due respect to the judges who disagreed with Judge Alito in those cases, they could very well be the ones who misread or misapplied the Third Circuit's prior decisions. What the Senator from New York never said was that Judge Alito has dissented in just 79 of the nearly 5000 cases in which he participated, a rate below the average for appeals court judges around the country. 
   Something else the Senator from New York has not revealed is that Judge Alito has voted to overturn his own court's precedents just four times in his 15 years on the bench. In each of these cases, in which all the judges of the circuit participate, Judge Alito was in the majority and two of them were unanimous. 
   My colleagues will remember that seven of Judge Alito's current and former judicial colleagues appeared before the Judiciary Committee. Who better to give the Senate real insight into Judge Alito's approach to cases, his attitude toward litigants, and his perspective on the law? Better yet, what a unique opportunity to hear from those fellow judges about how Judge Alito handles precedent? 
   Earlier in the hearing, for example, the Senator from New York quoted a passage critical of Judge Alito from the majority opinion in Dia v. Ashcroft. Chief Judge Anthony Scirica joined that majority opinion. Chief Judge Scirica was sitting right there in front of the committee. 
   The Senator from New York also had quoted a passage critical of Judge Alito from Judge Leonard Garth's dissent in Bray v. Marriott Hotels. Judge Garth joined us via teleconference from Arizona. 
   That would have been a great opportunity to question the very judges whom the Senator from New York cited as evidence of Judge Alito's activism and disregard for precedent. Hearing it from them could be so much more meaningful than cutting and pasting a few selected quotes on a piece of poster board. 
   Yet the Senator from New York did not ask those judges questions about this issue. In fact, he did not ask them any questions at all because he did not attend that portion of the hearing. 
   Well, Mr. President, I asked them about it. I referred to the claims by the Senator from New York and asked the judges whether Judge Alito disregards precedent, whether he has an agenda to disrupt the court's prior decisions. 
   Judge Edward Becker, former chief judge of the Third Circuit, participated with Judge Alito in more than 1000 cases. Judger Becker said that he never saw Judge Alito disregard or ignore precedent, that Judge Alito followed precedent unless he felt the precedent was distinguishable or was what judges call dicta. 
   Another judge on that distinguished panel was Judge Ruggero Aldisert, appointed nearly 40 years ago by President Lyndon Johnson. In addition to his many years of service on both the state and federal court, Judge Aldisert has written a well-known textbook on the judicial process. Judge Aldisert too defended as sound Judge Altio's treatment of precedent. 
   As I have mentioned earlier, some of my Democratic colleagues seem particularly fond of scorecards and tallies, thinking that this alone tells us anything useful about a judge's approach to the law. 
   Perhaps my Democratic colleagues could create something like a confirmation rate card. It could list the percentage of cases in different categories that one side or the other is supposed to win. Plaintiffs should win this percentage of employment discrimination, the prosecution is allowed to win this percentage of criminal cases, and so on. Perhaps it could be a list titled whose side are you supposed to be on. 
   Before anyone dismisses this as ridiculous or far-fetched, this is exactly what some of my Democratic colleagues and many of their left-wing interest group friends have done to Judge Alito. 
   In his opening statement on January 9, the Senator from Massachusetts, Senator Kennedy, cited a so-called study by University of Chicago law professor Cass Sunstein claiming that Judge Alito voted against the individual in 84 percent of his dissents. 
   The Senator from Massachusetts did not quote from Professor Sunstein's letter that such statistics must be taken "with many grains of salt and with appropriate qualifications." Or Professor Sunstein's own admission that his analysis was done under what he called considerable time pressure, rendering his conclusions only tentative and preliminary. And, of course, the Senator from Massachusetts did not examine any of those dissents on the merits. He let the calculator do the talking. 
   Actually, the Senator from Massachusetts went much farther than that. On the basis of this one tentative and preliminary statistic from this one study, he claimed that "average Americans have had a hard time getting a fair shake in [Judge Alito's] courtroom." 
   This is an outrageous claim, one that would not be at all justified even if the supposed evidence behind it were more legitimate. Let us be honest about this. Saying that a pattern of past decisions shows that an entire group of litigants will have a hard time getting a fair shake in the future, is to accuse Judge Alito of bias. 
   Before the Senator from Massachusetts, or anyone else using this tactic, gets indignant, throws up his hands, and claims he never accused Judge Alito of bias, let me say there is simply no other meaning to what was said. What else could the words average Americans have had a hard time getting a fair shake possibly mean? 
   Let us look at another example. Last week Thursday, the Senator from Massachusetts claimed that, while on the appeals court, Judge Alito literally bent over backwards to "help the powerful." He said: "the record is clear that the average person has a hard time getting a fair shake in Judge Alito's courtroom." Those are his words, not mine. 
   Saying that Judge Alito bends over backwards to help the powerful means only one thing. Saying that a category of litigants will have a hard time getting a fair shake before Judge Alito means only one thing. If Senators wish to accuse Judge Alito of bias, then they should do so up front, not through innuendo or by hiding behind statistics. 
   Mr. President, evaluating judges with a calculator is wrong, misguided, and misleads our fellow citizens about what judges do and the role they play in our system of government. 
   Let me close by noting a few things I find encouraging. 
   First, I am encouraged that the attacks, distortions, and misleading claims about Judge Alito have not persuaded the American people. 
   The left-wing interest groups have thrown everything they have against this nominee. One of their leaders said at the beginning of this campaign, you name it, we'll do it. Well, they did it, and we have seen millions of dollars spent, week after week, on petition drives, television ads, rallies, phone banks, and grassroots lobbying. 
   The net result of that barrage of propaganda has been that support for Judge Alito's nomination among the American people has steadily increased. Not a very good return on their investment. 
   In early November, Newsweek found that 40 percent of Americans thought Judge Alito should be confirmed. In December, even polls conducted for liberal groups found that support had risen to nearly 50 percent. And this month, polls by CNN, FOX News, and Reuters find support even higher, with Americans backing the nomination by a ratio of more than two-to-one. A new Gallup poll, conducted after Judge Alito's hearing last week, also shows that support has risen by about 10 percent since early December. 
   This is particularly significant because Judge Alito's opponents have issued all sorts of apocalyptic warnings and dire predictions during this time. They have cast Judge Alito as a radical extremist, a threat to the environment and individual rights. 
   The Senator from Vermont, Senator Leahy, has repeatedly said that, all by himself, Judge Alito is a threat to the rights and liberties of all Americans literally for generations to come. The critics have said that Judge Alito would give the executive branch a blank check to invade your privacy, strip-search your children, and tap your phones. According to the critics, if Judge Alito has his way, machine guns will flood our streets, big business will pollute the air and water, and the poor and down-trodden will be unable to find justice. 
   Mr. President, I am pleased to say that, despite all of the propaganda, as CBS News found, the percentage of Americans having a favorable impression of Judge Alito has risen fifty percent since the end of October. 
   I am also encouraged that not all Democratic leaders have abandoned reasonable, traditional judicial confirmation standards. 
   Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell, a past general chairman of the Democratic National Committee, yesterday described a confirmation standard that I hope his fellow Democrats would once again embrace. 
   He said that if a nominee is qualified and passes the test of integrity, elections matter and disagreement with some of a nominee's positions or decisions are not enough to deny the president his appointment. 
   That was the standard that allowed President Clinton to appoint two liberal justices with minimal opposition. I wish my Democratic colleagues would follow Governor Rendell's lead. 
   Finally, Mr. President, I am encouraged that Judge Alito will indeed be confirmed. A highly qualified judge, a man of character and integrity, and someone who understands and is committed to the judiciary's properly limited role, will soon join the Supreme Court of the United States. 
   When Judge Samuel Alito becomes Justice Samuel Alito, our system of limited government under the rule of law will be stronger and the freedoms that system makes possible will be more secure. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote to confirm Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 