SEN. HATCH: PASS CHILD CUSTODY PROTECTION ACT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) exhorted his fellow Senators on the Senate floor today to support the Child Custody Protection Act (S. 403), which will criminalize individuals who take a girl across state lines for an abortion. Hatch is particularly concerned about such abortions because they circumvent state law and parental consent and are frequently performed at the coercion of men concealing a crime against a minor girl. Hatch's speech follows. 
   This morning we are continuing our discussion of the Child Custody Protection Act, S. 403. This is an appropriate debate, and it comes at an appropriate time. 
   Last week, the Senate passed the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act. That important bipartisan bill, which the President is expected to sign this week, will empower the federal government to step up the fight against sexual predators of children.  
   The bill we passed last Thursday is a serious bipartisan achievement, and for good reason. Republicans and Democrats alike can agree on the need to protect minors from abuse. 
   That same purpose, the desire to protect children, is what motivates the Child Custody Protection Act, and my hope is that we can come together on this bill as well, Republicans and Democrats, and pass this legislation. 
  The American people have spoken. 
   Our states have spoken. 
   Though the media might not always hear the message, Americans are quite unified, and have been for a long time, on the issue of abortion. Super-majorities of the American people think that some regulation of abortion is appropriate. 
   Nowhere is this more obvious than on the issue of parental consent and notification laws. 
   Most Americans understand that a parent or a guardian should be involved in this decision. 
   The Child Custody Protection Act will give federal support to state laws requiring this involvement, laws that are too often circumvented when young girls are taken across state lines to obtain an abortion, often with the assistance of the predatory men responsible for their pregnancies. 
   These actions are terrible for families and young women. 
   They are a danger to a young woman's health and to her spirit. 
   And, indeed, the involvement of a parent or guardian is critical when a young woman is making a choice of this magnitude, and we should do our part to support these parental involvement laws. 
   This bill does so by making it a federal crime to transport a minor across a State line to obtain an abortion that would not be permitted absent parental involvement in the state where the minor resides. 
   This is a limited and a reasonable bill. 
   It specifies that neither the minor nor a parent can be prosecuted or sued for violation of the Act. 
   It also provides defendants in a prosecution or civil action an affirmative defense if they believed the required parental notice or involvement took place. 
   Finally, it creates a private right of action for the parent or guardian whose rights are violated by a person who violates the Act. 
   This is a balanced bill. And my hope is that my colleagues will support it. 
   Forty-four states have enacted laws that require some level of parental involvement in a minor's decision to obtain an abortion. 
   Parental involvement laws are not a divisive issue. They are reasonable regulations. 
   At many middle schools and high schools, you cannot get an aspirin from the school nurse without permission from your parents. 
   Would it really make sense to allow a young girl, perhaps only 14 years old, to obtain an abortion without her parents' involvement? 
   The liberal pro-abortion interest groups routinely tell us that women must have completely unfettered access to abortion throughout their pregnancies. 
   And they typically give two reasons. 
   First, this is a private, medical decision between a woman and her doctor. 
   And second, this is a moral choice that the woman should be able to make without any interference at all. 
   These principles are taken to extremes by these groups. 
   They lead to opposition of almost any regulation of abortion, including informed-consent laws, and even partial-birth abortion. 
   Parental involvement regulations are commonsense and widely supported by the American people. But the reasoning of these interest groups leads them to a position of abortion absolutism-there can be no interference at any time with the decision to undergo this medical procedure. 
   I disagree with these principles. Even so, taking these groups on their own terms leads me to believe that they should actually support parental involvement laws. 
   After all, if abortion is a medical procedure, do we really want minors electing invasive medical procedures without their parent or guardian knowing about it? 
   And if the decision to have an abortion is a profound moral choice, do we really want a child to make that choice without consulting with the parents who are responsible for teaching and raising that child? 
   Of course not. And so the American people have reasonably, and responsibly, endorsed with considerable bipartisan support, the parental involvement laws in that exist in 44 states. 
   Recently, my home state of Utah passed its own law. It is a good law. And it is a careful law. 
   My state requires that before a minor obtains an abortion there must be notification of, and consent by, a parent or guardian. 
   Our parental consent requirement prohibits a doctor from performing an abortion without first obtaining the written consent of a parent or guardian. 
   And consistent with the Supreme Court's requirement that some judicial bypass be included in a parental consent statute, Utah allows a minor to obtain an abortion without the consent of a parent or guardian if a court finds by the preponderance of the evidence that the minor has given informed consent and is mature enough to be capable of giving her informed consent, OR that the abortion would be in the minor's best interest. 
   That is a reasonable balance. 
   The interest groups who oppose any and every restriction on abortion always tell us that this is an important choice. Well, if it is an important choice, I believe we should require that a minor's choice be an informed one. 
   Utah law also requires that a doctor, prior to performing an abortion, notify a parent or guardian. Again, this is reasonable. Why would we allow a young woman to undergo a medical procedure without first notifying those charged with her well-being? We would not allow it for a routine check-up, much less any other invasive surgical procedure. 
   And Utah's legislators were careful in the way they went about this. 
   They knew that in certain circumstances, a young woman might not want to notify her parents. For that reason, there are generous exceptions to this notice requirement. If a medical emergency exists, if the physician reports that the pregnancy occurred through incest, if the child is a victim of abuse, or if the legal parent or guardian has not assumed responsibility for the young girl's upbringing, the notice requirement is waived. 
   Utah's citizens are not unique. As the citizens in most other states have, Utahns have determined that some level of parental involvement in this process is an important one. 
   The interest groups disagree. And as a result, there is some opposition to this commonsense bill. 
   Here is the bottom-line. 
   Forty-four states have parental involvement laws. In my opinion, some of those state parental involvement laws are ineffectual, but in twenty-six, parents are effectively guaranteed the right to parental notification or consent. 
   Yet with minor children, too often they are being taken across state lines, to a state with a more liberal abortion policy, to obtain an abortion without their parents' involvement. 
   Taking a minor across state lines without the parents' knowledge? Most people would call this kidnapping. And in many cases, the actions come close. 
   I want to thank my colleague from Alabama, Senator Sessions, for chairing a hearing in the Judiciary Committee on this subject in the 108th Congress. The hearing was very informative. This is what we learned from the testimony presented there. 
   The American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Adolescence has found that "[a]lmost two thirds of adolescent mothers have partners older than 20 years of age." 
   The National Center for Health Statistics concluded that "among girls 14 or younger when they first had sex, a majority of these first?experiences were nonvoluntary. Evidence also indicates that among unmarried teenage mothers, two-thirds of the fathers are age 20 or older, suggesting that differences in power and status exist between many sexual partners." 
   In a study of over 46,000 pregnancies by school-age girls in California, researchers found that "71%, or over 33,000, were fathered by adult post-high-school men whose mean age was 22.6 years, an average of five years older than the mothers?Even among junior high school mothers aged 15 or younger, most births are fathered by adult men 6 to 7 years their senior. Men aged 25 or older father more births among California school-age girls than do boys under age 18." 
   I could go on, and I want to thank Professor Teresa Collett of the University of St. Thomas School of Law for putting these statistics together in her testimony. 
   They are important. 
   They remain uncontroverted by those opposed to this bill. 
   And they tell an important story. 
   Many thousands of teenage pregnancies are caused by predatory males, many years the girl's senior, who should be prosecuted for statutory rape. 
   Let's be clear. Many thousands of teenage pregnancies are caused by felonious activity. 
   Scared and pregnant young girls. 
   Wounded and abused by these sexual predators. 
   And parental involvement laws go a long way toward making sure that people become aware of this abuse. 
   Yet currently, it is too easy for these predators to circumvent these laws. 
   We have heard of older men, or their mothers, or their friends, who take these vulnerable young girls across state lines to get an abortion, and get rid of the evidence of the crime. 
   And then when these girls are dumped back at home, those who care for them and love them are oblivious to what they have been through. This is not only physically dangerous. It is a threat to the spirit of a wounded and confused young woman. 
   This is not some hypothetical situation. In the Senate Judiciary Committee, we heard from Joyce Farley of Dushore, Pennsylvania. In 1995 her daughter, Crystal, was raped and impregnated by a 19-year old man, whose mother then took Crystal for an abortion into the State of New York. 
   This was not a decision for this man, or his mother to make. 
   These people were not interested in making the right decision for Crystal. 
   They were making a decision that was in the best interests of the man who raped this child. 
   The Child Custody Protection Act would protect these young women. It would protect the rights of parents. 
   The decision to obtain an abortion is an important one. It is a medical decision, but it is also so much more. It is a decision that will impact a woman for the rest of her life. And it is a decision that a minor should, in most cases, make with the involvement of a parent or a legal guardian. 
   This important bill that my colleague from Nevada, Senator Ensign, has introduced, will go a long way toward discouraging the abuse that often leads to teenage pregnancy, toward protecting minors from predatory males, and toward protecting the constitutionally recognized right of states to involve parents in these important decisions. 
   I look forward to this debate. There should be some bipartisan consensus on this issue, and my hope is that we will reach one. 
   This is a bill that is worthy of our support. 
   It protects the rights of parents that have been recognized by the states that we represent. 
   We should do our best to support those rights. 
   I encourage my colleagues to support this bill.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854, Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 