SEN. HATCH, WESTERN SENATORS OVERSEE WESTERN FIREFIGHT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and other western state Senators today summoned Jim Hughes, acting director of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), to the Capitol to determine what they can do at a federal level to help battle the wildfires raging through rural and wilderness areas. Given the extent of fire damage this season, the Senators are combining their efforts to ensure that adequate resources are provided and that steps are taken to prevent future fires. 
   "We want to ensure that every resource available is brought to bear against the fires and to help these communities recover," Hatch said. "These infernos threaten to destroy our communities and local economies all across Utah. My sympathies are with those forced to flee from their homes, who have lost property, cattle, grazing land, and especially those who have lost loved ones to the fires."
   The federal government has committed to help combat Utah's fires. Congress has appropriated $1.5 billion to pay for Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management efforts to fight wild-land fires on Federal lands this year. Additionally, the Federal Emergency Management Agency will cover 75 percent of the costs state and local governments will incur fighting the Milford Flat fire.
   "This summer's combination of heat, dry air, and strong winds has made 2007 a very tough fire season for us," Hatch said. "Most of southern Utah and some eastern areas are still suffering from a prolonged drought, while the extra moisture we have received is adding to the growth of grasses and other vegetation. As those grasses dry out, they are easily ignited and can grow into very large fires, especially when winds kick up."
   Currently six fires are raging in Utah. The biggest is the Winecup Complex fire along the northern Utah-Nevada border, which has consumed about 200,000 acres. Last week, firefighters contained the Milford Flats Fire, the largest single fire in Utah's history, which blazed through more than 360,000 acres. Firefighters successfully prevented the fire from burning more than three buildings and protected historic Cove Fort, Utah, from fire damage.
   "The efforts of the brave firefighters on the ground have been truly heroic," Hatch said. "They have put themselves in the way of these blazes to protect more populated and forested areas of the state, and have been tremendously successful."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 