SEN. HATCH URGES SENATE ACTION ON STEM CELL BILL
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today joined a bipartisan group of Senators to express their support for quick consideration of H.R. 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005.  
   Hatch's press conference statement follows: 
   The House victory in passing an important stem cell research bill debate and the President's statement yesterday are clear examples of how this debate compels us to confront fundamental questions: When does human life begin? How do we promote groundbreaking science while preserving our core values? 
   These are difficult questions, but we should not run away from them. We have faced similar decisions in the past - whether to allow in vitro fertilization, for example - and our courage and wisdom made it possible to give life to more than a million children throughout the world. In vitro fertilization now seems so commonplace that it's easy to forget the fierce debate we had about the morality of fertilizing an egg in a laboratory. 
   I respect President Bush's views on this issue, and I fully support his efforts to promote embryo adoption in our country. I also support adult stem cell research, and I am the prime Senate sponsor of cord blood legislation similar to the bill that passed yesterday in the House. 
   But I know, as a long-standing pro-life Senator, that it is possible to be both anti-abortion and pro-embryonic stem cell research. I am pleased that many Right-to-Life Congressmen reached the same conclusion when the House voted yesterday. I don't take a back seat to anybody in the Right-to-Life community. I'm the only person who successfully brought an anti-abortion Constitutional amendment to the floor of the Senate, and I have worked on Right-to-Life issues throughout my career, including running the conference committee last Congress that ultimately outlawed the horrific practice of partial-birth abortion. 
   I understand why this form of stem-cell research may trouble some. However, after many conversations with scientists, ethicists, patient advocates and religious leaders and many hours of thought, reflection and prayer, I reached the conclusion that human life does not begin in a Petri dish. 
   While I respect those with different views, I believe that human life requires and begins in a mother's nurturing womb. 
   A critical aspect of being pro-life is helping the living. Helping those struggling with the challenges of debilitating diseases is exactly what embryonic stem-cell research promises. 
   This is a difficult issue, and we are being forced to draw a line between legitimate science and unethical tinkering with human life. As we learned with the debate over in vitro fertilization, this line does exist. And I believe that the United States must lead the world to help establish the moral and ethical safeguards that allows embryonic stem cell research to go forward in the interest of mankind.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 