SEN. HATCH: NO BLANKET AMNESTY FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today voted against Senate immigration reform legislation, S. 2611, that would allow millions of illegal immigrants to earn U.S. citizenship. 
   "I can't support this - it creates more problems than it fixes," Hatch said. "We passed some strong border security provisions, and that's good. But blanket amnesty doesn't work, regardless of how it's disguised. I'll be a member of the negotiating team that's going to craft a compromise bill that can pass the Senate and House, and I'll work to find a way to secure our borders in a way the American people can accept." 
   Hatch backed provisions in S. 2611 to strengthen the border, including authorizing 4,000 additional Border Patrol agents, enhancing technology, and other systematic reforms. 
   "Immigration reform has to start at the border," Hatch said. "These strong enforcement provisions will help us determine who's coming across the border and where they are in this country."  
   Despite his support for the border security provisions, Hatch voted against the Senate bill largely because it would legalize approximately 12 million illegal immigrants currently living in the United States. Although the bill creates a series of conditions - such as paying a fine and back taxes and showing English competence - that illegal immigrants must meet to gain citizenship, the bill would automatically grant legal status to those already here while law-abiding applicants wait in their home countries for years before entering the United States. 
   "Congress granted amnesty in 1986, and that just encouraged more illegal immigration," Hatch said. "I opposed amnesty 20 years ago, and I'm even more determined not to allow Congress to repeat the same mistake this time around. We shouldn't give an edge to those who have broken the law when there are thousands of people in other countries who are playing by the rules and have been waiting in line to come into the United States." 
   Hatch also opposes the guest-worker provisions included in S. 2611 because they would allow workers entering the United States to apply for legal status the minute they arrive in the country. 
   "There's nothing temporary about this," Hatch said. "Guest workers should enter the United States with a round-trip ticket, but this bill gives them every incentive to stay. A temporary worker program should be just that - temporary. This proposal is just an end-run around the immigration system." 
   Hatch's floor statement follows: 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch 
  before the 
  United States Senate
   S. 2611, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006
   Mr. President, although I rise today in opposition to S. 2611, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006, I would like to take a moment to commend its proponents. 
   The task of reforming this nation's broken immigration system is Herculean. As my colleagues know all too well, the issue of immigration riles - justifiably so - the public like nothing else. I cannot think of any piece of legislation that has provoked a prolonged national debate such as this one. I cannot think of a day in recent months that I have not turned on the television or picked up a newspaper and read about or listened to a discussion of immigration reform. 
   This bill consisted of roughly 616 pages when we began this debate last week, and I have no doubt that the legislation is now over 700 pages. This undertaking has been truly monumental, and while I do not agree with the result, I must acknowledge and commend the sincerity, the diligence, and the good faith of the bill's architects. 
   Mr. President, the Majority Leader - the distinguished Senator from Tennessee - should be recognized for his leadership on this pivotal issue. The fact that Senator Frist has managed to get an immigration bill through the United States Senate despite a splintered caucus and a hotly partisan atmosphere is a tribute to his abilities as a Leader. 
   While I believe Senator Frist deserves a great deal of the accolades for the passage of this bill today, I would be remiss if I did not mention Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter. The Senior Senator from Pennsylvania has-once again-achieved the impossible. This bill - regardless of what one thinks of the policies it contains - is a tribute to his daunting work ethic, intelligence and remarkable ability. Time and time again, Chairman Specter has overcome the odds - both personally and professionally - to make sure the people's work is done, and done well. 
   There are many others who deserve recognition-Senators Mel Martinez and Chuck Hagel were critical to this effort, and we cannot ignore the tireless efforts of Senators John McCain and Ted Kennedy. I must also thank Senators John Kyl, Jeff Sessions, and John Cornyn for their vigilance and conscientious objections to this legislation. Their work has been invaluable, and will continue to be so as we move to conference. 
   It is with great regret that I cannot endorse the substance of the bill before us despite the best efforts of many in this body. There are many laudable aspects of this bill - particularly the enforcement provisions - and, as many believe, the DREAM Act, upon which we worked so hard through the years, but at the end of the day this bill amounts to an amnesty that is several orders of magnitude larger than the one undertaken in 1986. 
   Mr. President, I would like to provide some perspective to this debate. In 1982, the award-winning journalist, Mr. Theodore W. White stated the following in his book America in Search of Itself, "?the United States has lost one of the cardinal attributes of sovereignty-it no longer controls its own borders. Its immigration laws are flouted by aliens and citizens alike, as no system of laws has been flouted since Prohibition." These words were true nearly a quarter of century ago, and they are true today. Some may ask what Congress has done to address the issue during this time-well, I will tell you. In 1986, Congress passed, among other things, the Immigration Reform and Control Act, or IRCA, and we passed stringent enforcement measures in the 1990s. I submit that neither the IRCA amnesty policy nor the previous enforcement measures have worked. Moreover, I submit that the current legislation amounts to the combination of two failed policies that will yield nearly identical results today and in the future. 
   Mr. President, we are all aware that we have lost control of our own borders. The President of the United States has made statements to that effect. Something has to be done. Illegal immigration has also been tied in with the enormous flow of illegal drugs into this country and to international terrorist violence being exported here from abroad. Something must be done, but this bill is not the answer, Mr. President. 
   The idea that a legalization or amnesty can be given to potentially millions of illegal immigrants, who arrived illegally in this country before January of 2004, is to undermine the very principles of legality upon which our entire immigration system is founded. In the words of my former colleague, Senator Richard Schweiker, the so-called legalization or amnesty "puts the Government squarely behind the lawbreaker, and in effect, says ' Congratulations, you have successfully violated our laws and avoided detection-here is your reward.'" In clear language, granting amnesty rewards the lawbreaker, pure and simple. 
   To highlight the scope of this problem and the dangers of charting the wrong course yet again, I must point out to my colleagues that a significant portion of the comments I just made are over 20 years old. I changed a few names and a few numbers, but the substance remains the same. 
   It took the proponents of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 three years to put a bill together. This effort took three months. Despite the rhetoric to the contrary, the bill before us today constitutes a massive amnesty - one several orders of magnitude larger than the one undertaken 20 years ago. I do not understand how this body has failed to learn from its mistakes. 
   I commend the sincerity, the diligence, and the good faith of this bill's proponents, but I cannot agree in its result. 
   I fail to understand how a massive guest worker program that constitutes an end-run around our immigration system is a good idea. 
   I fail to understand how an amnesty for millions of illegals is a good idea. 
   I fail to understand how a bill that does not address the root causes of our immigration crises is a good idea. 
   Mr. President, I ask my colleagues, why does this legislation ignore the recommendations of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform-an entity that spent seven years examining the issue of immigration and making recommendations for this august body? Why do we insist on pursuing failed policies? We have an obligation to the American people to leave no stone unturned in this debate, but we have failed to live up to that obligation. 
   The time has come to undertake truly comprehensive reform. We must start from the ground up. We must secure our borders. We must identify the problems with the current immigration system with certainty. We must, in turn, develop meaningful solutions. I submit that the bill before us today builds upon a faulty foundation - we may have renovated a few rooms, we may have updated a few appliances, but it will all come to naught unless we fix the basic structure. 
   My colleagues know the extent of my commitment to my Hispanic friends. I founded, and I Chair, the U.S. Senate Republican Conference Task Force on Hispanic Affairs for years now - I know the immigration issue is not solely a Latino issue, but we all know that the vast majority of the illegal aliens in this country are Hispanic. I say to my friends that my opposition to this bill has nothing to do with a lack of support or dedication to the Latino community, but rather a fundamental and principled opposition to widespread amnesty. We have been down that road, and that road led us to this moment. 
   There is no question that the millions of people who are here illegally broke the laws of the land and further, that they should not be rewarded for that conduct. We gave over three million illegals amnesty 20 years ago. Today, we are poised to grant amnesty to three times that number! When will we learn? What will we do when we are faced with this exact situation in another 20 years? Enough is enough! 
   We must take the time to craft real legislation with real solutions to real problems. We cannot afford another failure. Our children cannot afford another failure. And our nation cannot afford another failure. 
   We must restructure our visa system. We must determine - affirmatively - what policies should guide admission to this country. We must provide for a truly temporary guest worker program. We must create a realistic and effective employer verification system. And we must find a humanitarian, just, and equitable solution to the millions of people in this country illegally. 
   This bill does nothing to address the underlying flaws in the current immigration system. This bill does not fix the current visa system. This bill does not create a truly workable employer verification system. This bill does not create a truly temporary guest worker program. Instead, this bill creates more visas categories. It increases the numbers in existing visa categories. It creates a shell of an employer verification regime. It creates a guest-worker program that is an end-run around the immigration system. And finally, it grants the largest amnesty ever undertaken in any country, at any time. 
   I wish I could support this bill. I wish that we had taken more time in Committee, I wish that we had taken more time before the Committee process, and I wish we crafted a comprehensive reform bill that actually lived up to its name. 
   I am fully aware of the hard work on both sides of these very important issues. It is important that we get this bill to conference where I hope we can correct the many deficiencies therein, and I am aware some are voting for it with that in mind despite their severe reservations. 
   I believe it is absolutely critical that the United States Congress address the issue of immigration, and I look forward to working to improve this bill during the course of our negotiations with the House. The real work lies before us, and I believe the men and women of both bodies have the mettle, the tenacity, the intelligence, and the drive to do what is right for the American people. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 