SEN. HATCH: GEN. HAYDEN DESERVES SENATE APPROVAL
 Sen. Hatch gave the following statement to the Senate regarding the nomination of Gen. Michael V. Hayden, USAF to be the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. 
   Mr. President, I'd like to thank the leadership for expeditiously scheduling this confirmation vote. In particular, I'd like to thank Intelligence Committee Chairman Roberts for organizing the open and closed hearings last week before our committee. The Committee has a heavy work schedule, but nothing should be more important than moving forward an important nomination like this one. I would also like to recognize the work of my other colleague, Senator Warner, for expediting this nomination through his committee.  
   Air Force General Michael Hayden has spent his life in the service of our country, and I honor his dedication. In my opinion, he has brought enormous distinction to the uniform he wears, and his contributions have served the security of this Nation, particularly since the attacks of 9/11. They have made a profound difference in our ability to defend ourselves in war unlike any we have ever been forced to fight. 
   General Hayden was before us last year, and he is well known to this body. When last we saw him, he was to become the first deputy of an organization formed by the Congress, the office of the Director of National Intelligence. In the legislation that created this office, we tasked it, and its first office-holders, with the enormous job of weaving together the disparate but impressive elements of the American intelligence community. 
   Our concept was to create a whole that would be greater than the sum of its parts, but we left the work in the hands of the first Director, Ambassador Negroponte, and his deputy, the man whom the President has now nominated to head the Central Intelligence Agency. 
   As a long-time military officer, as one who has spent most of his life as an intelligence consumer, and a distinct part of his life in both the human and technical practices of intelligence, and now as an architect of the new intelligence structure, General Hayden is an individual exceptionally prepared to take on the responsibility of transforming the CIA. It is my hope and expectation that, under the leadership of General Hayden, the talents and capabilities of the CIA do not only make the difference in winning this current war on global terrorism, but remain central to facing all of the challenges that loom before us once this particular conflict is won. 
   We have the very real possibility of conflicts with Iran and North Korea. And we must face the fact that the day may come when we are faced with the threat of armed groups from Latin America. What the CIA does today, if the lessons and experience it gathers from its contributions are conveyed to its new cadres, will play a key - absolutely key - role in managing the conflicts of tomorrow. 
   Reform of the intelligence community, in which the CIA has and should maintain a central position, is already well underway, in part due to creation of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and also due to oversight by the Senate intelligence committee in insisting that the flaws in the intelligence process we have revealed be redressed. The DNI was created to coordinate the elements of the Community, as well as to advance a reform agenda for the Community as a whole and in each of its elements. 
   Reform, particularly in time of war, is never easy, and it is much more complicated than creating a new bureaucratic structure. It requires creating a new culture that brings a common professional set of doctrine and values to all components of the community, that builds on the extraordinary capabilities that exist, while assembling new hybrid excellencies within an entity whose effectiveness must become greater than the sum of its parts. 
   General Hayden comported himself with great probity in his confirmation hearing last week, and rendered honest and detailed answers to a great range of questions. The General's lifetime experience has prepared him for taking this post, and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting his nomination.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 