BRETT KAVANAUGH QUALIFIES FOR U.S. COURT OF APPEALS
  Sen. Hatch delivered the following speech before the approval of Brett Kavanaugh, whom the Senate approved with a vote of 57-36. 
   Statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch 
  before the United States Senate 
  The Nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals 
   May 25, 2006
   Mr. President, I rise in strong support for the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to serve on one of the most important courts in our justice system - the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  
   Brett Kavanaugh is an extremely bright, hard-working, ethical lawyer. 
   I have known him for many years. His father, Ed Kavanaugh, served as the head of a major trade association in Washington for many years, and he is known by my colleagues in Congress as a straight-shooter. In this case, the apple did not fall far from the tree. His mother, Martha, served for many years as a state court judge in Montgomery County, Maryland and, I am sure, serves as a great model of judicial temperament and jurisprudential excellence and fairness for her son. 
   Brett Kavanaugh was nominated to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals in July of 2003. Due in large part to the delay tactics employed by some, earlier this month Mr. Kavanaugh was the subject of a highly unusual, second hearing on his nomination. Interestingly, when he was a nominee for the same court, Chief Justice Roberts was also subjected to a second hearing before the Judiciary Committee. Frankly, it may be the case that in each of these two circumstances, the second hearing tells us more about the partisan nature of the judicial nomination process than it reveals about the qualifications of the nominees. 
   I just hope that the 14-year time period between Chief Justice Roberts' first nomination and confirmation to the D.C. Circuit is not matched or exceeded by the Kavanaugh nomination. Since he was nominated almost three years ago, Mr. Kavanaugh has become a husband and father - let us pray that he does not become a grandfather before he gets a vote in the Untied States Senate. 
   This is a good day because not only can we see the light at the end of the tunnel but we can actually get through the tunnel and complete action on this nomination that has languished for nearly three years. 
   Now that Mr. Kavanaugh has once again answered questions at the unusual second hearing - and, as was the case with his first hearing, some of the questions were not posed to him in the most civil fashion - and now that he has been reported to the floor by the Judiciary Committee, it is my hope that he will soon have the up-or-down vote that he deserves on the floor of the Senate. 
   I commend the manner in which Chairman Specter has brought this nomination through the Judiciary Committee and onto the floor. In the sunshine of the hearing room, it became ever more apparent that there are no serious objections to this nomination. 
   Brett Kavanaugh is a highly qualified nominee and a proven public servant. 
   Mr. Kavanaugh's education, employment history, and record of public service speak for itself. 
   Brett Kavanaugh is a local guy. He went to high school at Georgetown Prep in Bethesda, Maryland, where he was educated by the Jesuits. From what I can tell, he heard the call of Saint Ignatius to be a true man for others. I suspect that many of my colleagues, especially those Jesuit-educated members, appreciate that background. 
   He went to Yale University for college. 
   Having excelled there, he went on to the Yale Law School where he was an editor at the Law Review. 
   He went on to not one, but two, circuit court clerkships. 
   A judge really gets to know his clerks. They work in close quarters together. The judge has a true opportunity to get the measure of the man. Brett Kavanaugh's former employers, these judges, his mentors, thought so much of Brett that they came to Washington to testify at his confirmation hearing earlier this month. 
   They did not mince their words. 
   This is what Judge Walter Stapleton of the Third Circuit had to say about his former clerk: 
   "I am confident that Mr. Kavanaugh's perspectives on both life and the law will result in his becoming what I regard as a 'judge's judge.' His personal confidence is matched by his humility, and his legal acuity by his good, common sense judgment. When he served as my clerk, no case was too small to deserve his rapt attention and, without exception, he initiated his evaluation of a case with no predilections. His ultimate recommendation resulted form a careful case-by-case analysis of the facts and an objective application of the relevant precedents. He is firmly committed to the proposition that there must be equal justice for all and that this can be a reality only if all of our courts faithfully and objectively apply the statutory declarations of Congress and the teachings of the Supreme Court." 
   That is what I would call a ringing endorsement. 
   Judge Alex Kozinski had a similar experience during Mr. Kavanaugh's time with him. This is what he had to say at that hearing: 
   "I must tell you that in the times that I had Brett clerk for me, I found him to be a positive delight to have in the office. Sure?he is really bright, and he is really accomplished, and he is a really excellent lawyer. But most, virtually all, folks who qualify for a clerkship with a circuit judge these days have those qualities. 
   ?Brett brought something more to the table. He, first of all, brought what I thought was a breadth of mind and a breadth of vision. He didn't look at the case from just one perspective? 
   Brett was very good in changing perspective. Sometimes I'd take one position and he'd take the opposite, and sometimes we'd switch places. He was very good and very flexible that way. I never sensed any ideology or any agenda. His job was to serve me, and to serve the court, and to serve the people of the United States in achieving the correct result at the court. And he always did it with a sense of humor and a sense of gentle self-deprecation." 
   Those are strong words of support and describe precisely the type of qualities that we want in our members of the federal judiciary. 
   And Mr. Kavanaugh went on from these clerkships to bigger and better things. 
   He worked in the Office of the Solicitor General. 
   He clerked for Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy. 
   Only the best and the brightest lawyers win these types of challenging and prestigious assignments. 
   Mr. Kavanaugh went on to become a partner at the law firm of Kirkland and Ellis, a leading national law firm. 
   Brett Kavanaugh left the no doubt financially lucrative private practice of law at Kirkland and Ellis and returned to public service. For the last six years he has worked at the White House, first in the White House Counsel's office and, currently, as Staff Secretary to the President of the United States. 
   Pretty impressive stuff. 
   Nevertheless, some opponents of this nomination are suggesting that somehow Mr. Kavanaugh is unqualified to serve on the D.C. Circuit. 
   Let us be clear. 
   Mr. Kavanaugh has been practicing law for 16 years. 
   He has argued civil and criminal matters before trial courts, appeals courts, and even the Supreme Court. Very few lawyers ever argue a case before the Supreme Court. Mr. Kavanaugh has done so. 
   The vast majority of his legal practice has been as a public servant. 
   I remember a time when public service was applauded and valued as it should be. My colleague from Arizona, Senator McCain, should be commended for reminding young men and women how crucial it is for citizens to transcend their own immediate needs and wants, and to serve something larger than themselves. 
   Well, that is what Brett Kavanaugh has done with his life. 
   Yet, instead of applauding him, some attack him. 
   For some, his public service has become a liability. 
   I wish I was kidding, but I am not making this up. 
   Apparently, some believe that Mr. Kavanaugh is just too political. His great alleged sins were to work for the Office of the Independent Counsel in the investigation of the Whitewater matter and later for President Bush. 
   Although I think that most fair observers would have to say that both of these demanding jobs are real professional achievements, some are trying unfairly to use political innuendo to tar and feather a fine young lawyer. But that dog won't hunt. 
   As a lawyer in the Office of the Independent Counsel--an office created by Democrats in the wake of Watergate--he worked on an investigation initiated by a Democratic President and his Attorney General. Nobody has ever suggested that his work was anything but professional. He was not a political partisan. And yet some people are hyperventilating as though the President nominated some partisan hack to a lifetime position on the federal bench. 
   I know Brett Kavanaugh. I can tell you that he will be neither a partisan nor a hack on the bench. He has all the capacities and qualities to become a great judge. 
   This false charge of partisanship should be recognized for what it is--a fabrication. You heard what two federal judges for whom he clerked had to say about Mr. Kavanaugh. 
   Another variation on this attack against Brett is the claim that he does not have adequate judicial experience. We need to put this in perspective. On the D.C. Circuit, only 4 of the 20 judges confirmed since President Carter's election served previously as judges. President Clinton nominated, and the Senate confirmed, 32 lawyers with no judicial experience, including Judges David Tatel and Merrick Garland to the D.C. Circuit. 
   Are we to believe that those who make these arguments also believe that Chief Justice Earl Warren, Justice Hugo Black, and even Chief Justice Marshall were somehow lacking because they had been involved in politics and had no prior judicial experience? 
   It was not that long ago that the Minority Leader publicly urged the President to nominate individuals with a diversity of experience, rather than just looking to prior judicial service. 
   Well, Brett Kavanaugh fits this bill. 
   And his background as Staff Secretary may prove to be particularly good judicial training. In a letter signed by eight individuals who served a either Counsel or Deputy Counsel to the President, this is how they described that role: 
   "The importance of this position, as well as its substantive nature, is not always well known or understood outside the White House. As Staff Secretary, Mr. Kavanaugh is responsible for ensuring that all relevant views are concisely and accurately presented to the President. The ability to assess presentations of differing arguments on a wide range of topic areas is a skill that would serve him well on the D.C. Circuit." 
   I concur. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the full letter be made part of the record. 
   So with few rounds left, some activist groups opposing this nomination claim that Mr. Kavanaugh is too young and too inexperienced. It really is time for these folks to get a grip. Brett was nominated when he was 39 years old. Today, as a result of several years of delay and obstruction, he is 41. All three of the judges Brett clerked for were nominated before the age of 39. Justice Kennedy was 38. Judges Kozinski and Stapleton were 35. 
   Several of my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee were elected in their early thirties, and I don't think that they would allow others to charge they were too immature for the work. 
   If James Madison could be the principal drafter of the Constitution in his mid-thirties, I think a man in his early forties with sixteen years of legal practice is sufficiently mature to serve on the federal bench. 
   I think it is clear that most of the arguments marshaled against Mr. Kavanaugh are nothing more than a combination of hokum and hogwash. So it is not a surprise that the American Bar Association has repeatedly found him qualified for this position. 
   Let me explain what that means. 
   After an extensive review, the American Bar Association gives ratings to all of the President's judicial nominees, and the Judiciary Committee factors in these ratings when evaluating judicial nominees. 
   A rating of qualified means that, and I quote, "the nominee meets the Committee's very high standards with respect to integrity, professional competence and judicial temperament and that the Committee believes that the nominee will be able to perform satisfactorily all of the duties and responsibilities required by the high office of a federal judge." 
   A well-qualified nominee is one who has demonstrated even more professional excellence. 
   Brett Kavanaugh has been reviewed by the ABA on three separate occasions. On each occasion he has been found qualified to serve in this position. Twice he received a rating of majority well-qualified, minority qualified. And in his most recent rating he received a rating of majority qualified, minority well-qualified. 
   Over the last three years, he has received 42 individual ratings by members of the American Bar Association and all, with no exceptions, found him qualified for this position. 
   Some will try to make hay out of his most recent rating but keep your focus on the fact that everyone from the ABA who has ever evaluated Brett Kavanaugh's ability to serve on the federal bench has found him fully qualified to do the job. Some of those doing the rating gave him the highest rating of Well Qualified. Nobody from the ABA has ever found him to be Not Qualified to be a federal judge. 
   Frankly, I have always been one of those who are somewhat skeptical of the American Bar Association's ratings. After all, many Democrat's consider it their Gold Standard. Whenever the Democrat's call something their Gold Standard, I have found it useful to scratch beneath the surface because sometimes you find that it is only gold-plated and sometimes you find that it is in fact gold but that the gold came from the taxpayers hard-earned money. 
   Nevertheless, the Judiciary Committee looks to its evaluations because these evaluations can often provide useful information. I would like to commend the many men and women of the ABA who volunteer their time and energy to compile these ratings. In my experience, however, the system is not infallible. For example, Judges Richard Posner and Frank Easterbrook received mixed qualified/not qualified ratings when they were nominated by President Reagan. This was a great and unpleasant surprise to those of us who were fully confident they would do excellent work on the bench, and many were convinced that those ratings were issued for ideological reasons. Today, these judges are among the most frequently cited members of the federal judiciary and their work is widely admired. 
   Just recently, Michael Wallace, a nominee to the Fifth Circuit, seems to have fallen victim to an ideological review process by the ABA. He graduated from the top of his class at Harvard and went on to the University of Virginia Law School. He clerked not only for the Mississippi Supreme Court, but also for the late Chief Justice Rehnquist. Yet, he was given a unanimously not qualified rating. I am very curious about the facts surrounding this rating. 
   I understand that some are suggesting that past battles over particular public policy issues might have something to do with the rating. We will see. 
   In practice, it is sometimes hard to see clearly because the ABA judicial nomination rating system generally operates under a principle of anonymity. It is virtually impossible to find out who has said what about whom, and try to figure out whether it was said fairly and objectively or with an eye toward evening up old scores. 
   While the ABA rating system is murky in some respects, the bottom-line with respect to the ABA rating of Brett Kavanaugh is that he was rated three times and was found qualified each time. 
   Remarkably, some are trying to distort Mr. Kavanaugh's positive ABA recommendation into a negative rating. As Tom Sawyer once remarked to Huckleberry Finn, You can't pray a lie. 
   This is an important nomination because the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals is such an important court. It reviews many matters relating to the actions of powerful federal agencies. Many of its decisions will never be reviewed by the Supreme Court. 
   And it is important to have judges on the D.C. Circuit, like Brett Kavanaugh, who understand the proper rule of judges and the judiciary. For too long, some federal judges have been permitted to run roughshod over the traditions of the American people. My colleague from West Virginia, Senator Byrd, recently introduced a constitutional amendment that would reestablish the Constitution's traditional meaning on school prayer. In recent years, some federal judges have taken such a radical view of the Constitution's Establishment Clause--one that is not only at odds with the views of the Founders but with the current views of a majority of Americans in nearly every state--that the Constitution's commitment to the free exercise of religion is now endangered. 
   The results of this corrupted constitutional interpretation were manifest most prominently in the decision Santa Fe Independent School District v. Doe, where the Court determined that a voluntary student-led prayer before a high school football game somehow violated the Constitution. We should applaud Senator Byrd for seeking to reestablish the Constitution's traditional meaning. 
   The meaning of our constitutional, and our statutory, laws has been twisted by some judges on issue after issue. It happened when the Supreme Court discovered rights to abortion and later to burn the American flag. And it can happen again today, as liberal activist groups are urging judges to promote same-sex marriage in state and federal courts. 
   Our judges must show a proper respect for the Constitution. The Constitution is not owned by the courts or controlled by judges. No less than judges, members of this body take an oath to support the Constitution. The judiciary is a creature of the people and their Constitution, and the judiciary should not be a forum for wholesale social changes initiated by special-interest groups and opposed by ordinary Americans. 
   I have no doubt that Brett Kavanaugh understands this fundamental distinction between judging and law-making. I am fully supportive of his nomination. I look forward to his long career on the bench. And I urge my colleagues to give his nomination the support that it deserves.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 