SEN. HATCH: MEDICAID, MEDICARE CUTS DESIGNED TO NOT IMPACT CARE
 After a day of intense negotiations, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) joined his colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee in approving a measure that nets savings of $10 billion in Medicare and Medicaid over five years while protecting the vulnerable beneficiaries of these two vital programs.  
   "Many in Utah were concerned about how these cuts would affect the seniors, children and disabled that rely on these programs," Hatch said. "It took a great deal of work, but I believe we struck the right balance. We're targeting wasteful spending, fraud and abuse, and still making sure that we preserve the integrity of Medicare and Medicaid." 
   To reduce the growth of spending in Medicaid, early this year President George W. Bush recommended slashing Medicaid's budget by $60 billion over ten years. The Finance Committee bill proposes $8 billion in savings, coupled with $3.8 billion in new spending, half of which would support Medicaid recipients hit by recent hurricanes. 
   Over one-half of the savings result from prescription drug payment reforms, and $0.5 billion eliminates fraudulent activities and other loopholes that individuals and some states have used to game the system. The Finance Committee bill includes a provision co-sponsored by Hatch, the Family Opportunity Act, which would allow working parents of severely disabled children to buy into Medicaid so they do not lose coverage if they have income and resources above the poverty level. 
   "These changes should not affect anyone's eligibility for Medicaid in Utah," Hatch said. "Medicaid has been a tremendously successful program, but also a very costly one. We have a responsibility to address the dramatic growth in spending, and this bill shows that it's possible to cut costs without affecting care." 
   The Finance Committee bill proposes $18.6 billion in Medicare savings, along with $12.9 billion in new spending. The bill stops a scheduled 4.3 percent cut for Utah's doctors, who will now receive a one percent increase in fees, and it modifies a rule issued by the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services that penalizes rehabilitation services providers. 
   Hatch successfully inserted a provision to allow missionaries from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who are eligible for Medicare to not pay their Part B premiums while serving overseas, with no penalty upon their return to the United States. He also fought to expand the availability of the Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) program, which is of interest to those providing long-term, acute care for frail elderly in rural areas, including Grand County in Utah. 
   "This bill targets Medicare's resources to better serve our seniors and disabled," Hatch said. "We're making sure that beneficiaries don't lose their doctor because of budget cuts, and we have expanded services while making significant budget savings in non-critical areas." 
   A full summary of the proposed changes to Medicaid and Medicare are listed on Hatch's website, http://hatch.senate.gov.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 