SEN. HATCH SEEKS TO PROTECT RURAL PATIENTS, SMALL BUSINESSES FROM MEDICARE CRUNCH
  Concerned about a new Medicare competitive bidding process starting in 2007, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) introduced legislation late last week to ensure that small businesses are not squeezed out of the market for homecare devices. Hatch's bill would protect rural Medicare beneficiaries who rely on these small businesses to provide their walkers, wheelchairs, diabetic supplies, and other durable medical equipment (DME).  
   "Those living in Utah's rural areas could be really hurt if their local provider is forced out of business," Hatch said. "Sure, we want competition, but some rural areas just don't have the infrastructure for a truly competitive market." 
   A growing number of people with disabilities over the age of 50 are choosing to live at home instead of in assisted-living facilities or nursing homes. These patients often require DME to so they can live independently at home. 
   Next year, Medicare will start implementing a DME competitive-bidding program that is intended to drive down the cost of DME and potentially save taxpayers millions. Medicare will determine reimbursement rates for DME based on a competitive process, and it will limit the number of suppliers that will be awarded Medicare contracts. That could shut out small business that lose the bid, but can still compete at the bid rate. 
   Hatch's bill keeps the new contracting process in place, while making modest changes that will help small suppliers continue to compete in Medicare's bidding process. The measure would require quality standards in equipment, so beneficiaries are not forced to use cheap, low-quality equipment, and it would also allow small businesses that provide homecare equipment to continue to participate in the Medicare Program if they qualify and meet a competitively bid price. Smaller, rural (populations under 500,000) Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) would be exempted from competitive bidding, along with items and services with savings under 10 percent from the fee schedule in effect January 1, 2006. 
   The bill would also restore the right of DME providers participating in the program to administrative and judicial review, and it would protect beneficiary access to care by requiring the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to conduct a comparability analysis for areas that are not competitively bid to ensure the rate is appropriate to costs and does not reduce access to care. 
   "People should have the same level of access to this equipment no matter where they live," Hatch said. "If we make these small changes, small businesses - including many in Utah - will be able to continue providing medical equipment to those who need it." 
   The lead Democrat cosponsor of Hatch's bill is Sen. Kent Conrad of North Dakota. The legislation is a companion measure to H.R. 3559, which was introduced earlier this Congress by Reps. David Hobson and John Tanner. That bill has broad, bipartisan support and 132 House cosponsors.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 