SEN. HATCH : 'DO WE HAVE THE RESOLVE TO SEE OUR COMMITMENTS THROUGH?'
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today blasted the Conference Report to H.R. 1591, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill, because it would prematurely withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq. Although President Bush promisd to veto the report 40 days ago, the Senate passed it today by a vote of 51 to 46. Hatch's remarks follow. 
   Mr. President, today I rise to speak on a question that continues to weigh heavily on my heart. I am reluctant to ask it since such a question would never have been asked, or even contemplated, by previous generations of Americans. But it is a question that now must be asked since it is central to our future: do we, as Americans, have the resolve to see our commitments through? 
   It is a question that we must confront in a number of policy arenas that will directly affect the way we, our children, and our grandchildren will live in this new century. Do we have the resolve and courage to meet our commitments and confront the looming crisis in of Social Security?  
   Do we have the resolve to balance our nation's budget? Do we have the resolve to endow our children with a proper education so that they can master and push the limits of science - thereby providing our nation the means to compete in an increasingly competitive world economy? 
   However, at this point in our Nation's history, the crucial question concerning our resolve as a Nation does not relate to matters of domestic policy, it relates to our commitments beyond our borders. 
   It is the central and critical component in determining who will prevail in the Global War on Terrorism. Will we, our coalition allies, the people of Iraq and their elected government, emerge victorious? 
   Or will we renounce and abdicate our commitments and responsibilities to the Iraqi people - leaving them to a fate controlled by terrorists and leaving our future security as a Nation in peril. 
   Generations ago that, unto itself, would be a stain on the honor of this country; but these are different times. 
   Turning our back now, will only provide our enemies with a new base of operations, and unlike Afghanistan, this base contains vast oil wealth. Imagine al-Qaeda with billions of dollars to do with as Osama bin Laden wishes. 
   I wonder what they will buy with all that money. Remember, shortly after the liberation of Kabul, there were numerous media reports that al-Qaeda was working on chemical weapons. 
   So, with that in mind, I again ask - do we have the resolve to see our commitments through? 
   As we seek to answer that this question, I am reminded of events that occurred during the summer of 1940. The Nazi armies, seemingly invincible, had conquered Western Europe. France, the Netherlands, Poland, Denmark, Norway, and Belgium had all fallen. 
   The British Army, after its rescue from Dunkirk, no longer possessed sufficient numbers of artillery and tanks to defend against the blitzkrieg. All that stood between Hitler and complete victory was the English Channel and 650 fighters of the Royal Air Force. 
   Then Hitler offered a deal. In exchange for a "free hand in Europe," the Nazis would provide "guarantees" that they would not invade Great Britain. 
   Despite the fact that the British Army lacked sufficient equipment to effectively repulse an invasion, Prime Minister Churchill resolved to keep his Nation's commitment to the people of Europe. He would not abandon them. 
   His words, which I will paraphrase, still echo today: 
   "The Battle of France is over? the Battle of Britain is about to begin. Upon this battle depends the survival of? Western civilization? The whole fury and might of the enemy must very soon be turned on us. Hitler knows that he will have to break us? or lose the war. If we can stand up to him, all Europe may be free? But if we fail, then the whole world, including the United States?[and] all that we have known and cared for, will sink into the abyss of a new Dark Age made more sinister, and perhaps more protracted, by the lights of perverted science. Let us, therefore, brace ourselves to our duties and so bear ourselves that?, men will say - This Was Their Finest Hour." 
   This is the lesson that history teaches us - that resolution to see your commitments through is what great statesman and Nations are made of. That peace and justice can only be restored through bold action. 
   So what do my colleagues on the other side of the aisle offer, knowing full well this lesson of history? 
   In a word: Defeat. 
   In his own words, the Democratic Leader said on the floor of the Senate on April 19th that the "war is lost." 
   To be fair, the Leader did attempt to temper his words by saying "As long as we follow the President's path, the war is lost. But there is still a chance to change course and we must change course. No one wants us to succeed in the Middle East more than I do. But there must be a change of course." 
   So what plan, or new course, does the Democratic Leader offer. How can we, in his words, "succeed in the Middle East?" 
   His answer can be found in the Conference Report to this bill. But, I warn anyone who attempts to read this legislation, first you must wade through billions in spending allocated to projects and programs that have nothing to do with the War before you learn how our Democratic colleagues plan to "succeed in the Middle East." 
   What is their plan for victory? Well, their legislation states that no matter what happens, the bulk of our forces will be begin to withdraw after July 1st, or if the President makes certain certifications, after October 1st. 
   So what is their strategy? I believe Winston Churchill would have characterized the Democratic strategy as - guaranteed defeat. 
   Is this resolve? Is this determination to see our commitments through? No, this is the worst case of capitulation to appeasement since Neville Chamberlain spoke the words "Peace in our Time." 
   What is needed now is leadership. Now at this critical moment in history, great nations need to follow Churchill's advice, yet the Democrats only offer us Chamberlains. 
   The Democratic Leaders previously stated in 2005 "as far as setting a timeline? that's not a wise decision because it only empowers those who don't want us there, and it doesn't work well to do it." 
   Wise and sound words - that was real leadership. 
   Unfortunately, that was when the polls supported his position to stand firm. Now the Democratic Leaders have reversed themselves because the polls have told them that is what they should do. 
   Just two days ago during an interview on CNN, the Senator from Nevada was asked if he would believe the words of our new commander General Petraeus "that there is progress going on in Iraq, that the so-called surge is working. Will you believe him when he says that?" 
   What was the Majority Leader's response? "No, I don't believe him, because it's not happening." 
   I find this to be an incredible remark. Less than three months ago, the Majority Leader had joined a unanimous Senate, and voted in favor of General Petraeus. 
   But this was more then just another confirmation vote. The major subject of his confirmation hearing and the subsequent debate on the Senate floor was the new strategy that the General had outlined. 
   So, what is the new strategy? Simply put, General Petraeus is executing one of the tenants of a classic counterinsurgency strategy by providing and maintaining security to the local population and neighborhoods in Baghdad. Only when this is achieved will the Iraqi government be able to continually offer basic services such as clean water, and electricity, which are the backbone of any modern society. 
   This, in turn, creates conditions where the Iraqi people can begin to develop a growing economy and where families feel safe to send their children to school. As these goals are achieved, more and more of the population will desire even greater stability and will support and work toward creating Iraqi government institutions and security services that maintain and enhance this new, secure environment. 
   How is this different from the past? Previously, US forces would clear an area of insurgents, but unfortunately, soon thereafter, our forces would leave and the insurgents would return. 
   Now, under General Petraeus's plan, American and Iraqi security forces will maintain security in the cleared neighborhoods of Baghdad. To date, over 50 security force units, based in what are called garrisons, can be found in the neighborhoods of the city and even more are planned. 
   That is why the additional forces that we are sending to Iraq are vital. It is not more for more sake, but to maintain a secure environment for the Iraqi people and to help them stand up for themselves. 
   Based upon the briefing that the Senate received yesterday from General Petraeus, and information I have examined as a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I can report that we our seeing signs of progress. 
   Frankly, I believe the changes that have been made in three months are remarkable and need our full support and it is readily apparent we do not yet have all the promised forces deployed and in Iraq. 
   So let us return to the question that I asked when I began my remarks - Do we, as Americans, have the resolve to see our commitments through? Or will we falter? 
   That is what the vote on this Conference Report will demonstrate. Will we stand with firm resolve behind our commitments and see our new strategy through? Or do we adopt a policy of appeasement and hope that al-Qaeda, and those who wish us harm and seek to destroy the values that we hold so dear, do not follow us home to our Country? 
   What side of history do you wish to be on? Based on America's history and our resolve that has seen us through so many difficulties in the past, I believe the American people do not want retreat they want success and security. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 