SEN. HATCH: RICE WILL BE A SUPERB DIPLOMAT FOR U.S.
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today strongly supported Dr. Condoleeza Rice to be the next American Secretary of State. Hatch joined the vast majority of his Senate colleagues in approving the nomination by a vote of 85-13. 
   "This is a great day - too long in coming - for America's relationship with the world," said Hatch. "Dr. Rice is an excellent person to lead American diplomacy, and the best person to take the reins from Colin Powell, who served our country in the best possible fashion."  
   "Condoleeza Rice has 25 years of experience in advancing the national security of this nation," said Hatch. "For four years she has been the principal advisor to President Bush, as he has charted a bold foreign policy. She has the knowledge, character and experience of one who can lead this country in our diplomacy around the world." 
   "I'm disappointed that Dr. Rice's nomination was held up," said Hatch. "She ended up being approved overwhelmingly, and these procedural delays just to score cheap political points - at a time of war, no less - are really a concern to me and my fellow Utahns. It's just not fair play, and it hurts our country. I recognize the need to have an honest and productive debate about foreign policy, but we should have confirmed Dr. Rice last week, and then continued the debate." 
   "Dr. Rice will become Secretary of State while we are at war with terrorists in Iraq and throughout the world," said Hatch. "These next few years, I expect, will be very difficult. We will continue to need the experience and wisdom of Dr. Rice as she serves this Administration in a new role." 
   Hatch's floor statement follows:
   Statement of Orrin G. Hatch on the Nomination of Dr. Condoleeza Rice to serve as Secretary of State
   Mr. President, I stand today to give my strong support for President Bush's choice to be our next Secretary of State, Dr. Condoleeza Rice. I believe that Dr. Rice will be a superb diplomat to lead the State Department, while remaining one of the President's principal confidantes and advisors on the challenges to our national security that we will face in the difficult years before us. Indeed, not since President Nixon nominated his National Security Advisor, Dr. Henry Kissinger, to the same post, has an Administration seen the same continuity in assigning a key foreign policy advisor to the more public role of principal diplomat. 
   I was pleased that Chairman Lugar and Ranking Minority Member Biden expeditiously moved Dr. Rice's nomination out of their committee last week. I am disappointed that we could not hold this vote last week. At a time when this nation is at war, procedural delays on a position as important as the Secretary of State would appear to inhibit the conduct of our foreign policy and would have been of great concern to me and my constituents in Utah, where the sense of fair play is strong, but the duty to a Nation at war is even stronger. 
   Yes, Mr. President, I certainly recognize the prerogatives of the Senate for thorough and critical debate. I will listen carefully to the debate today and tomorrow and see if I hear anything that is worthy of delaying this important nomination so critical to the national security efforts of the Administration. I will listen for arguments I have not heard before, on the Senate floor or the campaign trail, and I will be open to all the insights that come from arguments never made before, and relevant to this nomination. But I know that I represent the vast majority of all Utahns when I say that confirming a President's Secretary of State while we are at war, while the President is preparing an aggressive diplomacy that will begin with a trip to Europe to meet with key allies next month, is a matter the Senate should take expeditiously. 
   We are at war, Mr. President, in Iraq and around the world. Utah's sons and daughters are paying the price, nobly and selflessly sacrificing for their duty, and in too many cases, with their lives. 
   For those who wish to debate Iraq policy - and I am the first to recognize that spirited and substantive debate is essential for these grave matters - we have all the opportunities to do so before us, and we should avail ourselves of these opportunities. Many today may use the confirmation process of Dr. Rice to criticize or review Iraq policy. We should confirm Dr. Rice and then continue to debate this subject, as we have done so over the past years. 
   Because I wish a speedy confirmation for Dr. Rice, I will keep my comments about Iraq to a minimum. My statements of support for the President's policies and my arguments for that support are a matter of record. I will add to that record in the coming weeks, months and years. 
   For now, I will leave it to this observation. This Sunday the Iraqi people, amidst great insecurity but with even greater resolve, will go to vote to choose their National Assembly, one that will write a constitution and set the next elections. Depending on which polls you see, between 67 percent and 84 percent of the Iraqi people want this opportunity to vote this coming Sunday, despite the perils many face every day. To see the ideology they are so resoundingly rejecting, I direct my colleagues to the long statement by Abu al-Zarqawi released four days ago. It is a statement of extremist, Islamic fascism: In the most explicit manner possible, for nine pages, it lists all the reasons why the Islamic fascists reject democracy, declaring "fierce war on this malicious ideology" - democracy. That is what we are against, Mr. President. And that is what the majority of the Iraqi people utterly reject. And I believe that America's interest - once again - is to stand against the fascists who have declared war on democracy. 
   Mr. President, we are well aware of Dr. Rice's resume and experience. Her academic credentials are remarkable, and her professional experience extensive. She was a senior professional at the National Security Council under the first President Bush, where she worked on Soviet affairs and was directly involved in our policy of supporting a peaceful reunification of Germany at the end of the Cold War. I believe that the successful reunification of Germany was the most successful aspect of the first President Bush's foreign policy, often overlooked because of all of the tumult during those crucial years when Soviet communism collapsed. Dr. Rice's involvement in that policy at that crucial time in Europe's history demonstrates her experience at shepherding a critical transition between an authoritarian model and a democratic one. While one should not analogize between German reunification and Iraq's transition today, one can look at Dr. Rice's experience and understand why the current President Bush chose her first to be his National Security Advisor during her first term and now has the confidence to make her America's top diplomat. 
   In the last four years Dr. Rice has been at the center of this Administration's foreign policy. That that policy was a target of legitimate criticism during the past presidential campaign, as well as during the last two days of hearings before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is to be expected. The candidates presented their distinctively different worldviews throughout last year's campaign, during a difficult war that rages still, and the public made its choice. 
   In the United States Senate, it is our responsibility to debate, honestly, candidly and critically, all aspects of our nation's foreign policy. My only admonition to my colleagues is that this debate be constructive, that it illuminate rather calumniate, and that, when in disagreement, it provide alternatives. Yes, it is legitimate to review the rationales for war, the flaws in intelligence and the faults in rhetoric. I believe Republicans have been quite candid and forthright about doing so. The chairmen and chairwoman of the Senate Armed Services, Foreign Relations, Intelligence and Government Affairs and Homeland Security Committees have all had hearings, conducted investigations and released reports critical in various degrees of the conduct and implementation of various administration policies. That is as it should be, and, for most of us, and certainly for me, it does not detract from our support for the Administration's foreign policy at a critical time in this Nation's history. 
   Partisan critics of this Administration have perpetuated about its foreign policy a myth that has morphed into a meme: And that is that this Administration has failed at diplomacy. This specious belief that diplomacy can neutralize the dangers and the threats to the international community is puzzling to me. It is a variant of a theme in American foreign policy, deriving from the Wilsonian belief that a League of Nations to which we submit our sovereign responsibilities can prevent conflict. I, and Dr. Rice, do not subscribe to this view, so overwhelmingly proved wanting into the historical laboratory that was the 20th century. 
   And yet this meme parroted so often by many in the Democratic party - that this Administration has not conducted a robust diplomacy - is false, simply false. No President more regularly addressed the General Assembly in the history of the United Nations than did the current President Bush. He spoke honestly and, to me, compellingly about that body's many, trounced-upon resolutions. He cajoled and he listened and he waited, but at no time did this President suggest that the United Nations or any ally would be in a position to veto the actions we deemed necessary to protect our national security. No President would ever do so. 
   And while we failed to get Security Council support for our invasion of Iraq - as President Clinton failed before he belatedly led the attack on Serbia over Kosovo - this President leads a global war on terrorism where most of the nations of the world are cooperating with us, in one form or another, through intelligence sharing, law enforcement cooperation, or any of a number of multilateral initiatives. Disagree with the President's foreign policy if you wish, criticize, if you must, but do not suggest that such a global effort can occur without sustained and successful diplomacy. 
   Credit for the diplomacy for the first term of this Administration must go to those who formulated the policy, the President and Dr. Rice and the rest of the national security team, and to the man who led the State Department, Secretary Colin Powell. To this day, the standard for dignity and graciousness has been set by Secretary Powell, who once again took the call from his country and served it with honor, diligence and character. Secretary Powell assembled a strong team at the Department, and he represented this nation in a way that made every one of us proud. Dr. Rice knows that, as she assumes this important position, she follows a decent and serious diplomat and a dedicated servant. I have no doubt that she will meet the standard. 
   Dr. Rice will assume the responsibility of Secretary of State while we are at war, with global terrorism and with an insurgency in Iraq that every day puts in stark contrast the darkness of the past dictatorship against the light of a hopeful democracy. These next two years, I expect, will be some of the most difficult years in this Nation's foreign policy. We will continue to need the experience and wisdom of Dr. Rice as she serves this Administration in a new role. 
   That role, as the Secretary of State, will have outstanding challenges. Dr. Rice will need to advance further cooperation of a multinational coalition in the war on terrorism; she will have to renew a push for more international support for a more effective political and economic reconstruction of Iraq; she will need to strengthen U.S. support for counterproliferation initiatives in Europe and Asia; and she will need to maintain U.S. leadership in the fight against poverty and disease. She can count on me for support as she assumes these huge and historic responsibilities. 
   In her testimony, Dr. Rice has conceded that our public diplomacy needs serious reconsideration. Many cite ongoing and growing dissatisfaction among international audiences regarding the United States. I would caution Dr. Rice against overemphasizing this reality as she redesigns our public diplomacy. The U.S. is a source of resentment and disparagement among many audiences throughout the world, but many of those audiences are contaminated by the propaganda of their own autocratic regimes. Today, more people still want to immigrate to this country than any other nation in the world, and more people take inspiration in the institutions that protect and promote our freedoms, be it our Constitution or our free press or our culture of openness. I have long been a strong supporter of public diplomacy. Today's challenges are not only to rebut the ever-growing sophistication of the biases and distortions that compete in global media, but to continue to find new ways to promote the American message and the American story. The days of United States Information Service libraries are over, but cultural exchange programs, in particular visitor programs to this country, must continue and, in my opinion, should grow. I will help Dr. Rice in any that I can to reinvigorate our public diplomacy. 
   In the last few years, I believe the State Department has failed to grasp the value of culture of lawfulness programs. These programs use education ministries to advance core primary and secondary curricula on anticorruption lessons. It is impossible to advance the rule of law, which is a fundamental goal of bringing stability in regions we cannot afford to lose to anarchy or criminality, without the local population learning the value of clean government. We've seen success with such programs in Italy, Mexico, Colombia and other countries, and yet I have seen no enthusiasm from the State Department in making these programs an essential aspect of all our foreign assistance planning. Perhaps that is because these programs are so inexpensive, and there is still the bias against programs that don't require billions of taxpayer funds; perhaps the Department does not yet understand the potential for these programs, despite the clear affirmation of the Undersecretary of State for Global Affairs, who has spoken eloquently in favor of such programs. I am heartened by Dr. Rice's testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee last week, we she asserted that "we are joining with developing nations to fight corruption, instill the rule of law, and create a culture of transparency." She has my support, and I am going to ask Dr. Rice to study the experience and potential of these culture of lawfulness programs and work with me and other Members of Congress to integrate them into our foreign assistance plans. 
   I will work with Dr. Rice in every way that I can to make her mission a success. Because the mission of the Department of State is to work to manage conflicts so that they do not erupt into violence and war. In a world where we can not control so many factors beyond our shores, we need the very best diplomacy to be constantly working our alliances, presenting our policies and engaging those who would challenge our security. Dr. Condoleeza Rice has 25 years of experience in advancing the national security of this nation. She has four years as the principal advisor to President Bush, as he has charted a foreign policy that has responded to global terror and taken on the most destabilizing regime in the Middle East. She has the knowledge and character and experience of one who can lead this country in our diplomacy around the world. Dr. Rice has my strong support.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 