SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF JUDGE LESLIE SOUTHWICK FOR 5TH CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today gave the following speech at a press conference defending Judge Leslie Southwick, whose character has been the subject of partisan attacks, regarding his nomination to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals. 
   By any reasonable standard, or even by most unreasonable standards I know, Judge Leslie Southwick is superbly qualified for the U.S. Court of Appeals and should be confirmed immediately.
   Some Democratic Senators, and their left-wing group enablers, are huffing and puffing about Judge Southwick, making some of the wildest claims I have ever heard about a judicial nominee. I want to let you in on a dirty little secret. The Senate Judiciary Committee already approved Judge Southwick's judicial nomination. That's right, just last fall. We looked at the same man, with the same character. The Judiciary Committee approved his nomination and sent it on to the full Senate. And not a single Senator opposed him, including some of the Democrats who are strutting and fretting about him today.
   To be fair, two important things have happened since the Judiciary Committee approved Judge Southwick's judicial nomination. First, he has now been nominated to the appeals court instead of the district court. Second, the American Bar Association has rated him more highly for the U.S. Court of Appeals than it did for the U.S. District Court. If someone can explain to me how a higher rating justifies more opposition, I would like to hear it.
   Senators should ask their constituents whether it is fair to attack a judicial nominee on the basis of just two of his 7000 decisions and focus only on whether the results were politically, rather than legally, correct. I know what their constituents would say. These are unfair and illegitimate standards that have no place in the judicial confirmation process.
   Judge Southwick is superbly qualified. He is a man of solid character and wide experience who serves his community, his country, and the cause of justice. The Senate should reject illegitimate attacks and return to decent, fair standards. The Judiciary Committee and the full Senate should confirm Leslie Southwick without delay.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 