SO-CALLED 'EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACT' WOULD DENY EMPLOYEE CHOICE
  In a speech on the Senate floor, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today spoke out against legislation that would take away the right to a private ballot in union organizing elections. 
   Hatch's full floor statement follows: 
   Mr. President, on March 1st, the other body passed the horribly-misnamed "Employee Free Choice Act" (H.R. 800); we may soon be called upon to consider that bill or a similar Senate counterpart.  
   The bill was steamrolled through the House of Representatives in less than a month from its introduction, with only a single day of subcommittee hearings at which only one expert witness critical of the bill was permitted to testify. It was considered in the House with only limited amendments allowed to be offered. Obviously, it is incumbent on us to make certain the Senate takes the opportunity for fuller debate on a measure of such wide impact. 
   The Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee has scheduled a hearing tomorrow where we will undoubtedly hear how "unfair" the current unionization system is and how it must be amended to allow for greater unionization. 
   I am sure that we will have a full and robust debate in this body. But, as we kick off the debate over whether or not to deny private ballots to workers who wish to unionize, it is my hope that we will be able to at least hold fast and true to the facts. 
   And there should be full debate on these facts. There is ample evidence to indicate that we should be wary of amending the National Labor Relations Act (NRLA) in a way that would upset the balance in national labor policy between labor and management, and employer and employee. We must not rely on slogans, anecdotal stories, and questionable secretly-commissioned and selective statistics about alleged unfair labor practices. 
   The NLRA and its attendant volumes of reported decisions and case precedent by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) is an extremely complicated, inter-woven area of law. Amending it in the way sponsors of H.R. 800 envision could rip a gaping hole in the precise weave of this complex fabric and have a dramatic impact with many unintended consequences. 
   It must also be considered that amending the NLRA will not only affect the welfare of unions, but it will also have a negative overall impact on workers, employers - especially small employers - and on the economy and America's ability to be competitive in a global economy. 
  So let us begin the discussion of the bill. 
   The Employee Free Choice Act is designed to increase union membership, which currently stands at 7.4 percent of the private sector workforce. The bill would accomplish that through an artificial, union-controlled "card check" certification procedure in place of the traditional NLRB-supervised, private ballot election. 
   In fact, the bill would radically upset the balance in labor and management and employer and employee relations by amending the National Labor Relations Act in three ways: 
   First, the bill would mandate union representation without a private ballot election among employees. The so-called Employee Free Choice Act mandates that the NLRB certify a union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of employees when the union has demonstrated that a majority of the employees (50% plus one) have signed union authorization cards - or, in other words, the "card check" system without a private ballot election among employees. 
   Mr. President, not only would this deny employees the right of private, NLRB-protected ballot elections on the question of initial union representation, but through operation of the NLRB's current "certification bar" doctrine, it would prevent employees from challenging the union's majority status through a decertification election for the certification year. 
   Second, the bill would guarantee union contracts where the government would impose the wages, terms and conditions of employment for two years if the parties fail to agree after 90 days of bargaining and 30 days of mediation. That is because the so-called Employee Free Choice Act requires compulsory, binding arbitration of initial union contracts. 
   Specifically, under the so-called Employee Free Choice Act, an employer must begin bargaining within 10 days of the union's demand. Thereafter, if the union and the employer cannot reach an agreement within 90 days, the contract terms must be submitted to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) for a 30-day period of mediation. 
   If FMCS is unable to mediate an agreement between the parties, then it must refer the initial contract to an FMCS arbitration panel with the authority to issue a decision that is binding on the employer and union for a two-year period. 
   Added to current law, the effect would be to deny employees the opportunity to approve, or ratify, the terms of the contact. And, they would be prevented by the NLRB's "contract bar" from initiating a private ballot decertification election challenging the union's continuing majority status for the two year term of the contract. 
   Finally, the bill would impose new anti-employer penalties. These include prioritizing NLRB investigations of unfair labor practice charges alleged to have been committed by an employer during an organizing campaign, and possibly pursuing injunctive remedial action in federal court. 
   The proposal also provides for liquidated damages in the amount of two times any back pay found due and owing, and subjects an employer to a civil penalty not to exceed $20,000 per violation of the NLRA. 
   The proponents of the so-called Employee Free Choice Act are asking the American worker to accept: 
   * The denial of access to complete information about the union; the denial of a private ballot vote; 
   * The inability to decertify a union for at least 28 months after it is initially certified; 
   * The denial of the right to strike for a better deal after binding arbitration; 
   * Potentially, the denial of an employee's opportunity to vote on a contract; 
   * And the denial of knowing if a union is organizing at their place of work. 
   This deceptively named bill has little to do with "Employee Free Choice" - in fact; it would take away an employee's right to choose union representation through private ballot elections. Instead, it has everything to do with guaranteeing union organizing to increase union membership, at a time when unions represent a steadily declining percentage of America's private sector workforce. 
   Mr. President, since the birth of the modern day union movement in 1935, when you evaluate their percentage of the overall workforce, unions have had some good years, and many bad years. Under the current system of NRLB-overseen private ballot elections, in recent years unions have lost membership. Currently, I must underscore, union membership stands at 7.4 percent of the private sector workforce. Proponents of the Employee Free Choice Act seek to turn back time when it comes to the percentage of the American workforce that is unionized. 
   I have no inherent problem with a fairly considered, fairly elected union. However, this bill attempts to increase union strength through an artificial, union-controlled "card check" certification procedure which tosses away the traditional, NLRB-supervised, private ballot election. 
   Where is the problem we are trying to fix? 
   This bill would replace the time-honored, NLRB-protected private ballot election, the traditional system under which workers decide whether to be represented by a union. Instead, the system would be supplanted with the mandated "card check" procedure, where union organizers can pressure employees to sign union authorization cards, which are then presented to the NLRB for certification of the union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of all the employees. 
   It is important for us to consider that the U.S. Supreme Court has repeatedly denounced union authorization cards as being "inherently unreliable" because of the types of peer pressures - some subtle and some not so benign - to sign the cards. 
   In its 1969 Gissel Packing decision, the Court acknowledged that the use of authorization cards to determine majority support is unreliable, and that private ballot elections are the "most satisfactory - indeed the preferred - method of ascertaining whether a union has majority support." 
   Unions likewise prefer an NLRB-protected and supervised private ballot election, at least when they are faced with a decertification petition from their members to determine whether the union still has majority support. That was demonstrated once again last month by union opposition to a proposed amendment to apply the card check provisions of the so-called Employee Free Choice Act to decertification elections. That amendment was defeated in the House committee's markup. 
   As one court stated with regard to card check authorization, "it would be difficult to imagine a more unreliable method of ascertaining the real wishes of employees than a 'card check' unless it were an employer's request for an open show of hands. The one is no more reliable than the other." (See NLRB v. Logan Packing Co., 4th Circuit). 
   It is hard to believe that we are seriously considering a bill to deny workers a private ballot vote so soon after the national elections. It is also inconsistent with our nation's history in promoting private ballot elections for the disenfranchised members of society through the suffragette and civil rights movements, especially when we are fighting for the opportunity of individuals around the world to have the democratic right to a private ballot election that is free of intimidation and coercion. 
   I am reminded of a statement made on January 31st of this year by my long-time friend and colleague from Massachusetts on the need for fair elections . . . "For too long, we've ignored the festering problem of deceptive practices intended to intimidate and deceive voters in our national elections . . . ." Although I am not able to say this very often, I can say that I am in absolute agreement with my friend. In EVERY election, whether it is for President, local Dog Catcher, or union organization, we as representatives of the people whom we serve have an obligation to ensure that our constituents' votes will be cast without fear and intimidation. 
   I assert that a private ballot election overseen by the NLRB - a government agency - has a better chance to be more free and fair than one in which it is left to union organizers to solicit cards in secret until they achieve a majority. 
   Under the "card check" system, there is no inducement to allow employees to make an informed decision, learn all the facts and hear arguments for and against unionization. 
   It is difficult for me to believe that we would be considering a bill which would mandate that the government impose wages and terms and conditions of employment where the parties, new to collective bargaining, have not reached agreement after 90 days. 
   This would destroy free collective bargaining and the entire labor law concept of "impasse" when the parties are unable to agree. Under the so-called Employee Free Choice Act, for first contracts, "impasse" would be defined as "90 days" of bargaining before government steps in. Even basic labor law textbooks term compulsory binding arbitration as the "antithesis of collective bargaining." 
   These are radical changes in national labor policy which have little to do with employee free choice. In fact, these amendments would disenfranchise workers by denying them private ballot elections and a vote on whether to accept the wages, terms and conditions the government arbitration panel would impose on them. 
   So, Mr. President, who would benefit from the passage of the so-called Employee Free Choice Act? Only unions! They would be virtually guaranteed organizing success, increased union membership, and more union dues. Over the past six years, unions traditionally win approximately 50%-60% of NLRB-supervised private ballot elections. In contrast, it has been reported that "card-check" elections yield unions success approximately 80%-85% of the time. 
   Who would benefit? Only unions! They would be guaranteed first contracts for a period of two years. Looking at the big picture, what would the so-called Employee Free Choice Act mean for our economy? 
   Let me read from a recent article written by Jack and Suzy Welch in the March 12 issue of Business Week Magazine: 
   "We know it must sound strange to oppose legislation that promises something as motherhood-y as 'free choice.' But the title of this bill is pure propaganda. It won't encourage liberty or self-determination in the workplace; more likely it will introduce intimidation and coercion by labor organizers, who, after a long slide into near-oblivion, finally see a glorious new route to millions of dues-paying members. Their campaign could trigger a surge in unionization across U.S. industry - and in time, a reversion to the bloated economy that brought America to its knees in the late 1970s and early '80s and that today cripples much of European business. If you want to be reminded of what that looks like, drive through Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley, as we did last weekend, and take a look at all the shuttered factories. Steel - like coal, autos, and so many other industries in the global economy - paid the inevitable price of unionization run amok. 
   "?The advance of the Employee Free Choice Act continues unabated. And so pretty soon, if enough business leaders and legislators don't stand up, it may well be: Hello again, unions. So long, American competitiveness. The change won't happen instantly. Companies will fight unions as if their lives depend on it, because they do. But given the logistics of the Employee Free Choice Act, any management campaign is hobbled. If you can't be at the kitchen table with the organizers and their hard stares, you probably can't win. " 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the full article may be inserted into the record. 
   So, Mr. President, I assert that this is the start of another historic Senate debate on national labor policy. 
  In conclusion, as we enter this debate let us not be fooled by the misinformation from the other side: 
   THEY CLAIM that employers coerce employees to vote NO on unionization . . .THE TRUTH is that in less than two percent of cases is it found that an employer has inappropriately interfered in a union organizing election. 
   THEY CLAIM that under the current system unions are not able to "win". . . THE TRUTH is that unions "won" 62% of NLRB elections in 2005 - the last year where a complete set of statistics exists. 
   And, THEY CLAIM that American workers want to form unions using a "card check" system. . .THE TRUTH is that according to a recent poll 79% of Americans disagree with the elimination of private ballots when voting in union organizing elections. 
   The President has issued a Statement of Administration Policy that he would veto the so-called Employee Free Choice Act if it reached his desk. That should not make us complacent in the Senate. Even if a veto were necessary, Senate passage of a bill like that which was passed by the House would put us on record in future congresses as being against private ballot elections for workers in union representation decisions, and in support of government-imposed wages, benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment through union contracts, where workers themselves will be denied a ratification vote. Is that where we want to be a year or two from now? 
   I, for one do not think that we as a Nation should head in that direction and I urge my colleagues to resist any attempt to force unionization on the American workforce. 
   To paraphrase the movie The Godfather . . . I believe that union bosses have made the American workforce a deal that they can refuse! We must oppose any attempt to pass any iteration of the Employee Free Choice Act and we must do it on behalf of the American worker! 
   Thank you, Mr. President.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 