SEN. HATCH PRAISES JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ARREST OF ANIMAL RIGHTS TERRORISTS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today praised the Department of Justice for indictments returned against a New Jersey-based militant animal rights organization and seven of its members. The indictment charges that the defendants have engaged in a campaign to terrorize officers, employees and shareholders of a company that used animals for laboratory research.  
   The stated goal of Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (SHAC), one of the defendants, was to drive Huntingdon Life Sciences (HLS), a publicly traded company based in East Millstone, N.J., out of business by encouraging its members and others to "operate outside the confines of the legal system," according to the Indictment. 
   Among other methods, SHAC recommended "direct actions" that included its "top 20 terror tactics" to intimidate and harass and to destroy personal and real property, as described on its websites. 
   Among SHAC's "top 20 terror tactics" recommended and publicized on its website includes: invading offices, vandalizing property and stealing documents; physical assault, including spraying cleaning fluid into someone's eyes; smashing windows of a target's home or flooding the home while the individual was away; vandalizing or firebombing cars and bomb hoaxes; and threatening telephone calls or letters, including threats to kill or injure someone's partner or children. 
   "I am heartened that the Department has stepped up their prosecutions in this area," Hatch said. "I have heard from many in the scientific and educational community whose single goal in life is to better society through research that individuals and organizations who carry out these sort of tactics threaten legitimate medical advancement." 
   Hatch recently chaired a hearing entitled "Animal Rights: Activism vs. Criminality." 
   Hatch has called on law enforcement to do more to combat these activities. Hatch has long been a leader in the Congress supporting and advancing medical research. "We have the greatest researchers the world has ever known, and they are making cutting edge breakthroughs every day. The Department of Justice and the Department of Treasury must use every tool at their disposal to deter these misguided individuals."
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 