SEN. HATCH FIGHTS TO PROTECT WOMEN FROM VIOLENCE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today joined Sen. Joseph Biden (D-Del.) to introduce legislation that reauthorizes the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), a law Hatch and Biden sponsored in 1994 that has played a vital role in protecting women from the tragedy of violence and abuse.  
   "This law helps victims of violence pick up the pieces of their lives and move forward and prevents tragedies from occurring in the first place," Hatch said. "We have made substantial progress over the past decade, but we are by no means finished. In 2003, 27 Utahns died because of domestic violence, and far too many women live in constant fear and lack the means to get the help they so desperately need and deserve." 
   The original Act and subsequent legislation created new crimes for federal interstate domestic violence, stalking and firearms crimes. It strengthened federal penalties for repeat sex offenders and required states and territories to enforce protection orders issued by other states. The Act is scheduled to expire this year, and the legislation Hatch advocates would reauthorize and expand these targeted programs for five additional years. 
   "The problem of violence against women does not always get the attention it deserves," Hatch said. "But largely because of VAWA, violent crimes against women have decreased by 49 percent since 1992, incidents of rape are down 60 percent, and attempted rape is down by 57 percent. And, importantly, more women are reporting domestic violence and receiving the necessary legal, financial, and social support they need for protection." 
   The 1994 law also created the Office on Violence Against Women, currently directed by Diane Stuart of Utah, which coordinates the federal funds that support rape prevention education, domestic violence intervention programs, battered women's shelters and law enforcement and prosecution services. Since its enactment, VAWA has provided more than $1.6 billion in grants to help states and local governments train personnel and establish domestic violence and sexual assault units that assist victims of violence. 
   "I consider passing the first Violence Against Women Act to be one of my greatest achievements in my 29 years as Utah's Senator," Hatch said. "This law combats violence against women head-on and is making our families, communities and nation healthier and safer."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 