SEN. HATCH HONORS 20 YEARS OF JUSTICE SCALIA
  The following is a statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) before the United States Senate, marking the 20th anniversary of the appointment of Supreme Court Associate Justice Antonin Scalia. 
   Mr. President, I proudly rise to mark the 20th anniversary of a great event. 
   Twenty years ago today, Antonin Scalia took the oath of office to become an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. Through his dogged commitment to the fundamental principles of liberty, and the brilliance and passion with which he expresses that commitment, Justice Scalia is having a profoundly positive impact on our nation. In the time I have this morning, I would like to offer a few general remarks about Justice Scalia's judicial philosophy, his judicial personality, and his judicial impact.  
   Antonin Scalia was born on March 11, 1936, in Trenton, New Jersey, the only child of immigrant parents. After graduating first in his high school class, summa cum laude and valedictorian from Georgetown, and magna cum laude from Harvard Law School, he embarked on a legal career that would include stints in private practice, government service, the legal academy, and the judiciary. 
   President Reagan appointed Antonin Scalia in 1982 to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, and then in 1986 to his current post on the Supreme Court. President Reagan did not choose Justice Scalia simply because he is smart and talented. With all due respect to the good Justice, there are many smart and talented people around. 
   No, President Reagan chose Justice Scalia because his smarts and talents are connected to a deeply considered and deliberately framed judicial philosophy rooted in the principles of America's founding.Indeed, as Pepperdine law professor Douglas Kmiec has said, Justice Scalia "is the justice who works the hardest to construct a coherent theory of constitutional interpretation that does not change from case to case." When the Judiciary Committee hearing on Justice Scalia's nomination opened on August 5, 1986, I quoted from the Chicago Tribune's evaluation that the nominee before us was "determined to read the law as it has been enacted by the people's representatives rather than to impose his own preference upon it." 
   Consider for a moment the vital importance of this simple principle. Since the people and their elected representatives alone have the authority to enact law, the way they have enacted it is the only sense in which the law is the law. The way they have enacted it, then, is the only legitimate way for judges to read it. This fundamental principle is at the heart of Justice Scalia's judicial philosophy. 
   This principle springs directly from the separation of powers, which America's founders said was perhaps the most important principle for limiting government and preserving liberty. Alexander Hamilton wrote in The Federalist No.78 that there is no liberty if the judiciary's power to interpret the law is not separated from the legislature's power to make the law. 
   In his dissenting opinion in Morrison v. Olson, Justice Scalia highlighted the Massachusetts Constitution of 1780 which, to this day, contains what Justice Scalia called the proud boast of democracy, that this is a government of laws and not of men. The Massachusetts charter, however, also states what is required for this boast to be realized. It requires the separation of powers, including that the judiciary shall never exercise the power to make law. 
   Today, only 42 percent of Americans know the number of branches in the federal government and fewer than 60 percent can name even a single one. But America's founders insisted that identifying them, defining them, and separating them is essential for liberty itself. 
   In Marbury v. Madison, the great Chief Justice John Marshall wrote that it is the duty of the judicial branch to say what the law is. Not what the law says, but what the law is. The law is more than simply ink blots formed into words on a page. Saying what the law is requires saying what the law means, for that meaning is the essence of the law itself. 
   But here is the crux of the matter, Mr. President. The meaning of the words in our laws comes from those who made them, not from those who interpret them. Those who chose the words in our laws gave them life by giving them meaning, and the judicial task of saying what the law is requires discovering the meaning they provided. The separation of powers, therefore, excludes from the judiciary the power to change the words or meaning of the law and secures to it the power to interpret and apply that law to decide cases. 
   As President Reagan put it when swearing in Justice Scalia 20 years ago today, America's founders intended that the judiciary be independent and strong, but also confined within the boundaries of a written Constitution and laws. No one believes that principle more deeply, and insists on implementing it more consistently, than Justice Scalia. 
   President Reagan often used the general label judicial restraint for this notion of judges restrained by law they did not make and cannot change. A speech last year at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars here in Washington was one of many instances in which Justice Scalia used the more specific label originalism for his judicial philosophy. When judges interpret the law, he said, they must "give that text the meaning that it bore when it was adopted by the people." 
   Whether that simple statement elicits growls or cheers today, Justice Scalia was merely echoing America's founders. James Madison said that the only sense in which the Constitution is legitimate is if it retains the meaning given it by those who alone have the authority to make it law. 
   Mr. President, this body unanimously confirmed Justice Scalia on September 17, 1986, the 199th anniversary of the Constitution's ratification. I see that as having more than coincidental significance, for it is Justice Scalia's judicial philosophy that gives the most substance and power to the Constitution. 
   The Constitution cannot govern government if government defines the Constitution. That includes the judiciary, which is as much part of the government as the legislative or executive branch. To once again cite Chief Justice Marshall from Marbury v. Madison, America's founders intended the Constitution to govern courts as well as legislatures. It cannot do so if, as Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes famously claimed, the Constitution is whatever the judges say it is. 
   If the Constitution is little more than an empty linguistic glass that judges may fill or a checkbook full of blank checks that judges may write, it is not much of anything at all. I am not sure what such a collection of words without meaning might be called, Mr. President, but it is not a Constitution. 
   Thankfully, Justice Scalia rejects such an anemic and shape-shifting view of the Constitution, insisting that even judges must be the servants rather than the masters of the law. Justice Scalia insists that judges stick to judging so the Constitution can indeed be the Constitution. Analyzing Justice Scalia's jurisprudential approach in the Arkansas Law Review, one scholar described what he called the justice's meticulous, almost obsessive, attention to language. 
   But let us remember that the epicenter of the remarkable system of government America's founders crafted is indeed a written Constitution. They, too, were obsessed with language. 
   President George Washington warned in his 1796 farewell address against changing the Constitution through what he called usurpation rather than the formal amendment process. George Mason actually opposed ratification of the Constitution, in part because giving the Supreme Court too much power to construe the laws would let them substitute their own pleasure for the law of the land. President Thomas Jefferson said that "our peculiar security is in the possession of a written Constitution. Let us not make it a blank paper by construction." Justice Scalia appears to be in some good obsessive company. 
   No one should assume that while originalism is relatively straight-forward to describe, it is either perfect or easy. Writing in the University of Cincinnati Law Review just a few years into his Supreme Court service, Justice Scalia himself acknowledged that originalism is, in his words, not without its warts. But it is consistent with, I would say compelled by, the principles underlying our form of government. And it is certainly better than the alternative, which puts judges rather than the people in charge of the law's meaning and the nation's values. 
   Let me emphasize, Mr. President, that Justice Scalia's judicial philosophy is about the process of interpreting and applying the law, to whatever ends the law requires. That process can produce results in individual cases that political conservatives or liberals will support or oppose. But when the law, and not the judge, decides the outcome of cases, those who do not like the outcome can work to change the law. When, however, the judge and not the law decides the outcome of cases, the people are nearly always left with no voice at all. 
   Justice Scalia's critics attack his judicial philosophy for the same reason he embraces it. Originalism limits a judge's ability to make law. The famed Senator and Supreme Court orator Daniel Webster once said that "there are men in all ages who mean to govern well, but they mean to govern. They promise to be good masters, but they mean to be masters." 
   Justice Scalia has often said that judges are no better suited to govern than anyone else, and certainly have no authority to do so. Unelected judges, no matter how well-intentioned, do not have the power to be our masters. 
   The temptation and danger of judges making law reminds me of a scene in The Fellowship of the Ring, the first installment of the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Gandalf the wizard has discovered that Bilbo's ring is indeed the One Ring of power and Frodo insists that he take it. Gandalf wisely says: Understand Frodo, I would use this ring from the desire to do good. But through me, it would wield a power too great and terrible to imagine. 
   In that same spirit, Justice Scalia declines the power to make law. As Hamilton put it, the great and terrible cost of judges rather than the people making law would be liberty itself. Thomas Jefferson warned that by playing with the meaning of the Constitution's words, the judiciary would turn the charter into a mere thing of wax that they would twist and shape into any form they chose. 
   In the last 70 years or so, the judiciary has been doing a lot of twisting and shaping. One of Justice Scalia's predecessors on the Supreme Court, Justice George Sutherland, was also one of my predecessors as a Senator from Utah. Justice Sutherland wrote this in 1937: "The judicial function is that of interpretation; it does not include the power of amendment under the guise of interpretation. To miss the point of difference between the two is to?convert what was intended as inescapable and enduring mandates into mere moral reflections." 
  In 1953, Justice Robert Jackson lamented what had become a widely held belief that the Supreme Court decides cases by personal impressions rather than impersonal rules of law. 
   Many people, conservatives as well as liberals, do not seem to mind this trend so long as it is their moral reflections and their personal impressions that are twisting and shaping the Constitution. Many people, conservatives as well as liberals, applaud or criticize the Supreme Court when it amends the Constitution, depending on whether they like the Court's amendments. 
   Yet I ask my fellow citizens, both conservatives and liberals: would you rather have your liberty secured by moral reflections and personal impressions or enduring mandates and impersonal rules of law? If you cede to judges the power to make law when you support the law they make, what will you say when judges - and they will - make law you oppose? 
   Liberty requires separating judges from lawmaking. Liberty requires that judges take the law as they find it, with the meaning it already has, apply it to decide concrete cases and controversies, and leave the rest to the people. 
   Professor John Jeffries of the University of Virginia Law School writes that Justice Scalia "is the most nearly consistent of our judges. He cares more about methodology than is usual among judges, worries more about fidelity to the law laid down, feels himself more closely bound by external sources, and is more dedicated to a vision of constitutional law as something distinct and apart from constitutional politics." 
   That is precisely the kind of judge America needs on the bench. 
   The second thing I want briefly to describe, Mr. President, is what has been called Justice Scalia's judicial personality. It animates, communicates, and gives practical force to his judicial philosophy. It turns up the volume, making people sit up and take notice of what, from someone else, might be little more than some quiet ramblings at a seminar somewhere. 
   One way to describe Justice Scalia's judicial personality would be simply to read from his opinions. Even while enjoying his powerful prose, however, this might miss the real point. Justice Scalia's piercing logic, witty and provocative writing, verbal jousting in speeches and debates, and aggressive questions in oral argument are but means to an end. He uses wit, humor, logic, sarcasm, and the rest to expose the premises and implications of arguments, to assert and defend important principles, and to make the necessary application of those principles absolutely inescapable. 
   Justice Scalia does not suffer fools gladly, nor will he ignore the man behind the jurisprudential curtain. 
  His judicial personality makes his judicial philosophy more potent and, quite frankly, impossible to ignore. 
  As a result, the adjectives attached to his name by media, political activists, and commentators seem to be multiplying, as if a single descriptive - or even two or three - just will not do. 
   Some call him outspoken, provocative, or fiery; others say he is aggressive, engaging, and articulate. One profile said he is colorful, controversial, and combative; another said he is testy, witty, and sarcastic. If adjectives are a measure of one's presence, Justice Scalia is very present indeed. 
   Justice Scalia is also a funny man. What is not to like about a judge who uses words such as pizzazzy when talking about constitutional interpretation? I had no idea how to spell pizzazzy until I read it in one of Justice Scalia's speeches. 
   Following our modern penchant for everything statistical, we also have empirical evidence that Justice Scalia is indeed the funniest member of the highest court in the land. Professor Jay Wexler at Boston University Law School examined transcripts of Supreme Court oral arguments, noting when they identified laughter. During the October 2004 term, Justice Scalia was way ahead of the laugh pack, good for slightly more than one laugh per session. 
   Finally, Mr. President, I want to address Justice Scalia's judicial impact in two respects. 
   The first is the impact that comes directly from him, from his judicial personality propelling his judicial philosophy. One biography cites an unnamed Supreme Court observer noting that if the mind were muscle, Justice Scalia would be the Arnold Schwarzenegger of American jurisprudence. 
   The inherent power of the principles on which Justice Scalia stands, propelled by the way in which he asserts and defends them, force us confront, whether we like it or not, the issues most basic to a system of self-government based on the rule of law. As a result, Harvard law professor John Manning writes, Justice Scalia has had a palpable effect on the way we talk and think about the issues of judicial power and practice. 
   In addition to the immediate work of judges, which is to decide cases, Justice Scalia has prompted, poked, and prodded us to grapple more seriously with these fundamental issues. But he is not simply a judicial provocateur. When he enrages, he also engages. If Justice Scalia had no impact, he would get no attention. Even the commentators that call him a bully, or worse, feel they have to call him something. His harshest critics know they cannot ignore him. Scholars or political activists can no longer simply describe the political goods they want judges to deliver; they must defend why judges have the authority to deliver those goods. 
   Justice Scalia has helped lead this transformation by so powerfully and consistently arguing that the political ends do not justify the judicial means. As a result, the left-wing groups that today fight President Bush's judicial nominees often use Justice Scalia as the bogey-man, the model they say America must avoid. 
  To borrow an image from one of Justice Scalia's many famous dissenting opinions, he is used by some as the proverbial ghoul in the night, used to scare citizens and small children. Somehow, I think, that is fine with Justice Scalia because, even as a foil, his judicial philosophy must be reckoned with. 
   He is indeed a happy warrior. His speech at Harvard in September 2004 was typical. According to news reports, nearly three times as many sought tickets as obtained them and he held the rapt attention of a standing-room-only crowd. 
   Legal scholars from across the political spectrum concede Justice Scalia's impact. Professor Michael Dorf of Columbia Law School, for example, says that because of Justice Scalia's influence, we start more often with text rather than its history when looking at written law. 
   America's founders, it seems to me, assumed that judges would always start with the text and be kept in check because the meaning of that text already exists. This is why America's founders could call the judiciary the weakest and least dangerous branch. Putting statutory text ahead of statutory history would be a judicial no-brainer to them. If Professor Dorf is correct, we should first lament that the courts had gotten so far off course and then cheer Justice Scalia for helping point the way back. 
   The second, more general, way of looking at Justice Scalia's impact has a human face. Like every federal judge, Justice Scalia each year has the assistance of law clerks, those super-brainy, hyper-kinetic workhorses who seem able to leap a courthouse in a single bound after virtually no sleep. 
   As his Judiciary Committee hearing opened 20 years ago, Justice Scalia introduced his law clerk Patrick Schiltz who had helped him prepare and who would go on to clerk for him on the Supreme Court. Several months ago, this body confirmed Patrick Schiltz to be a U.S. District Judge in Minnesota. In 2004, we confirmed Mark Filip, who clerked for Justice Scalia during the October 1993 term, to be a U.S. District Judge in Illinois. In 2003, we confirmed Jeffrey Sutton, who clerked for Justice Scalia during the October 1991 term, to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. 
   Justice Scalia must be proud of these former clerks who now sit on the federal bench, and the many who have argued cases before him, even when he might vote against their position or reverse one of their decisions. Justice Scalia's former clerks are now serving in many significant positions throughout the country. They are partners at the nation's leading law firms, on the faculty of the nation's leading law schools, and heading legal teams at the nation's major corporations. Some, such as Solicitor General Paul Clement, serve in the top tier of the executive branch. Ed Whelan, who clerked for Justice Scalia during the October 1991 term, served as my counsel when I chaired the Judiciary Committee and is now president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center here in Washington. 
   Through these talented and dedicated men and women who have served in his chambers, Justice Scalia's impact extends far beyond the halls of the Supreme Court. Mr. President, I have received letters from some of Justice Scalia's former law clerks offering their own thoughts, reflections, and congratulations on this important anniversary. I ask unanimous consent that they be made part of the record at the conclusion of my remarks. 
   While I have just scratched surface, my time is almost gone. Justice Antonin Scalia is the kind of judge America needs and the kind of man Americans would want living next door. He considers aggressively and defends passionately the principles responsible for the ordered liberty that makes America the envy of the world. He refuses to let politics supplant principle and with a confident humility, or perhaps a humble confidence, submits himself to the rule of law and the collective judgment of his fellow citizens. 
   In the process, by the force of the principles in which he believes and the personality with which God has blessed him, Justice Antonin Scalia has made our liberty more secure, our citizenry and leaders more responsible, and given us all plenty to ponder, and chuckle about, along the way. 
   Justice Scalia, congratulations on your first 20 years on the Supreme Court, and thank you for all you continue to do for our nation.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 