SEN. HATCH WELCOMES BUSH ENERGY POLICY
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today praised President Bush for rolling out an energy strategy to bring the United States more affordable sources of energy and greater energy security. Hatch has been developing several bills - which will be introduced over the next two weeks - that address key elements of Bush's plan.  
   "It's apparent to anyone filling up their tanks right now that we need a strong, comprehensive energy strategy," Hatch said. "I've been working on several proposals that will make a real difference in Utah and throughout the country, and the President's plan fits right in with my goals. For too long, Congress has failed to pass a comprehensive energy bill, and now people are paying the price. I hope that with the President's support, this year we'll get it done." 
   Tomorrow, Hatch will re-introduce the CLEAR ACT of 2005 (Clean Efficient Vehicles Resulting from Advanced Car Technologies). The CLEAR ACT provides tax incentives to consumers who purchase alternative-fuel and hybrid-electric vehicles, tax incentives at the pump for the purchase of alternative transportation fuels, and tax incentives for the purchase and installation of alternative fueling equipment. An unusual coalition of environmental groups, automakers, and alternative fuel providers has helped Senator Hatch craft the legislation, which has broad bipartisan support. 
   "The CLEAR ACT will make a significant impact on reducing our nation's dependency on oil," Hatch said. "This bill would be one big step to making alternative fuels and advanced car technologies profitable. It's been a part of every large energy bill - Republican and Democrat - that the Senate has considered in the last four years, but the House and Senate have failed to agree on a final energy bill. " 
   In the next week, Hatch also expects to introduce legislation to provide tax incentives to increase the nation's oil refining capacity. Hatch's bill would provide for accelerated depreciation for new refineries or for refineries that are increasing their capacity. 
   "Refineries are the bottleneck in our gasoline supply, yet we haven't built a new refinery since the 1970s," said Hatch. "Our refineries are at full capacity, and even if we did get more oil from Saudi Arabia or anywhere else, we may not be able to refine it." 
   Senator Hatch also intends to introduce a bill to promote the development of tar sands and oil shale in the United States. 
   "Who would have guessed that just in Colorado and Utah, there is more recoverable oil than in the Middle East, except that we don't count it among our nation's oil reserves, because it is not yet being developed commercially," Hatch said during a recent hearing before the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. Details of the bill will be released soon.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370. 
 
 