NATIONAL BREAST CANCER COALITION HONORS SEN. HATCH
  The National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC), a grassroots advocacy group of hundreds of organizations and tens of thousands of individuals, will honor Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah on May 2, 2006 at NBCC's Annual Congressional Awards reception on Capitol Hill. Held at 4:30PM in the Russell Senate Office Building (Room 325), the reception recognizes a select group of Senators and Members of Congress for their outstanding and effective leadership in the fight against breast cancer. A staunch supporter of the Department of Defense Breast Cancer Research Program (DOD BCRP), Sen. Hatch has also been instrumental in moving the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) Bill along in the Senate that looks at the link between environmental factors and breast cancer.  
   NBCC's president Fran Visco noted: "The National Breast Cancer Coalition recognizes Senator Hatch for his outstanding leadership in ensuring that the federal government gives breast cancer the attention and the funding required to bring this disease to an end. We are so grateful for his commitment and vision." 
   "I am honored to receive this recognition," Senator Hatch said. "In return, I want to commend the NBCC for its success in promoting awareness of this painful and debilitating disease, and offering hope to women who suffer from it. We're winning the war against breast cancer, but the fight is far from over." 
   Other honorees include Senator George Allen (VA), Senator Jeff Bingaman (NM), Senator Harry Reid (NV), Senator Ted Stevens (AK), Senator Jim Talent (MO), Representative Lois Capps (CA), Representative Jerry Lewis (CA) and Representative John Murtha (PA). 
   Breast cancer activists in Washington from Utah and throughout the United States for the 14th Annual Advocacy Conference sponsored by NBCC and its sister organization, the National Breast Cancer Coalition Fund, will attend the reception to thank the honorees for their efforts. 
   The National Breast Cancer Coalition is a grassroots organization dedicated to ending breast cancer through the power of action and advocacy. Celebrating its 15th Anniversary this year, the Coalition's main goals are to increase federal funding for breast cancer research and collaborate with the scientific community to implement new models of research; improve access to high quality health care and breast cancer clinical trials for all women; and expand the influence of breast cancer advocates in all aspects of the breast cancer decision making process. Additional information about NBCC can be found at www.stopbreastcancer.org.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854, Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 