SEN. HATCH: HYBRIDS, REFINERIES KEY TO ADDRESSING ENERGY NEEDS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today praised the Senate Republican Energy Working Group for seeking to expand two provisions he authored in last year's energy bill -- increasing refining capacity and promoting alternative-fuel and hybrid-electric vehicles -- to help lower gas prices and reduce America's demand for oil.  
   "These provisions strike at the heart of our energy problems," Hatch said. "We had to cut back what I proposed to do last year because of budget constraints, and I am encouraged that we're looking at expanding these much-needed incentives." 
   The plan introduced last night, the Gas Price Relief and Rebate Act of 2006, calls for expanding tax incentives to promote the use of hybrid vehicles and increase refinery capacity to secure America's gasoline supply. 
   The comprehensive energy bill that President Bush signed into law last August contained portions of Hatch's CLEAR Act (S. 971), which gives tax incentives to consumers who purchase alternative-fuel and hybrid-electric vehicles, tax incentives at the pump for the purchase of alternative transportation fuels, and tax incentives for the purchase and installation of alternative fueling equipment. 
   "Although hybrid sales throughout the nation have doubled in the last couple of years, they still represent a minuscule 0.48 percent of cars that were sold in 2004," Hatch said. "By expanding this tax credit, we'll bring more hybrid cars to the market and also advance technologies that will make ideas like the plug-in hybrid commercially viable." 
   Hatch also authored legislation, S. 1039, that was included in the comprehensive energy bill last year that accelerates depreciation for new refineries. Due to budget constraints, important incentives in Hatch's bill were dropped from the final bill passed by Congress. 
   "The economics of refining are so tough that the United States has lost nearly 200 refineries since the last one was built in 1970," Hatch said. " Domestic refineries are unable to meet American demand, so the country is currently importing refined oil products to make up the difference. We can do more to boost American energy production and inevitably help lower gas prices. We simply need to provide a fuller measure of tax incentives to promote new refining capacity as laid out in my original bill." 
   For more information on the Senator's position on energy issues, visit http://hatch.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=IssuePositions.View&IssuePosition_id=50
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854, Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 