SEN. HATCH OPPOSES PREMATURE TROOP WITHDRAWAL IN IRAQ
  Speaking on the Senate floor today, Sen. Orrin Hatch laid out a strong argument against prematurely withdrawing American troops from Iraq. His remarks were in opposition to a proposed bill that would require the Bush Administration to begin withdrawing U.S. soldiers from Iraq in 120 days. 
   Highlights from the speech opposing the Democratic Party's troop-withdrawal bill, S. 2633, are as follows: 
   ? "What happens if we adopt the troop-withdrawal legislation before us today? Do they really think that al-Qaida will just let us leave? And make no mistake, the majority of the forces that oppose us in Iraq are affiliated with al-Qaida. Do the supporters of this bill think that al-Qaida will conclude, "Well, we have won in Iraq, now let's leave the Americans to live in peace?"  
   ? "If we leave, the chaos that could result might make the wholesale slaughter that occurred after the fall of Indochina look minuscule by comparison. I wonder what fanciful legislative fix our colleagues will offer then." 
   ? "What happens the day after [the troops are withdrawn]? Will not al-Qaida use Iraq, with the world's third largest oil reserves, as a bank to fund their worldwide activities? Will they not use Iraq as a base to launch attacks against all those who disagree with their radical policies?" 
   ? "What of the nearly 4,000 service members who volunteered to serve their country and who have now paid the ultimate sacrifice? Does their memorial in history read: Thank you for service but some members of Congress grew weary and your sacrifice and the sacrifices of your family were in vain?" 
   Hatch's prepared remarks follow: 
   Mr. President, yesterday one of our colleagues came before this body and stated for all who cared to listen that he was weary... weary of this war. I, too, Mr. President, am weary. But weariness does not lead me to embrace the policies of surrender or succumb to the nihilistic abyss that is defeatism. History is replete with examples of leaders who fell victim to the temptation of defeatism. 
   Shall the Senate similarly repeat this folly? No sir. In this nation, commitment and dedication to noble pursuits have defined our great nation. We must not give way to weariness now. 
   The United States Senate is where great ideas and thoughts are to be put forth and considered - ideas and thoughts that are designed to lead to a better life for the American people and secure a safer world where the inalienable rights of all are respected. 
   But I, too, Mr. President, am weary weary of the policies of appeasement that have become the guiding principle of the majority party. Have they learned nothing? Has history not taught us through the pain and suffering of millions that the philosophy of appeasement only provides a slight respite before the forces of evil unleash incalculable pain and suffering on the innocent. 
   So what happens if we adopt the troop withdrawal legislation before us today? Do they really think that al-Qaida will just let us leave? And make no mistake the majority of the forces that oppose us in Iraq are affiliated with al-Qaida. Do the supporters of this bill think that al-Qaida will conclude, "Well, we have won in Iraq, now let's leave the Americans to live in peace?" 
   That is question the American people must ask themselves: What will happen if we pick an arbitrary time to leave Iraq based on a policy of appeasement rather than accomplishments of our new counterinsurgency strategy? Simply put, Mr. President, what happens the day after? 
   Will not al-Qaida use Iraq, with the world's third largest oil reserves, as a bank to fund their worldwide activities? Will they not use Iraq as a base to launch attacks against all those who disagree with their radical policies? 
   What are the proponents of this legislation's answers to these questions? Well, from what I can discern from the members who have taken to the floor to defend it, the answer is simple - nothing. They simply do not have a plan for day after. 
   What of the nearly 4,000 service members who volunteered to serve their country and who have now paid the ultimate sacrifice? Does their memorial in history read: Thank you for service but some members of Congress grew weary and your sacrifice and the sacrifices of your family were in vain? 
   And what is Gen. Petraeus' conclusion if we begin a precipitous withdrawal? As recently as Feb.15, he stated what we all know to be true: "You would see a resurgence of ethno-sectarian violence. You would see al-Qaida regain its safe havens and sanctuaries. There is no telling what would happen with displaced persons." 
   In other words, if we leave, the chaos that could result might make the wholesale slaughter that occurred after the fall of Indochina look minuscule by comparison. I wonder what fanciful legislative fix our colleagues will offer then. 
   So what is the alternative? Do opponents of this bill offer only empty rhetoric? No, Mr. President, we support a comprehensive counterinsurgency strategy, devised and implemented by Gen. Petraeus. It is a strategy that is producing remarkable results - results that point to only one conclusion: In little over a year, the Coalition has regained the initiative. 
  For example, Gen. Petraeus stated in his December 30 briefing that, overall, attacks have decreased by 60 percent. Civilian deaths are also down by 60 percent, and the ethno-sectarian component of those fatalities has decreased by over 80 percent. 
   These findings are supported by other commanders in Iraq, including Major Gen. Joseph Fil, the commanding officer of the 1st Cavalry Division and the officer who until December was responsible for our operations in Baghdad. He stated in an interview late last year with the New York Times that Coalition forces have dramatically reduced, if not eliminated, al-Qaida's presence in every neighborhood in Baghdad. The general also pointed out that murders in Baghdad are down 80 percent. 
   In addition, during a recent briefing, Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, who just returned from Iraq and has been nominated to become the Army's new vice chief of staff, stated that terrorist operations in Baghdad have decreased by 59 percent. In the past year, suicide attacks in Baghdad have been reduced 66 percent, from 12 to four a month. The number of improvised explosive device attacks in Baghdad has also declined by 45 percent. 
   Baghdad is not the only area where we have seen success. During my trip to Iraq last year, I was able to witness the dramatic changes that have occurred in al-Anbar, where al-Qaida has been thrown out of vast areas of that province, including its major cities Ramadi and Fallujah - areas that were once deemed refuges for al-Qaida's vile perversion of a dignified and peaceful religion. 
   The success of Baghdad and al-Anbar are also being repeated throughout Iraq. In the north, Operation Iron Harvest has been launched. This operation has already achieved some important successes. For example, during the month of December, the Coalition and Iraqi security forces have killed or captured over 20 al-Qaida emirs in the North. 
   This included the capture of Haider al-Afri, who was the main security emir in Mosul and was responsible for organizing the flow of foreign fighters into the Mosul area. His replacement did not fare much better, he was captured on February 18. The number of attacks in Diyala has also decreased. No doubt, the recent killing of the al-Qaida emir of Diyala helped this trend. 
   In addition, in the past two weeks, the Coalition killed Abu Karrar, a senior al-Qaida intelligence operative and an individual who has the infamous distinction of organizing murders to be carried out by female suicide bombers. 
   Which leads me to the inevitable question? What do you think these senior al-Qaida leaders would be doing with their time if we left Iraq? I wonder if they will grow weary like some in this body have. 
   But how were these successes possible? The answer is because Gen. Petraeus' strategy is based upon the classic counterinsurgency tactic of providing security to the local population, thereby enabling the government to restore services to their people, which in turn create in the population a vested interest in the success of government institutions. 
   One of the ways that this is accomplished is through the use of Joint Security Stations. Under this tactic, a portion of a city, such as a neighborhood, is cordoned off then searched for insurgents. Previously, once this was accomplished, our forces would return to large forward operating bases, usually on the periphery of that city. The result was easy to predict: The insurgents would return once the sweep had concluded. 
   Under Gen. Petraeus' strategy, our forces remain in the neighborhood and build Joint Security Stations. These Joint Security Stations then become home to a company-size unit of American service members, as well as Iraqi army and police units. These facilities not only help secure the surrounding area, but simultaneously enable our forces to train and evaluate Iraqi forces. 
   Much like the local police officer in a major urban area, our forces use the Joint Security Station to learn about the locale to which they are assigned and can quickly adapt to meet the unique security needs of the individual community. The success of these Joint Security Stations can be seen in their creation throughout Iraq, with over 50 of them in Baghdad alone. 
   However, under this legislation, our forces would no longer be able to conduct operations from Joint Security Stations. In fact, they would be banished to bases isolated from the Iraqi people and unable to accompany Iraqi forces on missions. Under this bill, the few remaining forces would only be able to conduct limited operations against al-Qaida. The security provided to the Iraqi people the foundation of our recent success would be lost. 
   So let us review the policy advocated by this bill. First, it guarantees defeat. Second, it provides al-Qaida with another base of operations and unlike Afghanistan, Iraq's oil wealth will provide substantial financial resources to purchase whatever the terrorists choose. I will also point out that in the past, it has been publicly reported al-Qaida has actively sought the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction. 
   Neville Chamberlain would be proud. 
   So yes, Mr. President, I, like others in this body, am weary. But I am weary of appeasement. I am weary of such defeatist legislation being debated on the floor of the Senate. This is a chamber for great ideas and concepts that will ensure the betterment of the American public and lead to the freedom of oppressed people. 
   Mr. President, this legislation falls far short of that august standard.
   Contact: Mark Eddington and Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 