SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF LESLIE SOUTHWICK TO U.S. COURT OF APPEALS FOR FIFTH CIRCUIT
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) gave the following statement on the Senate floor regarding the nomination of Leslie Southwick to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
   Mr. President, as the discussion over immigration reform demonstrates, this body confronts tough issues and can find itself embroiled in some contentious debates.
   Over the years, it has not been uncommon to see judicial appointment debates at the top of the list of contentious debates. And during those debates, we have seen a lot of tactics and methods used. 
   But some tactics are simply wrong.
   Some methods are simply inappropriate.
   There are some means which no ends can justify. Some of these wrong tactics, inappropriate methods, and illegitimate means have been used to attack the nomination of Leslie Southwick to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
   If we care about the integrity of this body and the good of the judicial branch, if we really believe that there is something more important than raw ideological politics, we should reject this attack on this good man and confirm his nomination.
   Judge Southwick, who served for a dozen years on the Mississippi Court of Appeals, has received a unanimous well qualified rating from the American Bar Association.
   He has the strong support of his home state Senators.
   He would fill a judicial emergency vacancy.
   And though it has been obscured by all the hyperbolic, vitriolic, and over-the-top rhetoric now thrown about, the Judiciary Committee just months ago approved without objection Judge Southwick's nomination. Now, for whatever reason, the nomination is in limbo - first it's on the committee agenda without action and now not on the committee agenda at all.
   The committee looked at the same qualifications, the same record, the same man with the same character, and found no objection whatsoever.
   The only difference - which is really a distinction without a difference - is that Judge Southwick was then nominated to the U.S. District Court but now has been nominated to the U.S. Court of Appeals.
   The disturbing tactics being used against this nominee are certainly not new, and they are no more legitimate or persuasive now than when they have been used against other nominees in the past.
   Frankly, I am amazed that anyone finds them credible, let alone persuasive.
   Judge Southwick served on the Mississippi Court of Appeals for 12 years.
   It is not credible to focus only on a few cases among the 7000 in which he participated and the nearly 1000 opinions he wrote.
   It is not credible to focus only on the results of those few cases, ignoring the facts and the law.
   It is not credible to demand that judges render decisions that serve certain political interests, whether or not the law actually requires that result.
   It is not credible to attack Judge Southwick for phrases or language in opinions he did not write.
   It is not credible to ignore the limitations imposed on appeals court judges by the standard of review they must follow.
   It is not credible to say that a judicial ruling against a particular party amounts to a judge's personal hostility against a group to which that party might belong.
   These are some of the misleading tactics that we have seen used against judicial nominees in the past and are being used against Judge Southwick now.
   These tactics are simply not credible, and I am amazed that my Democratic colleagues seem to be going along with them.
   One of the sure signs that such illegitimate tactics are in play is that they result in a distorted, twisted caricature of a nominee that those who have long known and worked with him simply do not recognize.
   Richard Roberts, former president of the Mississippi Bar, for example, says that no other lawyer in the state is as qualified as Judge Southwick to serve on the Fifth Circuit.
   According to Phillip McIntosh, Associate Dean at the Mississippi College School of Law where Judge Southwick now teaches, a politically and racially diverse faculty unanimously approved Judge Southwick for a faculty position with no question about his integrity, fairness, or impartiality.
   A. La'Verne Edney, an African-American partner at Judge Southwick's former law firm, clerked for him on the Mississippi Court of Appeals.
   He says that Judge Southwick applied the law fairly without regard to the parties' affiliation, color, or stature.
  These and other colleagues and partners of Judge Southwick know him best.
   I can only imagine their shock and confusion over the wildly derogatory and extreme descriptions offered by Judge Southwick's Washington-based critics.
   I can only imagine the reaction by those who know Judge Southwick when those who do not make such claims.
  I think my colleagues would agree that the American Bar Association has never been accused of a conservative bias.
   And I think we would all agree that the ABA conducts perhaps the most exhaustive and thorough evaluation of judicial nominees.
   The ABA looks at the whole record, the ABA interviews dozens of people.
   The ABA does not look selectively for a few bits and pieces of that record to back up a pre-determined conclusion.
   Let me remind everyone that the previous nominee to this very same Fifth Circuit position ran into trouble when the ABA rated him not qualified.
   My Democratic colleagues thought that was the most insightful, thorough, accurate, and definitive evaluation ever done on any nominee to any position anywhere.
   Well, the same ABA has unanimously given Judge Southwick its highest well qualified rating.
   That means, according to the ABA's own description of its rating criteria, that Judge Southwick gets the highest marks for such things as compassion, open-mindedness, freedom from bias and commitment to equal justice.
   So here is the choice we face.
   On the one side, critics who do not know and have not worked with Judge Southwick look only at the results of just a few cases and claim Judge Southwick has hostile views on issues such as race.
   On the other side, the ABA and those who do know and have worked with Judge Southwick look at his entire record and gave him the highest marks for compassion, open-mindedness, freedom from bias and commitment to equal justice under the law.
   These two radically different pictures of this nominee cannot both be true.
   I think the tactics and standards used by Judge Southwick's critics are wrong and illegitimate, and the conclusions about him based on those tactics are simply not credible.
   And they certainly do not justify doing an about-face and voting against a nominee who, just months ago, received the Judiciary Committee's unanimous support.
   Illegitimate tactics leading to less than credible conclusions do not justify disregarding the judgment of our colleagues, the Senators from Mississippi, who are this nominee's home-state Senators.
   Let me close with one more point.
   In their opposition letter, the Congressional Black Caucus says that we "should be impressed by the frequency with which Southwick's opinions and concurrences have been overruled."
   Judge Southwick authored 927 opinions and concurrences while on the Mississippi Court of Appeals and only 21 of them have been either reversed or even criticized by the Mississippi Supreme Court in 12 years.
   I must say that I am indeed impressed by the frequency with which Judge Southwick's opinions and concurrences have been overruled.
   I am very impressed with such a low reversal rate over such a long period of distinguished judicial service.
   And I note that Kay Cobb, former Presiding Justice of the Mississippi Supreme Court, the court that reviewed Judge Southwick's decisions, has written with enthusiastic support of his nomination.
   Justice Cobb, unlike Judge Southwick's critics, has known him for many years and highlights his attention to promoting fairness and equality.
   I ask consent that the letters I have mentioned be placed in the record.
   Judge Southwick has served his community, volunteering with Habitat for Humanity since 1993.
   He volunteered to serve his country in the Mississippi National Guard and by joining a line combat unit that served in Iraq.
   Only months ago, the Judiciary Committee found Judge Southwick's qualifications and character sufficient to report his district court nomination without a single objection.
   Judge Southwick today is the same man with the same qualifications, the same ability, the same character, and the same commitment to the law.
   He has the strong support of his home state Senators and should be given the opportunity to serve on the Fifth Circuit.
   The Judiciary Committee should report his nomination, and the Senate should confirm him, without delay.
   Thank you, Mr. President.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 