SEN. HATCH WORKS TO SMOOTH OIL PERMITTING AT VERNAL BLM OFFICE
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) used his leverage as a member of Senate team negotiating the comprehensive energy bill to help the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) field office in Vernal meet the flood of permit requests to drill on federal land.  
   The BLM office in Vernal has seen a 238 percent increase in permit applications over the last five years. Despite approving record numbers, the office has a severe backlog, which increases the time it takes for approval. 
   "Everyone in the Uintah Basin is extremely frustrated by the permit process for new oil and gas leases," Hatch said. "The BLM is doing their best with what they have. It is clear they need more resources to get these permits moving." 
   As a conferee, Hatch worked to ensure a provision remained in the energy bill that creates a new pilot project to coordinate better permit applications and reduce the amount of time for approval. The project would increase staffing in the BLM field offices to focus on oil and gas permitting and take a portion of the oil and gas royalties received by the government to give back to field offices to help process permits. These funds can be shared with other agencies that play a role in the permitting process. The energy bill also establishes a minimum deadline within which the BLM must begin consideration of a new permit. 
   "This project focuses the best talent and resources available to processing these permits quickly and thoroughly," Hatch said. "We have put together a strong approach that will make a real difference." 
   Hatch also teamed with Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) to insert language in the energy bill that kills a proposal by the Department of the Interior to raise fees for the production of gas on public lands. The new fee in question, known as the BLM cost recovery proposal, was recently published in the Federal Register. 
   "We don't need another hurdle to obtaining gas from our public lands," Hatch said. "The Federal government receives about $1.6 billion every year in royalties from gas production on public lands. With every new well in Utah, gas companies pay a generous royalty to federal and state governments. It's simple math - in the long run, Utah loses money when wells are stopped because of fees." 
   In June, Hatch helped to secure an extra $3 million in the Interior Appropriations bill to help BLM offices in the West meet the increased demand for permits 
   "We need much more than $3 million, but this is a step in the right direction," Hatch said. "With the tough budget decisions facing Congress, we'll take anything we can get right now."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 