COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. HATCH BILL TO HELP MILLIONS SUFFERING FROM TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
  Today the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee approved Sen. Orrin G. Hatch's (R-Utah) legislation to reauthorize the only federal law specifically addressing issues faced by 5.3 million Americans who live with a long-term disability as a result of traumatic brain injury, or TBI. Hatch is one of the principal authors of the original TBI law in 1996. The committee approved the bill unanimously.  
   "We need to reauthorize the TBI Act to not only improve the care the injured receive but also to help prevent others from suffering brain injuries in the first place," Hatch said. "With this bill, we'll help patients get quality care early, so they can better recover from this devastating injury. Undergoing a TBI is painful enough, but if the injury isn't properly diagnosed or treated, the financial and emotional costs are enormous - to the individual, the family, and the community." 
   Brain injuries are the most frequent reasons for visits to physicians and emergency rooms, the most common causes being falls and car crashes. Of the 1.5 million people in the United States who sustain a TBI each year, 50,000 die, 235,000 are hospitalized, and 1.1 million are treated and released from an emergency department. An extremely high incidence of TBI occurs among children between birth and age 14 - approximately 475,000 per year. 
   The TBI Act would continue essential federal funding for programs within the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), National Institutes of Health (NIH), and Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) to conduct research on TBI, provide education and prevention programs and make available protection and advocacy services. The bill would reauthorize these programs through 2011, authorize a new study through CDC and NIH to determine the incidence and prevalence of TBI and instruct HRSA and the Administration on Developmental Disabilities to coordinate data collection regarding protection and advocacy services.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 