SEN. HATCH: HOUSE FARM BILL TO END BAN ON STATE MEAT PRODUCTS
  The House of Representatives today passed a farm bill that includes provisions of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch's (R-Utah) bill, the New Markets for State-Inspected Meat and Poultry Act of 2007 (S. 1150). Hatch's provision would overturn a more than 30-year-old ban on interstate shipment of state-inspected meat, giving national and international consumers access to various meat products produced by ranchers and smaller meat packing plants in Utah and other states. 
   An archaic provision of a 1960s' meat inspection law allows states to inspect smaller meat processing plants, but bans their products from interstate and international distribution. Hatch's bill would rescind the ban.
   "It no longer makes any sense to keep this ban in place," Hatch said. "State inspection programs have proven to be just as effective as federal programs, so let's finally restore fairness to the meat packing industry."
   Utah has 32 plants authorized to inspect meat, part of nearly 2,000 plants nationwide largely run by small businesses that cater to the needs of small, family-run farms and ranches.
   Perishable products -- including milk and other dairy items, fruit, vegetables, and fish -- are freely shipped across state lines after being inspected by state programs. Yet certain meat products are prohibited from sale in interstate commerce, despite decades of meeting or surpassing the federal inspection standards. Hatch's bill would remove this prohibition.
   "Three USDA Advisory Committees have recommended that we lift this ban," Hatch said. "The ban clearly disrupts the free flow of trade, restricts market access for countless small businesses, and creates an unfair advantage for big businesses."
   Furthermore, current regulations allow meat inspected in 34 foreign countries to be shipped throughout the U.S. because the USDA has certified that the inspection programs in these foreign countries are equivalent to the federal program. State inspection programs must meet the same federal equivalency standard, and USDA supervises state programs far more frequently and thoroughly than foreign inspection programs.
   "It's absurd that meat inspected overseas can be shipped anywhere in the United States without restriction, but Utah's small businesses are prohibited from shipping their products across state lines," Hatch said. "They meet the same food safety requirements. We shouldn't hold Utah's meat producers to a different standard than their foreign competitors."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 