HEALTH EDUCATION LABOR AND PENSIONS COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. HATCH'S HEALTH IT BILL
  Today the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee approved the Wired for Health Care Quality Act of 2007, which is cosponsored by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah). The act aims to improve the use of technology in health care, reducing administrative costs and diminishing fatal errors caused by lack of information. The committee approved the bill unanimously. Hatch believes the bill's passage is overdue.
   "The country is facing a Tower of Babel in health care," Hatch said. "If we don't act swiftly, we'll soon have completely different standards for publicly and privately insured patients. That will seriously impair how health information technology can improve care in the ways we all want to see. We just can't miss this opportunity." 
   When health care providers do not have access to timely information about their patients, the quality of care they can give declines. Health care costs skyrocket when tests or procedures are duplicated because critical records are missing or inaccessible. Care becomes less available and less affordable when needless administrative costs drive up insurance premiums. The Federal government's estimate is that the nation would save $140 billion each year from proper IT use, which would cut the cost of a family's insurance policy by more than $700 - approximately a month of free health care.
   IT systems are linked securely and with strong privacy protections to a patient's medical records and can improve care by warning a doctor or nurse if an order or prescription may harm a patient. These systems can issue reminders for screening tests, so that needed preventive care is not overlooked. Computerized records also allow doctors to look at a patient's entire medical record at once, improving care coordination in a fragmented health care system.
   However, while Hatch supports the bulk of the bill, he finds several points of the bill troubling and hopes to see them corrected.
   Hatch is concerned that the bill does not adequately separate legislative responsibility for quality standards for public insurance (Medicare and Medicaid) from those of private insurance. If the bill does not permit creation of a common menu of quality standards for both kinds of insurance, providers will be in the impossible position of working under mismatched information sets. The jurisdiction for quality standards for public programs is with the Finance Committee and the jurisdiction for creating standard measures of quality for private insurance is the Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee (HELP). As a senior member of the Finance Committee and the HELP Committee, Hatch is committed to making sure this issue is fixed.
   "Building a national, interoperable healthcare information technology platform is like building two houses with a common driveway," Hatch said. "Federal programs are one house and private health plans are the other. They both must share common standards for health information technology so that systems all talk with one another."
  Furthermore, Hatch is concerned about some provisions of the bill, which he fears could prevent patients who need care the most from having adequate access to care. Provisions 3006 and 3007 provide for the use of Medicare billing data to make conclusions on the quality of services provided by individual physicians, such as if a patient requires repeat visits due to medical complications. Several notable physician groups have come out against this provision.
   "Billing data is designed for physician reimbursement, not measuring of physician performance," Hatch said. "When such data has been used for performance reporting in the past, doctors subject to such reports have been reluctant to care for sick patients who of course will have a high complication rate. Medicare billing data cannot reliably separate patients who are likely to have complications for medical treatments from those who are at low risk. If we can't modify this provision of the bill, sick people will suffer even more."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 