SENS. LEIBERMAN, HATCH TO TACKLE RACIAL DISPARITIES IN HEALTHCARE
  Sens. Joe Lieberman (D-CT) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) today introduced ground-breaking legislation that addresses two serious problems plaguing our nation's healthcare system: inconsistent healthcare quality and healthcare disparities. The initiative, called "FairCare," would help alleviate both problems by standardizing more data collection and offering new incentives for healthcare providers to raise quality standards for all patients. Lieberman first introduced FairCare in June of 2004.  
   In the United States today, there is a well-documented pattern of healthcare disparities among racial and ethnic minorities. Studies have shown that these groups are less likely to receive regular medical care or preventive screenings and education. Many of these disparities persist, even when factors such as income and access to healthcare are taken into account. 
   "It is clear that we do not have a color-blind healthcare system," Lieberman said. "And it is also clear that this unequal treatment is Un-American. We cannot tolerate it. Rather we must understand it, confront it and fix it. The clues to solving the problems of both medical quality and healthcare disparities are there, we just have to go find them. FairCare will help us gather crucial information to identify the problems and then help finance the solutions that will cure them." 
   "Identifying the areas of greatest need is a critical step in closing this healthcare gap," Hatch said. "This information would allow caregivers the ability to develop new ways to erase disparities and reward those willing to raise their standard of quality." 
   Further, it has been documented that disparities in care are an indication of a much more pervasive problem with healthcare quality. A recent study in the New England Journal of Medicine reported that fewer than 55% of all patients receive the appropriate care. By calling upon the medical community to establish quantifiable standards of treatment for all patients and providing financial incentives for these standards, FairCare can help raise the quality and consistency of care for everyone else as well. 
   Specifically, FairCare would: 
   Create a uniform method for collecting demographic information from patients in federally funded health programs to provide a foundation for further research on healthcare quality and disparities; 
   Establish a federal grant program within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for data collection, quality improvement, and disparity reduction to ensure that hospitals and community health centers have the resources necessary to engage in the structural adjustments required to expand data collection; 
   Direct HHS's Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), in consultation with public and private sector healthcare entities, to design new measures for quality in healthcare delivery and establish methods by which these quality measures can be evaluated for effectiveness; 
   Establish an Office of National Healthcare Disparities and Quality within AHRQ to oversee the development and expansion of the National Healthcare Disparities Report and the National Healthcare Quality Report. It will also oversee development and dissemination of Best Practices information for healthcare providers who wish to improve quality and reduce disparities in care; 
   Designate high-performing or improving healthcare institutions as "FairCare Institutions," eligible for increased Medicare reimbursements or bonus grant funding; and 
   Expand the ability of HHS's REACH 2010 Community Grant Program, which helps healthcare providers and communities work together to eliminate disparities, to help more communities nationwide.
   Contact: Rob Sawicki, 202/224-4041; Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 