SEN. HATCH: ROBERTS SOUND INVESTMENT IN NATION\'S FUTURE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) gave the following speech on the floor of the United States Senate in support of the nomination of Judge John G. Roberts for Chief Justice of the United States: 
   Mr. President, I rise once again to speak in favor of the nomination of Judge Roberts. I urge all my colleagues in the Senate to vote to make John Roberts the next Chief Justice of the United States.  
   The central focus this week is properly on the nomination of Judge Roberts. In addition, the manner in which the Senate acts on this nomination also will be subject to public scrutiny. 
   In this regard, I want to join those who have commended Senator Specter and Senator Leahy, and other members of the Judiciary Committee, for working together to plan and carry out a fair series of hearings on the Roberts' nomination. 
   This week, the full Senate faces the challenge of debating the merits of John Roberts to serve as our nation's sixteenth Chief Justice. 
   As the widely respected journalist David Broder has observed about the Roberts' nomination: "He is so obviously - ridiculously - well-equipped to lead government's third branch that it is hard to imagine how any Democrats can justify a vote against his confirmation." 
   To put a fine point on it, if Democrats do not vote for John Roberts, it is fair to ask whether some Democrats will ever give a fair shake to any Republican Supreme Court nominee? 
   I recognize that many left-wing special interest groups are putting a lot of pressure on Democratic Senators to vote against this extraordinarily qualified nominee. For example, last Wednesday, September 21, 2005 the newspaper, Roll Call,contained an article with the headline, Liberal Groups Lecture Democrats on Roberts. 
   This article reported: 
   "...Senators Dick Durbin ... and Charles Schumer, received a sharp rebuke at a weekend meeting in Los Angeles from wealthy activists such as television producer Norman Lear over Roberts' glide path to confirmation. 
   At an event on behalf of People for the American Way, the first of the major liberal groups to announce opposition to Roberts, Lear lashed out at the Democrats for not mounting more determined resistance to the nomination, according to several sources familiar with the event. 
   Schumer, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, confirmed that the event included a 'frank discussion' between activists and the Senators." 
   Lectures? 
   Sharp rebukes? 
   Frank discussions? 
   Sounds like there may be some dissension all in the family. 
   While I have no doubt that pressure from some liberal groups to vote no is substantial, there are compelling reasons why the health of both the Senate and the Judiciary require that this vote should be about, and only about, John Roberts' qualifications to serve as Chief Justice. Some left-wing special interest groups seem to be urging a no vote on this highly-qualified nominee in large part to somehow send a message to President Bush as he deliberates on how to fill the remaining vacancy on the Supreme Court. If that is the case, it is a garbled, misguided message. 
   I understand the political fact of life that some outside interest groups normally affiliated with the Republican side of the aisle might have preferred that Republican Senators would have voted against the Supreme Court nominees of President Clinton. 
   But I also respect the political reality that he who wins the White House has the right under the Constitution to nominate judicial nominees, including filling Supreme Court vacancies. In undertaking our advice and consent role, the Senate -- due to the Constitution, prudence, and tradition -- owes a degree of deference to the President's nominees. 
   This helps explain why the two Supreme Court nominations made by President Clinton were given broad bipartisan support by the Senate once they were found to posses the intellect, integrity, character, and mainstream judicial philosophy necessary to serve on the Court. 
   When the votes were counted for these two Clinton nominees -- both of whom were known as social liberals -- Justice Breyer was confirmed by a bipartisan 87 to 9 vote and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was approved by a 96 to 3 vote. 
   Given the already stated opposition of both the Minority Leader and the Assistant Minority Leader and many other Democratic Senators, it does not appear likely that Judge Roberts will receive the same level of support from Democratic Senators as Republican Senators provided for the last two Democratic nominees. 
   I think this is unfortunate, unjustified and unfair. Frankly, I do not think this result can be wholly explained by anything that John Roberts did or said, or did not say, over the course of his exemplary 25-year career as a lawyer. 
   I do want to commend the growing number of Democrats, including the Ranking Democratic Member of the Judiciary Committee, Senator Leahy, for their decisions to support Judge Roberts. I hope many others across the aisle will join them. 
   I also want to commend President Bush for consulting closely with the Senate and for sending us a truly outstanding nominee in John Roberts. By all accounts, the President is continuing his practice of consulting widely with the Senate in filling the remaining vacancy on the Court. 
   Turning to the merits of this nomination, I want to take a few moments to briefly review Judge Roberts' education and experience to help explain why so many think so highly of this nominee. Too often in this debate, Judge Roberts' opponents seem to quickly acknowledge his brilliance and qualifications before launching into a series of speculative ifs, ands, or buts that somehow justify a vote against confirmation. 
   The American public realizes that John Roberts has the right stuff. John Roberts graduated from Harvard College, summa cum laude, in three years. He then went on to Harvard Law School where he graduated, magna cum laude, and was selected as the managing editor of the Harvard Law Review. 
   Judge Roberts began his legal career by clerking for two leading federal appellate judges: Judge Henry Friendly and then-Justice William Rehnquist. Judge Roberts began his career in the Executive Branch by serving as a Special Assistant to the Attorney General, William French Smith. Next, he was an Associate Counsel in the White House Counsel's Office. In the administration of President George H.W. Bush, John Roberts served as Principal Deputy Solicitor General at the Department of Justice. 
   Upon departing government and moving back into private practice, he was justifiably recognized as one of the leading appellate lawyers in the country; he has argued an almost astounding number of 39 cases before the Supreme Court. 
   John Roberts has represented a diverse group of clients including environmental, consumer and civil rights interests and has taken seriously his obligation to provide voluntary legal services to the poor, including criminal defendants. 
   Just two years ago, John Roberts was confirmed on the Senate floor -- without objection -- for a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The American Bar Association evaluated Judge Roberts four times in the last four years and each time he earned the highest ABA rating of Well Qualified. And four times in a row this Well Qualified rating was unanimous -- this must be some kind of a record for ABA ratings. 
   John Roberts has the temperament, integrity, intelligence, judgment and judicial philosophy to lead the Supreme Court and federal judiciary well into the 21st Century. 
   The Senate and the American public heard directly from John Roberts as he testified for over 20 hours before the Judiciary Committee. Most of us liked what we saw and heard. 
   Judge Roberts told us he would bring to the Supreme Court no agenda - political, personal or otherwise. He told us that he would consider each case based solely on the merits of the relevant facts and applicable laws. With Judge Roberts, all litigants will continue to receive the bedrock American right of equal justice under the law. 
   Here is what Judge Roberts' said about the rule of law during his hearing: 
   " Somebody asked me, 'Are you going to be on the side of the little guy?' And you want to give an immediate answer. But if you reflect on it, if the Constitution says the little guy should win, the little guy should win in court before me. But if the Constitution says the big guy should win, well, the big guy should win, because my obligation is to the Constitution. ... The oath that a judge takes is not that 'I'll look out for particular interests' ... The oath is to uphold the Constitution and laws of the United States, and that's what I would do." 
   It seems to me that Judge Roberts got it exactly right. 
   I cannot say the same thing about those, including Senators Kennedy and Boxer, who embrace results-oriented litmus tests when they repeatedly ask, just whose side will Judge Roberts be on in deciding cases? As Judge Roberts has explained, a judge has to hear the case and consider the law before he or she decides who should prevail under the law. 
   I also greatly appreciated Judge Roberts' comments on judicial activism and judicial restraint. Judge Roberts believes that in our system of government, judges "do not have a commission to solve society's problems, but simply to decide cases before them according to the rule of law." 
   I found enlightening Judge Roberts' description about how he decides cases through a careful process of reviewing briefs, participating in oral arguments, conferring with other judges at conference and, finally, writing the decision. He noted that he often adjusts his view of a case throughout the course of the deliberative process. 
   Both in his opening testimony and in answering questions, Judge Roberts stressed the importance of judges exercising institutional and personal modesty and humility. I have no doubt that this view is genuinely held by the nominee. I can say that an overwhelming majority of my fellow Utahns tell me they are favorably impressed with Judge Roberts' attitude toward the law and the role of judges. 
   Some, particularly many left-wing special interest groups, do not share my enthusiasm for Judge Roberts. 
   Despite the fact that Judge Roberts answered dozens of questions on many topics, some complain that Judge Roberts did not answer all the questions. 
   Let us be clear: Under the Canons of Judicial Ethics, it would have been inappropriate for Judge Roberts to comment on matters that could come before the Court. These liberal groups apparently have forgotten that back in 1993 when Democratic-nominee, then-Judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg, appeared before the Judiciary Committee in connection with her 96 to 3 confirmation to the Supreme Court, she took a position of "no hints, no forecasts, no previews" on many questions. 
   This was consistent to what Senator Kennedy said back in 1967 with respect to the Supreme Court nomination of Thurgood Marshall: "We have to respect that any nominee to the Supreme Court would have to defer any comments on any matters which are either before the court or very likely to appear before the court." 
   Some critics argue that the Administration should have turned over memos that Judge Roberts wrote in his former capacity as Deputy Solicitor General. But the fact of the matter is that several years ago a bipartisan group of seven former Solicitors General wrote to Judiciary Committee to tell us that generally providing these documents to the Senate and making them public was a bad idea given the unique role of the Solicitor's General Office. 
   Some critics assert that Judge Roberts is insufficiently sensitive to their views on certain areas of the law, including civil rights, voting rights, women's rights and abortion, presidential power, and the Commerce Clause. A careful analysis of Judge Roberts' professional record over the last t25 years coupled with a rigorous review of the hearing transcript leads to the conclusion that Judge Roberts is well within the mainstream on his general perspectives on these issues and has pledged to be fair and open-minded in any future litigation involving these and other areas. I take him at his word. 
   For example, Senator Kennedy has attempted to suggest that Judge Roberts is somehow against voting rights and other civil rights. Yet in response to questions from Senator Kennedy, Judge Roberts clearly stated that he believed that voting is the right preservative of all other rights. It is this principle that undergirds the leading case of Baker v. Carr that brought us into the one-man, one-vote. 
   Moreover, Judge Roberts acknowledges the importance of the Voting Rights Act, is supportive of its reauthorization, and said he is unaware of any fundamental legal deficiency in the statute. While in the Solicitor General's Office, John Roberts joined several briefs urging the Supreme Court to adopt broad interpretations of the Voting Rights Act. For example, in the 1993 case of Voinovich v. Quilter, Roberts successfully argued in a brief on behalf of the United States for a reading of an Ohio redistricting plan that made it easier to create minority legislative districts. The Supreme Court concurred. 
   To claim that John Roberts is hostile to voting rights is simply not true. Nor is he hostile to, or predisposed against, any other rights, interests, or legal claims. John Roberts is committed to hearing every case in a fair, unbiased manner. 
   Let me conclude by saying that some, including some members of the Judiciary Committee, having failed to make a substantial case against this stellar nominee, have resorted to suggesting we are somehow rolling the dice or betting the house with this nominee. 
   To me, supporting John Roberts is a sound investment in our nation's future, not some long-shot bet. 
   John Roberts' long and distinguished record as an advocate and judge over the past 25 years, buttressed by his recent confirmation hearing testimony, demonstrate that he is a bright, careful, and thoughtful legal professional of the highest integrity and character. He is not an ideologue inclined to, or bent on, high court mischief. 
   I think it likely that one day historians will conclude that in making John Roberts our 17th Chief Justice, the President and Senate made a wise choice that helped maintain and advance the rule of law for all present and future citizens of the United States. 
   Mr. Chairman, I will vote aye to confirm Judge Roberts.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 