SEN. HATCH: DON'T CHANGE LAKE POWELL'S NAME
  Responding to efforts by a radical environmentalist group, Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) this week vigorously opposed changing Lake Powell's name in a recent letter to Glen Canyon Reservoir. 
   "I urge you to reject the senseless proposal to rename Lake Powell," Hatch said in a recent letter to the U.S. Board on Geographic Names. "In fact, I suspect that the proponents of the name change have a political rather than a practical motivation - that motivation being the eventual draining of Lake Powell. It is clear to me that the group petitioning the change is a very small minority and does not represent the views of the majority of people in the affected area." 
   An organization named the Coalition to Rename Lake Powell petitioned the Board to change the name to the Glen Canyon Reservoir. The proposal is on the agenda for discussion and a vote at the Board's October 20, 2004, meeting. 
   The full text of Sen. Hatch's letter follows: 
   "I am writing in response to your August 3, 2004, letter referencing a proposal to change the name of Lake Powell in Utah and Arizona to Glen Canyon Reservoir. I appreciate your informing me of this proposal and welcome the opportunity to express my views. 
   "I urge you to reject the senseless proposal to rename Lake Powell. The group that submitted the proposal to the U.S. Board on Geographic Names (USBGN) expressed concern that two bodies of water with the same name in a relatively small geographic area could generate confusion. Lake Powell in Utah and Arizona is well-established, well-known, and draws more than two million visitors each year. Lake Powell in Colorado is comparatively small, less known, and in a different state. There is little risk that these two lakes would be confused by recreationists. In fact, I suspect that the proponents of the name change have a political rather than a practical motivation - that motivation being the eventual draining of Lake Powell. 
   "The group also cites concerns that the term reservoir would be more appropriate for a man-made body of water. It is my understanding that only 22,000 of the nearly 70,000 reservoirs in our nation are called reservoirs and, as your letter states, the USBGN does not require the use of generic terms. 
   "Additionally, USBGN rules state that well-established names should not be changed without wide-spread public support. It is clear to me that the group petitioning the change is a very small minority and does not represent the views of the majority of people in the affected area. 
   "Thank you for your attention to this matter. I hope that you will keep my strong opposition in mind and reject the proposal at your October 20, 2004, meeting."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 