AMBASSADOR KAREN HUGHES HEADLINES SEN. HATCH EVENT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) announced today an outstanding line-up for the 23rd Annual Utah Women's Conference, "Discovering the Diversity and Unity of Women." The Conference, hosted by the Senator and his wife Elaine will be held on Friday, October 12, 2007, at the Grand America Hotel in Salt Lake City, and will begin at 8:30 a.m.  
   The morning session will feature Karen Hughes, United States Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs. Since 2005, Ambassador Hughes has been tasked by President George W. Bush with leading efforts to promote America's values and confront ideological support for terrorism around the world. A longtime advisor to President Bush, she served as counselor to the President for his first 18 months in the White House. She is the author of Ten Minutes from Normal, which describes her experiences working in the White House. 
   The afternoon session will be headlined by Marla Cilley, better known as the FlyLady, and host of the popular website www.flylady.net. She is the best-selling author of Sink Reflections, and co-author of New York Times' best seller Body Clutter. In addition to her syndicated column in newspapers across the country, FlyLady has also been featured in many major magazines and newspapers including: Woman's Day, Good Housekeeping, Parade, USA Today, The Washington Post and the Wall Street Journal. Her special gift for mentoring women has been featured on CNN, the Today Show, and the Style Show. 
   "It will be a real privilege to hear from two very diverse women, highly talented and knowledgeable in issues important to women's lives," stated Hatch. "Ambassador Hughes has traveled the globe confronting first-hand the challenges America faces in winning the war on terror, and promoting peace. She has been a powerful example for women everywhere as she has juggled important responsibilities in government with her desire to rear a family. 
   "In addition, I know that conference attendees will be highly entertained and motivated by Marla Cilley, or as even she calls herself - the FlyLady," continued Hatch. "She will teach us all how to de-clutter our homes, our bodies, and our lives." 
   The conference will also offer workshops on important topics of interest to women including: domestic violence, identity theft, understanding cancer, investment basics, and health. 
   To register for the Conference, please contact conference staff at (801) 413-9133. The cost is $25.00 which includes lunch and conference materials.
   Contact: Heather Barney, 801/524-3341; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 