SEN. HATCH PROMOTES ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES
  An unusual coalition of environmental groups, automakers, and alternative fuel providers joined Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today as he introduced legislation that will make a significant impact on reducing our nation's dependency on oil by making alternative fuels and advanced technologies profitable. 
   Hatch's press conference remarks follow:  
   On behalf of the many supporters of the CLEAR ACT, I want to thank you for coming to our press conference today. We are here to announce the introduction of the Clean Efficient Automobiles Resulting from Advanced Car Technologies Act of 2005, or the CLEAR ACT. 
   In the last decade, we have increased our energy consumption in the United States by roughly 12 percent. In response to this trend, our nation has increased energy production by less than one half of one percent. 
   That's pathetic, and in my view it reflects our glaring lack of a national energy policy. Is it any wonder that we have dramatically increased our reliance on foreign oil, and that prices have risen to reflect this trend? What is truly disturbing to me is that the global energy supply is also being outpaced by global demand for oil. 
   In other words, our energy future looks bleak. If our nation is forced to rely on oil imports to meet our future energy needs, we are headed for stormy weather. Currently our transportation sector in the U.S. accounts for nearly two-thirds of all oil consumption nationwide. 
   As you can see by this chart, alternative fuel accounted for only 0.23 percent of all highway fuel use in 2004. This accounts for the fact that more than 50 percent of our urban smog is caused by mobile sources. If we want to clean our air and address our nation's energy dependency, we must focus on the transportation sector. And we must focus first on those technologies and alternative fuels that are already available. The CLEAR ACT is the shortest path to achieving these goals. 
   Yesterday, we heard President Bush call on our nation to "develop new ways to power our automobiles," and he spoke of his proposal to provide $2.5 billion over 10 years in tax incentives for the purchase of hybrid technologies. The President also called for increased alternative fuel infrastructure and the need to develop hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. 
   As for these policies the President addressed, the CLEAR ACT is exactly where the rubber meets the road. The CLEAR ACT continues to be the most comprehensive and effective plan we have seen in this country to accelerate the transformation of the automotive marketplace toward the widespread use of fuel cell vehicles. And it does so without any new federal mandates. Rather, it offers powerful market incentives to promote the advances in technology, in our infrastructure, and in the alternative fuels that are necessary if fuel cells are to ever reach the mass market. With the CLEAR ACT we accomplish this goal, but in the meantime, we also get cleaner air, we reduce our dependency on foreign oil, and we help lead our nation into the future. 
   This is the third Congress in which we have introduced this legislation, and it has been a part of every major energy bill considered by Congress since we began our effort. Unfortunately, Congress's failure to pass comprehensive energy legislation, has also stalled passage of the CLEAR ACT. 
   Historically, consumers have faced three basic obstacles to accepting the use of alternative fuels and advanced technologies. These are the higher cost of the vehicles, the lack of an infrastructure of alternative fueling stations, and the higher cost of alternative fuels. The CLEAR ACT would lower all three of these market barriers through the use of tax incentives. 
   First, we provide a tax credit for the purchase of alternative fuels. Next we promote a new infrastructure of alternative fuel filling stations by extending an existing tax deduction for the purchase of the necessary equipment and providing a new tax credit for the cost of installing it. 
   Finally we provide a Clear Act Credit to consumers who purchase alternative fuel and advanced technology vehicles. This includes fuel cell, hybrid electric, alternative fuel, and battery electric vehicles. 
   We have constructed the Clear Act Credits to create the greatest social benefit possible for every tax dollar. The amount the consumer receives in a Clear Act Credit would depend, first, on the level of technology used in the vehicle and, second, on the fuel efficiency and emissions reduction of the vehicle. 
   All of the technologies promoted in the CLEAR ACT - whether they be battery and electric motor technologies or advances in fuel storage and alternative fuel infrastructure - lead us closer to the hydrogen fuel cell vehicle. I believe fuel cells are in our future. However, even if the widespread use of fuel cell vehicles never becomes a reality, advances in these other technologies provide a dramatic social benefit on their own. 
   I have heard one or two people question the need for incentives for hybrid vehicles when people are lining up to buy them. It may be true that demand for these vehicles is high in a few areas. However, these high-demand areas tend to have local or state incentives in place for the purchase of these vehicles. Where incentives are not in place, hybrid sales are minimal. This demonstrates that incentives can indeed provide a market breakthrough to consumer acceptance of alternative vehicles. 
   With the CLEAR ACT, we are trying to provide that breakthrough on a national scale. And the numbers show that a breakthrough is desperately needed. It may be true that hybrid sales have doubled in the last couple of years, but they still represent a minuscule 0.48 percent of cars that were sold in 2004. If we are serious about promoting hybrid vehicles in this country, we will have to aim much, much higher than that. 
   We have given you a basic outline of our legislation. For obvious reasons, we are very proud of it. Now, I want to introduce you to one of the most powerful and effective coalitions with which I have ever worked in Washington - the CLEAR ACT Coalition. I would like you to hear from some of them now. 
   Summary of the CLEAR ACT of 2005 
  (Clean Efficient Automobiles Resulting from Advanced Car Technologies)
   Overview 
   The primary purpose of this bill is to enhance national energy security and promote cleaner air by reducing the consumption of petroleum and advancing alternative fuels. Transportation accounts for nearly 2/3 of all oil consumption and is almost 97% dependent on petroleum. 
   This legislation will set the stage for a consumer-based and technology-led transformation of the transportation marketplace. All major vehicle manufacturers are introducing new technology and alternative fuel vehicles into the marketplace. These new technologies reduce petroleum consumption and improve air quality as a result of breakthrough improvements in fuel economy or from the use of non-petroleum alternative fuels. Accelerated acceptance by consumers of these new technologies is needed to increase production volumes and make them cost competitive with conventional vehicles. 
   Providing tax incentives for a limited time to consumers will help offset the higher costs associated with new technology and alternative fuel vehicles. As the vehicles gain consumer acceptance and production volumes increase, the cost differential between these and conventional vehicles will be reduced or eliminated. 
   Key Components of the CLEAR ACT 
   Tax incentives for new technology and alternative fuel vehicles under this legislation go directly to the consumer. These incentives are based both on technology and performance. 
   * Fuel Cell Vehicles. Fuel cell vehicles are the most promising long-term technology offering breakthrough fuel economy of up to 3 times today's levels with zero emissions. The CLEAR ACT offers a $4,000 base credit along with an additional credit of up to $4,000 depending on fuel economy performance. These credits are available for ten years. 
   * Hybrid Electric Vehicles. Electronics that integrate electric drive with an internal combustion engine offer near-term improvements in fuel economy. The CLEAR ACT offers a credit of up to $1,000 for the amount of electric drive power along with an additional credit of up to $3,000 depending upon fuel economy performance. These credits are available for 6 years. 
   * Dedicated Alternative Fuel Vehicles. Vehicles solely capable of running on alternative fuels promote energy diversity and significant emissions reductions. Natural gas, LPG, and LNG are the most commonly used fuels for dedicated alternative fuel vehicles. The CLEAR ACT provides a base credit of up to $2,500 with an additional $1,500 credit for vehicles certified to "Super Ultra Low Emission" (SULEV) standards. "Flex-fuel" vehicles are not eligible since they can operate on either gasoline or E85 (ethanol) and are available in the market without any incremental cost. 
   * Battery Electric Vehicles. Vehicles that utilize stored energy from "plug-in" rechargeable batteries offer zero emissions and are not dependent upon petroleum-based fuels. The CLEAR ACT offers a base credit of $4,000 and an incremental credit of $2,000 for vehicles with extended range or payload capabilities. 
   * Medium and Heavy Duty Vehicles. Medium and heavy duty applications of the same vehicle technologies utilized for passenger vehicles offer similar benefits related to energy efficiency, diversity, and emission reductions. The CLEAR ACT offers credits for individual weight categories and amounts vary with the largest vehicles over 26,000 pounds receiving up to $40,000 for fuel cell or battery electric, $32,000 for alternative fuel, or $24,000 for hybrid applications. 
   * Alternative Fuel Incentives. Alternative fuels such as natural gas, LNG, LPG, hydrogen, B100 (biomass) and methanol are primarily used in alternative fueled vehicles and fuel cell vehicles. To encourage the installation of distribution points to support these applications, a credit of 50 cents for every gallon of gas equivalent is provided to the retail distributor. This credit is available for 6 years. 
   * Alternative Fuel Infrastructure. Complimentary to the credit for the fuel itself, the CLEAR ACT extends the existing $100,000 tax deduction for 10 years and also provides a credit for actual costs of up to $30,000 for the installation of alternative fuel sites available to the public. 
   Broad Coalition Support 
   A broad and diverse group that includes representatives from automobile manufacturers, the environmental community, and alternative fuel groups support the CLEAR ACT. Ford Motor Company, Honda, and Toyota are among the key automotive industry supporters. Environmental coalition support comes from the Union of Concerned Scientists, Natural Resources Defense Council, Environmental Defense, and the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy. Industry coalitions include the Natural Gas Vehicle Coalition, the Propane Vehicle Council, the American Methanol Institute, and the Electric Drive Transportation Association.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370. 
 
 