NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL ISSUES REPORT ON RECA PROGRAM
  The National Research Council (NRC) of the National Academies of Science (NAS) issued a much-awaited report today making recommendations on potential changes in the federal compensation program for radiation exposure victims.  
   Congress commissioned a blue-ribbon panel of scientific experts to determine whether there is a scientific basis to expand the program, operated under the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA). Congress contemplated potential changes in three major areas: the list of compensable diseases, the geographic areas eligible for compensation, and the occupations that should be covered. 
   The major findings of the report are: there is no current scientific basis for covering additional diseases; the geographic scope of RECA should be expanded under scientific criteria which would be set by government experts; and core drillers and geologists who worked in underground mines should be covered as uranium miners currently are. 
   Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), the original author of the 1990 RECA program and 2000 expansions to the law, explained the basis for the report: "RECA is a tremendously important program that provides a measure of compensation to those harmed by the federal government's nuclear testing program decades ago," said Hatch. "I am frequently approached by constituents who believe that they should be eligible for RECA but who are not. It is impossible for Congress to evaluate those requests without a solid scientific analysis, which is what the NAS report was intended to provide." 
   Commenting on the report's findings, the Utah legislator said, "This is a significant report for Utah's downwinders, uranium miners, millers and tailers. It resolves unanswered questions about whether we got it right when we developed the list of compensable illnesses. And it holds forth the possibility that program expansions could be considered by Congress." 
   Hatch cautioned, however, that any review aimed at updating RECA based on the new report could result in proposals that would change current coverage, an idea that Hatch vehemently rejected. "I want to make perfectly clear that Congress should never undercut compensation to those currently eligible under RECA," Hatch said. 
   The text of the report is available at http://www.nationalacademies.org/.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370. 
 
 