SENS. HATCH, LIEBERMAN, BROWNBACK CALL FOR NEXT STEP IN BIOTERRORISM PREPAREDNESS
  Sens. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.), and Sam Brownback (R-Kan.) today unveiled legislation to energize a biodefense sector that will provide the medicines the nation needs to combat the threat of bioterrorism. The Project BioShield II Act of 2005 will take the next step in developing crucial new bioterror antidotes and encourage companies to develop countermeasures by reducing their financial risk while also ensuring quality control.  
   Lieberman first introduced a bill to provide incentives for research on bioterrorism countermeasures in December 2001, just two months after the anthrax attacks in New York, Connecticut, Washington and Florida. He and Hatch have introduced subsequent versions of the bill and in July 2004 President Bush signed BioShield, a bill that contained many provisions of the Lieberman-Hatch bill. 
   The BioShield law passed last year and modeled on provisions in the earlier Lieberman-Hatch legislation authorizes $5.6 billion over 10 years for the government to procure drugs, biological products, and devices as countermeasures against biological, chemical, radiological and nuclear agents that could cause a public health threat. However, there are still many obstacles to the development of bioterrorism antidotes by private companies, including tax, intellectual property and liabilities risks that inhibit development. The incentives to promote the development of new countermeasures are required because there is no market for these remedies unless there is a national disaster, so there is no normal market to encourage drug development in this biothreat area. Lieberman, Hatch and Brownback, a leader in research and public health issues regarding infectious diseases, are introducing the Project BioShield II Act of 2005 to address these remaining concerns. 
   "The best way to combat the very real and serious threat of bioterrorism is to utilize our greatest strength - the entrepreneurial talent of our nation -in our national defense. The BioShield law enacted last year takes the first step, but without additional reforms, companies are not likely to risk their own capital to fund this research, leaving us with a government-funding model that will be exceedingly expensive and not likely to produce the results we need," Lieberman said. "The concepts in our legislation- including tax, intellectual property and liability reforms -will give us important additional tools to enlist the entire industry in this vital research." 
   "This bipartisan bill shows that we consider bioterrorism to be a deadly threat to America and the world," Hatch said. "We need to do more to combat natural threats such as AIDS, SARS, Avian Flu, malaria, antibiotic resistant organisms, and other agents, including genetically manipulated materials, which, in the hands of terrorists, could create a public health catastrophe. Comprehensive legislation is needed today to thwart tomorrow's biological threats, including bioterrorism attacks." 
   "It is critical that the federal government find ways to engage the vibrant private sector in the essential work of saving lives in the developing world," Brownback said. "This bill not only serves our own national security, but could leave a lasting legacy of cures for diseases that kill millions of the world's most vulnerable people." 
   Specifically, the Project BioShield II Act of 2005 authorizes: 
   * Tax incentives to spur capital investment in this research; 
   * Intellectual property protections, including patent incentives that could help spur crucial countermeasures or a cure for AIDS or a new class of antibiotics; 
   * Liability protections to companies who produce vaccines that cannot be fully tested in clinical trials because of the nature of the deadly diseases they are designed to combat. 
   The legislation does not allocate a specific funding amount for these provisions but promises government funding only for final products that meet the government specifications. Thus the risk is shifted to the industry and its investors to produce the products. 
   In crafting the legislation, Lieberman, Hatch and Brownback consulted with more than five hundred national and international infectious disease and biodefense experts and many of them, including the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI), the Infectious Disease Society of America (IDSA) and the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene (ASTMH), have expressed their support for the bill. 
   Earlier this year, the Senate Republican leadership introduced S. 3, a less comprehensive bill also designed to combat bioterrorism and infectious diseases. Lieberman, Hatch and Brownback said they hoped to work with their colleagues to include the more comprehensive bioterror provisions of their legislation into S. 3. 
   A more detailed discussion of the bill is contained in testimony that Lieberman gave before a joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committees last October. Read the testimony at: http://lieberman.senate.gov/newsroom/reports/bioshieldtestimony0604.pdf. 
   IAVI's endorsement press release is available at: http://www.iavi.org/viewfile.cfm?fid=10864.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 