SENS. HATCH, KENNEDY, ENZI PROMISE BIPARTISANSHIP IN SENATE RESPONSE TO UTAH MINE TRAGEDY
  Three top members of the Senate committee that governs mine safety today declared that they will work together in a bipartisan process to ensure that the tragedy suffered at the Crandall Canyon Mine in Utah will be thoroughly examined to determine if anything could have been done to avoid this disaster, and ensure greater mine safety for the future.  
   Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) committee chairman Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), ranking member Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), and Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) will work with the Department of Labor and the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) to ensure that their investigation of this tragedy is done thoroughly and accurately. 
   "I am grateful for the leadership of Senators Kennedy and Enzi on the HELP Committee as we work together in the best interest of miners' safety and Americans' energy needs," Hatch said. "My home state has suffered greatly the past few weeks as we have first watched miners being trapped in the Crandall Canyon Mine, and then brave rescuers suffering injury and death. I am committed to supporting those gathering the facts. If this tragedy could have been prevented, we will learn what we need to so this never happens again. Utahns are grieving together, now we must all work together in the best interests of the miners, their families and the mining industry. " 
   "Our hearts remain with the families and friends of the miners affected by this tragedy," Kennedy said. "They and all miners can be assured that the Committee will launch a thorough investigation into the Crandall Canyon disaster. I am united with Senators Hatch and Enzi in finding out exactly what happened at Crandall Canyon and in taking steps to prevent future disasters. Our nation owes our brave miners a rigorous federal mine safety system. Together, in a bipartisan manner, we'll move forward to ensure that they have the protection they deserve." 
   "The tragic events in Utah have again reminded all of us of the dangers that our nation's miners face," Enzi said. "As we have in the past, we intend to work together to ensure optimal safety conditions for the men and women who work in our nation's mines. It is critical that we work with the Department of Labor in a bipartisan way to address the causes of the tragedies at Crandall Canyon, and to prevent future accidents from occurring. Every miner deserves to return home safely at the end of the day. Even one avoidable accident is one too many, and we must work together to reduce the safety risk for miners everywhere."
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 