SEN. HATCH NAMED RANKING REPUBLICAN ON SENATE HEALTH CARE SUBCOMMITTEE
  The Senate Finance Committee today released subcommittee assignments for the 110th Congress, and Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) has been selected as the top Republican on the Health Care Subcommittee. He will also serve on the Taxation and newly formed Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittees.  
   "The Finance Committee touches the life of every American and helps drive the engine of the U.S. economy," said Hatch, who is the second-most senior Republican on the Finance Committee. "These subcommittees cover the issues - health care, taxes, and energy - that are a high priority for Utahns." 
   Hatch will be ranking Republican member of the Health Care Subcommittee, which oversees funding for programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. This subcommittee also examines policy across the health care system and works closely with the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) committee, where Hatch is a current member and also a former chairman. Hatch is eager to lead the charge in reauthorizing of the State Child Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which he helped create 10 years ago, and public funding of stem cell research. 
   New this Congress is the Subcommittee on Energy, Natural Resources, and Infrastructure, where Hatch intends to build on his past initiatives to help address the nation's energy challenges. He will continue to promote development of domestic oil through oil shale and tar sands, and he is currently working on legislation to expand tax incentives for the development of plug-in hybrid and other alternative-fuel vehicles. 
   Hatch is also a member of the Taxation, IRS Oversight, and Long-term Growth Subcommittee, which is a combination of two previous subcommittees: Long-term Growth and Debt Reduction and Taxation and IRS Oversight. Hatch expects the combined approach will bring better focus to the future impacts of tax reform on the economy and national deficit.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 