SENATE COMMITTEE CONSIDERS SEN. HATCH'S JUAB WATER BILL
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power today considered legislation sponsored by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) to allow Juab County to use Central Utah Project funds to complete water resource development projects.  
   "Utah is the second-driest state in the country, so we can never let up in securing our future water needs," Hatch said. "The citizens of Juab County have been waiting for years to benefit from the Central Utah Project. This bill would give the citizens of Juab County the opportunity to benefit from the system they have financially supported for so many years." 
   Under the original plan for the Bonneville Unit of the Central Utah Project, several counties in central Utah, including Juab, were to receive supplemental water through an irrigation and drainage delivery system. Over the years, however, the planning requirements for the Bonneville Unit have changed and, presently, most of the water allocated to the Bonneville Unit of the Central Utah Project is planned for use in Wasatch, Salt Lake, and Utah Counties. 
   Many central Utah counties have elected not to participate in the plan and no longer pay the requisite taxes. Juab County, however, has remained active in the Central Utah Water Conservancy District's efforts and has paid millions in property taxes to the District. Unfortunately, the County has yet to reap any of the benefits of its membership. 
   Hatch's bill, S. 1812, the Juab County Surface and Ground Water Study and Development Act of 2005, would amend the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act to allow Juab County to receive Central Utah Project (CUP) funds. 
   "Juab County needs this bill so it can use Central Utah Project funds to complete water resource development projects," Hatch told the Senate committee. "By accessing these funds, Juab will be able to ensure that farmers, ranchers, and others have a reliable water supply." 
   Following today's hearing, S. 1812 is set to be placed on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee's agenda to be reported to the full Senate.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 