SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON SUPREME COURT RULING IN HAMDI
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today commented on the Supreme Court's decision in Hamdi v. Rumsfeld.  
   "I respect the Supreme Court's decision balancing the congressionally authorized detention of American citizens who are deemed enemy combatants and the due process rights of these confined citizens to challenge the basis of their detention," said Hatch. 
   "In this global war on terrorism, all American citizens must realize that if they betray our country and align with the enemy, they must be ready to accept the consequences of their belligerent actions. Justice may include prolonged detention until their enemy-combatant status is verified by a neutral decisionmaker," continued Hatch. 
   "The security of our country relies heavily upon the authority to detain enemy combatants whether they are foreign nationals or American citizens such as Yaser Hamdi," said Hatch. "The Supreme Court's decision today upholds Hamdi's detention pursuant to an Act of Congress but also protects his civil liberties by affording him due process to challenge the basis for this detention." 
   "In the end, I believe this decision will serve as yet another hammer to deliver the decisive blows necessary to eradicate terrorism and the evils it spreads throughout the world while at the same time safeguarding the due process protections of the Constitution," said Hatch. 
   "The record contains evidence that Yaser Hamdi is a dangerous individual. He is an American citizen who allied with the Taliban fighters of Afghanistan, was captured with an AK-47, and possessed the apparent intent of bringing destruction upon U.S. forces," said Hatch. 
   "I have not forgotten the 3,000 lives lost in the horrific attacks of September 11th," concluded Hatch. "I embrace every American battlefield victory and every court decision that contributes to our ability to wage war on terrorists and detain cowardly criminals who threaten our national security."
 
 