SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON CONTROVERSIAL IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL S. 1639
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) delivered the following speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate regarding controversial immigration reform bill S. 1639. 
   Mr. President, I rise today to speak against cloture on the motion to proceed to S. 1639, the comprehensive immigration reform bill. This issue continues to be a divisive one, both in the halls of Congress and throughout our Nation. Indeed, many people throughout the country have strongly held views when it comes to our Nation's immigration policy. In fact, over the past month, I have heard from countless Utahns who have contacted me with their views on immigration reform. I expect that every Senator's office has been overwhelmed with calls, emails, and faxes from constituents expressing their concerns with various provisions of the bill. 
   While I commend the bipartisan panel of Senators that has worked tirelessly to negotiate this legislation, I must express my disappointment in the manner through which the bill's proponents have sought to move this bill through the Senate.  
   I, for one, am supportive of comprehensive immigration reform and for many of the approaches outlined in this bill. We simply cannot be asked to live with the status quo. However, once again, there are several huge problems with this bill, and I believe that a more thorough vetting of this legislation through debate and amendment could have fixed those problems and ensured that it contained policy changes the American people would support. 
   As many have observed throughout this debate, there are currently millions of illegal immigrants residing within our nation's borders. No one knows exactly how many, only that they are here, they are working, and, in large part, they contribute to our economy. 
   We also have many businesses and industries that must have access to foreign labor, especially during this time when, while are seeing record lows in unemployment, we still have a shortage of workers. 
   Under the status quo, employers are too often forced to make a decision between hiring illegal workers and wondering whether our inefficient and often arbitrary enforcement efforts will catch up with them or abiding by the law and closing the doors of their businesses. 
   We need to find a fair, compassionate and lawful way to deal with the illegal immigrants already this country. We need to create a guest worker program for those businesses in need of foreign workers. And, we need to improve the system by which we legally distribute visas and green cards to make it more fair and efficient. 
   The authors of this legislation have tried to address these issues in the current bill, and I applaud them for their efforts. However, they addressed them in various ways that, in the minds of many, make this bill completely unworkable and ineffective. The policies proposed by legislation are almost impossible to implement and even if they could be implemented, there are so many loop holes and exclusions that almost every solution in the bill can and will be bypassed by those who want to continue to exploit the system. I am convinced that many of my colleagues understand these concerns and even agree with my assessment, but they are so anxious to end this debate and reach a successful conclusion they compromised several core values that Americans hold dear and made damaging concessions. 
   The provisions of this bill were negotiated and vetted in secret. It was then brought to the floor where the apparently shaky coalition that drafted the legislation have, throughout this process, voted as a block to prevent the passage of any so-called "deal-breaking" amendments. At several points during the debate, members of this coalition have admitted that the amendments in question would, in their opinion, improve the overall bill. Yet, in an effort to preserve the coalition, they have worked together to prevent the passage of even some of the most reasonable, commonsense amendments. 
   Then, after an initial attempt to end the debate failed, the Majority Leader agreed to let the debate go forward and to have votes on a number of amendments. Initially, this sounded good. However, it soon became clear that, in another effort preserve this shaky, flawed compromise, the only amendments that would be voted on were those of the Majority Leader's own choosing. 
   Now, I don't believe that anyone should be criticized for their willingness to compromise. Clearly, compromise is a vital part of what we do in the Senate. However, we simply cannot value compromise for compromise's own sake. Indeed, we should not push through such fatally flawed legislation simply because it is the product of compromise. Compromise - the means by which the Senate passes legislation that will benefit our nation - is not an end unto itself. 
   Yet, too many of my colleagues seem all too willing to simply push this legislation through in simply to preserve this great compromise. In fact, it almost appears as if some would consider our efforts successful if we were simply able to bring this bill to passage, regardless of what the bill looked like and regardless of what its effect would be on our immigration system. However, I believe that if we were to follow this course, we would be wasting an opportunity to provide real reforms to our nation's immigration policy and to provide real solutions for our nation's many immigration problems. 
   It is not a novel idea to suggest that there was a better way to approach this problem. That way, Mr. President, was the process by which we approach all issues of this magnitude. This bill was brought to the floor without having gone through the committee process. This is never a good sign for any piece of legislation. Whenever you bypass the regular order of the Senate, there will undoubtedly be a significant portion of our constituents who feel as if their views don't count. The Senate has used and maintained the committee structure for over 200 years, and it has served the American people well. In this case, refusing to use the time-tested committee structure has been a recipe for disaster. 
   The decision to bring this bill directly the floor robbed many Senators of an opportunity to examine the bill thoroughly and publicly express their concerns. In addition, it made certain that the bill would come before the entire Senate without the benefit of Committee hearings, expert testimony, and a public markup. 
   Strangely enough, this is the precise criticism meted out by the Democrats when they were in the minority last Congress. Now that control of the Senate has changed hands, it seems the Democrat requirement for regular order is not necessary anymore. 
   Mr. President, we have been told that this is our last chance to pass immigration reform for several years. I disagree. Once again, there were other approaches that could have been taken to pass this legislation, and these options remain available. In addition, there are many areas of agreement when it comes to immigration. Therefore, I believe that we can find a way to address our immigration problems that will satisfy the American people. 
   But, to do that, we need a process that is fair and open. The process we have followed in this case has been too limiting and, as a result, we have a bill that the vast majority of Americans will not support. That being the case, I must oppose this effort to end debate and to push this bill through. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 