BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR FINISHES YEARLONG FELLOWSHIP WITH HATCH IN DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
  After a year walking the halls of the federal government, Monticello native Vance Randall is returning to Utah. Randall, a professor of education policy at Brigham Young University, has successfully concluded a legislative fellowship with Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), who sits on the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee. 
   "This was a chance to leave the university setting and experience policy-making first-hand in the trenches," Randall said. "At BYU we say 'the world is our campus,' and that includes Washington, D.C. My experience here will help me be a better researcher and a better teacher, because I won't just have taught education policy, I'll have lived it."  
   Hatch has relied greatly on Randall's expertise as an educator. 
   "When it comes to the education issues I work on, Vance has been like my right arm," Hatch said. "He listens to all the stakeholders in education, and works to find solutions to the problems they face." 
   Meeting with fellow members of the education community - educators, policy makers, parents, and students - has been Randall's favorite part of his experience. Among the host of educators nationwide that Randall has met with in D.C. are San Juan School District Superintendent Douglas Wright and Board of Education President Merri Shumway. 
   "We listen to people throughout the state and respond to their needs to give our kids a great education," Randall said. "The real challenge of education policy is balancing the needs of competing stakeholders and finding a compromise that works." 
   One of the concerns that rural educators have had with No Child Left Behind is its requirement that teachers be "highly qualified" in the subjects they teach, which typically means have a bachelor's degree in that specific subject area. 
   This requirement can be very difficult for small, rural schools with limited staff, where the teacher with a science degree must also teach a section of history, gym, and health. 
   "Coming from Monticello, I know that No Child Left Behind has been a challenge for rural districts," Randall said. "But its goals are important, and we need to fine tune the policy so it meets the needs of rural students. Rural students deserve the same quality of education as urban and suburban students." 
   When Randall started, the government was responding to Hurricane Katrina. Randall was involved with helping displaced Gulf Coast students who evacuated to school districts elsewhere in the country, which he calls the most satisfying experience of his stay with Hatch. 
   "When Katrina hit, things needed to be done quickly to get relief to kids," Randall said. "We needed to provide resources to schools where they had a huge, sudden increase of students. Everyone for the most part put politics aside and focused on finding what was best for children." 
   Randall's wife, Krissie, has been in D.C. with him the whole time. He jokes that people in the office will miss her cookies, brownies, and carmel popcorn more than they will him. 
   Randall's parents, H.B. and Rae Kiser, and the late Earl L. Randall, live in Monticello. His brother, Kay Randall, and sister, Joi Redshaw, live in the Monticello area as well.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 