SEN. HATCH PRESCRIBES HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS TO HELP AMERICAN PATIENTS
  American families need better options to help pay for medical expenses, and Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) is working to remove roadblocks from one key option: health savings accounts (HSAs). Hatch introduced legislation yesterday that would create a more comprehensive, robust system of HSAs, providing Americans with greater choice and helping limit out-of-control medical costs. 
   "Escalating medical costs don't just hurt the sick, they cripple our whole economy," Hatch said. "Unless we act, our health bills are on pace to leave our nation in financial ruin." 
   Enrollees invest in an HSA the same way they would an IRA, then withdraw from it tax-free for expenses like deductibles, dental, or vision care, and many items not covered by a particular health insurance plan. There is no deadline to spend from the account, and invested dollars not spent for medical expenses accumulate indefinitely. Congress initially established HSAs in 2003, and 3 million Americans have enrolled in them. Hatch's new legislation would enhance the availability and affordability of accounts to small businesses and individuals.  
   "HSAs are more like car insurance than traditional health insurance," Hatch said. "You pay for the dents and dings yourself, and your insurance only kicks in for major events." 
   Hatch's Health Savings Accounts Improvement and Expansion Act of 2006 would create the following benefits: 
   * Extend eligibility to previously ineligible individuals (some spouses, older Americans, and veterans) 
   * Allow rollovers to an HSA from existing employer-sponsored health plans and certain retirement plans (IRAs) 
   * Allow premiums to be paid from HSAs 
   * Increase the contribution limit 
   On the Senate floor, Hatch shared a study from polling firm McKinsey & Company on HSAs. The group found, of those enrolled, 50 percent were more likely to ask about their medical costs and three times more likely to choose a less extensive and expensive treatment option. HSA owners are also more likely to visit an urgent care center for treatment rather than a hospital emergency room. Of those polled, 25 percent were more likely to engage in healthy behavior and 30 percent were more likely to get an annual physical. They were more likely to identify treatment options and they were 20 percent more likely to comply with treatment for chronic conditions. 
   "Some critics say HSAs are only for the rich, but they're off base," Hatch said. "For many Americans and businesses, the cost of health insurance premiums are rising so astronomically that the choice is not between traditional first-dollar coverage or an HSA plan, but between an HSA plan and no insurance at all." 
   Hatch's full Senate floor speech introducing the bill follows: 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the 
  United States Senate
   Introduction of The Health Savings Accounts Improvement and Expansion Act of 2006
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Health Savings Accounts Improvement and Expansion Act of 2006. This bill will make it easier for businesses to provide the option of an HSA to their employees and for Americans to elect these plans. 
   In short, this bill will make it more likely that Americans will have an HSA plan available when they are making their health care choices. This would be a good development for the individual consumer and the for nation's health care system as a whole. 
   There is one thing on which we can all agree: our current health care system is broken. Health care expenses are far outpacing inflation. These escalating costs are pricing more and more Americans and small businesses out of the health insurance market. Unless we act, our health care costs are on pace to bankrupt the Federal Treasury. 
   We need to do something. The American people want us to do something. 
   Some favor an option that would give the Federal government more control of the health care system. In my opinion, that doesn't really fix the problem, it only makes the problem worse - leading to higher costs, higher taxes, and decreased quality and availability. 
   I believe the answer lies in bringing down costs by helping Americans to take control of their health care. 
   Recognizing that a federally controlled universal system is a non-starter, the House of Representatives has aggressively pursued the expansion and development of Health Savings Accounts. In particular, Congressmen Eric Cantor and Bill Shuster have taken laudable steps toward making these plans more readily available for American workers. 
   Congressman Bill Thomas (R-CA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, is demonstrating his and the House's commitment to these plans by holding a hearing tomorrow to discuss the development of Health Savings Accounts. 
   I am also proud to see that several of our Senate colleagues have introduced legislation that would expand consumer driven health care. Senators Santorum, Allen, DeMint, Ensign, and Coburn have introduced legislation to fuel the growth of Health Savings Accounts. 
   My bill complements these plans by encouraging employers to offer HSA accounts and by making it easier for workers to use them. 
   Since Congress established HSAs in 2004, American workers have turned to them as an affordable health care alternative. Already, more than three million people have enrolled in HSAs. Without any changes to the law, it is estimated that by 2008 there will be six million HSA owners with almost $5 billion in assets. 
   HSAs are popular. And they are popular because they work. HSAs are a different type of health insurance. They are more like car insurance than traditional health insurance: You pay for the dents and dings yourself, and your insurance only kicks in for major events. This makes sense. Think of how expensive your car insurance would be if every scratch on every bumper had to be paid for by insurance companies with no owner contribution. 
   Yet critics allege that promoting this type of insurance unfairly burdens older Americans and the chronically illCthose with the most health care needs. I would note that the premise of this argument is off the mark. For many Americans and businesses, the cost of health insurance premiums are rising so astronomically that the choice is not between traditional first-dollar coverage or an HSA plan, but between an HSA plan and no insurance at all. 
   As the Galen InstituteCa research institute that has done excellent work reviewing the development of consumer-driven health careChas shown, HSAs are not only for the young and the healthy, but also for all health consumers along the age and income spectrum. In a survey by eHealthInsuranceCan on-line health insurance broker representing more than 140 major health insurance companiesC40 percent of HSA-eligible plan purchasers made less than $50,000. Forty-five percent of purchasers are over age 40 and 19 percent are 50 or older. 
   Some argue that the healthy will migrate from traditional plans, leaving only the chronically ill in full coverage plans and driving up costs by shrinking the insurance pool. This argument ignores a critical fact. Younger workers aged 25-34 are currently the largest segment of the uninsured, in large part because insurance coverage is so expensive. They represent 23 percent of the total uninsured population. By bringing them into HSA plans, they will only bring premium costs down further for the chronically ill who establish an HSA. 
   According to America's Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), 37 percent of those purchasing plans were previously uninsured. Twenty-seven percent of policies sold in the small group market were sold to employers who did not previously offer coverage. According to Assurant Health, the leading health insurer for individuals and small groups, 40 percent of those purchasing HSAs were previously uninsured. 
   Finally, it seems that American workers, and the chronically ill, are responding to the incentives provided by these consumer-driven plans. McKinsey & Company conducted an extensive survey of these plans. They held focus groups, performed one-on-one interviews, and produced an in-depth study of more than 2,500 Americans regarding their health insurance arrangements. They concluded that these plans have a lot of potential. In fact, some of their conclusions were remarkable. Fifty percent were more likely to ask about costs and three times more likely to choose a less extensive and expensive treatment option. HSA owners are also more likely to visit an urgent care center for treatment rather than a hospital emergency room. 
   In addition, HSA consumers were more likely to be attentive to their health. Twenty-five percent were more likely to engage in healthy behavior and 30 percent were more likely to get an annual physical. These educated consumers understand that prevention will save them money in the long run. They were more likely to identify treatment options and they were 20 percent more likely to comply with treatment for chronic conditions. 
   It is no surprise that people are enjoying their HSA plans. According to a survey by eHealthInsurance, premiums for HSA-eligible insurance actually dropped between the introduction of these plans in 2004 and the first half of 2005. Nearly two-thirds of HSA purchasers paid $100 a month or less for their plans. And these plans are comprehensive. Most cover 100 percent of the costs of hospitalization, lab tests, emergency room visits, prescription drugs and doctors' visits after the deductible is met. 
   The continued expansion of HSAs will have a two-fold effect. For those with insurance, the high deductible encourages more responsible, and less wasteful, health care decisions. For those without insurance, the wider availability and lower premiums makes it more affordable for individuals to purchase these plans in the non-group market and for companies to provide insurance for their employees. The bottom line is that the expansion of these plans will create downward pressure on escalating health care costs. 
   My proposal aims to make HSAs more attractive to employees, more attractive to employers, and more attractive to older workers. And the bill provides innovative ways for younger workers to contribute seed money to fund an account for their family. 
   For employees, the primary benefits are increased contribution limits, and the ability to pay their health insurance premiums from the HSA (with pre-tax dollars). Presently, the portion of premiums paid out-of-pocket is paid with after-tax dollars. This feature will make HSAs affordable for more low and moderate income individuals. 
   For employers, the bill provides incentives to move into low-cost premium arrangements. The health care costs of self-employed individuals and small employers who purchase plans in the non-group market should go down for those who avail themselves of these improved HSAs. 
   For older Americans, this bill will permit contributions to an HSA as long as they continue to work. Today, more and more Americans are working past the age of 65. This is a trend we should encourage, because the labor force of the future will need more of these experienced workers. Senior citizens contribute a great deal to the workplace and our economy. I know that they are in Utah. Yet I hear from many of our older workers that because they are eligible for Medicare, they are ineligible for HSAs. Expanding contributions to a population that generally has more medical expenses makes sense. 
   The cornerstone of my bill is a provision that allows HSAs to be funded with tax-free transfers of balances from other health or retirement plans. Participation in certain employer-sponsored health plans makes it impossible for employees to contribute to an HSA. For example, Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs) are plans that allow employers to reimburse substantiated employee medical expenses up to a maximum amount. Under current law, participation in an HRA disqualifies an individual from contributing to an HSA and remaining balances are subject to forfeiture. 
   I believe that employers that have adopted HRAs would be more likely to offer HSAs if they are allowed a one-time opportunity to transfer individual HRA balances into HSAs. Allowing a one-time conversion opportunity would be very valuable for employees because the balances currently in HRAs would become employee-owned. Not only will this encourage responsible spending on health care, but it will also help to make health insurance more portable, a goal that discourages job lock and creates more freedom and opportunity for American workers. 
   The bill provides for a tax-free transfer of IRA funds, originally allocated for retirement, to an HSA, with the money reallocated for health care expenses. This will be particularly helpful for those in need of initial seed money to open an HSA and for those who anticipate high medical expenses for which they are currently unable to tap IRA funds without penalty. 
   My proposal will make it easier for veterans to participate in an HSA. According to Treasury Department guidance, a veteran may not contribute to an HSA if he or she has actually received medical benefits from the VA at any time during the previous three months. This bill would allow a veteran who receives VA medical benefits for a service-connected disability to be eligible for an HSA. 
   I am pleased to tell my colleagues that the changes proposed by the Health Savings Accounts Improvement and Expansion Act of 2006 have been endorsed by a broad cross-section of major health care organizations. I am proud that the National Association of Health Underwriters, the American Benefits Council, the Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers, Assurant Health, the Chamber of Commerce, the National Business Group on Health, the Business Roundtable, and the Financial Services Roundtable have all endorsed my attempt to expand the availability of Health Savings Accounts. These groups know how important HSAs are in giving employees and employers the flexibility to meet their health care needs 
   Mr. President, I expect the popularity of HSAs will one day elevate the acronym to the level of IRAs, where no further clarification is required. Today, I ask my colleagues to join me in a bipartisan effort to accelerate that process by enacting this important legislation. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 