SEN. HATCH: IRAQ'S FUTURE NOW IN IRAQI HANDS
  The Coalition Provisional Authority today turned power over to the new Iraqi government. Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) released the following statement:  
   "Today, the United States did in Iraq what it said it would do from the first day of our intervention there last year: We returned sovereignty to the Iraqi people, after demolishing the regime of the dictator, Saddam Hussein. 
   "The Coalition Provisional Authority, under the direction of Ambassador Paul Bremer, and with the support of over 30 countries in the multinational force, succeeded in destroying the Saddam Hussein dictatorship, eliminating a regional and international threat as well as freeing 25 million Iraqis from a hideous and criminal despotism. Substantial progress has been achieved toward the development of free and federal political institutions and a strong and growing economy. The Iraqi people are free to express themselves in dignity and diversity and free to go about tapping their natural industry and enterprise. 
   "No one should deny that the security situation in Iraq is unsettled. Terrorists, gangsters and Saddam recidivists roam certain parts of the country, intent on destroying the gains achieved by the Coalition and the Iraqi people. But these thugs will not succeed. The President has made clear, to the American public and the Iraqi people, that the United States will remain with our coalition allies to help the Iraqis defeat the remnants of resistance. 
   "As of today's transfer of sovereignty, the Iraqi people, under their Interim Government, are responsible for their fate. This was always the goal of the United States. We are a unique nation in history, for no modern nation has sacrificed as many times as we have in the last century to go overseas - not for plunder, not for domination - but to liberate foreign nations to achieve their freedom. As in our past successful missions overeas, we shall not abandon those we sacrificed to free. 
   "I congratulate Ambassador Bremer for the mission he led. I offer my congratulations to Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, his government and the Iraqi people on the occasion of their sovereignty. I join with my fellow Utahns in offering my congratulations and on-going prayers to the United States military, which continues to serve bravely and honorably. And I congratulate President Bush for the vision and guts it took to lead our nation in removing Saddam Hussein and taking the Iraqi nation to a path toward peace, freedom and prosperity. In so doing, the President removed a grave and gathering threat to this nation."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 