SEN. HATCH ANNOUNCES THE 2006 ANNUAL UTAH CONFERENCE FOR SENIORS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch announced the line-up today for the 19th Annual Utah Conference for Seniors. This year's conference will feature best-selling author and speaker Richard Paul Evans, and the "real Rain Man" Kim Peek.  
   The Conference will be held on Tuesday, April 18, 2006 at Little America Hotel in Salt Lake City starting at 9 a.m., and will also offer seniors assistance with the new Medicare Part D plan and information on aging-related health issues. 
   "This conference is an unbeatable opportunity for seniors to learn about resources available to them," Hatch said. "And it's a great chance to hear from some remarkable speakers." 
   The success of Richard Paul Evans' No. 1 best-seller, "The Christmas Box," has been a springboard for both his career and community service. In 1997, he founded The Christmas Box House International, an organization devoted to building shelters and providing services for abused and neglected children. He has delivered his inspirational message of hope and commitment to thousands and has shared the stage with such dignitaries as President George W. Bush, former First Lady Barbara Bush, former British Prime Minister John Majors, Ron Howard, and Bob Hope. He has been featured on the Today Show and Entertainment Tonight, as well as in time, Newsweek, People, The New York Times, and USA Today. 
   Kim Peek, a mega-savant, became famous as the inspiration for the 1988 Academy Award-winning film "Rain Man." A speed reader with an encyclopedic mind, Peek has memorized approximately 9,600 books. His mathematical skills are superhuman, skills he has used to preparing payroll sheets for his day job at a workshop for adults with disabilities. Currently six foreign countries are finalizing TV documentaries about his unique memory capabilities. With his father, Fran, Peek travels the country each year speaking to schools, churches, and community groups about diversity. 
   "I am delighted to have Richard Paul Evans and Kim Peek headline our conference this year," Hatch said. "They will bring unique insight, humor, and wisdom to Utah's seniors, and I am looking forward to their messages." 
   At the conference, attendees can meet one on one with representatives from Salt Lake County Aging Services regarding the new Medicare Part D program, which can help reduce prescription drug costs to seniors and the government. About 150,000 Utahns are already benefitting from the program. 
   Seniors can also meet with representatives from the Department of Veterans Affairs Assistance Programs, the Utah Coalition for Caregiver Support, and have their eyes tested for glaucoma. In addition, workshops will be held throughout the day on topics ranging from the latest research on brains and Alzheimer's Disease to fraud prevention. 
   For registration information, please call (801) 755-1079.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 