SEN. HATCH PRAISES HOUSE PASSAGE OF BOYS AND GIRLS CLUB REAUTHORIZATION
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today praised the House of Representatives' passage of S. 2363, a bill sponsored by Hatch to reauthorize the Boys and Girls Club of America. Hatch issued the following statement:  
   "The Boys and Girls Clubs have offered hope and opportunity to millions of kids. It is imperative that we in Congress remain committed so that the Boys and Girls Clubs continue to grow and thrive. 
   "The Boys and Girls Club is the fastest growing youth service organization in the nation. There are currently 3,500 Clubs across America and around the world on our military bases serving over 4 million children, ages 6-18. The Boys and Girls Clubs enable our nation's young people to make the very most of the precious days of their youth, despite the difficult environments in which many of them live. 
   "Over 70 percent of the children who benefit from the Boys and Girls Club of America live in America's inner cities. And almost half of the Club members come from single parent homes. Thanks to the Boys and Girls Clubs, more children are able to find a safe place to learn and grow. The Club offers young people positive adult influences and a positive alternative to roaming the streets. I have seen first hand, back home at the clubs in Utah, the positive impact the clubs have on our children. 
   "Congress first granted the Boys and Girls Club of America a charter in 1991 and this authorization will extend it for another five years, through 2010. The bill will allow the Boys and Girls Club of America to expand their clubs even more so that by 2010, there will be 5,000 Clubs nationwide serving over 5 million young people. I will continue to work hard in Congress to support the Boys and Girls Clubs so that they can continue their significant growth in the years to come. 
   "I am pleased that the House of Representatives passed S. 2363, a bill Senator Leahy and I introduced to reauthorize the Boys and Girls Club of America. The Senate passed this bill in June by unanimous consent. It is now ready to go to the President for signature."
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 