SEN. HATCH: CONGRESS MUST DO MORE TO SPUR OIL REFINERY PRODUCTION
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today called on Congress to open the way further for construction of American oil refineries, which will increase domestic refining capacity and reduce gasoline prices.  
   "We can do more to boost American energy production and inevitably help lower gas prices," said Hatch. "We simply need to provide a fuller measure of tax incentives to promote new refining capacity as laid out in S. 1039, the bill I introduced last May." 
   The Energy Act signed into law this summer included a part of Hatch's refinery legislation, but due to budget constraints, other important incentives in Hatch's bill were dropped. Today, Hatch introduced the Refinery Investment Tax Assistance Act to add the full complement of refinery construction incentives he has been promoting. 
   "Now that Congress is considering a second energy bill, I think we're ready to add the other incentives," Hatch said. "We need to finish the job we began with the first Energy Bill - this isn't the time for more half measures. In addition, this bill will have the benefit of helping our nation's energy industry rebuild after the recent devastating hurricanes." 
   Under S. 1039, refiners able to commit to installing new refining equipment before 2008 and to have that added capacity built by 2012 would have been able to write-off 100 percent of the costs of new refining equipment in the first year rather than expensing those costs over 10 years, as in the past. As passed by Congress, the write-off was cut to 50 percent. The Refinery Investment Tax Assistance Act would allow for 100 percent first-year expensing. 
   In most cases, manufacturers are able to depreciate the cost of their new equipment over five years. Refineries, on the other hand, are strapped with a full 10-year depreciation period, which has been a long-term obstacle to new investment in increased refining capacity. Hatch's new bill would correct this disparity. "The current 10-year depreciation schedule for refiners is unwarranted," said Hatch, "and it is past time that we leveled the playing field on depreciation for this critically important sector of our energy industry.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 