SEN. HATCH: CONTINUED FREE TRADE WITH OMAN VITAL FOR WAR ON TERROR
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) advised his fellow Senators to approve continued free trade with Oman, because supporting moderate Middle Eastern nations sends an important message of cooperation to that part of the world. Hatch's prepared remarks follow. 
   Mr. President, whenever I begin my examination and analysis of a proposed free trade agreement, my first question is always: "how will this agreement affect the people of Utah?"  
   Any objective analysis would indicate that the passage of the U.S.-Oman Free Trade Agreement will have only a de minimis effect on the State of Utah, since Oman only has a Gross Domestic Product of $24.8 billion. 
   The second question I ask is whether an agreement will have a positive effect on the American economy? According to the United States International Trade Commission, the FTA will have a small but positive impact. Specifically, trade between our two nations totaled just over one billion dollars in 2005, with the U.S .exporting $593 million worth of goods and services to Oman and importing $555 million from that country. This is a trade surplus of $38 million, which is a positive development, since our nation bore a $48 million trade deficit with Oman as recently as 2004. Yet despite this positive balance, trade with Oman only accounts for 0.04% of all U.S. trade. 
   So what is the advantage here for the American people, and the people of Utah? 
   The U.S.-Oman Free Trade Agreement, as does the Bahrain FTA that preceded it, sends a very important message that the United States strongly supports the economic development of moderate Middle Eastern nations - a vital message in the Global War on Terrorism 
   Now, Mr. President, as you well know, since the end of the Second World War, the United States has, on a number of occasions, accepted non-reciprocal trade concessions in order to further important Cold War and post-Cold War foreign policy objectives. Examples include offering Japan and Europe non-reciprocal access to American markets during the 1950s and 1960s in order to strengthen the economies of our allies and prevent the spread of Communism. At the time, this policy was affordable due to the tremendous size of the trade surpluses the United States enjoyed. 
   However, those times have passed. 
   Our nation has not enjoyed a trade surplus since 1975 and last year's deficit widened to a record $726 billion, increasing to 5.8 percent of the Gross Domestic Product from 5.3 percent in 2004 and 4.5 percent in 2003. 
   My colleagues may look at these hard truths and question the need for any further trade agreements, including the U.S.-Oman Free Trade Agreement. But I must remind my colleagues that we have a trade surplus with Oman and this agreement will permit more American companies to have full access to the Omani market. 
   Further, Oman is quickly running out of oil and, as a result, has launched a series of measures to reform its economy. Those measures, will require American products, and this Free Trade Agreement immediately removes Oman's uniform tariff of five percent ad valorem on U.S. goods and phases out other tariffs on U.S. goods. That means that the Omanis will have more money to buy what they are buying from us now: machinery; transportation equipment; and measuring instruments - products that provide good jobs for Americans. 
   Therefore, Mr. President, I will continue to support the U.S.-Oman Free Trade Agreement and I urge my colleagues to join me.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 