CONGRESS PASSES MEDICAL DEVICE BILL
  The U.S. Senate passed legislation this week cosponsored by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) that will help spur creation of potentially life-saving medical devices by restructuring the way the federal government imposes user fees for such devices.  
   "This bill will allow America's innovative medical device companies - many of which reside in Utah - to continue the important work they are doing, while at the same time helping the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to regulate the industry," said Hatch, who led the fight to exempt small businesses from the fees when the original Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act was considered by Congress in 2002. "High user fees can act as a tax on innovation, stifling smaller device manufacturers in Utah and across the country and hindering the development of life-sustaining products that do so much to help our citizens lead happier and healthier lives. This bill will set a reasonable fee increase and allow more small businesses to avoid these onerous fees." 
   The bill, H.R. 3423, which had previously been passed by the House, is identical to a Senate bill sponsored by Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) and co-sponsored by Hatch, who sits on the committee. Enzi thanked Hatch in a speech last night on the Senate floor. 
   "Sen. Hatch is a strong defender of the small, entrepreneurial companies in this industry," said Enzi. "We worked together before Committee consideration of this bill to address his concerns about the impact of user fees on the innovative companies in his home state of Utah. I thank Sen. Hatch for his attention and input into this issue." 
   H.R. 3423 represents a bipartisan, bicameral compromise worked out over many months. Hatch secured a raise in the small business exemption threshold from $30 million in revenues to $100 million so many small medical device companies in Utah will not have to pay user fees. The bill will also limit the medical device user fee increases to 8.5 percent annually for the next two years. Recent fee hikes have averaged about 20 percent annually.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 