BIPARTISAN CORD BLOOD BILL ON ITS WAY TO SENATE FLOOR
  The Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee today reported bipartisan legislation sponsored by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) to develop a national infrastructure for cord blood stem cell collection and research that could, in time, save the lives of thousands of gravely ill Americans.  
   S. 1317, the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005, has been developed in close consultation with the House of Representatives and is expected to pass Congress and reach President Bush's desk this summer. Senators Chris Dodd (D-Conn.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.) and John Ensign (R-Nev.) signed on as original cosponsors of the bill. 
   "I see no greater way to promote life than finding a way to defeat untimely death and disease, and therapies from cord blood may be able to do just that," Hatch said. "This bill is a critical step in demonstrating the commitment of the federal government behind this new, widely supported field of stem cell research." 
   The compromise bill would create a network of qualified public cord blood banking centers nationwide and establish an inventory of 150,000 cord blood stem cell units that reflect the diversity of the United States. In conjunction with 5 million bone marrow donors registered with the National Marrow Donor Program, this inventory would enable 95 percent of Americans to receive an appropriately matched cord blood stem cell transplant. The cord blood inventory would provide a critical resource for those in need of transplants and allocate a certain proportion of units to sustain further research on cord blood stem cells. 
   S. 1317 also reauthorizes the National Marrow Donor Program, creates a demonstration program for families with sick children and establishes a patient advocacy program for both bone marrow and cord blood. It also incorporates recent recommendations from the Institute of Medicine on a national cord blood program and places cord blood and bone marrow under a single program. 
   Research has shown that cord blood may be used as an effective alternative to bone marrow in the treatment of as many as 70 diseases, such as sickle cell anemia and leukemia.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 