SEN. HATCH BLASTS SEN. KENNEDY'S SCHEME TO CREATE UNIONIZATION BY INTIMIDATION
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today blasted efforts by Senate Democrats to rob American workers of several key rights, including the right to a secret vote when deciding whether or not unionize. Today Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) introduced the so-called Employee Free Choice Act (S. 1041) in the Senate, a few weeks after the House of Representatives passed a similar bill. A purely partisan bill, S. 1041 has no Republican cosponsors. Hatch vows to fight the bill aggressively.  
   "Labor unions are supposed to protect workers' rights, yet union bosses want Congress to pass a law that actually robs workers of their democratic right to a private ballot," Hatch said. "Union bosses have made Congress an offer we can refuse." 
   The act would amend the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) to deny a worker's right to a federally-supervised private vote when deciding whether or not to join a union. Instead, it allows a union to be officially recognized once a majority of workers simply sign a card - making their votes public to the employer, the union organizers and coworkers. These cards are signed in the presence of an interested party. The National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) has documented that this process results in deceptions, coercion, and other abuses. 
   "This bill is unionization by intimidation," Hatch said. "We wouldn't allow politicians to bully voters at the ballot box, and we shouldn't allow unions to do the same to employees. It seems obvious that big labor just wants to rebuild its membership rolls - and its bank account - through a forced unionization process." 
   Moreover, S. 1041 would require government-dictated, binding arbitration of union contracts in some cases. If parties fail to agree after 90 days of bargaining and 30 days of mediation, government officials would impose the wages, terms, and conditions of employment for two years. The effect would deny workers the opportunity to approve or ratify the terms of the contract. And the NLRB's "contract bar" would prevent workers from initiating a private ballot decertification election challenging the union's continuing majority status for the two-year term of the contract. 
   Finally, the bill would impose new anti-employer penalties. These include prioritizing NLRB investigations of unfair labor practice charges alleged to have been committed by an employer during an organizing campaign, and possibly pursuing injunctive remedial action in federal court. 
   "I was a card-carrying member of the AFL-CIO metal lather union in my youth, and I understand the role that unions can play," Hatch said. "That role should be to protect workers from employer exploitation. But this bill is a form of union exploitation, and workers are counting on us to stop it."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 