SEN. HATCH: TEACHERS SHOULDN'T PAY SCHOOL COSTS FROM OWN POCKETS
  In a move to help recruit and retain teachers, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced a bill to give teachers an unlimited tax deduction for their out-of-pocket expenses.  
   "Dedicated teachers - who have enough challenges as it is - sacrifice by paying for classroom supplies and professional development to meet the needs of their students," Hatch said. "If they worked for a business, the company would cover their costs, and the business could deduct its expenses. But teachers are left out, and that's not right." 
   Teachers face two large hurdles in deducting their out-of-pocket expenses. The total amount has to exceed 2 percent of adjusted gross income, and their combined deductions have to exceed the standard deduction before a teacher can itemize. As a practical matter, only a very small proportion of teachers are able to take advantage of the deduction. 
   Hatch introduced legislation in 2001 to address this, but the final 2001 tax bill only included an above-the-line deduction for $250 for the costs of classroom expenses. Last year, 3.3 million teachers took advantage of this deduction. However, this provision has now expired, and Hatch believes it does not go nearly far enough to help teachers. 
   Hatch's bill, the Tax Equity for School Teachers Act of 2006, would reinstate the above-the-line deduction for teachers' out-of-pocket expenses for classroom supplies, make it permanent, and remove the $250 cap. Second, it would provide an unlimited deduction for the professional development expenses for school teachers. Finally, to assist in the recruitment of teachers in the most needed fields, it would provide an unlimited deduction for the cost of professionals in the fields of math, science, and technology to certify to become public school teachers. 
   "For too long, teachers have had to foot the bill for improving the quality of teaching," Hatch said. "This bill is modest, but it will go a long way in correcting the unfairness we've saddled teachers with by denying them access to deductions every other professional receives." 
   Congress is set to debate the expired tax deductions - including the teacher classroom expense deduction - when it reconvenes after November elections, and Hatch intends to pursue enacting this bill when Congress returns.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 