SEN. HATCH: PROTECTING BORDER TOP PRIORITY
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today gave his support to legislation that would authorize building a fence to protect against rampant illegal immigration. Approved today by 80 to 19 vote in the Senate, H.R. 6061 passed the House of Representatives on September 14, and the President is expected to sign the bill into law.  
   "In a post 9/11 era, we have to increase our ability to protect our borders," said Hatch, who voted for a similar measure when the Senate debated immigration reform last spring. "We need to find a better way of finding out who is coming across the border and where they are in this country. A strategic fence - coupled with what some people call a virtual fence using state-of-the-art surveillance technology - is a vital part of securing our borders." 
   The bill, H.R. 6061, the Secure Fence Act of 2006, would authorize building 700 miles - nearly 10 times the fencing currently in place - of double-layered fencing at specific, targeted locations along the southern border. The measure would also require the Department of Homeland Security to maintain operational control over the entire border through a virtual fence - using cameras, ground sensors, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, or UAVs, and integrated surveillance technology. Finally, this bill looks at how we can strengthen our border personnel's authority to disable fleeing vehicles. 
   "A fence will never be 100 percent effective, I realize that," Hatch said. "But the GAO has confirmed that the small amount of fencing we have now has had a deterrent effect. Expanding it dramatically would make people think twice before attempting to cross the border." 
   Hatch emphasized that strengthening the borders must go hand-in-hand with greater interior enforcement. He has worked to improve enforcement in Utah, recently bringing an immigration court to the state and securing a Field Office Directorate (FOD) in Salt Lake City that reports directly to Washington, D.C. Hatch noted that he remains committed to a more comprehensive reform of the nation's immigration laws. 
   "I fully support to a more comprehensive approach, but that's been stalled for months," Hatch said. "Real border security is a prerequisite to real reform. We can't afford to ignore our borders while we're hammering out our differences on these other issues."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 