SEN. HATCH: PASS RYAN WHITE MODERNIZATION ACT NOW
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today on the Senate floor objected to obstruction by some Democratic Senators to S. 2823, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act, which would amend the formula for awarding grant funds to consider the number of HIV/AIDS cases in metropolitan areas.  
   Mr. President, I rise again to support the effort to call up and immediately adopt S. 2823, the "Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act". 
   It makes no sense that this product of bipartisan, bicameral effort should be held up at the eleventh hour by Members representing only three states. 
   Given that the theme of this bipartisan, bicameral effort was to craft something that would help even out the playing field for all U.S. states and territories, it makes even less sense for these holds to be placed on behalf of states that currently enjoy substantially generous funding. 
   In some areas of these states, the funding is so generous that we have heard reports of Ryan White dollars being spent on dog-walking services, haircuts, candlelight dinners, and four-star hotels. 
   Furthermore, some states carry over millions of unspent dollars every year, and some continue to receive funding for people who are no longer living. 
   This is happening while people die in areas where the epidemic is newer; because, under current Ryan White structure, their location dictates that they should receive less money for care. This reauthorization bill would fix that broken program structure. 
   Let me make it clear that my home state of Utah does not stand to gain large increases in funding. Our State AIDS Director understands and supports the need for equity within the program. Due to efficient administration of the Ryan White program, Utah is able to manage its funding so that it can - just barely - avoid an ADAP waiting list for pharmaceuticals. 
   Utah can do this even though it receives an average of $1,315 less per patient in Ryan White funding than does New York, $1,330 per patient less than New Jersey, and $843 per patient less than California. 
   I could go on and on about this because there are really only about five states that receive less funding per patient than Utah. 
   But I am not going to do that, and that is precisely my point. 
   My point is that this should not be about who gets the most money. 
   I find it disconcerting that I have to point out, once again, that this program assists people who could die if it is not reauthorized this week. It is as simple as that. 
   Mr. President, I have received numerous letters from the HIV/AIDS community urging that the Senate reauthorize this program before it adjourns this week. 
   I would also like to remind my colleagues that President Bush has charged Congress with reauthorizing this program. 
   Last night, the House passed H.R. 6143, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006, by a vote of 325 to 98. The vote total includes over half of the House Democrats voting for the bill. 
   I implore my colleagues in the Senate to do the same, to work in the best interests of the entire nation and pass this reauthorization.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 