SEN. HATCH: NOW IS TIME TO FIX SOCIAL SECURITY
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today stressed the urgent need to fix the flaws within the Social Security system to keep the program solvent for current and near-term retirees as well as workers who will depend on the system in the decades to come. Hatch raised his concerns about the future of Social Security in a Senate Finance Committee hearing.  
   "Utah has a significant number of senior citizens who depend on Social Security and who deserve to be able to keep counting on it," Hatch said. "Just as important, though, Utah has the youngest population in the nation and is filled with young people who deserve a Social Security system that will be there for them." 
   "Fixing Social Security is never going to be easy," Hatch continued. "But it will be easier to fix this year than it will ever be again. Acting now allows us to implement the best solutions with plenty of lead time. Waiting is just plain irresponsible." 
   Hatch noted that Utah ranks number one in the nation in terms of its ratio of youth and senior citizens to working-age adults. Specifically, Utah's ratio of those under 20, together with people 65 and over, to its working-age adults, is about 90 to 100. The nationwide average of this ratio, known as the dependency ratio, is about 72, and is rising. By 2025, Utah's dependency ratio is expected to be 98 to 100, meaning that almost exactly half our population will either be children under age 20, or seniors age 65 and over. 
   "Working adults is a group that is shrinking in Utah and around the nation," Hatch said. "These workers cannot be carry the coming burden for their parents, for themselves, and for their children without some adjustments to the system. Our challenge is to balance the needs of all three groups - current retirees, today's and tomorrow's worker, and the children." 
   Hatch said he is working with other members in the Senate to develop an innovative solution to the Social Security crisis, expecting President Bush to leave Congress room to develop workable solutions within his broad framework.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 