SEN. HATCH: PATRIOT ACT VITAL FOR CONTINUED WAR ON TERROR
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) joined an overwhelming, bipartisan majority in the U.S. Senate today to pass the USA PATRIOT Act Reauthorization conference report by a vote of 89-10.  
   "In more than four years since 9/11, the PATRIOT Act has helped protect our homeland from subsequent terrorist attack," Hatch said. "Reauthorizing this effective law is an important victory in the continued war on terror." 
   Yesterday's approval of S. 2271, the so-called Sununu amendment to the PATRIOT Act, helped pave the way for today's strong support for the PATRIOT Act, and S. 2271 is expected to pass the House of Representatives and be signed by President Bush.. Hatch supported the measure, which addresses a variety of civil liberty concerns raised by critics of the PATRIOT Act, most notably the following: 
   * Anyone required to hand over sensitive information - such as library, medical, education, or gun-related records - and put under a non-disclosure requirement, or "gag order", now has an explicit right to challenge that order after one year. 
   * If someone receives a national security letter (NSL) - an administrative subpoena used to gain targeted financial and electronic records - they are no longer required to provide the FBI with the name of an attorney consulted regarding the NSL. 
   * Libraries functioning in their traditional roles, including providing Internet access, are not subject to NSLs. 
   "The PATRIOT Act safeguards freedoms of American citizens, while aggressively curtailing the opportunities terrorists have to strike," Hatch said. "And we have added many provisions designed to ensure that our civil liberties remain protected, despite the fact that civil-libertarians were unable to provide any examples of abuses under the original PATRIOT Act." 
   Hatch noted that the PATRIOT Act conference report also includes an initiative for curbing the use of crystal meth, the No. 1 drug problem in Utah and many other parts of the country. 
   "Meth is one of the worst scourges America has faced," Hatch said. "The PATRIOT Act will give the men and women on the front-line more ammunition in the war against the invasion of methamphetamine."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 