SEN. HATCH TAPS UTAH STUDENTS FOR SENATE INTERNSHIPS
  Sen. Hatch's fall 2006 interns are (clockwise from top left) Ashton Hyde, Stephanie Bartlett, Kristen Almerico, Eric Hafen, and Clark Cannon. Five Utah students are gaining a unique perspective on the land of the free and the home of the brave with a semester internship in the Washington, D.C., office of Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). 
   "I welcome my young friends to my D.C. office," Hatch said. "Their patriotism is really remarkable, and they're a credit to their schools. This is an exciting time to be in Washington, because so many high-profile issues are on the table right now. They get to see first-hand how Congress reacts to issues like immigration, terrorism, and the economy."  
   Hatch's interns help him with his work for Utah constituents. Exploring a variety of Capitol Hill experiences, the interns also attend press conferences, hearings, and committee meetings. 
   This semester's interns are: 
   University of Utah economics student Kristen Almerico, 20, who said, "This internship has probably been the best part of my education while attending the University of Utah because you get to dive right into the job. In school you just read about it, but here you get to live it." 
   Utah State University political science student Stephanie Bartlett, 21, who said, "I chose to study politics because I really cherish the Constitution. It's amazing that a group of men wrote it in secret in a room and this nation sprang up because of it. I'm looking forward to seeing the Constitution at the National Archives." 
   University of Utah political science student Clark Cannon, 24, who said, "The most recent, in-your-face news is what I really cling to. I've always been a C-SPAN fan and right now I get to live C-SPAN. Experiencing a press event, with the Capitol building in the background, is a real thrill." 
   Brigham Young University political science student Eric Hafen, 24, who said, "Being an intern here is giving me a great opportunity to learn from Sen. Hatch and his staff how to have a career in government and the public sector. After school, I want a job where I can serve in government and help other people. That might sound kind of corny, but I just really believe that public service is what makes this country great." 
   Weber State University accounting student (and Dixie College alum) Ashton Hyde, 22, who said, "I want to get into the heart of the legislative process. I've always been kind of a history nut, and so I want to see where all the greats of the past have been: to experience it, not just learn it. It's better to experience it than to read it in a text book." 
   Each semester, Hatch selects interns from Utah from the dozens of students who apply for the office's few openings. Summer spots are the most competitive because more students are generally available. 
   Schools recommend a group of applicants to the internship program based on their grade point average, extra-curricular activities and other accomplishments, then Hatch makes the final cut. Students may also apply on their own using Hatch's website, hatch.senate.gov. (Click on "Teachers and Students," then "Internships.") 
   "Congressional internships are very tough to land," Hatch said. "There is competition among the students, and there is also competition among the various organizations and offices to get the best interns."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 