SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON CURRENT MINE SAFETY DISASTERS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today participated in a hearing of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee regarding mine safety issues. Families of the victims of the Crandall Canyon Mine disaster attended the hearing, and later met with Hatch.  
   Hatch's prepared remarks follow. 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding this important hearing today. I want to recognize briefly my constituents who are in the audience today. They are the family members of both the trapped and rescue miners who gave their lives at the Crandall Canyon Mine in Huntington, Utah. 
   We are joined this morning by family members of the Manuel Sanchez, Kerry Allred, Luis Hernandez, Carlos Payan, Brandon Phillips and Don Erickson each of whom gave their lives in the noble profession of mining. And let us not forget the three brave rescue miners who gave their lives in an attempt to rescue the six trapped miners at the Crandall Canyon Mine. We are also honored to be joined by members of their families. Those of Mr. Brandon Kimber, Mr. Dale Black, and Mr. Gary Jensen, the three rescue miners that bravely gave the ultimate sacrifice in an attempt to free their six trapped colleagues. 
   All of these men are examples of the best of Utah. Their courage and sacrifice are why I am so honored to serve the people of Utah - who are among some of the most selfless individuals in the country. My thoughts and prayers are with each of you at this difficult time. 
   I would also like to take another brief moment to thank all those Utahans that participated in the rescue effort. The list is long and varied of the many that have sacrificed and given their time, knowledge, and resources to help in this tragedy. The list includes officials from the Federal Mine Safety and Health Administration; Murray Energy Corporation; the United States Air Force; Utah's Departments of Public Safety, Natural Resources and Human Services; the Utah Air National Guard; local, state and national government; and last but perhaps most importantly of all the men, women and children living in the communities impacted by this tragedy. 
   Again, thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding this hearing. I look forward to hearing from the witnesses.
   Contact: Heather Barney, 801/524-3341; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 