SEN. HATCH: FREE TRADE MUST MAINTAIN STATE SOVEREIGNTY
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today joined a majority of Senators to approve S. 1307, the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement. His floor statement follows: 
   Over the years, I have been a strong advocate for free trade. Free trade is important. I know of no other endeavor that affords us the opportunity to forge closer links between nations while simultaneously improving the lives of millions. The vast majority of economists agree that free trade is in every nation's long-term best interests. Diplomats also know that it is far easier to reach a compromise between nations whose economies are mutually reliant.  
   That being said, there are certain aspects of free trade that cause me concern. We need to be ever vigilant to ensure our approach to free trade does not relinquish our sovereign rights as a nation. 
   Over the last few years, I have heard from many Utahns who are concerned that the U.S. is relinquishing sovereignty to other countries through our trade agreements. Let me make clear that we absolutely cannot give up our right to govern within our own borders. We have laws for a reason and they represent the ideals and values we hold dear in our society. Constituents contact me on a constant basis to underscore their frustration with the gradual loss of sovereignty the U.S. is experiencing in international arenas. Local lawmakers from across the country are reaching out to us and asking for our help in ensuring their local laws and authority remain intact as we enter into international trade agreements. Indeed, recently, the Utah state legislature passed a resolution which echoes these concerns. 
   The issue of maintaining sovereignty was highlighted by a recent World Trade Organization (WTO) Dispute Resolution body ruling on Internet gambling. The ruling stated that the United States cannot block other countries from offering Internet gambling to U.S. residents, even if they live in states such as Utah where gambling is illegal. This is outrageous. We absolutely cannot enter into agreements where our laws are overturned by outsiders. 
   It is important for my colleagues to be aware, however, that the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative has interpreted the language in the WTO decision stating that gaming laws are "necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public order" to mean that "WTO members are entitled to maintain restrictions on internet gaming... and U.S. restrictions on internet gambling can stand." 
   I am aware that many in Utah are concerned that CAFTA could usurp our State's right to regulate gambling. That is a concern I shared as well. However, many of us were reassured by the statements made by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative that CAFTA does not jeopardize any existing state laws, including Utah's anti-gambling laws. We will have to stay on top of this, though. I do not intend to let any international agreement affect the laws our great state has enacted that represent the predominant moral views of our citizens. 
   Other concerns with CAFTA regarding "investor-state provisions that will allow corporations to challenge public interest policies at the state and local level" have also been raised. Once again, however, the Office of the United States Trade Representative has clearly stated that "nothing in CAFTA, or any other free trade agreement or bilateral investment treaty, interferes with a state or local government's right to regulate. An investor cannot enjoin regulatory action through arbitration, nor can arbitral tribunals." This statement, in black and white, will ensure that Internet gambling is not - and will not - become legal in the State of Utah without the consent of its citizens. There can be no "end-run" around the USTR's interpretation of the Internet gambling decision. 
   Though our CAFTA trade negotiators have done much to protect our sovereignty, it is obvious that we must remain vigilant and ensure that the sovereignty of not only our nation, but also our states, is maintained. I will work to maintain this sovereign right of the people. 
   Mr. President, I have become convinced that many of these problems and concerns with U.S. trade agreements could be alleviated if we improved the amount and quality of consultation occurring between states and the federal government with respect to trade agreements. Simply put, we need to provide greater opportunities for substantive consultation to occur. This problem was the topic of a recent letter signed by 28 states Attorneys General, including Utah, requesting greater consultation between the U.S. Trade Representative and the states on issues affecting states' rights. 
   I believe we need to take action on this immediately and ensure that we provide greater access to and consultation with our states and citizens. We clearly are seeing how big of an impact these trade agreements are having in every state and city in America. We need to give the states a direct conduit for their input. Negotiators need to have this information in order to ensure we are representing the interests and beliefs of our constituents. 
   Mr. President, these concerns have weighed heavily upon my mind. At the same time, I am encouraged by the many positive results CAFTA will have for our State, our country, and for Utah's farmers and industries. According to the Department of Commerce, between 2000 and 2004, Utah's exports to CAFTA nations increased by 58 percent. This includes such product areas as plastics, electronics and instrumentation. In plastic products, Utah industries sold $18.6 million in goods in 2004. In electronic and instrumentation products, Utah businesses sold $5.6 million worth of goods in 2004. The elimination of tariffs will make these products even more competitive in this developing market. 
   We have reason for our optimism. While our experience with the Chilean Free Trade Agreement provides no guarantees, it is illustrative. In the first year of the U.S.-Chile Free Trade Agreement, Utah's exports to Chile grew by 152 percent. 
   I am also pleased that CAFTA will level the playing field so that American goods and products can have better access to Central American markets. As part of our long-standing effort to support democracies in the region, the United States has afforded unilateral preferences to Central American goods under the Caribbean Basin Initiative and the Generalized System of Preferences. CAFTA eliminates these preferences while simultaneously strengthening our commercial ties by making the trading relationship permanent. All of this will be accomplished while American products will have greater opportunities for export in the region. 
   One example of the positive attributes of CAFTA can be found in the agreements effect on the hard-pressed textile and yarn producing industries. Our nation, through the use of modern equipment and greatly improved efficiency, continues to be competitive in this area. Where we have lost ground is in the labor-intensive apparel construction industry. 
   CAFTA provides an opportunity to help rectify this setback. Under current agreements, 56 percent of all textile products that are imported from CAFTA nations to the United States contain U.S. yarns or fabrics. When CAFTA is enacted we can only expect these numbers to increase. This stands in marked contrast to apparel imported from Pacific Rim, and in particular China, where less then one percent of all of apparel imports contain U.S. yarns and fabrics.
   Therefore, Mr. President I believe, that in the case of CAFTA, the pros do out-weigh the cons. 
   But, I will end on this note of caution. I will watch implementation of this agreement carefully. We need to have recognition of the fact that states are partners in these agreements. There must be greater opportunities afforded to the states to be consulted on free trade agreements. Likewise, we must remain vigilant that our nation's and respective states' sovereignty is maintained. 
   On balance, Mr. President, any reasoned analysis indicates that CAFTA will benefit our Nation and our State. It is for this reason that I will cast my vote in support of the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 