SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF JUDGE SOUTHWICK
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today delivered the following speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate.
   Mr. President, I rise in strong support of Judge Leslie Southwick's nomination to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
   The evaluations, hearings, and investigations are complete. The American Bar Association's highest rating is in.
   It is time for this body, the United States Senate, to decide whether to consent to this judicial nomination by voting up or down. That is our role and we should assert it rather than avoid it. 
   Vote yes or vote no, but it is time for this body to do its duty and vote on the Southwick nomination.
   This Senator, Mr. President, will proudly vote to confirm this excellent nominee.
   Before looking specifically at the Southwick nomination, I must respond to some of the recent remarks made by my Democratic colleagues concerning the confirmation process.Three of their claims require a response.
   First, they said that the three appeals court nominees confirmed so far this year are "three more than were confirmed in this similar year in the last Clinton term." That is a straight-forward claim and it is either true or false.
   An evaluation of this claim is simple:
   We are in the third year of President Bush's second term and the Senate is controlled by the other party. The third year of President Clinton's second term was 1999, when the Senate also was controlled by the other party.
   Opponents of this nomination allege that no nominees were confirmed in the similar year in the last Clinton term, which would be 1999. Their allegations are simply false.
   In fact, and this is obviously a matter of public record, the Senate confirmed seven appeals court nominees in 1999, more than twice what the Senate has done so far this year. Now, perhaps my colleagues may have intended to refer to a different year during the last Clinton term.
   If so, their claim would be just as false.
   The Senate confirmed seven appeals court nominees in 1997, 13 in 1998, seven in 1999, and eight in 2000, a presidential election year. So, it is obvious this claim being made by some Democrat's is false by a wide margin.
   If appeals court confirmations in President Clinton's second term is a valid benchmark for appeals court confirmations in President Bush's second term, my Democratic colleagues will have to pick up the confirmation pace.
   The second thing some Democrats claimed was that "the judicial vacancy rate is at an all-time low."
   Once again, that claim is false. The vacancy rate has been increasing each year since 2003. Average vacancies this year are 35 percent higher than in 2004, and average district court vacancies are 62 percent higher. I do not know where my colleagues get their information, but the judicial vacancy rate is certainly not at an all-time low.
   The third claim being made by those who oppose Judge Southwick is that the Republican-controlled Senate treated Clinton judicial nominees with, in his words, great disrespect by not giving 70 of them a Judiciary Committee hearing. This is the judicial confirmation equivalent of an urban legend and - like other urban legends - constant repetition does not make it true. I will just make two points about this claim.
   The first is that they have overstated the total by more than 20 percent.
   The second, which is even more important, is that they never let on something they absolutely understand: some judicial nominees do not receive hearings for a variety of perfectly legitimate and obvious reasons.
   President Clinton, for example, withdrew a dozen of his own nominees for various reasons, some involving significant and even embarrassing controversy. Was it disrespectful not to hold a hearing on nominees the President had withdrawn?
   President Clinton submitted other nominees too late in a congressional session to permit proper evaluation.
   Other nominees did not receive hearings because they were opposed by their home-state Senators, a tradition of senatorial courtesy dating back to the early 20th century.
   Eliminating these three categories alone - presidential withdrawals, late nominations, and home-state Senator opposition - raises the Democratic objectors' margin of error to over 100 percent.
   Mr. President, the Southwick nomination has none of the problems I just mentioned that prevented confirmation of some Clinton judicial nominees.
   President Bush has obviously not withdrawn the nomination. He submitted this nomination on January 9, 2007, when the current 110th Congress convened, so there has been more than enough time for evaluation and confirmation.
   In fact, the Judiciary Committee had thoroughly vetted Judge Southwick last year when he was initially nominated to the U.S. District Court.
   We looked at the same man, with the same character and qualifications, and the same record. And we sent the nomination to the full Senate without any opposition.
   To be fair, two important things have changed since last fall when the Judiciary Committee unanimously approved Judge Southwick's nomination. First, Judge Southwick has been nominated to the appeals court rather than the district court. Second, the American Bar Association has rated Judge Southwick higher for his appointment to the appeals court than they did for his appointment to the district court. It makes no sense to me, but I suppose there might be someone somewhere who thinks that a higher rating justifies more opposition.
   The higher rating means Judge Southwick gets even higher marks from the ABA for his compassion, open-mindedness, freedom from bias, and commitment to equal justice.
   If someone can explain how that makes him less qualified for the federal bench, I would like to hear it.
   Unlike many Clinton nominees who did not receive hearings, Mr. President, Judge Southwick has the strong support of both of his home-state Senators.
   The Senators from Mississippi, Senators Cochran and Lott, are senior and highly respected members of this body. Their support ought to mean something.
   I have no doubt that if these two fine Senators objected to Judge Southwick receiving an up or down vote, the Democratic controlled Senate would certainly grant them this courtesy and prevent him from a vote. However, for Judge Southwick, this deference to esteemed home state Senators is a one way street.
   Both Mississippi Senators have been working with President Bush to fill this same seat for more than five years, and I think they deserve our respect and support just like we would seek theirs if the situation were reversed.
   In the last few years of the Clinton administration, a Republican Senate confirmed a string of highly controversial appeals court nominees who nonetheless had the backing of their home state Senators. I supported them and today I urge my colleagues to do the same for our colleagues from Mississippi and for Judge Southwick.
   Mr. President, when I came before this body on June 28, I explained why the tactics being used against this and other judicial nominees are illegitimate.
   It is illegitimate to focus only on a few of the thousands of decisions in which Judge Southwick participated while on the Mississippi Court of Appeals.
   It is illegitimate to ignore the facts and the law of those few cases.
   It is illegitimate to ignore the standard of review that Judge Southwick had to follow.
   It is illegitimate to look only at the political interests served by the results of those few cases.
   It is illegitimate to create a distorted, twisted caricature of this nominee, a caricature that is simply unrecognizable by those who actually know and have worked with him.
   These are illegitimate tactics, yet these are the tactics being used against this nominee. I have a hard time believing that any of my colleagues would endorse these tactics or, worse yet, be persuaded by them.
   As I said, the entire case against this highly qualified nominee rests on just two of the 7000 cases in which he participated, each involving an opinion which he did not write.
   If saying that is not enough to reject this argument against his confirmation, I fear for the confirmation process and this body's role in judicial appointments.
   But let me take a minute and look at these two lone decisions that supposedly justify this tirade, this assault, this hatchet job against Judge Southwick.
   The first is titled Richmond v. Mississippi Department of Human Resources. One of my Democratic colleagues said yesterday that this decision alone casts doubt on whether Judge Southwick will be fair, not only in civil rights cases but in cases about what he called the rights of ordinary people.
   In this case, a state employee once used a racial slur. The person to whom it was directed did not hear it and later accepted an offered apology. The state review board concluded that termination was not warranted under these circumstances.
   To hear the critics describe it, the Mississippi Court of Appeals wiped the slate clean and looked at this case from scratch.
   To hear the critics describe it, every conceivable option was open when the appeals court reviewed this decision.
   To hear the critics describe it, the appeals court was deciding whether racial slurs belong in the workplace, or whether the judges themselves approved of what the employee did in this case.
   The critics know that is not true, but they also know that most people will not know the difference.
   Apparently, the political or partisan goal of attacking Judge Southwick justifies misleading people about what judges do in general, and what the court did in this case in particular.
   The state appeals court, on which Judge Southwick sat, had to review this decision under what is called an arbitrary and capricious standard, which made the court's job very specific.
   The appeals court was required to affirm the review board's decision if there was some evidence to support it, whether or not they would have made the same decision in the first place.
   The Mississippi Supreme Court agreed with Judge Southwick's court that the facts of this case did not require that the employee be terminated.
   Simply because the court ruled this way does not mean that the judges in the majority approved of, supported, liked, believed in, or otherwise held to what the employee did in this case.
   It means that the law applied to the facts under the necessary standard required that result.
   Judges do not exist to opine on social problems or address social trends, they exist to decide specific legal cases.
   Judge do not exist to serve political interests or pursue policy agendas, they exist to settle legal disputes.
   Judge Southwick apparently understands this much better than his critics. Properly understanding that judges must follow the law rather than their personal opinions is precisely why Judge Southwick should be confirmed.
   Some have said that this decision shows Judge Southwick has hostile views on race.
   It does not show his views on that issue one way or another.
   Judges are not supposed to decide cases based on their personal views, but based on the law.
   But in case there were any question about his personal views, In his confirmation hearing before the Judiciary Committee - a more appropriate setting in which to do it - Judge Southwick made his views perfectly clear. He said that this particular slur is always offensive and inherently derogatory.
   If some of my colleagues believe judges should ignore the law and decide cases based on their personal views, they should say so.
   If some of my colleagues believe judges should decide which side is going to win before a case even starts, they should say so.
   If some of my colleagues believe that judges should use their decisions to serve political interests rather than settle legal disputes, they should say so.
   America's founders did not believe that, I do not believe that, and I think most Americans do not believe that.
   The other case with which Judge Southwick's critics would indict him is titled S.B. v. L.W.
   In this custody case, all of the various factors such as employment, income, home ownership, and community roots, weighted in favor of the father.
   State statutes and state judicial precedents at the time also favored the heterosexual father over the bisexual mother.
   The court's job was to review these factors, and the court upheld the decision to give custody to the father. That is what the law required, so that is what the court did.
   As one of only two cases out of 7000 in which Judge Southwick participated, this decision has a lot of weight to carry.
   It would have to be almost indescribably persuasive to overcome the rest of Judge Southwick's 12 years on the state appeals court, decades in the legal field, widespread praise and support in the legal community, and unanimous high marks from the ABA.
   That is almost too much for any single decision to accomplish.
   So what is it about this decision that Judge Southwick's critics offer as the basis to oppose him? That an opinion he joined but did not write used the phrase homosexual lifestyle.
   I can accept that some people see this as a negative phrase.
   But others might use it simply as a factual phrase.
   The Mississippi Supreme Court used this phrase in the line of cases, the applicable precedents, that Judge Southwick's court had to follow in its decision.
   The phrase has been used in hundreds of court decisions, on both the state and federal level, all across this country. This includes the Supreme Court's decision in Lawrence v. Texas which Judge Southwick's critics no doubt would applaud.
   President Clinton used the phrase when discussing the policy he established regarding the service of open homosexuals in the military.
   And it is hardly a stretch to see that this phrase is particularly relevant in a custody case where lifestyle patterns and home life decisions are important.
   This, I say to my colleagues, is the case against Judge Southwick: Two decisions, two opinions he did not write, with results some people do not like but which followed applicable law and stuck to the job the appeals court had to do.
   That so-called case against Judge Southwick is worse than unpersuasive, it is no case at all.
   Before I close, I want to repeat a point I made the last time I addressed this body about this excellent nominee.
   In their letter opposing Judge Southwick, the Congressional Black Caucus said that we "should be impressed by the frequency with which Southwick's opinions and concurrences have been overruled."
   Those are their words, and that is the standard they recommend we apply.
   Judge Southwick authored 927 opinions and concurrences while on the Mississippi Court of Appeals.
   Only 21 of those 927 opinions and concurrences, or 2.3 percent, have been either reversed or even criticized by the Mississippi Supreme Court in 12 years.
   Indeed, we should be, as the Congressional Black Caucus said we should be, impressed by the frequency with which Judge Southwick's opinions and concurrences have been overruled. A reversal rate so low is a sign that he is a balanced jurist whose work is highly respected and holds up under scrutiny.
   Applying the CBC's reversal standard only adds another reason why this excellent nominee should be confirmed.
   Mr. President, this nomination is ready for the Senate to decide whether to give its consent by voting up or down.
   The background checks are done.
   The ABA's highest rating is in.
   The questionnaire is complete.
   The hearings have been conducted.
   The home state Senators have given this nominee their strongest endorsement.
   None of the factors that stopped, held up, or slowed down past nominees exist in this case.
   There are no reasons or excuses.
   The Judiciary Committee and the full Senate should approve this excellent nominee without further delay.
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 