SEN. HATCH COMMENDS THOSE PRESERVING OUR NATION'S HERITAGE
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) this week delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. Senate on the importance of family history.  
   I rise today to speak on a topic that is of growing importance to many throughout our nation, especially in my home state of Utah. That subject is family history. 
   As many of my colleagues know, I have always been a strong believer in the importance of researching personal family history and learning more about our roots and heritage. For some, it is a hobby; for others, it is a passion to collect, preserve, and share genealogies, personal histories, and memorabilia that document the life and times of families around the world. 
   Studies show that a large majority of Americans have an interest and are actively involved in tracing their family's history. Indeed, millions of individuals throughout the United States and the world continue to utilize our nation's libraries and archives to search the records that detail the history of our nation, our states, our communities, and our citizens. In recent years, the Internet has also become an invaluable tool for those seeking to learn more about where they came from and what legacies they have inherited. 
   I have been pleased to learn that several agencies throughout the federal government have established programs which I believe will greatly assist our citizens in their desire to research their family history. The National Archives and the Departments of Defense, Veterans Affairs, the Interior, Commerce, and Justice have all undertaken efforts to make digital copies of American records accessible through the Internet. Once completed, these programs will ensure that countless historical documents, including military, census, court, land, justice, and probate records as well as photographs, newspapers and other sources of historical information will be preserved for generations to come. 
   As you might expect, Mr. President, scanning billions of documents is a daunting, as well as expensive, task. Realizing this, federal agencies have created numerous public-private partnerships with various companies throughout the country, including some from my home state of Utah. Many of these companies do so out of an interest in helping the public gain access to important documents and are not wholly-motivated by profits or gain. The expertise provided to the government by many Utahns have made it easier for agencies to scan, index, and preserve various records for posterity. Private organizations have also worked with government archivists to devise disaster plans in order to protect vital records from being destroyed in event of catastrophe. 
  The importance of protecting and preserving the history of our country cannot be overstated. Recent events, such as Hurricane Rita and the fire here in the Washington, D.C., Library, have demonstrated the need to be proactive in preserving the records of our nation's past. 
   Mr. President, I want to commend those, both in the government and the private sector, who have worked to preserve our nation's heritage for future generations. As one who has long been interested in family history, I am extremely grateful for their efforts. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 