SEN. HATCH: PASS 6-YEAR TRANSPORTATION BILL
  In a speech on the floor of the Senate, Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today expressed his displeasure that the House and Senate failed to negotiate a compromise on a six-year transportation reauthorization bill. Today marks one year since Congress missed the deadline for passing the legislation, and negotiators agreed late last night to an eight-month extension of current funding levels. 
   "It's inexcusable that we have not successfully addressed this critical need for over a year," Hatch said. "Successful passage of the transportation reauthorization bill will have positive, long-lasting effects on each and every state, and I implore my colleagues not to let this opportunity pass."  
   Currently, Utah receives more than $200 million each year in highway funding. Under the Senate-passed version of the transportation bill, the state would receive nearly $300 million annually. As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Hatch worked to secure the highest funding possible without raiding the general funds or cutting other government programs. Instead, the Senate Finance Committee cracked down on fuel tax evaders and made other changes to tax law to produce the money needed. 
   "We provided a 20 percent increase to transportation funding, and we didn't raise fuel taxes or create a large deficit that future generations will have to pay off," Hatch said. "In short, the Senate bill was paid for." 
   Placing the legislation on hold will significantly affect many Utah transportation projects, including new I-15 interchanges in Ogden, Layton and Provo; commuter rail service from Ogden to Provo and light-rail lines to the airport and South Jordan; highway projects on US-6 in Emery County and State Road 92 in Lehi; and building the Northern Corridor in St. George and a replacement bridge on US-89 in Pleasant Grove. 
   "Temporary extensions frustrate the planning of these large projects," Hatch said. "They make it impossible for states to raise the money necessary to fund their portions. Capitol markets turn a deaf ear to project-specific financing when there is no long-term federal commitment. Only we can rectify this problem, and I know we will find the solution. Let's do the right thing and come together with an adequately funded compromise." 
   The full text of Hatch's floor statement follows: 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate on the 
  Transportation Reauthorization Bill
   Mr. President, today is a disappointing day in the history of Congress. Exactly one year ago, Congress missed the deadline for passing a full transportation reauthorization bill that would fund the federal portion of highway, transit, and safety projects around the country for the next six years. The fact that we missed this self-imposed, legislative deadline will come as no surprise to those who follow progress on Capitol Hill, but it is deeply troubling. 
   Because of the unwillingness of several of my colleagues, Congress is once again forced to use a temporary extension of last year's funding as an inadequate short-term fix to a very real problem. This is unacceptable outcome and I hope my colleagues will agree we need to pass a fully-funded six year bill immediately. 
   Just as national defense and judicial review are core functions performed by the United States Government to ensure security and fairness for all citizens, transportation infrastructure funding is one of the primary responsibilities of the federal government. Adequate transportation infrastructure that is safe and affordable helps facilitate intrastate and interstate trade and provides the physical backbone of our economy. This is certainly a burden that the federal government needs to bear on behalf of its citizens. While it is was extremely disappointing that Congress allowed the September 30, 2003 deadline to pass without a resolution to this problem, it is simply inexcusable for us to have not successfully addressed this critical need for over a year. I ask my colleagues to commit to coming together before this year's end to pass a six-year reauthorization bill. 
   Now I am not naive, I understand that there are always reasons behind the inability for Congress to pass important legislation. And this case is no exception. Over the last year, I have heard the excuses from the legislative and executive branches of government, both Republicans and Democrats. Some argue the transportation funding proposals being debated cost too much; others say they don't provide enough funding to states; still others say the formulas being used to distribute the money are inherently flawed and do not return as much of the Highway Trust Fund proceeds as their state contributes. All of these excuses have merit and need to be worked out to the satisfaction of lawmakers prior to enactment, but it is rational for a person to believe, as I do, that given the high priority transportation funding plays in each and every state, Congress should have reached a compromise by now - two years after work on this reauthorization initially began. 
   As I travel the State of Utah, meeting with the good citizens of my home state, the most frequently-requested issue I am asked to address is the issue of transportation. Every week, Utahns remind me of the constant need we have to maintain our roadways, increase our transit capacity, and provide alternative routes along main arteries in the cities. I certainly understand why this issue is so important to my constituents. Over the last ten years, the State of Utah has seen a dramatic increase in the number of residents who call The Beehive State home. In fact, there are only three states in the United States who have had larger proportional increases in their populations over the past ten years and all of them border the State of Utah. There is tremendous population growth all over the West, underscoring the critical need we have for a steady increase in transportation funding right now. 
   The State of Utah receives over $200 million per year in highway funding which goes toward the planning and execution of highway expansion projects. Under the Senate-proposed version of this bill, that number would go to nearly $300 million per year. That increase goes a long way, not all the way, but a long way toward making several important transportation projects a reality. Projects that otherwise might not come to fruition without a federal commitment. 
   In stating the amount of funding Utah receives, I do not want to give the impression that this federal funding comes to states without them having to do their part. All of the federal funds in this bill have state matching component as well. States spend millions, even billions, of state dollars on transportation every year. Demand for more and better transportation alternatives in the State of Utah have gotten so severe that state lawmakers are now seriously considering raising the state fuel tax in order to pay for their portion of these projects. Although I hate to see any tax increases, I applaud the efforts of local lawmakers to deal with our transportation problems with real solutions and adequate funding. 
   The Utah Department of Transportation has several aggressive highway projects around the state which have been planned for years, budgeted in the state's annual budgeting process, and now only require a federal commitment to help them proceed. I refer to projects like the ongoing reconstruction of I-15 which connects the some of the most populous portions of the state from North to South. New I-15 interchanges in Ogden, Layton, and Provo are desperately needed to catch up with the large growth these cities are experiencing. Also, highway projects in Emery County on US-6, a railroad replacement bridge on US-89 in Pleasant Grove, widening of state road 92 in Lehi, and the building of the Northern Corridor in St. George are all projects which suffer terrible setbacks each time Congress cannot come together and pass a transportation reauthorization bill. And there are many, many more projects throughout the state I don't have time to name here, but that are equally as important. 
   On the transit side, with the recent addition of light rail and rapid bus service to several sections of downtown Salt Lake City, the citizens of Utah have grown to rely heavily on transit as a primary means of transportation. The Utah Transit Authority (UTA) has aggressive plans for projects in the pipeline that will greatly benefit the entire population of Utah. The recent announcement of the Utah Regional Commuter Rail project, which would bring rapid commuter rail service from as far away as Ogden all the way down to Provo, is encouraging and has many residents excited for the future of transit service around the state. As well, the expansion of the light rail lines from downtown Salt Lake to the airport and South Jordan are getting a lot of support from commuters. 
   UTA receives $70 million to $80 million per year from federal transit funding projects which not only provide financing for large portions of the light rail and commuter rail projects, but also provide statewide bus service and improvements to a majority of the state's population. Intermodal hubs, intelligent transportation systems, and other advances have forever improved the ease and convenience of commuting in the State of Utah and these programs depend heavily on the transportation reauthorization bill stalled in Congress. Extensions of current law, which have been going on for over a year now, get us nowhere closer to funding these important projects. The size and scope of these projects are so large that they require a long term commitment from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) in order to get started. However, in the absence of congressional approval of a full six year bill, the FTA is unable to make the long-term commitments required for local transit authorities to go out and secure their funding. This leaves transit projects in an eternal holding pattern, waiting for someone to commit to their future. This is unacceptable and a terrible way to address the ever growing commuting needs of citizens. 
   One aspect of this bill that is extremely important to citizens around the State of Utah is the fact that much of the funding for transportation safety and bike path projects comes from federal sources. The State of Utah combines several million dollars a year with the federal money provided by this bill to build safer crosswalks, walking bridges, bike paths, and railroad crossings throughout the state. These projects save lives and make enjoying the outdoors a safer activity. Without a federal commitment to safety and outdoor recreation, these projects would certainly be lost in the difficult budgetary times states are facing. 
   This past February, when the Senate Finance Committee was considering the "pay for" sections of this bill, we faced a daunting task. How do you provide a substantial increase in transportation funding in the face of shrinking fuel tax revenues, without raising taxes or increasing the deficit? This is a difficult question and one the members of the Finance Committee had to deal with in very short order. However, to Senator Grassley's credit, we found a way to provide the substantial increase. It was not easy. There were a lot of tough decisions we had to make. Many ingenious methods were used to increase revenues coming into the Highway Trust Fund, like cracking down on fraud and covering the cost of fuel tax credits currently in the tax code. But when all was said and done, we did it. We provided a 20% increase to transportation funding and we didn't raise fuel taxes or create a large deficit that future generations will have to pay off. Was it a sustainable fix that we will be able to deploy every six years to keep the highway trust fund afloat? No, only a fuel tax increase or a large upswing in the demand for fuel will do that. But, was it a good six year fix for a difficult problem that was already months overdue? Yes, I believe it was a good short-term fix. In short, the bill was paid for. 
   As I stated before, the work to reauthorize federal transportation funding began some two years ago when aides met to discuss the general structure of a bill. I cannot believe that the State of Utah is the only state which depends heavily on federal transportation funding to keep up with the demands of maintaining an adequate infrastructure. Therefore, it simply puzzles me as to why we have not been able to negotiate an acceptable bill in a two year period. As a conferee appointed to negotiate a final bill, I can tell you first hand, that some Congressional leaders have tried very hard to come to agreement on the specifics of a bill. The efforts of Chairman Inhofe have been extraordinary. He has worked tirelessly to find compromise with leaders who appear unyielding in their particular criticisms of the bill. He has shown his willingness to compromise on his own bill and work with others. I know he does not want to pass a bill with lower funding amounts than the Senate bill, but despite that belief, I applaud him for his willingness to compromise and work toward a productive solution. 
   As Chairman Inhofe, I have indicated my willingness to compromise on many points in order to get a bill moving. I have made calls to colleagues, I have asked those who have indicated their unwillingness to move to please join the effort and move a bill forward. I have done my part for the citizens of Utah and will continue to do all I can. 
   More contentious bills than this get negotiated and passed by both houses every year. I know money is tight right now. I know we would all like to see the funding formulas be more favorable for our home states. I know each of us would like to have more funding for our home states than we currently do. But I call on each of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to please put down your arguments and get back to the negotiating table and finish the transportation reauthorization bill before year's end. Time is short and I realize we must pass a temporary extension bill in order to keep some federal highway funds flowing. However, encourage my colleagues to take advantage of the remaining days left in the 108th Congress and come together to pass one of the most important bills before Congress this year. Successful passage of the transportation reauthorization bill will have positive, long-lasting effects on each and every state and I implore my colleagues not to let this opportunity pass. 
   Frankly, I am disappointed that we have failed to produce a six year transportation reauthorization bill which fully funds the highway, transit, and safety programs for our states. As I mentioned earlier, the temporary extensions we have been using do not adequately address the transportation needs or our citizens. Temporary extensions frustrate the planning of these large projects, significantly delay the delivery, and make it impossible for states to raise the money necessary to fund their portions of the projects. Capital markets turn a deaf ear to project specific financing when there is no long-term federal commitment. Only we can rectify this problem and I know we will find the solution. Let's do it sooner rather than later. Let's not wait for this problem to get even more out of hand. Let's do the right thing and come together with an adequately funded compromise. I pledge my efforts in this cause and hope my colleagues will do the same. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 