SEN. HATCH DISCUSSES PRESIDENT'S HEALTH PLAN, HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS AT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF HEALTH UNDERWRITERS CONFERENCE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today spoke before the Capitol Conference of the National Association of Health Underwriters about President Bush's health plan and health savings accounts (HSAs). His prepared remarks follow. 
   We are reaching the tipping point on health care coverage. More and more people are dissatisfied with their health coverage. And this is no longer an issue just for those who are uninsured. 
   Our employer-provided system of health coverage is frayed, and it is showing its age and obsolescence. When the tax code tilted toward employer-provided coverage in the 1940s, we had a different kind of economy. Union membership was high. You went to work for a manufacturer at 18 or 22, put in your 40 or 45 years, and retired at the same company.  
   Today, however, the average American switches jobs repeatedly throughout his or her working life. And we are now primarily a service-providing, rather than a heavy manufacturing, economy. 
   This change has been mostly good. Incomes have gone up. Today, most Americans live with comforts that my parents, and even myself as a youngster, could only have dreamed of. Our retirement system has changed accordingly. Today, instead of a pension that rewards longevity at the same company, more and more companies are turning toward portable and personally owned retirement accounts that are the shared responsibility of workers and employers. 
   Our health care insurance system has not changed with the times, however. Today, in large part because of incentives in the tax code, we continue to have an employer-based system. You do not get your auto or homeowner insurance through your employer. But we still depend on employers for our health insurance. 
   The resulting system leaves individuals and families outside of the employer context with little access to affordable health insurance. And for those with employer-provided insurance, there is the uneasy feeling that a job change will have an adverse impact on the availability of health care for their families. 
   The result is that millions of Americans are uninsured and many millions more are extremely anxious about health care. And so we have reached a critical point. The current system is not sustainable in the long run. We need to make sure that American families have access to affordable health insurance. 
   That is going to happen. The question is how - are we going to have a government-run, top-down approach, or are we going to create a genuine market in health care? I think you know where I stand. We need to have our health care system operate like a marketplace. The small steps that we have taken toward consumer-driven health care are positive ones. 
   Three years ago the Medicare Modernization Act became law. I believe that one of the most promising aspects of this law is its commitment to consumer-driven health care. By creating health savings accounts and linking them to high deductible health plans, we helped to create an affordable health care option for many Americans - both those in the employer and the individual market. 
   In addition, by focusing attention on the individual's stake in health care expenses, these plans promise to hold down health care inflation. This should have the effect of maintaining insurance for employees of small businesses that can no longer afford high premium plans. These reforms appear to be working. 
   When we created these accounts, we assumed that the uptake would be in the individual market and within small businesses. Yet larger enterprises are now adopting them as well. In March 2005, one million people were covered by HSA-eligible policies. By January 2006, that number had grown to three million. When the next round of numbers comes out, I anticipate that we will see another substantial bump. 
   Late last year, we were able to enact several technical changes, from a bill I introduced, that should make these plans even more attractive for workers and employers. Individuals can now make a one-time tax-free transfer of Flexible Spending Account and Health Reimbursement Arrangement balances to an HSA. Contribution limits have been simplified, by allowing individuals to contribute up to the statutory maximum regardless of the yearly deductible. 
   The Secretary of the Treasury will now have to index contribution amounts for inflation earlier in the year, allowing employers to make the changes necessary for the following year's offerings. Employers are permitted to make higher contributions for non-highly compensated employees. And for those who might find a high deductible daunting, individuals can make a one-time distribution from an IRA to an HSA, and they are permitted to make the full yearly contribution regardless of the month of enrollment. 
   This was a real achievement by the 109th Congress, one that will make HSAs more accessible to ordinary families with pressing health care needs and for employers who want to provide affordable health care for their employees. 
   Now we need your help. As you know, there are those who would like to see this experiment fail. The refrain does not change. First verse - these plans are for the wealthy, healthy, and young. Second verse - they will lead to adverse selection and a shrinking of insurance pools. 
   We know that neither of these claims is accurate. 
   On the second point, the possibility of adverse selection is the great bogeyman of every health care debate. But I have not seen it happen before, and it does not appear to be happening with HSAs. 
   On the first point, the data show that the owner of an HSA is little different than the individual covered by a traditional high premium plan. Ehealthinsurance.com reports that half of HSA enrollees are over 40 years old, 20 percent earn less than $35,000, and 40 percent earn less than $50,000. Let me repeat that. Half of HSA enrollees are over 40 years old, 20 percent earn less than $35,000, and 40 percent earn less than $50,000. That certainly is an odd definition of young and rich. 
   Maureen Sullivan, a senior vice president with Blue Cross Blue Shield - which represents about 40% of the health savings account market - has presented research showing a generally even age mix of consumer-driven health participants, versus participants in traditional health plans. Among workers age 25-54, enrollment in HSAs, consumer-driven health plans without an HSA, and traditional plans all hovered between 24% to 27%. 
   Regina Herzlinger, a professor at the Harvard Business School, has shown that the incomes of consumer driven health care enrollees is more diverse than some of my colleagues would like you to believe. She has noted the recent conversions of Whole Foods and Wendy's to HSA-driven consumer driven health plans, saying, "These are cashiers and stockers, who don't have a lot of money to spend." 
   Research from Assurant shows that 62% of HSA purchasers are over age 40, and 42% earned less than $50,000 per year. 
   Blue Cross Blue Shield has found that the health status of HSA participants is pretty much the same as those in traditional plans. Thirty-six percent of HSA enrollees described their health as very good, slightly higher than the 31% of individuals in traditional plans. 
   A recent report by the Congressional Budget Office concluded that "among all types of consumer-directed plans offered by employers in 2006, deductibles were estimated to average about $1,750 for individuals and $3,500 for families (deductibles for HSAs purchased in the individual insurance market were higher); contributions to the accounts by employers were estimated to average about $750 and $1,350 a year." 
   In short, HSAs put health care within reach for many, many Americans. We need your help in bringing this message to workers and employers. And we need you to help workers navigate these plans. 
   HSAs are a different way of thinking about health coverage. Most Americans with health insurance are not accustomed to taking such an active role in managing their health care. So HSAs can be confusing. And they will only be embraced broadly if we can change our health care culture. 
   We need to do a better job of explaining how these plans operate. We need to do a better job of explaining to workers the true cost of their existing plans. 
   It amazed me to learn from a Utah employer testifying at a Senate Finance Committee last year, that when he ran the numbers - and employee co-pays and premium contributions were taken into account - every one of his employees was better off as a result of shifting to an HSA-eligible plan. And we need to do a better job in setting the stage for workers to shop for their health care and pay attention to value. 
   The promise of HSAs - giving workers control and choice in their health care - will only be realized if we help them navigate these unfamiliar waters. If we fail to do this, the constituency necessary to maintain and expand these plans will not emerge. So I believe that we need to create a health care market. 
   HSAs are only part of that equation, however. Right now individuals do not have the information they need to make educated choices. There is far too little transparency in pricing. It is next to impossible to decipher and keep track of the relationship between a hospital or doctor bill and the claim one receives from his or her insurance company. And our tax code continues to incentivize over-consumption of health care by employer-sponsored plans, promote health care inflation, and treat those in the individual market unfairly. 
   That is a real trifecta - inefficient, inflationary, and unfair. The maintenance of such a system cannot be in anybody's interest, which is why we are starting to see business groups sidling up to their traditional sparring partners to recommend wholesale changes. Good people on both sides of the aisle are trying to come up with an alternative. 
   The President has given us his proposal. It is not perfect. But when the Urban Institute, the Heritage Foundation, the Cato Institute, and the Washington Post all agree that its foundation is sound, the White House must be onto something. 
   As many of you know, the President has proposed eliminating the current unlimited income exclusion for employer-provided health insurance, replacing it with a flat deductible of $7,500 for an individual and $15,000 for a family. This deduction would apply for both income and payroll tax purposes. The purpose of the plan is not to do away with employer-provided insurance. It is to level the playing field between the individual market and the employer-provided system. 
   The current system makes a dollar of health coverage more valuable than a dollar in wages. In many cases, quite a bit more valuable. The President's proposal would reduce that tax preference. We know that the result of this would be a reduction in the amount of money that individuals and businesses are spending per plan. 
   I know some people, maybe even some in this room, who are not that excited about that prospect. At the same time, however, the plan proposes to bring many millions more individuals into the health insurance marketplace. I am not sure what the net effect will be on an industry like yours. But I am sure that I will be hearing your thoughts on it. 
   And I am sure of this: Our current system is unsustainable. And in the long run, it is good for nobody. It is not good for businesses that are pressed by health care inflation. It is not good for employees who are uneasy about their future health care coverage and become job-locked. And it is not good for those who are priced out of the current system. 
   There are alternatives to the current system. We need to be realistic about what those alternatives are. The one would bring the efficiency of the post office to your doctor's office. The other is a modern and efficient marketplace. I do not anticipate that we are going to get serious health care reform before the next presidential election. 
   As others have noted, I think that at this point, President Bush could appear on national television with God at his side and a foolproof plan for world peace, and his opponents would say that he has not adequately considered the alternatives, and that the proposal would put warlords out of work. But the bottom line is that health care reform is coming. 
   There are too many problems facing both our health care system and our tax code for there not to be some movement on these issues in the coming years. And the President's plan is a good place to start the conversation. 
   I want to thank you again for having me here today. And I look forward to working with you, and sharing many conversations with you, as we move forward on these important issues.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 