SEN. HATCH BACKS BILL TO END CHRONIC HOMELESSNESS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today placed his support behind legislation to help end chronic homelessness. Hatch's floor statement outlining his support for S. 709, Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act, follows:  
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate
   S. 709, Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act
   Mr. President, as a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, I rise to express my support for the Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act (S. 709) as introduced by Senator Mike DeWine. 
   Many low-income housing advocates in Utah have asked me to cosponsor this important legislation because it establishes a grant program, run by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), for services to end chronic homelessness. In Utah alone, there are approximately 1,900 chronically homeless individuals whose lives are in a constant state of peril because they are repeatedly homeless for long periods of time. They usually have one or more disabilities, and often cycle between homeless shelters, the streets, mental health facilities, emergency rooms, hospitals, and jails. The public cost for their continued care is extremely high, and their medical outcomes are generally very poor. 
   I believe that ending chronic homelessness requires housing with supportive services, and policies which prevent high-risk individuals from returning to the streets. Based on several estimates, including an estimate published in the President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health Report, it will take approximately 150,000 units of supportive housing and over 10 years to end long-term homelessness. S. 709 would authorize funding for a flexible array of services in permanent supportive housing, focused on helping people move toward recovery and self sufficiency. 
   Although I support the bill and its intent, I am very concerned about its cost. Throughout my Senate career, I have fought hard for fiscal discipline. Although the cost of the bill has not been estimated by the Congressional Budget Office, everyone agrees that the issues and associated costs are complex. 
   S. 709 provides accountability, has mechanisms for controlling costs, and mechanisms for maximizing cost savings. For example, the bill prioritizes accountability and cost control through a required competitive process. In an effort to save on overall public spending, the bill gives priority to applicants who serve individuals who have proven to be more expensive to the public health system and to law enforcement. Additionally, S. 709 requires that the grantee match the federal funds received, and the match requirement increases over time. It is important to note that the amount of funding an applicant receives cannot rise above the rate of inflation. Finally, the bill ensures accountability by requiring grantees to report on their performance. This effort is to ensure that chronic homelessness is being reduced, thus reducing costly mental health and substance abuse problems, and increasing education and employment. 
   Mr. President, I support strongly the goals of this bill and I believe our continued economic expansion and improving Federal budget will enable us to fully implement the objectives of this bill and end homelessness in this country forever. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 