SEN. HATCH: CENSURE LACKS LEGITIMACY, ACCURACY, PROPER TIMING
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today opposed an effort to censure President George W. Bush, arguing the Senate lacks the authority to censure, the measure contains highly debatable or outright false information, and would weaken the President at a time of war. 
   Hatch's full statement at the Senate Judiciary Committee's hearing examining Sen. Russ Feingold's (D-Wis.) censure resolution follows:  
   Mr. Chairman, I strongly oppose Senate Resolution 398, the resolution purporting to censure President Bush regarding the foreign intelligence surveillance program. Let me briefly mention three reasons for my opposition. 
   First, I do not believe that the Constitution authorizes the Senate to punish the president through a mechanism other than impeachment. 
   Make no mistake, censure is punishment and this censure resolution aims to punish the president. Senator Feingold has repeatedly stated his belief that the president has broken the law and must be held accountable. That is done by punishment. 
   The last time a Senator introduced a resolution to censure a president was in 1999, directly on the heels of the Senate voting to acquit President Clinton on the charges for which he had been impeached by the House. It was offered as a form of punishment because censure is punishment. 
   I do not believe that the fundamental principle of the separation of powers, and our written Constitution built on that principle, authorize the Senate to punish the president other than by impeachment. 
   In 1800, the first time either House considered a resolution to denounce a president's actions, Representative William Craik of Maryland argued that the House had the power of impeachment but not censure. That resolution failed. 
   Many claim historical precedent for punishing the president through censure in the resolution introduced by Senator Henry Clay and passed on March 28, 1834. That resolution addressed President Andrew Jackson's actions regarding the Bank of the United States. 
   I have that resolution right here, copied from the original Journal of the Senate. It is one sentence long. It states the Senate's opinion that President Jackson "has assumed upon himself authority and power not conferred by the constitution and laws, but in derogation of both." 
   I know that nearly everyone refers to this as a censure resolution, but it says nothing of the kind. This resolution, unlike the one before us today, never uses the words censure or condemn. It expresses the Senate's opinion about the president's action, but does not even purport to punish the president. Three years later, the Senate voted to reverse itself and to expunge this resolution from the record. 
   The official United States Senate website describes this 1834 resolution. While it does, I think mistakenly, refer to this as a censure resolution, our own Senate website states unequivocally that this resolution was "totally without constitutional authorization." I have that page right here in my hand, printed directly from the Senate website, stating that that the 1834 resolution was totally without constitutional authorization. 
   If a resolution not even purporting to punish or censure the president is without constitutional authorization, how can one which would explicitly punish the president by censuring him and condemning his actions have constitutional authorization? 
   There are other constitutional objections to such an effort to punish the president through censure. I ask unanimous consent to submit for the record an article by Victor Williams, law professor at the University of Tampa, arguing that the attempt to censure President Clinton was unconstitutional. 
   Mr. Chairman, even if this serious constitutional concern did not exist or can somehow be waived aside, my second concern is with the content of this censure resolution. The statements offered to support the conclusion of censure are not established facts at all but, at best, highly debatable propositions. 
   This resolution states as fact propositions about which there is very real, and very public, debate. These include the legal bases President Bush has claimed for his foreign intelligence surveillance program, including the extent of his inherent constitutional authority and the effect of Senate Joint Resolution 38, the Authorization for Use of Military Force. 
   The resolution asserts that a statute, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, trumps the president's inherent constitutional authority as Commander in Chief. 
   In addition, this resolution makes very serious claims about President Bush's personal motives, and even his integrity. It claims that President Bush actually misled the public, that he made false implications and inaccurate statements, even in his State of the Union Address. 
   Senator Feingold, of course, is free to believe these things about the president and to state his belief publicly. He has spoken to that end on the Senate floor. But this constitutionally suspect effort to punish the president by censure rests on premises which are, at best, highly debatable and, at worst, misleading or even false. 
   Finally, Mr. Chairman, even if concerns about this resolution's constitutional legitimacy and content can be avoided, I remain very concerned about its timing and effect. The United States is at war. Our president has taken considered and measured steps that, I believe, are consistent with the law. 
   I can only hope that this constitutionally suspect and inflammatory attempt to punish the president for leading this war on terror will not weaken his ability to do so. 
   When the Senate turned aside the 1999 censure resolution directed at President Clinton, our colleague and later Attorney General John Ashcroft made a point which captures my concern about the resolution before us today. 
   Senator Ashcroft was certainly a strong critic of the president. He voted to convict and remove President Clinton from office. Yet he said: "The Constitution recognizes that if a President cannot be removed through impeachment, he should not be weakened by censure." 
   I agree. Partisanship may be at a fever pitch these days, but wartime is not the time to take steps that may weaken the Commander in Chief. 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 