SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING JUDGE MUKASEY'S CONFIRMATION
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today spoke on the Senate floor regarding Judge Michael Mukasey, President Bush's nominee to be Attorney General of the United States. Judge Mukasey is eminently qualified and the Justice Department needs new leadership now. The Senate confirmed past Attorney General nominees in an average of three weeks, half the time Judge Mukasey has already waited. Hatch's remarks follow: 
   Just when you thought it might be safe to venture back into the confirmation water, the partisan sharks rush in to push you right back onto the beach. 
   Today is 40 days since the Senate received the nomination of Judge Michael Mukasey to be Attorney General of the United States.  
   Forty days in the partisan wilderness for a man who is superbly qualified and widely respected, and whose service is desperately needed. 
   Before addressing what is being done to Judge Mukasey, let me remind my colleagues who he is. 
   Michael Mukasey has spent four decades serving the law and the country. 
   He spent 16 years in private legal practice, four years as a federal prosecutor, and 19 years as a federal judge. 
   He was head of the Official Corruption Unit during his service as Assistant U.S. Attorney, and Chief Judge during his last six years as a U.S. District Judge, both in the Southern District of New York. 
   Judge Mukasey's service in that particular jurisdiction gave him expertise in national security issues that makes him especially qualified to lead a Justice Department that is being re-tooled for the war on terrorism. 
   He presided over the nine-month trial of Omar Abdel Rahman and sentenced him to life in prison for the 1993 plot to blow up the World Trade Center. 
   When the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed Judge Mukasey's decision, it took the unusual step of commenting on how he handled the trial. These are the appeals court's words: 
   Judge Mukasey "presided with extraordinary skill and patience, assuring fairness to the prosecution and to each defendant and helpfulness to the jury. His was an outstanding achievement in the face of challenges far beyond those normally endured by a trial judge." 
   This is a remarkable statement. 
   Appeals courts review district court decisions, but rarely do they comment in this manner on district court judges. 
   Both generally and specifically, by any reasonable or objective standard, Judge Mukasey is eminently qualified to be our next Attorney General. 
   And by the standards set by my Democratic colleagues themselves, Judge Mukasey should by now have become Attorney General Mukasey. 
   My Democratic colleagues have repeatedly said that the Justice Department needs new leadership and needs it now. 
   The Senator from New York, Senator Schumer, is a Judiciary Committee member. He has said that "we can't afford to wait because justice is too important." 
   The Democratic mantra was that justice is too important to wait, we need a new Attorney General now. 
   My Democratic colleagues also offered criteria, offered a description, of the kind of Attorney General that we need right away. 
   The Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Senator Leahy, said: "We want the best man or woman who can run the place, restore the sense of commitment, and restore the sense of integrity to the Department of Justice." 
   The Senator from New York, Senator Schumer, said that the nominee would have to be someone of unimpeachable integrity, experience, and someone who can hit the ground running. 
   I respectfully say to my Democratic colleagues that I believe Judge Mukasey fits your bill. 
   He can run the place, he is a man of integrity and experience, he can hit the ground running. 
   It appeared for a time, a short brief time, that my Democratic colleagues thought so too. 
   After a full day of testimony, Chairman Leahy told Judge Mukasey that his answers showed his independence and his agreement that political influence has no place in law enforcement. 
   Senator Schumer said: "The most important qualities we need in an Attorney General right now are independence and integrity. And looking at Judge Mukasey's career and his interviews that we have all had with him, it seems clear that Judge Mukasey possesses these vital attributes." 
   I ask unanimous consent that these and some other quotes be placed in the record following my remarks. 
   We need a new Attorney General now. 
   Justice is too important to wait. 
   Judge Mukasey meets the criteria. 
   He is qualified and ready to lead. 
   Then why is Judge Mukasey not already on the job, leading the Justice Department to where Americans need it to be? 
   Why is his nomination stalled, 40 days into this confirmation process, without even a committee vote? 
   It is certainly not because this is the way Attorney General nominees have been treated in the past. 
   In my 31 years in this body, we have taken an average of three weeks to move an Attorney General nominee from nomination to confirmation. 
   It has already been twice that long, 40 days and counting, for Judge Mukasey and he was only today put on the Judiciary Committee agenda for next week. 
   Let me rewind the confirmation clock to 1993, the last time a Democratic Senate evaluated a nominee for Attorney General. 
   Janet Reno, a Democratic nominee, received very different treatment than this Republican nominee is receiving today. 
   Miss Reno's nomination went through the entire confirmation process, from initial receipt to final confirmation, in less time than Judge Mukasey's nomination has been sitting in the Judiciary Committee since his hearing. 
   While the Judiciary Committee will not vote on Mukasey nomination for at least another week, the committee did not even wait for a markup to approve the Reno nomination. 
   I was the Ranking Member and I supported Chairman Biden's request to vote on Miss Reno's nomination at the end of the hearing. 
   The Senate unanimously confirmed her the very next day. 
   While Senators gave Judge Mukasey nearly 500 written questions, the answers to which he already has provided I might add, no Senators gave a single question to Miss Reno. 
   What happened? 
   Why such radically different treatment? 
   Is it simply because a Republican rather than a Democrat is in the White House? 
   The need for new Justice Department leadership remains. 
   Judge Mukasey's obvious qualifications are the same. 
   What happened that his nomination is now being obstructed, slowed down, and delayed? 
   The latest excuse is that Judge Mukasey will not state on the fly a legal conclusion, for a Justice Department he does not yet lead, about whether the coercive interrogation technique known as waterboarding constitutes torture. 
   He will not come to legal conclusions before he can apply appropriate legal standards to appropriate facts. 
   He should be praised, not criticized, for taking this approach. 
   Rather than focusing on his refusal to answer a question he should not answer, I want to remind my colleagues what Judge Mukasey has said on this subject. 
   Everyone appeared pleasantly surprised when Judge Mukasey denounced torture during his hearing. 
   He went so far as to explain how torture violates not only statutes or treaties, but the United States Constitution itself. 
   Judge Mukasey said that if waterboarding properly can be labeled torture, then it too is unconstitutional. 
   In a letter dated yesterday, Judge Mukasey said that he considers techniques such as waterboarding personally repugnant. 
   But personal conclusions are not the same as legal conclusions. 
   So Judge Mukasey outlined in detail the kind of analysis he would follow to decide whether such interrogation techniques constitute torture prohibited by the Constitution or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment prohibited by statute and the Geneva Convention. 
   I ask unanimous consent that his letter be printed in the record following my remarks. 
   Judge Mukasey wrote, "legal questions must be answered based solely on the actual facts, circumstances, and legal standards presented." 
   How can he possibly be criticized for making legal judgments by applying legal standards to appropriate facts? 
   What kind of crazy, topsy-turvy confirmation process is this? 
   Judge Mukasey should be criticized for doing it any other way. 
   My Democratic colleagues demanded over and over that, if confirmed, Judge Mukasey must exercise his own independent judgment, that he must answer legal questions on his own, that he must not base advice on political pressure. 
   But now, they criticize him for saying he will do precisely what they told him to do. 
   Democrats now criticize Judge Mukasey for saying that he will exercise his own independent judgment and answer legal questions on his own, without basing advice on political pressure. 
   My Democratic colleagues cannot insist that Judge Mukasey be independent toward a Republican President but compliant toward a Democratic Senate. 
   They cannot declare that the Constitution is not whatever President Bush says it is, but demand Judge Mukasey's agreement that the Constitution is whatever Senate Democrats say it is. 
   We should stop playing partisan political games with this nomination. 
   Judge Mukasey is eminently qualified to provide the leadership the Justice Department needs now. 
   His insistence that independent legal judgment rather than emotion or partisan pressure will guide him only enhances his fitness for taking the helm at the Justice Department. 
   Forty days in the partisan wilderness is more than enough. 
   We should confirm Judge Michael Mukasey without further delay. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 