SENS. HATCH, BROWN INTRODUCE BILL TO HELP COMBAT SUPER-BUGS
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) delivered the following speech at a press conference regarding the introduction of the Brown/Hatch antibiotics bill. 
   We are here to talk about a public health issue that should scare each one of us.  
   As recent events in neighboring Virginia have made too clear, this country faces the growing problem of drug-resistant, bacterial infections. Recent media reports have raised the visibility of this issue, but infectious disease doctors have been sounding the alarm for years. 
   Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that resistant strains of infections have spread rapidly. In Salt Lake City, the number of children with Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus or MRSA infections at the Primary Children's Medical Center has increased by almost 20 fold since 1989! 
   This alarming trend continues to grow and treatment options are sorely lacking. 
   The Infectious Diseases Society of America, the Institute of Medicine, the Resources for the Future, the Centers for Disease Control, and many others have long warned us about the growing threat from resistant microorganisms. 
   Congress must listen. 
   In fact, it its seminal report, "Bad Bugs, No Drugs", the Infectious Diseases Society (or IDSA) said: 
   "Drug-resistant bacterial infections kill tens of thousands of Americans every year and a growing number of individuals are succumbing to community-acquired infections. An epidemic may harm millions. Unless Congress and the Administration move with urgency to address these infections now, there is a very good chance that U.S. patients will suffer greatly in the future." 
   Nobel Laureate Joshua Lederberg said it well: "We are running out of bullets for dealing with a number of (bacterial) infections. Patients are dying because we no longer in many cases have antibiotics that work." 
   This week noted Utah infectious disease expert Dr. Andy Pavia told me about a 14 year-old boy he had treated who had bone, muscle and lung infections from MRSA, an aggressive, difficult to treat, form of staph that has spread rapidly within communities. Half of the children he sees with severe MRSA infections acquired their infection at home. 
   This young man was forced to undergo multiple surgeries and six weeks of intravenous antibiotics. MRSA infections are steadily increasing in Utah, as well as across all other states. 
   Fortunately, that young man is on the road to recovery. But the statistics indicate there are many who aren't so blessed. 
   We are not only talking about MRSA. Dr. Pavia also cites the real crisis growing with resistant gram-negative bacteria, which he calls the "Rodney Dangerfield of the infectious disease world" - because "it don't get no respect." 
   We are also seeing increases in extensively-drug resistant (XDR) tuberculosis. And, there are numerous reports of soldiers returning home from Iraq with Acinetobactor - a resistant infection that is especially difficult to treat and the only option is a very toxic antibiotic. 
   These are the problem our communities are facing. But Senator Brown and I are aiming to give scientists the tools they need to meet this challenge. 
   We are developing legislation that takes a science-based approach to this problem. We will introduce our bill, the Strategies to Address Antimicrobial Resistance Act (or "STAAR Act") later this week. 
   One of the things that Senator Brown and I have found is that there is not adequate infrastructure developed within the government to collect the data, to coordinate the research, and to conduct the necessary surveillance. 
   We believe that jump-starting a greater, stronger, organizational focus at the Department of Health and Human Services will help our government and our scientists develop an infrastructure to stop these drug-resistant infections in their tracks. 
   Senator Brown and I have worked on this issue for many months, starting with our collaboration on provisions in the Food and Drug Act Amendments recently signed into law by the President. We are also working with our colleagues in the House, foremost among them Utah Congressman Jim Matheson, author of the House STAAR Act. 
  At the same time, we make perfectly clear that our bill is not THE answer to the complex, vexing problem of antibiotic resistance. At a minimum we need better testing, better hospital controls, better medications, and better funding to support these efforts, particularly the work of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
   It will take literally years to develop an effective response to these super-bugs. But it is our hope that STAAR Act will begin to catalyze that response.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 