SENS. HATCH, LEVIN TOUT SUCCESS OF DRUG ADDICTION TREATMENT ACT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) joined Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.) today at a symposium discussing the success of their Drug Addiction Treatment Act of 2000, which among other things expanded the ability of doctors to prescribe buprenorphine to recovering heroin addicts. 
   Hatch's prepared remarks follow:  
   The topic of drug abuse is so important to me that I will always make time to talk to on the subject. 
   First off, let me commend my colleague, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan for his leadership. Carl is one of the real experts in the Senate on drug abuse, and I appreciate all he's done for our country on this issue. In helping bring about new methods and medications to treat heroin addiction, Carl and I have worked side by side for many years. We've worked together on a bipartisan basis on drug issues with Senator Joe Biden and our great former colleague Senator Pat Moynihan and many others, including many of you here today. 
   I want to recognize Director Nora Volkow of the National Institute of Drug Abuse and Director Westley Clark of the Center for Substance Abuse and Treatment. These two have some of the most challenging jobs in the government, and we thank them for their good work. 
   Dr. Charles Schuster and I are long time friends. We worked with Nancy Reagan many years ago on the "Just Say No" campaign. Dr. Herbert Kleber was drug czar under first President Bush. Let me also recognize doctors David Feillin and Jim Finch, who are leaders in their fields. 
   All of you have joined Carl and me today because we know that this country can develop better treatments for drug abuse. Nobody in this audience needs to be reminded of what is at stake, but it is worth emphasizing again. We need to break the pernicious cycle between heroin addiction and crime. If we can encourage thousands of addicts into rehabilitation today, they and their families will be able to live more productive lives tomorrow. We can make major gains in our nation's crime problem and improve the social structure and stability of many families who today live under the scourge of drug abuse. 
   I am proud of the legislation we passed in 2000. The Drug Addiction Treatment Act was a groundbreaking law that allows certified physicians to prescribe appropriate medications in their offices, like the drug buprenorphine, to help people trying to break the shackles of heroin addiction. 
   Prior to passage of this law, medical treatment for that kind of addiction and dependence was restricted to designated drug abuse treatment centers. This kind of movement is like building a wall brick by brick. It takes a lot of time and work and a solid foundation - and that's what we're constructing today. 
   We must allow qualified doctors to treat more addicts than can be treated under current law. Currently, doctors are allowed only 30 such patients at a time. But why should we bind a healer's hands from helping as many as he or she could? 
   Let me share with you a letter from Dr. Glen Hanson, former director of NIDA and a professor of toxicology and pharmacology at the University of Utah. Dr. Hanson told me that "In Utah the use of buprenorphine to manage opiate dependency is enthusiastically recommended by clinicians who are certified and actively working with opiate-dependent patients." 
   Dr. Hanson shared some success stories with me. One is Dr. Michael Measom, a physician at Utah Valley Mental Health, who says, "I love to prescribe buprenorphine because it has been such a useful and successful drug for so many patients. It has increased my ability to serve patients, especially in an ambulatory detoxification setting." 
   Dr. Measom says that many of his patients were able to "turn their lives around" by using buprenorphine and participating in treatment. He shared with me examples of how buprenorphine treatment helped: (1) a mother reconnect with her son; (2) save several marriages; and (3) several patients return to the workforce and become productive citizens. 
   Dr. Measom pointed out that one of the many benefits of buprenorphine is that patients are able to fully benefit from individual and group therapy sessions because they are able to concentrate better and be more active in their treatment. 
   Senators Biden, Levin, and I are hoping to expand the number of patients qualified doctors are allowed to treat and we need all of you to let your senators know that you support this effort. 
   And although I hate to leave you with a threat, in this case, I will do so. If you do not work our proposed change in the law, Sen. Levin and I are going to sic Jackie Parker on you. And I've always found it is easier to do just what Jackie wants than to argue with her.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 