SENATE PASSES SEN. HATCH BILL TO HONOR CENTENNIAL OF UTAH LEAGUE OF CITIES AND TOWNS
  The U.S. Senate late yesterday passed S. Res. 297, authored by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), to honor the 100th anniversary of the Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT). The bill was cosponsored by Sen. Bob Bennett (R-Utah).  
   "The League has done a wonderful job of representing hundreds of cities and towns throughout a large and growing state for a century now," Hatch said. "Bob and I are very proud of the way it has advocated for the success of each Utah city and town and we honor its wonderful accomplishment. I am grateful that my colleagues have joined with me in supporting this resolution and in wishing the members of the League another 100 years of success in the century to come. When it comes to helping local Utah governments, they're out of everyone's league." 
   "I'm pleased to join Senator Hatch in extending our congratulations and appreciation for the 100 years of service by the Utah League of Cities and Towns," said Bennett. "I had the opportunity to work with them on the 2002 Olympic Winter Games. They were a tremendous asset in securing the bid and hosting the world during that memorable time. That advocacy is seen in all they do as they work to strengthen Utah communities by promoting common interests while also recognizing their unique differences. As the League enters its second century, I extend my best wishes and once again thank them for all the valuable work they do." 
   ULCT serves 243 incorporated municipalities in Utah. ULCT represents municipal government interests with a strong, unified voice at the state and federal levels and provides information, training and technical assistance to local officials on municipal issues in order to create a greater public awareness and understanding of municipal responsibilities, governance and administration. More information is available online at ulct.org.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 