SEN. HATCH DENOUNCES CALLS FOR IRAQ EXIT DATE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today accused those seeking a premature exit from Iraq of subverting the United States' mission in Iraq.  
   "Those who call for an exit date before knowing we have succeeded do not care for our success nor our security," Hatch said. "No one called for an exit date before we had victory in World War II, a war where America made enormous sacrifices, including my only brother. No one called for an exit strategy during the twilight years of the Cold War. No one, after the collapse of the Soviet Empire, set an exit date for our efforts to support democratic transition in central and eastern Europe. We built our policies on victory, magnanimity, democracy and freedom." 
   Hatch said President Bush realizes the important distinction between an exit date and an exit strategy. 
   "President Bush has an Iraq exit strategy - success," Hatch said. "We will get out of Iraq when they can defend themselves from the terrorists and have a stable government. To leave before then, or to announce a departure before we know we have achieved this goal, would undermine our mission and devalue our sacrifices." 
   Hatch said he was inspired to see Iraq take its first steps toward democracy in last weekend's elections. 
   "The world watched as millions of Iraqi people headed to the polls to participate in their first free election in more than 50 years," Hatch said. "Not only did the Iraqi people defy the terrorists, but they defied the skeptics - some of whom could be found in Iraq itself, many others throughout the international community, and, disappointingly, even here at home. Many said that the elections were too soon, that the Iraqi people wouldn't dare come out of their homes to vote, and worse, that the Iraqi people weren't ready and didn't desire freedom." 
   Hatch noted that Utahns are among many of the United States soldiers risking their lives in Iraq, serving their country and helping the Iraqi people establish a free and democratic government. 
   "Just yesterday, a group of 100 Utah National Guard men and women, in addition to the 500 that left just a week before, were deployed to bases in the U.S. for training," Hatch said. "I know they will serve well, and I pray for their safe return home to their loved ones and families."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 