SEN. HATCH ISSUES JUDICIARY STATEMENT ON ?CHILD CUSTODY PROTECTION ACT'
 Statement of Chairman Orrin G. Hatch 
  before the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary
   Hearing on "The Child Custody Protection Act: Protecting Parents Rights and Children's Lives" 
   I want to thank Senator Sessions for holding this hearing today. I also want to thank Senator Ensign for introducing S. 851, the Child Custody Protection Act, and for appearing today to testify. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of S. 851 and want to express my strong support for this important piece of legislation. Similar legislation was previously introduced in past sessions of Congress but, and I am sad to say, never was signed into law. However, I hope that this Congress we are able to pass this bill which will help protect the health and safety of children while safeguarding the rights and responsibilities of parents.
   I want to first thank Crystal Lane for her courage to appear here today, to testify, and to participate in the legislative process. As you hear her traumatic story, remember when this happened, Crystal was a young 13 year old girl-barely a teenager- who was underwent a serious medical procedure, an abortion, without anesthesia, without the comfort of her mother or any other family, and which resulted in serious medical complications that caused her and her family much pain afterwards.
   The Child Custody Protection Act is a reasonable and rational approach to fixing a serious problem, like Crystal was exposed to. In most places, a school nurse cannot provide an aspirin to a student for a headache without permission from the parent. Students cannot go on field trips without parental approval. Some report cards need a parent's signature to verify the parent knows how their child is performing academically.
   This bill is not addressing something relatively trivial; it is drawing attention to a very serious medical procedure and protecting the health and safety of young girls. States that choose to implement parental notification laws because of their concerns with the well-being and safety of children should have every tool necessary to enforce their own laws.
   An abortion is a risky medical procedure, especially for young teenagers. This bill is designed to protect children from the health and safety risks associated with abortion. In many cases, only a young girl's parents know of her prior psychological and medical history, including allergies to medication and anesthesia. Many other medical procedures in this country require the consent of parents before they are performed on a minor. Also, parents are usually the only people who can provide authorization for post-abortion medical procedures or even release important information from family physicians. Given all of these other important medical situations that require parental consent, it is only reasonable and logical to recognize and enforce a States law asking for parental consent or notification for certain abortions.
   This bill is a reasonable effort to build upon two basic points with which many agree--despite other longstanding differences. The first is the desirability of parental involvement in a minor's abortion decision, and the other is the need to protect a pregnant minor's physical health.
   This bill does not supersede, override, or in any way alter existing State parental consent or notification laws. Nor does this bill require States to implement their own parental involvement laws. The Child Custody Protection Act simply makes it a Federal offense to knowingly transport a female minor across a state line, with the intent that she obtain an abortion, in circumvention of State laws requiring parental consent or notification.
   This legislation, I would emphasize, is not a Federal parental involvement law; it merely ensures that State laws are not evaded through interstate activity. The Federal Government is not trying to tell the States how they must act and when, and this bill is not forcing parents to be good parents. This legislation strengthens the effectiveness of State laws, which is where the issue is best addressed and enforced. If we fail to pass this bill, we would be choosing to ignore the legitimacy and constitutionality of States to create and pass laws that specifically address the needs and desires of its citizens, especially when it comes to the health and safety of children. 
   We all know how contentious the issue of abortion can get around here, and across the country. But this matter is not even about abortion. This bill is simply about protecting the health and safety of minor children and the rights that their own States have concluded their parents should have. 
   I welcome and thank all of our witnesses for their appearance here today.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 