SEN. HATCH BILL WOULD GIVE TROOPS NEEDED TAX RELIEF
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced legislation that would allow U.S. military Reservists and National Guardsmen to make penalty-free withdrawals from retirement plans during the period that they are called to active duty.  
   "For many Reservists and Guard members, retirement accounts can be a significant resource in helping to alleviate some of their financial stress," said Hatch. "Providing soldiers with an additional option to support their families certainly seems like a worthwhile cause to me." 
   Senator Hatch's full statement follows: 
   Statement of Senator Orrin Hatch 
  Before the United State Senate 
  May 3, 2004 
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to allow penalty-free withdrawals from retirement plans during the period that a military Reservist or a National Guardsman is called to active duty. Specifically, the provision would allow individuals who are called to active duty for at least 179 days between September 11, 2001, and September 15, 2005, to avoid the 10 percent penalty tax that is normally imposed on early distributions. 
   This bill passed the House of Representatives by unanimous consent late last month, and it is my hope that this important and appropriate legislation will receive the same resounding support by my colleagues in the Senate. 
   Nearly 3,000 Reservists and Guard members from my home state of Utah have been called to active duty and are currently stationed in the Persian Gulf and Afghanistan. I believe it is safe to say that when many of these brave young men and women were informed by their commanding officers they would be placed on full-time active duty, they were not only concerned with the extended time period they would be called away from their families, but also with the reality that by temporarily leaving behind their full-time civilian jobs, many of them would leave behind a higher paycheck. Many Reservists are suddenly faced with the prospect that their income may no longer cover all of the expenses for themselves and their families. 
   Some may say that allowing Reservists to make withdrawals from their retirement accounts without incurring a penalty is too small a step, and not worthy of our time. But to many Reservists and Guard members, these retirement accounts can be a significant resource in helping to alleviate some of their financial stress. Providing our soldiers with an additional option to support their families certainly seems like a worthwhile cause to me. 
   The cost of this bill to the United States Treasury is estimated to be only $4 million dollars over 10 years. I think we can all agree this cost is minimal considering the tremendous sacrifices that our Reservists, Guard members, and their families are making each day. In addition, there is a provision in this bill that would allow our soldiers to repay any amount withdrawn, without penalty, for two years after leaving active duty. 
   There is no doubt that there are many additional much-needed improvements to our policies that each of us must work together towards to ensure the financial peace of mind for our Guard and Reserve members and their families. It is imperative for each of us to give our soldiers not only all of the tools, armor, and technology to fight those who seek to destroy peace, but we must also do everything within our power to give our soldiers every appropriate resource to make it easier to care for their loved ones they have left behind. 
   I urge my colleagues to give serious consideration to this bill, and it is my hope that it can be passed by unanimous consent. I am confident that President Bush would have no hesitation in signing this important bill into law, if we can pass it in the Senate and send it to him.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 