SEN. HATCH SPEAKS AT ANTI-COUNTERFEITING AND PIRACY SUMMIT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today spoke before the U.S. Chamber of Commerce at its Anti-Counterfeiting and Piracy Summit. Prepared remarks follow. 
   The protection of intellectual property has always been one of my top legislative priorities in the Senate for over 30 years. Now more than ever, America's ingenuity continues to fuel our economy, and it is imperative that we protect new ideas and investments in innovation and creativity. Make no mistake about it: piracy and counterfeiting are the new face of economic crime around the world, far exceeding traditional property crimes. 
   It is estimated that U.S. intellectual property alone is worth $5 to $5.5 trillion, that is equivalent to about 45 percent of our GDP. 
   In other words, this is greater than the entire GDP of any other nation in the world. Additionally, millions and millions of jobs are created every year by U.S. IP industries. And, I might add, these jobs earn an average of 40% more than the average pay of other U.S. jobs. Without a doubt, America's intellectual property drives our economy and is the envy of the world. Clearly, we must do everything to protect our prime status as a world leader on this front.  
   Fostering strong intellectual property protection builds the economies of not only developed nations, like ours, but for any nation striving to achieve a vibrant and growing economy. Conversely, counterfeiting and piracy cripple growth and stifle innovation. 
   Counterfeiting and piracy aren't just about downloaded music, pirated software, or fake designer hand bags. It's about the health and safety of the American people. 
   Indeed, counterfeiting and piracy affect all sectors of our economy, including pharmaceuticals, auto parts, and the quality and safety of our food. 
   Consider the following: 
   * General Motors and its suppliers lose billions of dollars annually from lost sales due to counterfeit parts. 
   In fact, General Motors says it has come across brake linings made of wood chips and cardboard that could burst into flames with heavy use and coolant that can eat through a car's radiator in 48 hours. 
   * The Federal Aviation Administration estimates that 520,000 parts installed on airplanes each year are counterfeit. 
   * The operational life of counterfeit bearing seal-spacers removed from a United Airlines plane were found to last only 600 hours while genuine parts had a life of 20,000 hours. 
   * The World Health Organization estimates that counterfeit drugs account for 10% of all pharmaceuticals. That number rises to as high as 60% in some developing countries. 
   Unfortunately, the list goes on and on. 
   But, you get the point. 
   This is a bigger problem than knowingly spending $20 for a poorly produced fake Rolex watch when the name on the face says "Rolez" - this problem is pervasive and touches almost every aspect of the American household. 
   Aside from posing serious health and safety concerns, counterfeiting and piracy sap our country's economic strength. Plain and simple, when a company loses revenues to piracy or counterfeited goods, it doesn't have that money to reinvest into making more of its products. 
   That means the company can't hire more people, invest in research and development, and provide consumers with new and better products. This domino effect ensnares all within its reach. 
   It affects the individual company in the ways I just mentioned. 
   It also adversely affects the companies that would have contributed to or benefitted from the unmade products. Suppliers of raw materials and components as well as shippers, distributors, and retailers, all take the hit. 
   Let me tell you about the Martin Door Manufacturing company, a family-owned small business in Salt Lake City, Utah, that prides itself on making the world's finest, safest garage doors and the world's quietest garage door openers. Unfortunately, Martin Door has lost millions due to Chinese counterfeits that use the company's good name to dupe consumers into buying inferior products. Competitors in China use inferior material and unsafe designs to cut the selling price of a door they then call a "Martin Door." The amount of revenue lost outside of China is unknown, but company officials regularly receive order requests from countries in which they are not currently doing business. 
   In fact, they've received calls from Azerbaijan and Dubai asking about a Martin Door quote from China. 
   This example is a sobering reminder of how America's small businesses are being directly impacted by counterfeiting and piracy in the global market. 
   Nationally, my colleagues and I in the Senate are committed to curtailing piracy and counterfeiting. Our challenge is to come up with viable solutions that will not only protect existing intellectual property rights, but encourage the free-flow of information and ideas necessary for creativity and innovation to thrive. 
   Everyone here is already aware that this is a global problem and the solution will require a commitment - not only to beef up domestic enforcement, - but it will also require a concentrated government-wide effort to prevent the creation of pirated and counterfeited materials. 
   Furthermore, I believe any solution will take an integrated approach with both domestic and international prongs which incorporate educational, judicial, and enforcement components to halt this insidious attack on our intellectual property. In order to accomplish this task, all stakeholders must cooperate and work in an integrated fashion with state, federal, and international governments. 
   In the Senate, we face the challenge of working with multiple Committees that have jurisdiction over various aspects of the integrated approach I just outlined. Coordinating efforts may take extra time. But, doing nothing is not an option. As technology advances and becomes more sophisticated, so does the enemy. 
   As many of you already know, I am working on legislation that will provide our government with the tools necessary to combat this very real and growing threat to our economy. Although I will not discuss the particulars of my legislative approach today, I hope, upon introduction, that each of you will give my proposal serious consideration. 
   While I believe that reform is needed, there are some underutilized resources that could go a long way in fighting against counterfeiting and piracy. For example, there is an interagency group coordinated by the Department of State, which has IP experts from various government agencies including the USPTO, USTR, DHS, and the FBI. These talented and experienced officials are committed to helping U.S. businesses protect their intellectual property rights and eradicate illegal behavior. So much can be mitigated if companies will seek out experts in these areas to create an individualized IP protection plan. Businesses need to be proactive on this point and I know that many stand ready to help you navigate through the intricacies of foreign IP laws. Indeed, a penny of prevention is worth a pound of cure. 
   I commend all of you for participating in this Summit. 
   You in this room are the artists, the innovators, and leaders. Focusing attention to this important issue is the first step toward meaningful solutions. Many of you know that I have an open-door policy and welcome your ideas and thoughts on how we might combat piracy and counterfeiting. 
   I am optimistic that we can achieve our goals. 
   I was pleased to hear that the Scout Association of Hong Kong - the former British colony's coeducational version of the Boy Scouts - has launched the world's first merit badge program focused on respect for and protection of intellectual property. The badge program will give thousands of future leaders a better understanding of the value and importance of intellectual property. I applaud these young people! This is a great example of how a simple program can educate and change attitudes regarding intellectual property rights. 
   We have the will. 
   Now we must work together to find ways to eradicate counterfeiting and piracy. You can count on me to be part of this effort. 
   Thank you again for inviting me to come and speak to you today. I have really enjoyed being with you this morning.
   Contact: Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 