SEN. HATCH: STATE-INSPECTED MEAT SAFER THAN FOREIGN IMPORTS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) is the sponsor of S. 1150, the New Markets for State-Inspected Meat and Poultry Act of 2007, a proposal which was included in the House-passed Farm Bill that would allow state-inspected meat products to be sold across state lines. 
   Hatch expressed strong support for a press conference being held today by the National Association of State Departments of Agriculture and the National Farmers Union aimed at rebutting unsubstantiated claims by some that allowing state-inspected meat product across state boundaries would create a safety risk.
   "State meat inspection programs currently must meet or exceed every single Federal food safety law, regulation, rule, and directive," Hatch said. "Sift through the news, and you'll find that meat safety problems almost invariably come from either federally inspected plants or from foreign imports."
   "How can it be that state-inspected meat is safe enough for Utahns, but somehow not safe enough to sell across the border?" Hatch asked, "If the opponents of my legislation were really concerned about the safety of state-inspected meat, then they would be focused on improving the state programs, but curiously, that's not what they are doing."
   Hatch's legislation would overturn a nearly 30-year ban on interstate shipment of state-inspected meat, which would place Utah's ranchers on a level playing field with national and foreign meat producers.
   "This ban hurts Utah's ranchers and small business owners, and there's no reason for it," Hatch said. "States are getting a bad deal. State inspection programs have proven to be just as effective as Federal programs, yet state-inspected meat can't be shipped across state lines. It's high time we update this unnecessary, unjust ban that puts Utah's small businesses at such a disadvantage."
   Federal law requires the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to inspect all meat products slaughtered for human consumption, and in the late 1960s Congress created state inspection programs that are mandated to be "at least equal to" the Federal inspection program. Utah has 32 plants authorized to inspect meat, part of nearly 2,000 plants nationwide largely run by small businesses that cater to the needs of small, family-run farms and ranches.
   "It's absurd that meat inspected overseas can be shipped anywhere in the United States without restriction, but Utah's small businesses are prohibited from shipping their products across state lines," Hatch said. "They meet the same food safety requirements. We shouldn't hold Utah's meat producers to a different standard than their foreign competitors."
   Contact: Heather Barney, 801/524-3341; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 