SEN. HATCH INTRODUCES TWO BILLS TO IMPROVE UTAHNS' WATER RESOURCES
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today announced the introduction of two bills that will help Utahns in the Weber Basin and Juab County make better use of their water resources.  
   "Utah is the second-driest state in the country, so we can never let up in securing our future water needs," said Hatch. "These bills will help several Utah cities and counties meet their growing drinking water needs and improve irrigation systems for farmers and ranchers." 
   The first bill, the Arthur V. Watkins Dam Enlargement Act of 2005, would authorize a Bureau of Reclamation study on raising the Arthur V. Watkins Dam in Weber County. 
   "Weber County doesn't have enough water to meet its growth needs right now," said Hatch. "Increasing the storage space of an existing reservoir is an easy way to help solve the problem." 
   The second of Hatch's bills is the Juab County Ground Water Study and Development Act of 2005. The bill would, among other things, allow Juab County to use Central Utah Project funds to complete water resource development projects. 
   "The citizens of Juab County have been waiting for years to benefit from the Central Utah Project." said Hatch. "This bill will help provide them with the water resources they need and deserve." 
   Senator Hatch's floor statement follows: 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch 
  before the 
  United States Senate
   Mr. President, in recent years, Utahns have suffered through a devastating drought. While it appears that we are beginning to return to normal precipitation levels, the drought has instilled in all Utahns the need to plan for the future and ensure sound management of our water resources. For that reason, I rise to introduce two important bills that will help make better use of Utah's scarce water supply. 
   The first bill is the Arthur V. Watkins Dam Enlargement Act of 2005. The bill would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to conduct a feasibility study on raising the height of the Arthur V. Watkins Dam in Weber County. The dam is roughly 14 miles long and encloses a reservoir containing more than 200,000 acre-feet of water. 
   Thousands of Utahns currently rely on the water provided by the reservoir. And the Weber Basin is one of Utah's fastest growing areas, making the need to find additional water resources even more pressing. Enlarging the dam would help ensure that the area can meet its ever-increasing demand for water. In my view, expanding the dam is an easy way to increase water storage capacity in an area that desperately needs it. 
   The next bill I am introducing today, Mr. President, is the Juab County Ground Water Study and Development Act of 2005. This legislation would amend the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 2005 to include Juab County. It would allow Juab County to use Central Utah Project funds to complete water resource development projects, enabling the County to better utilize their existing water resources. It will ensure that farmers, ranchers, and other citizens of Juab County have a reliable water supply. 
   Under the original plan for the Bonneville Unit of the Central Utah Project, several counties in central Utah, including Juab, were to be delivered supplemental water through an irrigation and drainage delivery system. Over the years, however, many central Utah Counties have elected not to participate in the plan and no longer pay the requisite taxes to the Central Utah Water Conservancy District, the political division of the State of Utah established to manage CUP activities in Utah. 
   Unlike other central Utah Counties, Juab County remained active in the Central Utah Water Conservancy District's efforts and has paid property taxes to the District hoping to benefit from its membership. Unfortunately, that has not been the case. Presently, most of the water allocated to the Bonneville Unit of the Central Utah Project is planned for use in Wasatch, Salt Lake, and Utah Counties. This legislation would simply ensure that the citizens of Juab County can benefit from the system they help support. 
   I urge my colleagues to support these bills. Thank you, Mr. President.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 