SEN. HATCH WISHES UTAHNS HAPPY INDEPENDENCE DAY
  Today Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) delivered the following speech to celebrate the Fourth of July. 
   It is a great privilege for me to be here with you today for the 19th Annual Patriotic Celebration in Taylorsville. I want to pay tribute to two remarkable individuals who began this program 19 years ago, Bill and Christie Ingham. What they started as a simple flag raising ceremony by the Boy Scouts has grown into the wonderful occasion it is today through their efforts. What a wonderful gift they have shared with their community. 
   It is a pleasure to also share the stage with some truly great Utahns and Americans whose patriotic fervor is evident in their dedication to our nation and the ideals we all hold dear. It is also gratifying to see the veterans in the audience today. Thank you for your courage, your sacrifices, and your service. 
   As I ponder the occasion we will be celebrating - our nation's birth - I wanted to take a few moments today to discuss the gratitude I feel for America and what it means to be an American.  
   When I reflect on the birth of our nation, I am always struck by a feeling of deep reverence and awe for the inspiration, courage, and devotion of our early Founders. I want to pay tribute today to all those who have fought for our freedom in the past, to all those who do so now, and to all those who will yet. 
   I'm not alone in this sentiment. 
   I want to reflect for just a moment today on the idea of "service." Service to your fellow beings, your God, and your country. As the war on terrorism continues to rage in lands far away, my thoughts are never very far from the men and women who are serving in these difficult times, and those who have served throughout our history. 
   While serving in our nation's capitol, I have had the opportunity to walk the halls of many of our country's greatest buildings where history permeates their very foundations. Many times I have felt a very reverent feeling for the occurrences that have taken place within their very walls. Yet, the feeling I get when I walk among the graves at Arlington National Cemetery is untouched and special to me. As you look over the markers of the many men and women who have sacrificed everything, their very lives, for our freedom - it is humbling indeed. 
   Just a few weeks ago I had the opportunity to attend the grave side services of a truly extraordinary man, and valiant soldier and defender of our freedoms - Gene Jacobsen. As I stood quietly observing the military procession carried out that day in his honor, I was so impressed, as I always am when the military participates in memorial services, by the feeling of absolute reverence and peace you could feel. 
   A man was being laid at rest that day who had suffered horrible hardships during the dark days of World War II. He was serving in the army when he was ordered to the Philippines during intense fighting. A few weeks after arriving in the Philippines, his superiors surrendered his entire unit and he was forced into the Bataan death march. 
   After finding himself one of the survivors of this horrific occurrence, he then found himself in a prison camp for almost four years where he was abused physically and mentally by his captors. He suffered diseases which killed more than half of his companions, yet somehow he found himself one of the lucky few to live through some of the most difficult circumstances any soldier can ever endure. 
   He came home to marry, raise a family, and became a superb teacher who had an influence for good on the lives of the many, many students he mentored. 
   The military tribute paid to him on the occasion of his death was small, but poignant. As the bag pipes played, and later the bugle rang out "Taps" you couldn't help but feel proud to be an American. I honored him that day, along with many like him, for his service, his courage, and his sacrifices so that we might all live free. 
   America, with its constitutional democracy, has served as a beacon to the entire world for more than 200 years. It has inspired the fight for freedom, and instilled the hunger for liberty. 
   Remember the Berlin Wall fell from the East - flattened by the millions demanding liberty. It did not fall from the West - pushed by free citizens looking for something else. 
   Today as we celebrate the birth of our nation - let's remember that America did not become the greatest bastion of freedom on earth simply by accident. It has been through supreme sacrifice and dedication to our democracy that we have continued to flourish and stand as a beacon of liberty to the world. 
   Recently I was able to leave my Senate Office for a few hours and travel to the Walter Reed Medical Center to visit with some soldiers who had been wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. I was able to walk through the physical therapy unit and meet with a large group of soldiers - all of them amputees. These soldiers humbled me. Despite being stung by the tragedies of war, they were upbeat, wanting to get better, and believing fervently in the cause of freedom for which they valiantly fought. 
   I also had the opportunity to visit with a young soldier from Utah who was in extreme pain, steadfastly trying to recover from the injuries he had sustained. As I stood by his bedside, I was touched by the bedrock of support shown to him that day by his wife who was by his side, and his two-year-old daughter. It truly reinforced to me that often our freedom does come with a price - but that price is made more bearable by the support of our families, and our citizens. 
   Whether it is sacrifices on the fields of battle, or service in our own neighborhoods and communities - this is what makes America the greatest country on the earth. 
   America is not only a land of majestic mountains, fertile fields, and towering cities - it is a land of opportunity, of peace, and of individual freedom. It is comprised of brave men and women fighting battles overseas to protect our treasured freedoms. And it consists of citizens sharing their talents, their creative geniuses, and their compassion for the betterment of our country. 
   In recent months, Utah has had some tragic, yet poignant reminders of the fragility of human life. None of us will ever forget the tragedy which unfolded in Trolley Square, or the shooting just last week of a Utah Corrections Officer who was guarding a prisoner. 
   But from the ashes of these tragedies, we were able to find strength in the goodness of our people. Utahns from all walks of life, and every corner expressed united grief, and resolved to help. Law enforcement officers, and average citizens found courage deep within their souls to aid perfect strangers. 
   I was struck by a story I recently read which told of a school teacher who had asked her class to draw a picture of something they were thankful for or enjoyed. She thought of how many would draw pictures of food, or material items they would like to have. 
   The teacher was taken aback with the picture Douglas handed in. . .a simple childishly drawn hand. 
   But whose hand? The class was captivated by the abstract image. "I think it must be the hand of God that brings us food," one classmate stated. "A store clerk," said another because he sales us our IPODS. 
   Finally when the others were at work, the teacher bent over Douglas's desk and asked whose hand it was. "It's your hand, teacher," he mumbled. 
   She recalled that frequently at recess she had taken Douglas, a scrubby forlorn child by the hand. She often did that with the children. A small, what she believed was insignificant, gesture meant the world to one child. Her hand represented something to him - I dare say it brought him peace and a feeling of liberty. 
   On this patriotic occasion may we all remember those who have extended their hands to us - whether through sacrifices laid on the battlefields of history, or the hands of friendship and help extended at home. 
   A few years back a very talented musician and humanitarian, and I might add friend - Bono - made a particularly poignant observation about America when he was interviewed by Oprah Winfrey on her show. He said: "There's the country of America, which you have to defend, but there's also the idea of America. America is more than just a country, it's an idea. And idea that is contagious." 
   I agree with him. America's greatness is not found in just one single act, in one single document, in one particular battle, or in one single person. America is great because of the people, ideals, and opportunities that make us this place we call home. 
   It truly is a "grand experiment" in which we have never failed. 
   When the fabled character Dorothy from the Wizard of Oz wanted to return home to the farm she uttered simple, yet important words - "There's no place like home." "There's no place like home." 
   Dorothy had it right. There is no place like America. How blessed we are to be part of this "grand experiment" in democracy and freedom. 
   I hope that we will always respect, and honor the precious gift of freedom we have been given by those who have sacrificed greatly that we might live in this cherished country - America. 
   Thank you for inviting me to participate in this special event. May God Bless America.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Heather Barney, 801/524-4380.
 
 