SEN. HATCH PUSHES CLEAN AIR MEASURES
  Using his position as a conferee on the JOBS Act Conference Committee, which is meeting this week to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) has filed three amendments to the Conference Report to tackle what Utahns have said is their number one environmental concern: clean air.  
   Hatch's amendments include the CLEAR ACT, a comprehensive proposal he authored to promote the use of alternative fuels and alternative fuel vehicles; a clean diesel fuel proposal, which assists refiners to produce low sulfur diesel; and a tax incentive plan to promote renewable sources of electricity, such as geothermal. 
   "The CLEAR ACT is the most comprehensive legislation Congress has ever considered to promote the use of alternative fuel vehicles and advanced car technologies among consumers," Hatch said. "Transportation accounts for about two-thirds of the oil consumed in the United States, and we are 97 percent dependent on oil for our transportation needs. If we want to clean the air and address our nation's energy dependency, we must increase the use of alternative fuels in our transportation sector." Using tax credits, the CLEAR ACT promotes all of the advanced technologies being pursued by auto manufacturers to dramatically reduce emissions and improve efficiency, including fuel cell, hybrid electric, alternative fuel, and battery electric vehicles. 
   Furthermore, Hatch's clean diesel proposal would provide tax incentives to ensure that small refiners will be able to produce low sulfur diesel, according to EPA requirements. "Vehicle emissions are the top source of pollution in Utah, and diesel trucks and buses are the heaviest polluters on the road," said Hatch. "It's in our interest to ensure that even our small refiners are able to produce low sulfur diesel." 
   Finally, Hatch's third amendment would expand an existing tax credit to promote the generation of electricity produced from renewable resources, such as geothermal, which is abundant in Utah. "In generating electricity, the use of nuclear fuel, coal, or gas is normally needed to produce the steam that runs electricity producing turbines. Utah has a large resource of geothermal steam all ready to go, which displaces the need for these other fuels and their side effects." 
   Hatch, a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, is a conferee on the House-Senate conference committee which meets Monday and Tuesday to resolve the differences between the House and Senate versions of the JOBS Act. The Senate-passed version of the JOBS Act included each of these provisions, while the House-passed version did not.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 