SEN. HATCH: AIR FORCE SELECTS HAFB FOR F-35 STRIKER
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today announced the United States Air Force has named Hill Air Force Base as one of two operational bases for the F-35A Lightening II, or Joint Strike Fighter. The other base selected is Shaw Air Force Base in South Carolina.  
   "This is great news for Hill, and for Utah; it's going to keep Hill strong for decades," Hatch said. "We were the Air Force's top choice for the F-16. The Lightening is going to replace the F-16, and the Air Force turned to Hill first to base its new generation of fighters." 
   The F-35A is a stealth fighter that combines a first-rate ground-attack capability with advanced avionics, providing pilots a "first-look, first-shot capability" when engaging enemy aircraft. Along with precision-guided bombs, the Lightening also contains a state-of-the-art radar system. Hill's Utah Test and Training Range will prove ideal for preparing Air Force pilots to perform in combat. 
   The Air Force intends to purchase more than 1,700 F-35As, with procurement beginning in 2009 and lasting until 2025. The initial operational capability for the Lightening will occur in 2011, and, if all goes according to plan, Hill should receive its first F-35 shortly before that date. 
   "The credit for this definitely goes to those at Hill," Hatch said. "Hill is the premier air logistics center in the Air Force. And when the Air Force wants to get the job done right, it turns to Hill. That's because for years during the BRAC process, we've talked to top Air Force officials about Hill. They know very well the great work that Hill does every day, and they are impressed." 
   The decision is subject to an environmental analysis, and Air Force officials indicated that Hill will receive at least one squadron of F-35As, though they have yet to finalize the total number of aircraft or squadrons that will be placed at HAFB. Currently, Hill's 388th Fighter Wing has 72 aircraft divided between three squadrons.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 