SEN. HATCH CITES WASHINGTON STATE COURT ACTIVISM AS FURTHER PROOF OF NEED FOR FEDERAL MARRIAGE AMENDMENT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement in response to (1) a Washington state court's decision (Andersen v. King County, King Cty. Sup. Ct. No. 04-2-04964-4 SEA) to strike down a state law on marriage, and (2) the overwhelming vote (71%-29%) in favor of traditional marriage in Missouri:  
   "These two actions this week crystallize what is happening - and will continue to happen - on the issue of marriage in this country. When the issue is decided by the people, as it was in Missouri, and as it was by the Washington state legislature, the people vote to preserve traditional marriage time after time. Unfortunately, these democratic decisions are continually at risk as was evidenced by the activist decision in Washington state. 
   "When we debated the federal marriage amendment on the floor of the Senate in July, many members who voted against it cited the fact that laws protecting marriage had not been struck down yet. Those of us in favor of the amendment argued that courts would use the sweeping language from Lawrence v. Texas to overturn these laws. This is precisely what the Washington court did. It is now clearer than ever that we need a federal amendment to stop the courts from usurping this important foundational decision from the people." 
   "Rest assured that we will continue to fight for a constitutional amendment to protect traditional marriage. This debate was pushed into the spotlight by liberal, activist judges in Massachusetts who clearly do not speak on behalf of Missouri, Washington or Utah, or frankly as we have seen in poll after poll, the American people. It is inescapable that amending the U.S. Constitution is the only way to protect traditional marriage at the federal level. States should not be forced to recognize the work of wayward courts who take it upon themselves to stomp on over 5,000 years of tradition to change the meaning of the word 'marriage.'"
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 