SALT LAKE COUNTY TO RECEIVE LARGE GRANT TO COMBAT VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
  Sen. Orrin Hatch announced today that the Salt Lake County Criminal Justice Service Division will receive a grant of $749,368 to encourage arrest policies and the enforcement of protective orders. This grant program implements certain provisions of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which Sen. Hatch sponsored and passed in 1994.  
   "I am gratified to see VAWA providing tremendous benefits to my home state," stated Hatch. "This grant will help enhance the safety of domestic violence victims and hold offenders more accountable for their violent acts by encouraging jurisdictions to implement mandatory and pro-arrest policies as an effective domestic violence intervention. It also helps coordinate the vital efforts of those working on the front lines to combat the scourge of these acts of violence. I firmly believe that working together we can make a tremendous impact on discouraging and preventing violence, as well as help provide important services to those who are unfortunately victims of these cowardly and violent acts." 
   Salt Lake County, in collaboration with the non-profit, non-governmental victim service programs of the YWCA of Salt Lake City, the Utah Legal Defense Fund, and the Legal Aid Society of Salt Lake will work together to implement this grant which is designed to accomplish four objectives: strengthen the integrated, interagency coordination and tracking at the justice court level by expanding it to encompass class A misdemeanor and felony cases in the third district court; hire a probation officer to track all domestic violence offenders referred by the Third District Court; provide a paralegal to pilot a protective order filing system to better track cases; and create positions for a Diversity Advocate and a Police Victim Advocate who will assist underserved victims and train the police, prosecutors, and victim service providers regarding diversity issues and domestic violence.
   Contact: Heather Barney, 801/524-4380.
 
 