SEN. HATCH, DELEGATION SEEK BOOST OF FEDERAL RESOURCES TO COMBAT ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION-RELATED CRIME
  Joined by the rest of the Utah delegation, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today sent letters to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, urging him to provide the state with additional resources - specifically 22 more officers with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) - to combat the rising tide of crime connected to illegal immigration.  
   "On my most recent trip back to Utah, I met with members of the Legislature, who are struggling to find solutions to the state's immigration-related challenges," Hatch said. "The influx of immigrants into Utah has increased dramatically in recent years and is unlikely to subside in the near future. Certainly, many become valuable members of society, contributing to our state's economy and culture. But as law enforcement can attest, many engage in criminal activity relating to drugs, gangs, theft, sexual violence, and other offenses." 
   The Utah Department of Public Safety reported that in the first six months of 2007 (the most recent data available), violent crime increased 11 percent, murder increased 35 percent, robbery increased 25 percent, and aggravated assault increased 9 percent. While these spikes in the crime rate cannot be pinned entirely upon illegal immigrants, Utah officials have informed Hatch that of the individuals who come to the attention of law enforcement and who are deported each year, approximately 400 to 500 return to Utah and commit another crime. 
   Hatch and the delegation request a much stronger partnership between state and local law enforcement and the ICE Detention and Removal (DRO) in Utah. DRO transports aliens, manages them while in custody, and removes unauthorized aliens from the United States when so ordered. Under a 12-year-old law, the federal government can train state and local peace officers to perform DRO functions. The Utah Legislature is extremely supportive of this plan, but seeks federal resources to implement it. So Hatch and the delegation have requested Homeland Security assign 12 additional DRO officers to Utah for this purpose. 
   The delegation writes, "It is impossible for our state and local law enforcement officials, with the assistance of the few ICE and DRO agents currently assigned to Utah, to address this increasingly growing problem in a meaningful way. Our jails are full. The crime rates continue to increase, and we can no longer afford to let this problem escalate. Furthermore, the I-15 corridor has become a gateway for illegal activity. The large amount of federal land, the rural nature of the state, and the limited number of ICE/DRO personnel in Utah hinder the efforts of all law enforcement personnel to appropriately deal with these issues." 
   Moreover, Hatch and the delegation urge ICE to add 10 special agents with the Office of Investigations (OI) in Salt Lake City, Provo, Ogden, and St. George, for a total of 35 such agents statewide. OI investigates issues such as immigration crime and smuggling. 
   "Utah's local law enforcement has its hands full protecting and serving the people of the Beehive State. Protecting our nation's borders is a federal matter," Hatch said. "We recognize Homeland Security is doing a very good job given the difficult situation. We hope the agency will be responsive to our state's request."
   Contact: Mark Eddington and Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 