SEN. HATCH TARGETS HIGH GAS PRICES WITH OIL REFINERY BILL
 At a downtown Salt Lake gas station, Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today announced his intention to introduce legislation to increase the nation's oil refining capacity.  
   "There's no question - if we want to start solving our fuel needs, we have got to increase production," Hatch said. "This bill, in concert with alternative-fuel initiatives like my CLEAR ACT, and domestic production initiatives like my proposed oil shale and tar sands legislation, will help put America on a path to energy independence. The sooner we act on this and other long-term solutions, the sooner we can see an improvement at the gas pump." 
   The economics of refining are so tough that the United States has lost nearly 200 refineries since the last one was built in 1970, and now the nation is left with only 149 overworked refineries. Hatch noted that domestic refineries are unable to meet American demand, so the country is currently importing refined oil products to make up the difference. 
   "We have a serious problem, and it's easy to point a finger at the energy companies for high gas prices," Hatch said. "But the reality is that government rules and regulations combined with a complete lack of a national energy policy and unfriendly tax rules are at the heart of our problem." 
   Hatch's bill, which will be called the Gas Price Reduction through Increased Refining Capacity Act, would provide for accelerated depreciation for new refineries or for refineries that are increasing their capacity. For instance, the bill would allow refiners who commit to starting construction on new refining equipment before 2007 and have new facilities built by 2011 to completely write off their new equipment in the first year instead of the current 10-year depreciation schedule. 
   The refining bill is only one part of Hatch's three-prong energy strategy designed to encourage more affordable sources of energy and greater energy security. Last week, Hatch re-introduced the CLEAR ACT of 2005 (Clean Efficient Vehicles Resulting from Advanced Car Technologies), which would provide strong tax incentives for the purchase of alternative and hybrid vehicles, for new alternative fuel infrastructure, and for the retail sale of alternative fuels. 
   Within the next couple of weeks, Hatch also intends to introduce a comprehensive bill to promote the development of our nation's tar sands and oil shale reserves, which reside mostly in Utah, Colorado, and Wyoming and are estimated to have as much recoverable oil as the Middle East.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370. 
 
 