SEN. HATCH: TRANSFER STATE PARK TO BEAVER COUNTY
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today testified before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to support his legislation that would transfer Minersville State Park ownership to Beaver County. 
   "This park now features more than $1 million worth of park facilities, and I believe the intensive, day-to-day management of this park can be best accomplished by local officials," Hatch said. "If Beaver County acquires the property, it will continue to make this park an excellent recreational refuge, a superb fishery, and a great place to visit."  
   For more than 40 years, the State of Utah managed the area known as the Minersville State Park. Faced with closing the park due to budget shortfalls, the State agreed in 2002 to transfer park management to Beaver County. 
   However, the Bureau of Land Management noted that the property itself had not been acquired through the Recreation and Public Purposes Act process, which would restrict Beaver County's park management plan. Hatch's legislation, S. 2285, would remove those restrictions by transferring the park ownership to Beaver County. 
   Senator Hatch's full statement follows: 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Public Land and Forests
   Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for holding this hearing today on important lands-related bills and for allowing the consideration of my bill to convey a parcel of land to Beaver County, Utah for its administration as a county park. 
   Today, it is my distinct pleasure to introduce the Committee to two Beaver County Commissioners, Mark Whitney and Pat Yardley. I appreciate Mark and Pat for traveling to attend this hearing. Commissioner Mark Whitney will provide testimony regarding the importance of this bill. Mark Whitney has served as a Commissioner for five years now. Mark lives in Millford, Utah and has used the Minersville Recreation area all of his life. He is an avid outdoorsman and has worked on this issue from the beginning. 
   Mark, I welcome you and thank you for making the trip to testify before this Committee regarding the importance of this bill. I know Commissioner Whitney will do a good job explaining why this bill is so important and necessary, so I would like to make just a few brief points. 
   I introduced S. 2285, the Beaver County Land Conveyance Act, because it is necessary. This bill is necessary to help Beaver County to be able to afford to administer the land as a park - and I would point out that the State of Utah administered the area as a state park for more than 40 years. Just as importantly, this bill is necessary to solve the dilemma that the Bureau of Land Management finds itself in today with regard to this land. 
   Very simply, this bill would allow Beaver County to obtain and maintain, without restrictions, the former Minersville State Park. In sum, this bill is required to allow County officials to sell a small portion of this land - if necessary - in order to offset funding needed to maintain and operate the park. 
   I'll leave it to Commissioner Whitney to give the testimony about the history of the park. I just want to point out that as County officials stated during their negotiations, in order for Beaver County to afford the management of day to day operations of the would-be county park, they might need to able sell a small portion of the property to pay for park operations. However, after park management responsibility was transferred to the County, the BLM pointed out that the property had not yet been acquired through the Recreation and Public Purposes Act process, which would restrict the County's plan. 
   I don't believe that letting management of the park revert to the BLM is a viable option either. This park now features more than one million dollars worth of park facilities constructed by the State. The intensive, day to day management of this park can be best accomplished by local officials. If Beaver County acquires the property, it will continue to make this park an excellent recreational refuge, a superb fishery, and a great place to visit. Beaver County will be able to provide a clean and safe park enjoyed by all who visit. 
   Mr. Chairman, that is why I have introduced this legislation that would convey the Minersville Park land to Beaver County. I appreciate your having my fellow Utahn, Commissioner Mark Whitney, testify about this bill, and I thank the Committee for the opportunity to address this issue today. I urge you and the rest of my colleagues to support this legislation. 
   Thank you.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 