LEGENDARY BOXER ONE STEP CLOSER TO PRESIDENTIAL PARDON
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today praised the Senate's passage of a resolution petitioning for the presidential pardon of Jack Johnson, the first African-American heavyweight boxing champion, who was wrongfully prosecuted for a "white-slavery" Mann Act violation. Senator Hatch issued the following statement:  
   "As a huge fan of the sport of boxing, I admire the great achievements of Mr. Johnson in his too short career. But I feel a greater need to recognize and pardon Mr. Johnson for the great injustice he suffered. Although it is too late to properly rectify what was done to Jack Johnson, I hope in some small way we can call attention to his remarkable achievements and repair his good name. 
   "Jack Johnson was the first African-American boxer to win the heavyweight title. While this was a landmark achievement for African-Americans, Johnson's achievements unfortunately had the effect of escalating racial tensions and his subsequent victories provoked racial rioting. The effort to dethrone him brought about the search for the "Great White Hope" during his 1908-1915 reign as heavyweight champion. 
   "The consensus is that while Johnson was not defeated in the boxing ring he could be stopped by trumped-up criminal charges. In 1913, Johnson was found guilty of violating the "white-slavery" Mann Act for taking his future wife out of state. Johnson was convicted and he tried to appeal his sentence. Before the ruling on his appeal, Johnson fled the country and was a fugitive for seven years before he returned to the United States in 1920. Johnson turned himself over to federal authorities and served ten months in Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas. 
   "Mr. Johnson went on to continue fighting but never returned to the same glory. He was killed in a car accident in 1946 at the age of 68. Eight years later, he became a charter member of the Boxing Hall of Fame. 
   "I am hopeful that the President will accept this petition and issue a posthumous Presidential pardon for Jack Johnson. Mr. Johnson defied the racist standards of his day to become a world champion. He was a hero and example to a greatly oppressed people who had too few public heroes to look to emulate."
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 