ENERGY DEPARTMENT DECIDES TAILINGS SHOULD BE MOVED
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today announced the Department of Energy (DOE) has decided to remove radioactive waste in Moab that has threatened to contaminate the drinking water for 25 million people throughout the Southwest. Today's decision follows months of aggressive lobbying by Utah's Congressional delegation and Moab City, Grand County and Utah state officials to urge DOE officials to move the waste.  
   "The tailings have to go, and I'm glad the DOE finally saw the light and agrees with us," said Hatch, who recently visited the site during a tour of the state, which confirmed his fears that the site is dangerous. "I want to thank DOE Secretary Samuel Bodman for making the right decision. We made our case to him, and he heard us. It's not just folks in Southeastern Utah, but people throughout lower Colorado Basin, who will be able to breathe a little easier now." 
   The 12 million tons of tailings sit 750 feet from the Colorado River and are residue from a uranium mill that ceased operations in 1984 and was taken over by the DOE in 2000. Moab's facility is the only DOE-decommissioned uranium mill that has not been cleaned up, and the DOE had previously considered as one of its alternatives capping the waste and storing it onsite. 
   "The Colorado River is the lifeblood of the Southwest, and it makes sense environmentally and economically to move this pile now to a safe location," Hatch said. 
   In today's announcement, the DOE said its preferred alternative for cleaning up the site is to remediate the groundwater and transport the tailings pile and other contaminated materials to the Crescent Junction disposal site. The DOE will include this preference in its draft Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), but will not issue its final decision on the remediation of the Moab site until after it reviews public comment and the final version of the DOE's EIS for the site.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 