SEN. HATCH INTRODUCES BILL TO INCREASE PUBLIC EDUCATION FUNDS
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today introduced legislation to help Utah and other Western states address chronic public education funding gaps. Hatch's bill, the Action Plan for Public Land and Education (APPLE) Act of 2006, is a companion measure to legislation introduced by Rep. Rob Bishop (R-Utah) in the House.  
   "Utah simply can't generate the revenue it needs for education with so much of its land tied up by the Federal government," Hatch said. "The Bishop-Hatch bill strikes the right balance. Rob's a former high school teacher who knows Utah's education system like the back of his hand. He worked for years with Marty Stephens, Steve Urquhart, and other local and state leaders to come up with a plan that helps states profit from their public lands and channel those profits to their schools." 
   The APPLE Act would authorize the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture to grant five percent of Federal land to western states where large proportions of public land hamper the states ability to raise funding for public education. The land would be held in trust to be sold or leased, and the proceeds used strictly for the support of public education. 
   This week, the U.S. Census Bureau reported Utah remains 51st in the nation -- in last place -- in the amount of money it spends on each student in Utah's schools. At $5,008 per pupil, Utah is considerably lower than the national average of $8,280 and a high of $12,981 in New Jersey. However, these numbers belie Utah's commitment to education. The state's tax burden ranks 8th in the nation, largely because of the significant resources Utahns puts toward funding their public education system. 
   Hatch argues that Utah and 12 other Western states lack a strong sales tax base necessary to dramatically raise public education funding because so much of their land -- 52 percent -- is owned by the Federal government, compared with just four percent in the remaining states. The government currently compensates Western states through school trust lands, but Hatch believes the funding is woefully insufficient. 
   "Sales tax comes from private lands, and Utah just doesn't have enough of it," Hatch said. "The state's top priority is education, and that's clear by how much of its budget goes toward education. The Federal government can -- and should -- help by opening up some of its public land to raise revenues for Western states."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 