SENATE UNANIMOUSLY PASSES RYAN WHITE AIDS ACT
The U.S. Senate today unanimously approved H.R. 6143, the "Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006." To recognize the event, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), who was an original cosponsor of the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency Act of 1990, delivered the following speech. 
 Mr. President, I am pleased that the Senate has been able to come to an agreement and adopt H.R. 6143, the "Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006".  
 With this agreement, we finally reauthorize the only federal program that helps low-income individuals living with HIV/AIDS. We tried to pass this critical legislation earlier this year; and, even though this effort has enjoyed large bipartisan support in both chambers, just a few members prevented its passage. 
 We worked to address their concerns in this compromise, and I am very glad to see the success of that endeavor. I would like to thank HELP Committee Chairman Enzi and Ranking Minority Member Kennedy, and others, for their tireless efforts throughout the reauthorization process. It has taken quite a long time to get here, and I commend everyone for their hard work. No one knows this more than Senator Kennedy, with whom I authored the original Ryan White CARE Act back in 1990, and I am very proud that our work has been able to help so many people. 
 This bill may not be perfect, but it will continue a vital program that needs to be continued. Importantly, it will help stabilize the distribution of CARE Act funding in areas of the country where the AIDS epidemic is largest and also increase access to areas that have seen large numbers of new HIV infections. 
 Many of us here in the Senate recently received a letter from 99 AIDS organizations that endorse this reauthorization. These are national and local organizations that provide services to people living with HIV/AIDS - they are the ones out there actually working with them, not sitting here in Washington, just talking about it. They have been involved throughout this entire reauthorization process - they have seen all the proposals and compromises - and they support this legislation. 
 I thank these individuals for their participation in and contribution to the lengthy reauthorization process, because the end product would not be effective without their input. 
 I am especially thankful for the insight of Jennifer Brown, the State AIDS Director in my home state of Utah, who helped me throughout negotiations to understand the possible effects of changes in the program. 
 I would like to read a portion of the letter sent by the AIDS organizations, which I think reiterates a very important message: 
 "It is time to put aside regional differences and individual jurisdictional concerns, and act on behalf of all Americans who are living with this terrible disease. If Congress fails to act before adjournment, many of our citizens will lose life saving medical care, drug treatment and the support services necessary for them to lead healthy, productive lives." 
 This message has been quite clear for some time. We received this message from the HIV/AIDS community, from our constituents, and from the President. 
 Everyone has urged us here in the Senate to work in the best interests of the entire nation and pass this reauthorization, and I am pleased that we have been able to do so.
 Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 