SEN. HATCH CONFIRMS GATES TO BECOME SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today voted to confirm Dr. Robert Gates as Secretary of Defense. The Senate confirmed Gates by a 95-2 vote. Hatch's prepared remarks follow.  
 Mr. President, today I rise in support of the nomination of Dr. Robert Gates to become the next Secretary of Defense. 
 Mr. President, I have had the opportunity to work with Dr. Gates on numerous occasions and must note that he was an excellent member of President George H.W. Bush's national security team during the First Gulf War. This was highlighted by the fact he was nominated and confirmed to become Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shortly thereafter. Dr. Gates adds intelligence and diplomatic experience to a war that increasingly requires its leaders to go beyond tactical military expertise. Further, he is a pragmatist, who will work with allies and make necessary changes to our tactics and initiatives. 
 I was impressed by Dr. Gates' candid assessment of the war in yesterday's confirmation hearing. He asserted, correctly in my view, that the United States is not winning the war, but we are not losing, either. The status quo is not acceptable, and that is why the President has tapped him to do whatever it takes to bring a successful end to our efforts in Iraq. He spoke openly about our failures and our successes so far, and he underscored what's at stake: if we are not successful, it could ignite "a regional conflagration" in the region. 
 Dr. Gates understands that we need to refine not the objectives of our strategy but how we achieve our goals. The President and Dr. Gates remain committed to a course of action that achieves the goals best articulated by Dr. Zalmay Khalilzad, United States Ambassador to Iraq. He stated: "Our goal is to enable Iraqis to develop a multi-ethnic, multi-sectarian representative democracy..." that can fully meet is security obligations. 
 I appreciate his comments that he is "open to a wide range of ideas and proposals." I know that he is a leader who will review the options and advise the President on what he believes is the best way to proceed. 
 Some of those innovative ideas will be found in the New Army Field Manual for Counterinsurgency Warfare. This is a vital document that will directly address what I have heard from many returning soldiers, that the Army's culture is one that emphasizes the use of fire-power and conventional warfare rather stability and counterinsurgency operations. This new doctrine will immediately begin to transform our tactics and training, thereby being enormously helpful to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 Mr. President, Dr. Gates has my full support. These are trying times for our nation. Our resolve is being tested. I know that Dr. Gates is the right man to advise the President on the means to achieve our goals and help the Iraqi people usher in a new era in that country. 
 I yield the floor.
 Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 