INTERNS TAKE FIRST-CLASS TRIP TO WASHINGTON ON SEN. HATCH EXPRESS
 Six Utah college students are learning more about government than they could in any classroom during a semester as interns in the Washington, D.C., office of Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah).  
   The interns come from across the Beehive State and represent four of Utah's universities. 
   "I am a total politics junkie. I wish I could get CSPAN injected straight into my veins," said Ray Griffith, 23, a political science student at Brigham Young University and Cedar City native. "Sometimes my wife tells me I drive her bonkers talking about politics." 
   Weber State University student Audrey Wilson, 21, of Roy said, "I wanted to come out here for the great learning experience, and to be a part of something amazing. I'm learning so much from the staff here. They're so easy to work with. It feels great to be a part of history." 
   Experiencing a Supreme Court nomination process first-hand, the interns have had the chance to attend press conferences, hearings, and vote mark-ups, so they can sample a gamut of Capitol Hill experiences. 
   Brigham Young University's Michael Lundberg, 23, was on the frontline of the nomination process, helping Hatch's judiciary staff with their efforts to back the Senator's work for now Justice Samuel Alito. Lundberg hopes to return to D.C. for law school after finishing in Provo. 
   "Washington, D.C., is the busiest place on Earth and I've always wanted to live here," Lundberg said. "I also am passionate about American government and American history, and I wanted to take part in the process." 
   The interns also give Capitol tours and help the Senator in his work for Utah constituents. 
   "At first, it was really intimidating to go from small-town Utah to what is really one of the busiest cities in the world," said Amy Noorda, 21, of Utah State University. "It's a crazy town and there is so much going on all the time, this is awesome opportunity." 
   Each semester, the office gathers interns from schools across Utah. As many as 50 students apply for the office's six or so openings, and summer spots are the most competitive because more students are generally interested. 
   "Washington, D.C., truly is the epicenter for national and world affairs," said Sean O'Brien, 24, of the University of Utah. "There is no more pertinent place to be if you want to enact change." 
   Schools recommend applicants to the internship program based on GPA, extra-curricular activities and other accomplishments, then Hatch makes the final cut. Students can also apply on their own using Hatch's website, hatch.senate.gov. (Click on "Teachers and Students," then "Internships.") 
   "It's very competitive," Hatch said. "It's not only competitive among the kids, it's competitive among the various D.C. internship programs to get the best of the best." 
   An internship is an incomparable foot in the door for students seeking professional experience in college. 
   "It is exciting to be in the midst of national and world events as they unfold," said Mike Lundgren, 24, from the University of Utah. "An internship acts like a backstage pass to the nation. We may be at the bottom of the ladder, but we're also at the center of the world."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 