SEN. HATCH: PRESIDENT BUSH MAKES DIFFICULT DECISIONS ON AMBITIOUS BUDGET
 Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today placed his support behind the President's efforts to curb government spending and put the country on track to cut the deficit in half by 2009.  
   "Our economy is strong, and the President's right that low taxes and reduced spending are the best ways to keep the economy growing," Hatch said. "The President has laid out an ambitious budget, and Congress has to make some difficult decisions. It's tough to rein in spending, but we have to do it. I may not agree with everything the President's proposing, but he's got the right idea. He's focusing on key priorities and holding the line on everything else." 
   President Bush's budget invests in homeland security, energy, health care, and education programs that will promote America's long-term prosperity. Outside of these priorities, the President seeks a cut in non-security discretionary spending. 
   "I like the President's focus on energy, and Utah's oil shale and tar sands reserves will go a long way in building our domestic energy supply," Hatch said. "The President's budget will also support Utah's efforts to invest in the math and science skills our kids need to get the upper hand in today's economy. Utah's commuter rail also took a huge leap forward with the President proposing $80 million for this crucial project. I'm also fully behind the President's efforts to expand and make the research tax credit permanent. I've fought for this for years because it's good for Utah's expanding technology industry, and it's good for the United States." 
   Hatch expressed concern about the President's plan to slow the growth of entitlement spending by $65 billion over the next five years, along with significant proposed cuts to programs vital to Utah. None of the details have yet been presented to Congress. 
   "We all agree that Medicare and Medicaid costs are growing at an unsustainable rate, but we need to be very careful," Hatch said. "Last year's reform was difficult, and that was just one-sixth the savings as the President's proposing now. You can only find so much waste and abuse before you start affecting care. The President's decision to reduce rural health and CDBG funding -- and eliminate CSBG funding -- is also very troubling to me. These programs make a real difference in the lives of low- and moderate-income families in Utah."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 