SEN. HATCH: WORK WITH STATES TO IMPLEMENT NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today urged Secretary of Education nominee Margaret Spellings to address Utah's concerns about implementing the high standards of No Child Left Behind (NCLB) during Spellings' confirmation hearing before the HELP Committee (Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions). Today's hearing marked Hatch's return to the HELP Committee, which he chaired during the 1980s.  
   "While I support the concept of No Child Left Behind, the law has turned out to need some modifications," Hatch said. "We need to fund it better, and too many schools do not make Annual Yearly Progress because they just do not understand what is required, or misinterpreted the law. I think it is going to take some time to adjust. We need to continue what is working in NCLB and look at what is not." 
   Spellings accepted Hatch's invitation to visit Utah and meet with state leaders and educators about NCLB. Hatch raised his concerns about state and local district control and flexibility for education initiatives, conflicts between NCLB and the Individuals with Disabilities in Education Act (IDEA), and most important, the lack of federal funding for NCLB, especially for special education and Title I programs. 
   "Utah has received 60 percent more special education funding since President Bush took office, yet it's still not the full funding required by law," Hatch said. "I recognize there are competing budget issues, but I believe it's important that we live up to our end of the bargain if we require states and schools to meet the new federal standards." 
   Hatch also shared the experience of Granite School District - a school district with a large majority of students coming from low-income, non-English-speaking families - as an example of how NCLB is affecting Utah's schools. Along with implementing innovative new approaches to education, Granite used funds from NCLB to purchase a student tracking database that shows how each child is doing in each subject with every teacher. 
   "They are enlisting the support of parents, teachers, and the community to make sure that these kids get the help they need," Hatch said. "And they are having great results. Test scores are up. Honor roll is up. Parents are more satisfied. Students are taking pride in their education. And, that's what NCLB is all about."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 