PRESIDENT BUSH SIGNS SEN. HATCH'S DOMESTIC VIOLENCE LAW
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) was one of a handful of lawmakers invited to participate in President Bush's signing ceremony for a bill re-authorizing the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) on Thursday afternoon in the Oval Office. The United States Senate unanimously passed this legislation on Dec. 16, 2005, extending a 1994 law originally sponsored by Hatch and Sen. Joseph Biden (D-Del.). Since its inception, VAWA has played a vital role in protecting women and families from the tragedy of violence and abuse, and this re-authorization will expand VAWA through 2011.  
   "Domestic violence is an intolerable crime that strikes at the very foundation of society - our families," Hatch said. "VAWA provides states and communities more muscle as they work to prosecute and prevent these heartbreaking and home-wrecking crimes. I consider the success of VAWA to be one of my greatest achievements as a United States Senator." 
   VAWA has contributed to decreasing violent crimes against women by 49 percent since 1992. Incidents of rape are down 60 percent, and attempted rape is down by 57 percent over the same period. Moreover, more women now report domestic violence and receive the necessary legal, financial, and social support they need for protection. 
   "The horror of violence against women does not always get the attention it deserves," Hatch said. "By providing important resources to local law enforcement, VAWA has increased education about the human costs of these crimes. Bipartisan support for the act shows the overwhelming consensus that these crimes will not be tolerated." 
   The original act and subsequent legislation created new criminal penalties for federal interstate domestic violence, stalking and firearms crimes. It strengthened federal penalties for repeat sex offenders and required states and territories to enforce protection orders issued by other states. The 1994 law also created the Office on Violence Against Women, currently directed by Diane Stuart of Utah, which coordinates the federal funds that support rape-prevention education, domestic violence intervention programs, battered women's shelters and law enforcement and prosecution services. Since its enactment, VAWA has provided more than $1.6 billion in grants to help states and local governments train personnel and establish domestic violence and sexual assault units that assist victims of violence. 
   The re-authorization will continue this commitment to law enforcement and victim service organizations. In addition, it expands resources to vulnerable rural and Native American communities and provides new protections for the elderly and young children exposed to abuse.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 