SEN. HATCH ISSUES COMMENTS ON NOMINATION OF J. LEON HOLMES TO EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS DISTRICT COURT
 Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate on the Nomination of J. Leon Holmes to the U. S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas
   Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for the confirmation of J. Leon Holmes, of Arkansas, who has been nominated to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas.  
   Mr. Holmes is widely respected for his intelligence, his legal skills, and his commitment to the rule of law. Leon Holmes knows the value of hard work. He came from humble roots and is the only one among his seven siblings to attend college. He worked his way through college, and finished law school at night while working a full-time day job in order to support his family. 
   Leon Holmes is an accomplished scholar and has displayed a wide-ranging academic interest. He is a distinguished graduate of Duke University, where he received a doctorate in political science, and the University of Arkansas law school. Mr. Holmes finished law school at the top of his class, was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa while a doctoral student at Duke University, and was named Outstanding Political Science Student upon graduation from college. 
   Mr. Holmes is currently a partner with the Little Rock firm of Quattlebaum Grooms Tull & Burrow, specializing in complex business litigation, torts, and appellate practice. He has practiced commercial litigation at the trial and appellate level in state and federal court for many years, and has acquired significant courtroom experience. Leon Holmes is well respected by the Arkansas Bar and is one of the finest appellate lawyers in Arkansas. In 2001, the Arkansas Bar Association bestowed its Writing Excellence award on Mr. Holmes. 
   In addition, Leon Holmes has been an active participant in the Arkansas Bar. He has taught continuing legal education courses to the bar on numerous occasions. He has been awarded the state bar's Best CLE award four times. He sits on the Board of Advisors to the Arkansas Bar Association's magazine and has chaired the editorial board for the bar's publication of Handling Appeals in Arkansas. 
   Mr. Holmes sits on the judicial nominations committee for the Arkansas state courts, which recommends attorneys to the Governor for judicial appointment in Supreme Court cases where one or more justices must recuse themselves. On two occasions, he himself has been appointed to serve as a special judge of the Arkansas Supreme Court. This is a great honor for a practicing attorney, and the justices praised Mr. Holmes for his service in those cases. 
   As a person who took advantage of the opportunities presented to him, Mr. Holmes believes in giving back to the community. He is committed to providing legal services to all, and has given approximately 200 hours of pro bono services during each of the last three or four years. 
   Among other cases, he has represented, on a pro bono basis, a terminally ill Laotian immigrant woman denied Medicaid coverage for a liver transplant; an indigent man with a history of drug felony convictions; and a woman who lost custody of her children to her ex-husband. He represented Ricky Rector, a mentally retarded Arkansas man whose execution then-Governor Bill Clinton refused to commute in 1992. He represents Clay Ford, who has been sentenced to life in prison for shooting at point-blank range and killing a police officer in 1981. He defended on appeal the largest jury verdict in Arkansas history, which involves a nursing home resident who allegedly died from neglect. Her family won a $78 million-dollar judgment. 
   Leon Holmes has given back to his community in areas outside the law as well. He was a houseparent for the Elon Home for Children while a graduate student in North Carolina. He also served as the director of the Florence Crittenton Home of Little Rock in 1986-87, helping young women cope with teen pregnancy. 
   Those who work with and personally know Mr. Holmes strongly support his nomination. I will let Senator Lincoln and Senator Pryor speak for themselves, but I did appreciate their endorsements of Mr. Holmes at his nomination hearing last year. 
   Let me address some of the arguments that are put forward by Mr. Holmes opponents - that he is extreme in his views on abortion, that he is anti-women and that he is insensitive on matters of race. A full reading of Mr. Holmes writings, and more importantly, a review of his actions in these matters will set the record straight. 
   There is no question that Mr. Holmes has been a pro-life activist. He served as President of Arkansas Right to Life President from 1986-87, and as Secretary of the Arkansas Unborn Child Amendment Committee in 1984. Some of the statements that he has made in the course of his activism, he admits, have been insensitive and he has expressed regret for such remarks. 
   For example, in a 1980 letter to the editor, Mr. Holmes criticized the argument that abortion should be available to rape victims as a red herring because "conceptions from rape occur with approximately the same frequency as snowfall in Miami." Mr. Holmes has apologized for this remark, which he made 23 years ago. 
   In response to a written question from Senator Durbin, he wrote: "I have to acknowledge that my own rhetoric, particularly when I first became involved in the issue [of abortion] in 1980 and perhaps some years thereafter, sometimes has been unduly strident and inflammatory. The sentence about rape victims which was made in a letter to an editor in 1980 is particularly troublesome to me from a distance of 23 years later. Regardless of the merits of the issue, the articulation in that sentence reflects an insensitivity for which there is no excuse and for which I apologize." 
   In a different editorial, Mr. Holmes compared abortion to the Holocaust. On another occasion, he wrote: "The abortion issue is the simplest issue this country has faced since slavery was made unconstitutional, and it deserves the same response." In an April 11, 2003, letter to Senator Lincoln, Mr. Holmes explained: "In the 1980's I wrote letters to the editor and newspaper columns regarding the abortion issue using strident and harsh rhetoric. I am a good bit older now and, I hope, more mature than I was at the time. As the years passed, I came to realize that one cannot convey a message about the dignity of the human person, which is the message I intended to convey, using that kind of rhetoric in public discussion." 
   Again, referring directly to his 1980 "snow in Miami" remark, Mr. Holmes wrote: "I do not propose to defend that sentence, and I would not expect you or anyone else to do so." Based upon this letter, Senator Lincoln reaffirmed her belief that Mr. Holmes will be a fair judge. 
   The fact is, regardless of any personal views, Mr. Holmes will abide by the rule of law. He understands that his personal views play no role in his duty as a judge to honor stare decisis and faithfully follow the precedent of the Supreme Court and Eighth Circuit. 
   Pro-choice attorneys and others in Arkansas who work with him have written to the Committee in support of Mr. Holmes's nomination. Those who know him well strongly believe that, despite his personal views, Mr. Holmes will fairly adjudicate any abortion cases that come before him. His supporters include Robin J. Carroll, Legal Counsel to the Democratic Party of Arkansas; Philip S. Anderson, a former president of the American Bar Association and a leading Arkansas trial attorney; and Stephen Engstrom, former Little Rock Planned Parenthood chapter board member. 
   Mr. Engstrom wrote, "I heartily commend Mr. Holmes to you. He is an outstanding lawyer and a man of excellent character. Leon Holmes and I differ on political and personal issues such as pro-choice/anti-abortion. I am a past board member of our local Planned Parenthood chapter and have been a trial lawyer in Arkansas for over twenty-five years. Regardless of our personal differences on some issue[s], I am confident that Leon Holmes will do his duty as the law and facts of any given case require." 
   Trial attorney Kent J. Rubens, a pro-choice attorney who successfully brought a lawsuit to strike down Arkansas's abortion statutes after Roe v. Wade was decided wrote, "I cannot think of anyone who is better qualified to serve. . . . As someone who has represented the pro-choice view, I ask that you urge your members to support his confirmation." 
   Eileen Woods Harrison sent this letter to the committee, "I am a female attorney in Little Rock, Arkansas. I am a life-long Democrat and am also pro-choice . . . I commend Mr. Holmes to you. He is a brilliant man, a great lawyer and a fine person." 
   Another letter, this one from Cathleen V. Compton, stated, "I heartily recommend Mr. Holmes to you. He is an outstanding lawyer and a fine person. While he and I differ dramatically on the pro-choice/pro-life issue, I am fully confident he will do his duty as the law and facts of a given case require." 
   Beth M. Deere wrote the following: "I am proud to be a Democrat. I am also proud to recommend Leon Holmes as a federal district judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas, even though he and I disagree on issues, including a woman's right to choose whether to bear a child . . . . I support Leon Holmes because he is not only a bright legal mind, but also because he is a good person who believes that our nation will be judged by the care it affords to the least and the littlest in our society. I am not troubled that he is personally opposed to abortion. Mr. Holmes is shot through with integrity. He will, I believe, uphold and apply the law with the utmost care and diligence." 
   Another issue which opponents have distorted is that of gender equality. Mr. Holmes co-wrote an article with his wife entitled Gender Neutral Language. This article, which appeared in a religious newspaper of his faith, stated, "The wife is to subordinate herself to her husband," and, "The woman is to place herself under the authority of the man." Mr. Holmes' opponents believe that these statements indicate that he will not be fair to women appearing before him. 
   However, let me point out that these statements are derived from the New Testament (Ephesians 5:22-25) and represent orthodox teachings of his religion. Moreover, the article contains other statements supporting the equality of men and women, such as "All of us, male and female, are equally sons of God and therefore brothers of one another"; "[T]he distinction between male and female in ordination...has nothing to do with the dignity or worth of male compared to female"; "[M]en and women are equal in their dignity and value." 
   Mr. Holmes's wife wrote to the Committee to explain that the article in question was specifically written for the readership of members of their faith, persons who would be familiar with the New Testament passages being referenced with regards to the relationship between a husband and wife. 
   Furthermore, Mr. Holmes actions support the truth that he fully believes that men and women are equals. He has supported women in the legal profession and represented women as clients. Mr. Holmes' past and present female colleagues in the Arkansas bar support his nomination to this position. 
   Jeanne Seewald wrote this letter to the Committee: "Leon was a strong proponent of my election to the partnership and, subsequently, encouraged and supported my career advancement, as well as the advancement of other women within the firm. ... As a colleague, Leon treated me in an equitable and respectful manner. I always have found him supportive of my career and believe he is very supportive of women in general. Leon and I have different political views; however, I know him to be a fair and just person and have complete trust in his ability to put aside any personal political views and apply the law in a thoughtful and equitable manner." 
   Another co-worker, Kristine Baker, wrote the following: "Leon has trained me in the practice of law and now, as my partner, works with me on several matters. His office has been next to mine at the firm for approximately two years. During that time, I worked with Leon as an expectant mother and now work with him as a new mother. Leon's daughters babysit my eleven-month-old son. I value Leon's input, not only on work-related matters but also on personal matters. I have sought him out for advice on a number of issues. Although Leon and I do not always see eye-to-eye, I respect him and trust his judgment. Above all, he is fair. While working with Leon, I have observed him interact with various people. He treats all people, regardless of gender, station in life or circumstance, with the same respect and dignity. He has always been supportive of me in my law practice, as well as supportive of the other women in our firm. Gender has never been an issue in any decision in the firm." 
   Lastly, with regard to issues of race, Mr. Holmes has been criticized for defending and endorsing Booker T. Washington's view that slavery was a consequence of divine providence designed to teach white people how to be more Christ-like. Some have alleged - but I hope we don't hear this misinformed view repeated during this debate - that Holmes has said that "the Almighty said that slavery was a good thing." In fact, nowhere has Mr. Holmes said he endorses slavery or that he believes slavery was a good institution. 
   The article at issue, written for a Christian audience, was an expression of his belief, shared by Washington, that God could bring good out of evil. So while Washington certainly condemned slavery as evil, having experienced it first-hand, he held a belief that ultimate good could come out of it. Mr. Holmes's article similarly expressed the view that good can come out of evil and that we are called upon to love all men and women. 
   Mr. Holmes also wrote his doctoral dissertation on the political philosophies of three major African-American thinkers and activists, W.E.B. DuBois, Booker T. Washington, and Martin Luther King, Jr. He argued that King attempted a synthesis of militant nonviolence, ultimately unsuccessful, of DuBois's advocacy of political agitation and Washington's advocacy of a Christian persuasion as means to achieve equality for black Americans. 
   However, Mr. Holmes left no doubt that he admired Dr. King's achievements in helping to integrate buses, schools, parks, playgrounds, lunch counters, and marriages. He noted the progress made in terms of the expansion of rights and opportunities for all Americans, stating "Considering both the extent of the privileged status of Southern whites that has been relinquished and the amount of hate and prejudice that confronted desegregation twenty-five years ago, the accomplishment [of social change] is incredible." Although Dr. King's vision has not been completely realized, Holmes wrote, "in light of the unexpected changes in the past ten years, who can say that King's dreams will not all come true and 'justice will roll down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream?'" Mr. Holmes concluded by urging the reader not to dismiss Dr. King's vision of a promised land, quoting the last words of King's final speech before he was assassinated. 
   Mr. President, those who know Leon Holmes know he will be an outstanding jurist. The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Mr. Holmes' hometown paper that knows his record best, strongly supports his candidacy. The paper, writing while his candidacy was being considered, indicated that Holmes was a well qualified, mainstream nominee: 
   "What distinguishes Mr. Holmes is the rare blend of qualities he brings to the law-intellect, scholarship, conviction, and detachment. A reverence not just for the law but for ideas, for the life of the mind. All of that would shine through the clutter of argument that awaits any judge . . . . He would not only bring distinction to the bench but promise. . . . In choosing Leon Holmes, [the President] could bequeath a promise of greatness." 
   Considering the total record of Mr. Holmes, a record of distinction in academics, of excellence in legal practice, and of distinction in his community, it is not surprising that the American Bar Association gave Mr. Holmes a "well-qualified" rating. 
   I think my colleagues will agree that Mr. Holmes is a well-qualified nominee and will make a fine jurist. I urge the Senate to join me - as well as both Democrat home-state senators, Senator Blanche Lincoln and Senator Mark Pryor, who strongly support Leon Holmes's nomination - in confirming this outstanding candidate for the federal bench.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 