SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON CLASS ACTION FAIRNESS ACT OF 2004
 Statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch 
  Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary 
  Before the United States Senate
   Mr. President, I rise today to express my strong support for the Class Action Fairness Act of 2004, which is now renumbered S. 2062 to account for the bipartisan compromise we reached last November with Senators Dodd, Schumer and Landrieu. This improved bill embodies a carefully balanced legislative solution that responds to some of the most outrageous abuses of the class action litigation device in some of our state courts.  
   As anyone who has read the bill knows, it restores fairness to the class action system. Among other things, it eliminates the opportunity that exists in the current system for unscrupulous lawyers to profit by victimizing injured parties with sham settlements. And, it takes away the opportunity for those lawyers to use the system to extort legitimate businesses for their personal financial gain. 
   Throughout the years, Congress has received powerful evidence showing an extraordinary concentration of large interstate class action lawsuits in a handful of outlier state courts - certain county courts to be precise. The evidence further shows that these outlier courts operate in a manner that deprives the rights of truly injured individual plaintiffs as well as defendants. In too many cases, the parties have fallen prey to the manipulation, and in some cases outright evasion, by certain plaintiffs' lawyers of the settled rules that are supposed to ensure basic fairness during the resolution of major interstate class action disputes. Too often, judges approve settlements that primarily benefit the class action attorneys, rather than the injured class members. Indeed, it has become all too common for certain state courts to approve proposed settlements where class members receive little or nothing of value (such as a meaningless coupon), while their attorneys rake in millions of dollars in fees. To make matters worse, multiple class action lawsuits asserting the same claims on behalf of the same plaintiffs are routinely filed in different state courts, thus creating judicial inefficiencies and encouraging collusive settlement behavior. 
   Unfortunately, the injuries caused by these abuses are not confined to the parties who are named in the class action complaint. Rather, they extend to everyday consumers who unwittingly get dragged into these lawsuits as unnamed class members simply because they purchased a cell phone, bought a box of cereal, drove a car fitted with a certain brand of tires, or rented a video. What we are really talking about is a system that impacts the vast majority of people who live in this country, not just lawyers and businesses as some have wrongly suggested. 
   We are talking about people like Irene Taylor of Tyler, Texas, who was cheated out of approximately $20,000 in a telemarketing scam that defrauded senior citizens out of more than $200 million. In a class action brought in Madison County, Illinois, the attorneys purportedly representing Mrs. Taylor negotiated a proposed settlement which excluded her from any recovery whatsoever. 
   We're talking about people like Martha Preston of Baraboo, Wisconsin. Martha was involved in the infamous BancBoston case, brought in Alabama state court, which involved the bank's alleged failure to post interest to mortgage escrow accounts in a prompt manner. Ms. Preston received a settlement of only about $4. Despite their paltry recovery, approximately $95 was deducted from her account to help pay the class counsel's legal fees of $8.5 million! Notably, Ms. Preston testified before my committee five years ago asking us to halt these abusive class action lawsuits, but it appears that B at least thus far B her plea has fallen on deaf ears. 
   Class action abuses are so far-reaching that they affect non-consumers as well. Take for instance Hilda Bankston, a hardworking American who came to this country seeking to fulfill the American dream. But instead of reaping the rewards that normally come with hard work, she was unmercifully dragged into hundreds of lawsuits filed by personal injury lawyers in the State of Mississippi. Why? She owned the only drugstore in Jefferson County - a county known for hosting one of the most notorious magnet courts in the country. Her small business became a prime target for forum-shopping personal injury lawyers in pharmaceutical cases, not because her business committed acts of negligence, and certainly not because they had deep pockets to pay a large jury award or lucrative settlement. To the contrary, they were sued for the sole purpose of evading federal court jurisdiction so that the class action lawsuit could remain in state court. Why would personal injury lawyers go to such trouble to keep a class action in state court? Because unlike our federal courts that have judges who are insulated from political influence through lifetime appointments, many state court judges are elected officials who answer through the political process. 
   Even though Mrs. Bankston no longer owns the drugstore, she continues to be named a defendant in these lawsuits today and is buried under a mountain of discovery requests because of the litigation. On a more personal level, Mrs. Bankston told us about how this ordeal has affected her both personally and professionally. She testified that, "no small business should have to endure the nightmares I have experienced. . . . I have spent many sleepless nights wondering if my business would survive the tidal wave of lawsuits cresting over it." 
   Mr. President, critics have argued that the Senate should vote this bill down because it amounts to nothing more than special interest legislation. These critics are dead wrong and stand in desperate need of a reality check. To be perfectly clear, it is because of the wrongs committed against everyday American consumers like Irene Taylor and Martha Preston that the time has come for the Senate to pass class action reform. It is because of the victimization of innocent people like Hilda Bankston that the Senate needs to act now. And it is because of the public's collapsing confidence in our civil justice system that we need to pass this bill without further delay. Arguments being raised to the contrary are just red herrings that distort the real truth of the matter. The class action problem is real and significantly affects the general public. 
   The Class Action Fairness Act represents a modest and balanced solution to the class action problem. There are two core features to the legislation. First, the bill implements consumer protections against abusive settlements by: (1) valuing attorneys fees in coupon settlements to those coupons that are actually redeemed by class members; (2) providing a standard for judicial approval of settlements that would result in a net monetary loss to plaintiffs; (3) prohibiting settlements that favor class members based upon geographic proximity to the courthouse; and (4) requiring notice of class action settlements be sent to appropriate state and federal authorities to provide them with sufficient information to determine whether the settlement is in the best interests of the citizens that they represent. 
   Second, the bill corrects a flaw in the current federal diversity jurisdiction statute so that class actions with a truly interstate impact are adjudicated where they originally belong - in our federal courts. Specifically, S. 2062 amends the diversity-of-citizenship jurisdiction statute to allow larger interstate class actions to be adjudicated in Federal court by granting original jurisdiction in class actions where there is minimal diversity and the aggregate amount in controversy among all class members exceeds $5 million. 
   The bill also balances the states' interest in adjudicating local disputes by providing that class actions filed in the home state of the primary defendants remain in state court subject to a triple tiered formula that looks at the composition of the plaintiffs' class membership. This formula has become known as the Feinstein Compromise, which we were able to reach with Senator Feinstein during the Judiciary Committee markup on the bill. Moreover, after negotiations with Senators Dodd, Schumer and Landrieu last November, we were able to reach consensus on a further refinements that allows truly local disputes involving principal injuries within the forum state to be adjudicated in the state courts. 
   Now that I have summarized what the bill does, let me explain what is does not do. First, this bill does not eliminate all state court class action litigation. Class action suits brought in state courts have proven in many contexts to be an effective and desirable tool for protecting consumer rights. Nor do the proposed reforms in any way diminish the rights or practical ability of victims to band together to pursue their claims against large corporations. In fact, we have included several consumer protection provisions in our legislation that I believe will substantially improve plaintiffs' chances of achieving a fair result in any proposed settlement. 
   Mr. President, my summary of the bill should not come as a surprise to anyone here because these reform efforts have an extensive history in this body. Most importantly, this bill maintains strong support from several members on the other side of the aisle. In this regard, I would like to extend a special thanks to Senators Carper, Kohl and Miller for their tireless efforts in pushing for class action reform. Their commitment has helped us get to where we are today with this bill, and I look forward to their efforts in the coming days to keep the focus on passing this much-needed compromise legislation without becoming mired in extraneous amendments. 
   I would also like to thank my colleagues Senators Schumer, Dodd and Landrieu for working with us in good faith to build a stronger bipartisan consensus for this bill. As you may know, after we fell one vote shy of invoking cloture last year, these three members who originally voted against the bill presented us with a detailed list of issues that they wanted resolved before they could support class action reform legislation. And after extensive discussions last November, we responded in good faith to each and every concern that they raised by making the appropriate changes that are now embodied in S.2062. I look forward to continuing the good faith that was displayed last November as we proceed on this bill. 
   Opponents of this legislation would, no doubt, like to derail it by bogging it down in the amendment process. I look to the leadership of my Democratic colleagues who have worked with me on getting this legislation to where it is, and to others who are serious about ending the victimization of American consumers to do all they can to prevent this from happening. 
   In the coming days, I fully expect that some Members will offer numerous amendments to this bill, many of which will have nothing to do with the subject of class actions. While I understand the desire to follow regular order, I would like to note that this bill rests on a delicate bipartisan compromise that - at least on paper - commands a supermajority of votes to overcome a Democratic filibuster. But with each controversial measure added to this bill, the less likely it will become law. As such, I urge my colleagues - especially those who have supported class action reform - to limit and oppose amendments so that we can move an important bipartisan measure through the Senate. And again, while I expect the opponents of this bill to do everything in their power to gut, poison and weaken the bill, I trust that the Democratic colleagues who support class action reform will remain faithful to our bipartisan deal by vigorously opposing these amendments that will likely be offered in the coming days. 
   Class action reform is long overdue and it is now time for us to act. We have considered legislation for many years now, and the pattern of abuse has become clear. What once began as an occasional outrageous class action settlement has now become a routine occurrence. The legislation that we are considering would fix these problems and I would consider it a shame if we allowed partisan politics to kill much needed reform of the abuses in the current system - abuses that are actually hurting those the system is supposed to help.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225. 
 
 