SEN. HATCH: TRANSPORT SECURITY ADMINISTRATION'S COLLECTIVE BARGAINING WOULD BE 'A GIFT TO AL-QAEDA'
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today spoke on the Senate floor against proposed legislation that would allow officers with the Transport Security Administration (TSA) to engage in collective bargaining, which would hamper the TSA's ability to combat terrorism. 
   Mr. President, last week I shared share some of my thoughts and concerns regarding section 803 of S. 4. I am referring to the section that was inserted into this important piece of legislation during the committee consideration; this section would permit TSA's Transport Security Officers, our nation's airport security screeners, to engage in collective bargaining - a change that was not recommended by the 9/11 Commission. 
   During those remarks, as a former union member, I argued that collective bargaining would adversely affect one of the greatest weapons that our Transport Security Officers employ: the flexibility to change tactics quickly.  
   Why? 
   Because we all know that one of the central aspects of any collective bargaining agreement is a determination of the conditions by which an employee works; when a person works, where he or she works, and how he or she works are all matters which are open to negotiation. Obviously, efficiency and productivity can be dramatically affected - for better or worse - by a collective bargaining agreement. 
  In my last address on this issue, I also pointed out that flexibility has been one of the central tenets of our nation's successful anti-terrorism response, as was shown so well last August when the security services of the United Kingdom discovered a well-organized conspiracy that reportedly sought to blow up commercial aircraft in flight using liquid explosives disguised as items commonly found in carry-on luggage. 
   As that case showed only too well, quick and decisive action was required to protect our citizens and commerce from a very real threat. That action was taken by our Transportation Security Officers, who, within six hours of learning of the plot, made quick use of this highly classified information and trained and executed new security protocols designed to mitigate this threat. 
   What would have been the result if collective bargaining had been in effect? Very real questions and uncertainties can be raised about the impact that a TSA subject to collective bargaining could have had on the discovery of that plot. Should the government have to bargain in advance over what actions it can or cannot take when dealing with an emergency situation? If so, how would we know what to bargain for? Would there be time to conduct this negotiation? I think not. 
   One of the TSA's great strengths in responding to the UK plot was the fact that a fundamental change in our tactics was accommodated in a short period of time. Would not the vital capability of a uniform response to emerging threats be drastically curtailed if Transportation Security Officers were permitted to join different unions at various airports? Think about that. There would be separate collective bargaining agreements at various locations which would force TSA to implement dissimilar procedures in order to meet the legal requirements of each agreement. That obviously will not work. 
   I can see the posters now: "Defend America, but only during the hours and under the conditions that my union negotiated." 
   What about the relationship that will be created between supervisors and Transportation Security Officers? Might not collective bargaining create an atmosphere of us-versus-them? During a war, is this the attitude that we wish to foster? Rather, should we not attempt every day to enhance all of our agency's capabilities by building a team mentality? 
   What about training? 
   One of TSA's great successes took place in 2005, when the agency, in fewer than six weeks, was able to train 18,000 Transportation Security Officers in new methods to discover explosives. 
  What would have occurred if a collective bargaining agreement had been in place? 
   Rules governing training are often found in collective bargaining agreements - rules that require further negotiation as to the need, method, and time of training. It is common to hear, in other situations, that these negotiations require 60 to 180 days before training is implemented. 
   Would that be a change for the better? 
   As I mentioned before, during the UK plot, Transportation Security Officers were retrained in six hours and in fewer than six weeks they received new explosive training. Are we to sacrifice this impressive capability for an ad hoc system that might work after 60 to 180 days of negotiation? 
   Now that would be a true gift to al-Qaeda. 
   Additionally, many collective bargaining agreements require that an employer only judge if a worker has learned a new technical skill on a "Pass or Fail" basis. 
   Imagine that! Would you feel safe traveling in an aircraft knowing that all a security screener had to do was get one point above failing to be certified in a technical skill? Or would you feel safer under the current system that rewards technical skill, readiness for duty and operational performance? 
  Mr. President, I know what system gets my vote. 
   Then there is the question of the law. Can the federal government prevent employees, especially those with national security functions, from engaging in collective bargaining? 
   The law and decisions reached by our federal courts are clear. Under section 111(d) of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security - which is the position now held by the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Transportation Security Administration - has the discretion "?to employ, appoint, discipline, terminate, and fix the compensation, terms and conditions of employment of the Federal service for such a number of individuals as the Under Secretary determines to be to carry out screening functions." 
   In 2003, the then Under Secretary signed an order that stated "in light of their critical national security responsibilities, [Transportation Security Officers] shall not, as a term or condition of their employment, be entitled to engage in collective bargaining." 
   Unions, of course, challenged this law before the Federal Labor Relations Authority and the federal courts charging that it violated the Transportation Security Officers constitutional rights and federal law that allow workers to join unions. 
   The Federal Labor Relations Authority upheld the opinion that "there is no basis under law to reach any result other than to dismiss [the union's] petitions? Congress intended to treat security screeners differently than other employees of the agency?" On appeal to the federal courts, the D.C. Circuit Court affirmed the decision of the district court that the Federal Labor Relations Authority was the correct venue for the union's complaint and that union's constitutional claims should be dismissed. 
   Mr. President, as I have said on many occasions: I support collective bargaining. But I will not support collective bargaining under these conditions. 
   We are at war. The decisions that we make will mean the difference between life and death. I will not risk the lives of Americans so that an important constituency of the other party can receive a political reward. 
   I hope that my colleagues will join me in opposing this section and supporting the DeMint Amendment that will remove it from this bill. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 