SEN. HATCH'S JUDICIARY STATEMENT: 'BIOSHIELD II: RESPONDING TO AN EVER-CHANGING THREAT'
  Statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch before the Senate Judiciary Committee 
  and the Senate Health, Labor, Pensions and Education Committee 
   Bioshield II: Responding to An Ever-Changing Threat
   More than three years ago, our nation suffered the most deadly attack ever on its soil. We woke up on the morning of September 11, 2001, to a new reality. A month later, we again realized the magnitude of the ever-changing threat we were facing when this very building was contaminated with anthrax and ended up being shut down for three months.  
   Most Americans were shaken out of their sense of complacency in 2001. After the events of 9/11, Congress took action to secure our borders, our ports, and our airlines, and bolster our public health infrastructure. However, the essential steps necessary to secure our nation against the on-going threat of bioterrorism are still being carefully evaluated - and while these steps are being evaluated, time is running out. We took an important first step when the Project BioShield Act of 2004, better known as BioShield, was signed into law in July. However, there is so much more which needs to be done and that's why the Judiciary Committee and the Senate HELP Committee are holding this hearing today - to raise awareness on what else needs to be done in order to combat bioterrorism. 
   It is common knowledge that terrorists are specifically interested in biological weapons - many of these weapons were produced by Soviet scientists before the collapse of the Soviet Union. Some experts believe that Soviet scientists concocted strains of small pox that were 100 percent lethal. They developed a strain of Yersinia Pestis, the bacterium that causes the plague, which was resistant to10 types of antibiotics. Today, it is unclear where many of these former Soviet scientists are working and, even more disturbing, it is not clear if these bioterror agents are still being kept in the former Soviet Union. As new varieties of bioterror weapons are developed, the threat of another attack becomes very real. For this reason, I believe that the time for Congress to act on the Lieberman-Hatch BioShield II legislation is now. 
   Four years ago, Congress directed the Department of Justice to perform a bioterroism exercise to assess our state of preparedness against such a threat. In May 2000, a bioterrorism exercise was initiated and the naturally occurring plague bacterium, Yersinia Pestis, was theoretically unleashed in Denver. In that scenario, one antibiotic that is already available to the general public was used to combat the bioterrorism plot and treat the simulated epidemic. This type of exercise needs to be conducted again with one caveat - in a situation where no treatment is available. In my opinion, that is the more realistic and threatening scenario. 
   Even if we continue investing resources to build up a prepared public health infrastructure, if we do not have medicines to treat those who are exposed or infected, the only other option is quarantining these individuals. And, my colleagues, quarantining hundreds, maybe even thousands of people will be extremely difficult to manage. 
   Members of both the Judiciary Committee and the HELP Committee should be concerned about the impact of quarantines and the underlying issues associated with them. Therefore, developing medicines to prevent and treat dangerous pathogens should be a priority for our country so we do not face these terrible scenarios. We need to develop medicines to treat the naturally occurring biologic agents and, in addition, we need to develop medicines to treat bacteria and viruses that have been genetically manipulated as weapons to cause death or injury to human beings. Therefore, the biopharma companies must be engaged in these discussions. 
   As I have said earlier, BioShield is only the first step to ensure readiness against this threat. I am proud to say that the new law is based on legislation that my good friend and colleague, Senator Joe Lieberman, and I introduced this Congress - S. 666 the Biological, Chemical, and Radiological Weapons Countermeasures Research Act. 
   Today's hearing will focus on the next steps - essentially, what is needed in a Bioshield II package. Bioshield II is the next step in the legislative process toward accomplishing this important and time sensitive goal of bioterror readiness, and Senator Lieberman and I intend to re-introduce BioShield II legislation in the 109th Congress. We simply cannot afford to wait. Considering the anthrax attacks of 2001 and the ricin attack in our nation's Capitol in February of this year, we already have ample reason to believe that the July law - while an important first step - is not sufficient and that we need to enact a more comprehensive legislative strategy. 
   Given the growing risk of further attacks on our nation and potentially devastating consequences of bioterrorism, we must abandon business-as-usual and take the vigorous steps that will be advocated through our Bioshield II legislation. 
   The purpose of today's hearing is to explore an array of intellectual property, liability and other incentives to ensure the creation of a robust biodefense industry that need to be included in the Bioshield II legislation. Direct government funding for this research is not the most effective strategy. To be effective, we must also enact incentives so that potential investors will want to fund the research associated with building a defense against potential attacks. We must have the biopharma industry working with us on these solutions. 
   Bioshield II will encourage biopharma companies to take the lead in the development of vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics to combat terrorism. The goal of our legislation is to have a safer and better prepared America; but in order to be prepared, we need to provide researchers with the proper incentives. These companies are worried about partnering with our government, and I believe Congress needs to engage the industry so we can reap the benefits of their research. But forming partnerships with these companies is the key. Otherwise, this partnership will never work. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses regarding this matter and what their thoughts are on what incentives should be offered to these researchers and companies. 
   Another critical question that will be explored today is whether these same incentives should apply to infectious diseases generally. In my opinion, all research on infectious diseases is interrelated, so we might strengthen bioterror research if the research focus is broader than just bioterror pathogens. Furthermore, by conducting this research, we may also discover cures for diseases that afflict the world's poorest nations. 
   I would like to acknowledge the good work of HELP Committee Chairman Judd Gregg and Senator Ted Kennedy, the HELP Committee's Ranking Minority Member. I appreciate both of you recognizing the importance of this issue by agreeing to hold this joint hearing at such a busy time in the legislative session. Majority Leader Frist has also been a leader in this area. I also want to thank the Judiciary Committee's Ranking Minority Member, Senator Pat Leahy for his cooperation on holding today's hearing. Bioterrorism is an extremely personal issue for him - his office was one of the offices that received a letter tainted with anthrax. 
   Finally, I would like to recognize the hard work of my good friend, Senator Joe Lieberman. His leadership on this issue has made this legislation possible, and he deserves a lot of credit for bringing this matter before our Committees and the full Senate. I also want to recognize the indefatigable efforts of Chuck Ludlam of Senator Lieberman's staff for his considerable efforts in developing this legislation. 
   Again, I appreciate all of our witnesses taking time out of their busy schedules to join us here today for this very important discussion. I look forward to hearing your thoughts on what should be included in our Bioshield II legislation.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 