SEN. HATCH BACKS CLEAN CITIES ALTERNATIVE-FUEL FUNDING
  With the President aiming to cut the Clean Cities Program budget in half, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) has fired off a letter to Senate appropriators urging them not only to restore the program's funding, but to increase it significantly.  
   "Clean Cities helps bring the clean fuels and technologies of the future to the market," Hatch said. "Its funding is already meager, and it's outrageous to think of cutting its budget almost in half." 
   The Clean Cities Program is a national effort to reduce oil consumption through promoting alternative-fuels and vehicles. Funded in 2006 at $8 million, the President's budget proposes to cut the Department of Energy program in half, recommending $4.3 million for Fiscal Year 2007. In a letter to top appropriators on Senate Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, Hatch requested the Senate provide $20 million to meet the overwhelming need and interest represented by the number of grant applications annually submitted to the DOE. 
   "This is the one federal program that is actually putting alternative-fuel vehicles on the road and alternative-fuel infrastructure in place," Hatch said. "We spend hundreds of millions of dollars on research and development for advanced car technologies, but what good is that research if we aren't going to put it to use?" 
   Grants administered by the Department of Energy Clean Cities Program are the primary federal means to support alternative-fuel vehicle technology and infrastructure deployment. Currently, Utah is among 89 states and local communities active in the program, leveraging the participation and resources of more than 4,700 state, local and private industry stakeholders. Utah's state and local governments, along with school districts, have used Clean Cities grants to bring hundreds of alternative-fuel vehicles to the state. 
   As the sponsor of the CLEAR ACT, which was included in last year's comprehensive energy bill, Hatch has been a leader in Congress in promoting the market acceptance of alternative-fuels and infrastructure and alternative-fuel and advanced technology vehicles. Hatch was joined on his letter by Senators Herb Kohl (D-Wis.), Jim Talent (R-Mo.), Richard Lugar (R-Ind.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), George Voinovich (R-Ohio) and Norm Coleman (R-Minn.) 
   Fore more information on the Clean Cities Program, visit eere.energy.gov. To review Utah's efforts, visit utahcleancities.org
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854, Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 