SEN. HATCH SUPPORTS ESCHENBACH FOR FDA COMMISSIONER
  Today the U.S. Senate voted 80-11 to confirm Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach as Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) submitted the following speech, supporting von Eschenbach, to the Senate. 
   Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the nomination of Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach to be Commissioner Food and Drugs.  
   I am pleased that the Senate is considering Dr. von Eschenbach's nomination and I strongly urge my colleagues to support him because the FDA needs a permanent Commissioner to lead the agency. The FDA has been criticized time and time again over this. To me, the first step toward promoting stability in the agency is for the Senate to confirm an FDA Commissioner. Dr. von Eschenbach is a capable administrator, extremely knowledgeable about health care and food and drug policy, and we can count on him to do the right thing. It is past the time that he be confirmed. 
   I had the opportunity to work with Dr. von Eschenbach when he was the Director of the National Cancer Institute and found him to be personable and engaging. I also had a long meeting with Dr. von Eschenbach before his Senate confirmation hearing and was very impressed with his in depth knowledge on matters before the Food and Drug Administration. But even more impressive, Dr. von Eschenbach truly listened to my ideas regarding the FDA and I greatly appreciated it. It is clear that he intends to work closely with the Congress. 
   The bottom line is that I am convinced Dr. von Eschenbach is the best person for the job and the sooner we get him confirmed, the better. 
   I would like to take a moment to talk about FDA-related issues facing my home state of Utah and where Dr. von Eschenbach's strong involvement will be crucial. 
   As my colleagues are aware, Utah is home to the largest concentration of dietary supplement companies in our Nation, so ensuring that the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA) law is strongly and appropriately enforced is a high priority of mine. 
   I have been told by every FDA Commissioner since Dr. Kessler that the FDA has adequate authority under DSHEA to make certain the supplement marketplace is safe, so it is my hope that Dr. von Eschenbach will make this a priority during his tenure as FDA Commissioner. 
   In addition, as I have told him on more than one occasion, it is essential for Dr. von Eschenbach to work to finalize and implement good manufacturing practices (GMPs) for supplements as authorized by DSHEA. It is 12 years since they were authorized. And, despite the repeated contacts Senator Harkin and I have made, the reportedly-drafted regulations have still not been issued. 
   I want to encourage strongly Dr. von Eschenbach to address this matter once and for all. 
   We will also be counting on the good doctor to implement the new system of mandatory reporting of serious adverse events (AERs) for nonprescription drugs and dietary supplements that is contained in S. 3546, the Hatch-Durbin bill we passed last night. It is my hope the House bill pass the bill today, and it can be sent to the President for signature. When enacted, the Hatch-Durbin-Harkin-Enzi-Kennedy bill will require manufacturers of supplements and over-the-counter drugs to report to FDA any reports of serious problems associated with the use of the products. This is an important consumer protection bill, and it is important that FDA seek the funding to implement the program as Congress intends. I stand ready to work with the agency on this. 
   Another concern I have expressed to Dr. von Eschenbach and his agency is the need to look out for the "little guy" once he becomes Commissioner. Utah is the home to more than 100 medical device companies, many of them small, and I want Dr. von Eschenbach and his staff to treat these companies fairly, especially when the FDA officials conduct inspections. There have been several complaints from manufacturers about the tactics that the FDA inspectors have taken. I think these complaints have merit. All I ask of Dr. von Eschenbach is that Utah companies be treated fairly by the FDA. 
   I also am deeply concerned about the agency's lack of funding. This has been a growing concern, especially as it affects implementation of DSHEA, the new AEER system, and also the review of generic drug applications. While I realize that FDA has a lot of responsibilities, ranging from ensuring the safety of drugs and medical devices, to protecting our country's food supply, it simply isn't fair to continue to pile on these responsibilities without providing the FDA with adequate funding. I assure Dr. von Eschenbach that I will work with him and my colleagues on the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Senate HELP Committee to ensure that the agency is provided with sufficient funding. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of Dr. von Eschenbach today so that the agency will finally have a permanent leader who will look out for the best interests of both the American people and an important federal agency - the FDA.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 