SEN. HATCH: VETERANS NEED ASBESTOS COMPENSATION REFORM
 The following is Sen. Hatch's speech at the veterans' asbestos reform press conference. 
   Now is the time to act on asbestos reform to ensure fairness for victims.  
   The bipartisan FAIR Act enjoys broad support among veterans - 25 major veterans' and military organizations with a combined membership of over 3 million support this bipartisan bill. 10 of these groups are here today. 
  Veterans and their families with asbestos-related diseases desperately need and deserve relief as the current system is simply not taking care of their needs or treating them fairly. 
   Veterans are disproportionately afflicted with asbestos-related illness, but they have the most trouble securing compensation. 
   According to a Nov. 2003 Wall Street Journal report, claims from individuals exposed in military and shipyard construction accounted for 26% of all mesothelioma cases, 16% of all other lung-cancer cases, and 13% of all disabling lung-disease cases. 
   Due to the long latency period from the time of asbestos exposure to the first signs of symptoms of asbestos-related disease, veterans who served before the 1980's still are being diagnosed with life-threatening and terminal illnesses. 
   Avenues to seek compensation through the court system are very limited for veterans. Shipbuilders and other companies that supplied asbestos to the government are bankrupt, and veterans can't sue their employer because their employer was the government. 
   The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs continues to receive veterans' claims for benefits for illnesses related to asbestos exposure while serving in the military; however, due to the difficulty of proof, less than one-third of the known VA asbestos claimants receive service-connected compensation for their asbestos disease. Under this bill, veterans will be able to receive compensation from a $140 billion trust fund that sets more liberal standards than the VA standards.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 