SEN. HATCH TO DTRA: GET OUTSIDE REVIEW OF DIVINE STRAKE TEST DATA
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today called on the federal government to submit its Environmental Assessment draft for a peer review to address lingering questions about the safety and wisdom of conducting the Divine Strake experiment. 
   "I continue to share the justified concern of the vast majority of Utahns who have been presented with inaccuracies in the past regarding testing at the Nevada Test Site," Hatch said. "I support the contention of many of my constituents that being presented with information and conclusions is no longer sufficient; independent analysis and research is now required." 
   Hatch submitted his comments to the Defense Threat Reduction Agency and the Department of Energy on the proposed detonation of conventional explosives at the Nevada Test Site. He submitted research conducted by Charles Wight, a professor of physical chemistry at the University of Utah, who proposed that the revised Environmental Assessment draft be analyzed by the National Research Council or other appropriate independent body.  
   Hatch's letter follows, along with a link to the full summary evaluation prepared by Professor Wight: 
   Dear Mr. Secretary and Director Tegnelia: 
   I would like to take this opportunity to submit into the official public record my thoughts regarding the Defense Threat Reduction Agency's ("DTRA") proposed DIVINE STRAKE experiment. 
   As you well know, the citizens of Utah, Nevada and California have long suffered due to the effects of exposure to radiation caused by nuclear tests conducted at the Nevada Test Site ("NTS"). Accordingly, I have been resolute in opposing any nuclear testing that could cause harm to human beings. 
   I understand that the DIVINE STRAKE's detonation of conventional explosives is designed to obtain data which will assist in the development of methodologies and technologies that hold the promise of neutralizing hardened underground facilities. As both a Senator who has a long record of support for enhancing our nation's defense capabilities and a Member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I fully recognize the importance of developing this conventional capability due to our potential adversaries' wide spread utilization of hardened underground bunkers, where strategic assets such as leadership and weapons of mass destruction could be hidden. In fact, I understand there are more than 1,400 of these sites, many in North Korea and Iran. 
   During my initial research into the DIVINE STRAKE proposal, I was deeply concerned to find numerous inconsistencies in the initial draft of the experiment's Environmental Assessment. Specifically, on different pages of the draft, the distance between the U-16b site, which is DTRA's preferred site for the experiment, and U-16a, where underground nuclear testing previously had been conducted, varied from 2.5 miles to 1.5 miles. In actuality, I have been informed that the distance is 1.1 miles. 
   I was further troubled by the lack of scientific data and explanation as to the draft's conclusion "that the proposed action would not result in the suspension or dispersion of radioactive materials or human exposure to radioactive materials." In fact, the possibility of spreading radioactive material was only discussed in a few paragraphs of the draft assessment. This is especially disconcerting, since the assessment could not have taken into consideration the true distance between the detonation site and nuclear effects test sites. 
   Accordingly, I fully supported the June 2006 decision made by the Department of Energy's National Nuclear Security Administration ("NNSA") and DTRA to withdraw the draft Environmental Assessment's "Finding of No Significant Impact" until additional research and tests could be performed and investigated. 
   I also appreciate that NNSA and DTRA agreed to my request for public meetings in Utah to discuss DIVINE STRAKE. However, I was disappointed by the lack of a plenary session, where a senior government expert would speak on the record and answer questions in front of all the meetings' attendees. This is especially disconcerting since DTRA made a commitment to me and Representative Jim Matheson that it would conduct such a plenary session at the meetings. 
   In addition, I am pleased that Director Tegnelia accepted my invitation to brief the entire Utah Congressional Delegation in November of 2006 and, prior to the meeting, investigate other locations to conduct the experiment. We were deeply disappointed to learn DTRA's conclusion that relocating DIVINE STRAKE would require an additional $100 million and was, therefore, cost prohibitive. This is perplexing since during my staff's April 26, 2006, visit to DIVINE STRAKE's site, they were told by representatives of the Department that moving the experiment's location would cost approximately $30 million. At that site visit, my staff was further informed that the U-16b site is not geologically unique and that other locations would satisfy the requirements of the experiment. 
   Since the release of the revised Environmental Assessment draft in late December 2006, I have been studying the amended document and have sought the advice and counsel of members of Utah's academic community. I am especially indebted to Dr. Charles A. Wight, Professor of Physical Chemistry at the University of Utah, who reviewed the revised Environmental Assessment draft and concluded that "the data in these documents provide sufficient evidence for a Finding of No Significant Impact for the proposed DIVINE STRAKE experiment." The Professor further concluded that: 
   The surface-level soil and rock in the vicinity of U16b contains low but measurable levels of man-made radioactivity resulting from fallout from nuclear test conducted at other sites in the NTS. The levels are well below established screening levels, so the area is safe to work without taking any precautions against radiation exposure. Tests of subsurface soil and rock revealed only natural background radiation with no contamination from man-made fallout. 
   The EA [Environmental Assessment] contains the results of modeling studies for exposure to a worst-case plume of soil resulting from DIVINE STRAKE as the eastern boundary of NTS. The projected exposure is .005 mrem, which is 200x less than the average daily exposure that Americans normally get from all sources, and is roughly equivalent to the exposure that one would get by watching television for one evening. Therefore, the potential hazards to the public associated with disturbance of fallout at U16b are negligible. 
   ?The nearest place to U16b where nuclear tests were conducted previously is the U16a site, located 1.1 miles southeast of U16b. The U16a site contains a so-called muckpile consisting of rock and other mining debris from excavations performed in support of six prior nuclear tests. As stated in the EA, the large distance between U16b and U16a makes it extremely unlikely that any of the radioactive material in the muckpile will be disturbed by the blast. This conclusion is based on the fact that the energy of the shock wave associated with any blast drops off rapidly with increasing distance from the center of the explosion. This behavior is well-known from modeling and experimental data from many other blasts of conventional (non-nuclear) explosives comparable in size to DIVINE STRAKE. 
   ?Because the U16a muckpile is located more than 1.2 miles from GZ [Ground Zero], the radioactive material located at U16a poses no significant threat to the public as a result of the proposed DIVINE STRAKE experiment. 
   The conclusions reached by Professor Wight are weighty and contribute greatly to the public dialog about the DIVINE STRAKE experiment. That being said, because of lingering questions about the safety and wisdom of conducting the experiment, in order to develop a public consensus, I believe that NNSA and DTRA should adopt a proposal put forward by Professor Wight. Specifically, since it is customary in academic circles for scientific findings to be submitted for a peer review, the revised Environmental Assessment draft should be analyzed by the National Research Council or other appropriate body. 
   Let me be clear that, while Professor Wight's scientific conclusions add immeasurably to the debate over DIVINE STRAKE, I continue to share the justified concern of the vast majority of Utahns who have been presented with inaccuracies in the past regarding testing at NTS. These past inaccuracies, and at times outright fabrications, that occurred during previous Administrations have undermined the public trust in the execution of experiments such as DIVINE STRAKE at NTS. 
   I have to say that I am extremely sympathetic to those concerns based on my own experience in the Senate as I worked to elicit a government apology and response for the devastating health effects of the nuclear testing in the late 1950s and early 1960s. I have spent considerable time working to overcome unnecessary government obstacles in order to see the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act enacted and funded adequately. Accordingly, I support the contention of many of my constituents that being presented with information and conclusions is no longer sufficient; independent analysis and research is now required. 
   As a final point, due to the inconsistencies I have pointed out above, and the lack of public acceptance of this experiment, I believe that it is prudent to continue and expand investigation into alternative locations for the DIVINE STRAKE experiment. 
   * For DivineStrake_CharlesWight.PDF (83.2 KBs), visit http://hatch.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=DataPipes.ViewPDF&Id=1734.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 