SENS. HATCH, REP. BISHOP SEEK WATER SOLUTIONS FOR NORTHERN UTAH
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Rep. Rob Bishop (R-Utah) today introduced legislation to expand the water capacity of Weber's Arthur V. Watkins Dam. The bill would give the Bureau of Reclamation access to the dam to study it and make adjustments as necessary to cater to the ever-growing water needs of Utah citizens.  
   "Weber's one of the fastest-growing areas in the state, so it's crucial that we increase water capacity to meet the increased demand," Hatch said. "Thousands rely on the Weber Basin reservoirs for drinking water and agriculture, and Weber County doesn't have enough water to meet its growth needs right now. Expanding the dam is a simple and inexpensive way to boost water storage capacity in an area that desperately needs it." 
   "Everyone knows we need more water in Utah, and our state can't grow and survive without it," Bishop said. "Taking a look at increasing the height and capacity of this reservoir just makes sense. Raising the dam a few feet may seem like a small thing now, but it could reap huge rewards down the road in getting us the water we need. Whether it's for drinking, irrigating, or recreating, the water has to keep flowing, and this bill helps ensure that." 
   The Arthur V. Watkins Dam Enlargement Act of 2007 authorizes the Bureau of Reclamation to conduct a feasibility study on raising the height of the Watkins Dam in Weber County, Utah. Watkins is a 14.5 mile-long earthfill dam enclosing Willard Bay Reservoir, which has a storage capacity of roughly 215,000 acre-feet of water. It is estimated that raising the dam by 5 to 10 feet would increase the reservoir's storage capacity by 50,000 to 70,000 acre-feet. 
   Moreover, the Watkins Dam began to leak slightly in 2006. Were the dam to breach, it would flood hundreds of acres of farm and grazing land, spelling an agricultural disaster. This legislation would provide the resources and opportunity to address quickly that looming problem as well.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Scott Parker, 202/225-0453.
 
 