SEN. HATCH ENDORSES GEOTHERMAL RESEARCH EFFORTS
  Continuing his commitment to alternative energy solutions, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) this week joined legislative efforts to promote greater use of geothermal energy, electricity collected from naturally generated heat inside the Earth. Many Western states, including Utah, have made long-term investments to develop geothermal energy to help diversify the nation's energy resources.  
   As a cosponsor of the National Geothermal Initiative Act of 2007 (S. 1543), Hatch hopes to authorize new funds for research and application of geothermal energy, with the goal that by 2030 geothermal should constitute at least 20 percent of the total electrical energy production in the U.S. 
   "Geothermal is one of the cleanest, most effective sources of renewable energy we can access, and Utah has one of the largest underground hot water reservoirs in the nation," Hatch said. "But we're not doing enough to collect it. I've pushed through incentives to try to improve geothermal research, but we need these incentives - and possibly more - to utilize geothermal fully." 
   Sponsored by Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), the act authorizes $75 million to support its goals in 2008, and $100 million per year from 2009 to 2012. As it currently stands, the Department of Energy (DOE) budget for geothermal research was reduced to $5 million in 2007, and $0 for 2008. 
   Hatch authored law in the 2005 Energy Policy Act that provided tax incentives for electricity produced from renewable energy facilities, including geothermal energy. A July 2006 Government Accountability Office study estimates that because of the incentives in the 2005 energy bill, future electricity production from geothermal resources could increase by 25 to 367 percent by 2017. The U.S. has the reserves to provide energy from geothermal sources to more than 22 million homes if fully developed. 
   "With energy costs crunching every American's budget, we should do all we can to pursue geothermal energy," Hatch said. "It's a clean, renewable resource that's not affected by the oil market, yet it makes up only 2 percent of the nation's energy consumption. That's astonishingly low considering how much potential geothermal has." 
   Moreover, on Tuesday Hatch urged DOE to fund geothermal energy research and development programs. Hatch joined with 11 other Senators in a letter to DOE asking the agency to amend its budget to include a loan guarantee program for geothermal research. In the letter, the Senators remind DOE that the Western Governors Association and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology report that geothermal energy can meet America's clean energy needs, but only with proper Federal support. 
   The letter follows in full. 
  ReidEnsignGeothermalLoanGuaranteeandRDLetterJune52007.pdf (484.3 KBs): http://hatch.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=DataPipes.ViewPDF&Id=1818
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 