SEN. HATCH VOTES TO PROTECT TRADITIONAL MARRIAGE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) voted today to bring before the Senate a Constitutional amendment aiming to protect marriage between a man and a woman. The procedural vote earned a slim majority of votes, 49-48, falling short of the 60 votes needed to move to an up-or-down vote on the proposed amendment.  
   "For millions of people in Utah and throughout country, no issue is more important than this one," said Hatch, who also co-sponsored the measure. "As we see it, marriage and family life are the bedrock of American society." 
   Although Hatch was disappointed with the vote's outcome today, he plans to continue fighting on behalf of traditional marriage. In the last 10 days, more than 9,000 Utahns have called or written Hatch's office in support of the Constitutional amendment. 
   "We aren't going to fall back and cry about today's vote," Hatch said. "We're going to keep bringing this up because the American people demand it." 
   Although 45 states have laws preserving traditional marriage, including 19 with Constitutional amendments, some judges in recent years have unconstitutionally redefine marriage laws as any relationship beyond one man and one woman. Hatch dismisses accusations that the Marriage Protection Act is an election-year stunt. 
   "According to this amendment's opponents, when well-funded liberal activist groups ask judges to subvert the will of the people in every state, they are not playing politics," Hatch said. "When they ask a bare majority of judges to overturn traditional marriage laws and declare them discriminatory, they are merely seeking justice. Yet when the people's elected representatives attempt to preserve traditional marriage in this country, they say we are playing politics." 
   During a statement on Tuesday, Hatch warned fellow Senators of the implications of redefining marriage laws. He cited the incident in March when a Massachusetts law forced Catholic Charities to abandon its adoption services because it would not compromise its religious principles and place children with homosexual couples. He fears that churches with stands against homosexuality might lose their non-profit status should the courts decide that their beliefs are discriminatory. 
   "This encroachment on religious freedom is not one our churches should endure, but it is, I fear, inevitable unless we act," Hatch said.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 