FIFTY-EIGHT SENATORS ASK PRESIDENT TO REVISIT STEM CELL RESEARCH POLICY
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) joined 57 of his colleagues today to ask President George W. Bush to expand the administration's policy on stem cell research, a breakthrough field of medical research that scientists believe may hold the keys to curing some of the world's deadliest and most debilitating diseases. 
   "Mr. President, we know that you have been a strong supporter of medical research and share our commitment to curing disease and alleviating human suffering," reads the letter sent by the Senators to Bush. "We would very much like to work with you to modify the current embryonic stem cell policy so that it provides this area of research the greatest opportunity to lead to the treatments and cures for which we are all hoping."
   Hatch is a primary co-sponsor of the letter, as well as the leading sponsor of legislation within the Senate to federally fund stem cell research while strictly prohibiting human reproductive cloning.
   "In our attempt to ban human reproductive cloning, we should not close the door on a form of scientific research - nuclear transplantation - that has the potential of curing millions of debilitating and life-threatening diseases," said Hatch. "As a right-to-life Senator, I believe that a critical part of a pro-life, pro-family philosophy is helping the living."
   Stem cells are often derived from in-vitro fertilized (IVF) embryos in excess of those developed to help infertile couples produce children. Current administration policy limits federal funding only to embryonic stem cells that were derived by August 9, 2001. Scientists have since said that of the 78 stem cell lines available for research on that date, only 19 remain, and that many of those 19 lines are tainted by mouse cells. Embryonic stem cells are considered by many scientists to hold much greater curative promise than adult stem cells.
   The other primary co-sponsors of the letter to Bush are Senators Arlen Specter, Diane Feinstein, Ted Kennedy and Tom Harkin. Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison, Trent Lott, Ted Stevens, and Gordon Smith are also among the 58 co-sponsors.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 