SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON IMPORTANCE OF ENFORCING ANTITRUST LAWS AT HEARING OF SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE ON ANTITRUST, COMPETITION POLICY AND CONSUMER RIGHTS
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today spoke on the importance of enforcing antitrust laws at a hearing of the Senate Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights. Hatch is ranking Republican on the subcommittee. His full remarks follow. 
   It is a pleasure to be with you here today for the first of what I hope will be several hearings which thoroughly explore and examine the vital subject of antitrust law. Today's topic is federal government's enforcement of those laws.  
   Why is this important? Why is this distinguished panel with us here today? In a word: competition. 
   Competition is the cornerstone of our economy. It ensures efficient markets which, in turn, provide consumers quality goods at market prices. 
   Antitrust laws are the rules that ensure that American economy maintains that competition. In effect, antitrust law ensures one of the fundamental tenants of the American dream: If you build a better mouse trap, you will be successful in the American market place. That is why effective, efficient, and fair enforcement is so important. 
   Today's hearing is intended to assist us in our ongoing oversight of the enforcement efforts of the two government entities that are charged with enforcing these crucial laws. As with any endeavor, I am sure that there is some room for improvement with respect to current enforcement efforts, but I have been generally pleased with the enforcement efforts of both the Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission. 
   This can be seen in vital area of merger review. Assistant Attorney General Barnett has just instituted a revision to the Merger Review Process Initiative that holds the promise of moving the division's resources more efficiently to those cases that truly require further review and consideration. 
   However, we have already seen progress. In 2006, the Antitrust Division brought more merger challenges than the previous two years combined. It should also be noted that during the same period the Division increased the number of criminal fines that it obtained by 40 percent to $470 million. That is the second highest level in the Division's history. 
   Change can also been seen in how the Antitrust Division analyzes mergers. No greater change can be seen then in the Whirlpool/Maytag merger. Under a traditional analysis, the Division would have placed great reliance on the market share that the resulting corporation would have enjoyed. However, these are different times, when globalization and the speed of commerce are rapidly changing markets. 
   Therefore, the Division worked with the parties to the merger and developed a detailed market analysis. What did that show? That the merger would not have an ill effect on competition since overseas competitors were quickly expanding their market share. It also showed that appliance retailers could and do quickly change the appliance brands that they choose to carry in their stores - only further underlining the premise that a traditional market analysis might not be as effective in this situation. Equally as impressive in the Whirlpool/Maytag merger was the fact that the Division's decision was made in six months. 
  The Federal Trade Commission is also making strong strides. 
   Just as the Division has sought to create a new openness about how it reaches its conclusions on merger reviews, the Federal Trade Commission has also issued detailed decisions in such cases as Federated Department Stores acquisition of May Department Stores. The FTC has also sought greater transparency with the Reforms to Merger Review Process. These reforms, which generally formalize practices that the FTC currently uses, aim to reduce the transaction costs that are accrued during an investigation. 
   However, most impressive is that even though pre-merger filings have increased by 28 percent since Fiscal Year 2004, the numbers of request for additional information kept pace and increased by approximately 40 percent during the same period. 
   I am also very interested in the role that the FTC is playing maintaining competition and protecting consumers in energy markets. The Commission has performed admirable work in this by consistently monitoring the retail gasoline and diesel prices in 360 cities. 
   In closing, I would like to thank both of today's witnesses for being here today and for their responsiveness to our requests for information prior to the hearing. While I am sure that we all will disagree from time to time on particular issues, I have been generally impressed by the strong commitment and leadership both of you have demonstrated.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 