ASSOCIATION FOR CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION RECOGNIZES SEN. HATCH FOR NATIONAL POLICY MAKER OF THE YEAR
  The Association for Career and Technical Education (ACTE) announced today Sen. Orrin Hatch as one of the 2007 Policy Makers of the Year during its Power Breakfast at Capital Hilton's Presidential Ballroom. This award is presented annually by the ACTE Board of Directors to nationally-recognized policymakers who have made a significant impact on policy related to career and technical education during the past year or extended career of public service.  
   Senator Hatch is being recognized for his dedication in reauthorizing the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Improvement Act (Perkins) in August 2006, and his continued efforts in promoting career and technical education. The Perkins Act is the primary source of funding that supports local education programs that connect education and real-world careers. 
   Senator Hatch commented, "It's an honor to be recognized by ACTE. The Perkins Act and other similar programs help build a bridge between education and the careers of tomorrow. There's no doubt that our economy is changing, and these programs train students for careers where demand for qualified workers is outstripping supply." 
   Now in his sixth term, Senator Hatch is the ninth-most senior member of the U.S. Senate. As former chairman of what is now called the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, he is committed to educating children through local and state involvement and strengthening the workforce to meet today's challenges. 
   "Senator Hatch's commitment to career and technical education was critical in getting the Perkins Act reauthorized," ACTE Executive Director Jan Bray said. "The Board of Directors wanted to recognize his dedication to ensuring students continue receiving a quality education to remain competitive in today's economy." 
   The ACTE National Policy Seminar attracts over 500 educators, business leaders and education advocates from across the country who run successful career and technical education programs. Conference participants are gathering this week to learn about and advocate for federal policies regarding career and technical education. 
   The Association of Career and Technical Education (ACTE) is the nation's largest not-for-profit education association dedicated to the advancement of education that prepares youth and adults for successful careers. It provides advocacy, public awareness and access to information, professional development and tools that enable members to be successful and effective leaders. Founded in 1926, ACTE has more than 29,000 members including teachers, counselors and administrators at the middle school, high school and postsecondary levels.
   Contact: Sabrina Kidwai, 703/683-9312, skidwai@acteonline.org.
 
 