SEN. HATCH ADDRESSES AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION
  Remarks of the Honorable Orrin G. Hatch before the American Hospital Association
   It is a pleasure for me to address members of the American Hospital Association. Each one of us will depend, at least once in our lives, upon a hospital, and I am committed to keeping the hospital industry strong and healthy.
   Utah has some of the finest hospitals in America and we have a number of prominent Utahns presenting hospital with us today, including members of the State Senate and House. In fact, it is a veritable "Who's Who" of Utah. So, I want to take a moment to recognize my colleagues I work so closely with to help develop fair hospital policies that benefit patients and providers alike.
   I am so honored that we have the Majority Leader from the Utah State Senate, Curt Bramble; the Speaker of the Utah House of Representatives, Greg Curtis; and the Majority Leader of the Utah House, David Clark. I also want to welcome Utah State Senators, Dennis Stowell and Sheldon Killpack. I am pleased that Utah State Representative Steven Clark is with us, too. Senator Bramble and Representative Clark serve on Intermountain Health Care's Urban South Region Board. 
   Always capably representing the Utah Hospital and Health Systems as its President and CEO is Joe Krella and as its VP of Government Relations is Dave Gessel. From the University of Utah Hospital, we have VP Kim Wirthlin; CFO Gordon Crabtree; and CEO David Entwistle. President of the HCA Mountain Division, John Hanshaw, is with us as is Paul Norton of Logan Regional Hospital and Mark Stoddard, President of Rural Health Management Association. Representing Intermountain Healthcare we have trustees Jane Carlile and Penny Brooke, who is also a member of AHA's Council on Governance. Mark Robinson is Vice Chair of Intermountain Healthcare's Urban South Region. Also representing IHC are Christopher Coons, John Nielsen, Alan Dayton, David Clark, and Douglas Hammer.
    I am proud that when I speak to any national association about health care issues, my state of Utah is always prominently represented. I also want to recognize the leadership of the American Hospital Association, especially AHA's President and CEO, Rich Umbdenstock.
   I also want to say a special hello to AHA's Vice President of Legislative Affairs, Linda Fishman, who was the health policy director for the Senate Finance Committee and the head of the Office of Legislative Affairs for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. You have a wonderful person representing you on Capitol Hill. Our loss is definitely your gain!
   There are so many prominent hospital officials here I wanted to recognize that I feel like I've used all my time!
   I spend a lot of time trying to make sure that the Congress both allocates federal dollars judiciously and preserves the vigor of the hospital industry. My Senate committee assignments position me well for that task. I serve on both committees that have jurisdiction over most health care legislation. I have served on the Senate Finance Committee for 14 years and am now the second most senior Republican.
   As many of you know, the Finance Committee has jurisdiction over Medicare, Medicaid, and the Maternal and Child Health Bureau. In addition, I serve as the Ranking Republican on the Health Subcommittee, a role I actively sought.
   As you well know, the Finance Committee is at the center of any issues that have an impact on hospital quality and payment issues. This includes Medicare physician reimbursement and pay for performance issues. The Committee has a number of members from rural parts of the country so we have a tradition of being very sensitive to the needs of rural health providers.
   During the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, members of the Finance Committee worked hard to ensure that hospitals received a full market basket update. And, with your help, we were successful in the endeavor! The Finance Committee also will be reauthorizing the State Children's Health Insurance Program, better known as CHIP. I will share my thoughts with you on that issue in a few minutes.
   The second health committee on which I serve as a senior member and former Chairman is the Health, Education, Labor, and Pension Committee, better known as the HELP Committee. Senator Ted Kennedy chairs this Committee. Even though we are at opposite ends of the political spectrum, we have a tradition of working toward the middle to find common ground. Sometimes it is not possible, but when it is, the rest of the Senate tends to get out of the way. CHIP is a fine example.
   The HELP Committee's jurisdiction includes the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It also oversees the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) - at least we try to! In fact, we currently are considering a comprehensive drug safety bill on the Senate floor which will reauthorize the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the Medical Device User Fee Modernization Act, pediatric research incentive laws.
   This legislation also includes the Enhancing Drug Safety and Innovation Act of 2007, which calls for more stringent drug safety standards and makes certain scientific information about prescription drugs, before and after FDA approval, available to the public.
   We just agreed to an amendment last week that includes adverse event reporting for adulterated foods. And for the pet lovers, it also includes standards for pet foods. And these provisions are all in one bill, I kid you not! Some of us jokingly call it the FDA-palooza bill because it seems to go on and on for days, weeks, months. I will be supporting this bill because I believe there is a lot of good in this legislation.
   And, this is just one of the bills that the HELP Committee is considering - it is a very active committee! Next month we plan to consider a bill to establish a pathway for FDA to review copies of biologic products, so-called "follow on biologics" and possibly legislation that would require the FDA to regulate tobacco. The fun never stops with that committee!
   Please know that I am well aware of your issues and I want to update you on four of them - CHIP; the sustainable growth rate for physician payment; the CMS proposed Medicaid rule; and the CMS proposed payment reforms for inpatient hospital services.
   CHIP
   As I said earlier, the big issue before the Finance Committee now is the reauthorization of the CHIP program. We are at a crossroads with this program, which provides health insurance to children whose family income is too high for coverage under the Medicaid program but too low to afford private health insurance.
   There is no disagreement in Congress that this popular program should be reauthorized. But, some want to expand it to other populations, like parents of CHIP eligible children or pregnant women. This effort has been aided by HHS-granted waivers, which, believe it or not, actually allow certain states to cover childless adults under CHIP. This was something we never envisioned or intended when we enacted CHIP a decade ago, but it is hard to turn around once that coverage has been granted.
   Believe it or not, there are two or three states that cover more adults than children under the CHIP! The other problem we are facing with CHIP is resources. The question is how much we should devote, and once there is agreement on that, how we will pay for it.
   To continue coverage for current CHIP beneficiaries, it will cost an additional $15 billion over the next five years. We also have not covered all children eligible for the CHIP program which will cost a lot of money as well. We believe that there are around two million children who are eligible for CHIP but are not covered. And, we would all like to expand coverage if we can.
   The questions are "expand it how much?" and "how do we pay for it?"
   Budget conferees will be hard at work this week trying to meld the House- and Senate-passed versions of the FY 2008 budget. The Senate-passed budget includes a fund for expansion of CHIP, with instructions that about two-thirds of that fund be offset by potential savings.
   Anyone who receives reimbursement under a Finance Committee program - Medicare, Medicare Advantage, Medicaid - is right to be worried as the Committee struggles to pay for CHIP expansions. This will be a major battle when the Committee considers CHIP, probably next month.
   Medicare Reimbursement for Physicians
   As you know, under a formula set in law, physicians will set a 7 percent Medicare pay cut next year unless Congress acts.
   Despite the fact that we have taken action four times to stop scheduled Medicare physician pay reductions, this has become an annual problem because of the formula. When similar reductions were about to take effect in past years, I worked with my Senate colleagues to ensure that physicians were not subjected to any reductions. In fact, in some years, physicians actually received increases in reimbursement rates.
   Let me assure you that I will continue working to fix this problem once and for all. But you need to know - that is a tough assignment. I understand what a problem a reimbursement cut would be. A steady stream of Utah surgeons, orthopedic surgeons, family doctors, radiation oncologists, pediatricians, and obstetricians have knocked on my door to underscore that such a deep cut in Medicare reimbursement would wreak havoc on both their patients and their practices. Some of them have even threatened to simply stop seeing Medicare patients. I understand that, but none of us wants that to happen.
   Again, I must be frank with you - this is a difficult year to ask for money on Capitol Hill. Just so you know, the new Congressional leadership has committed to use what they call pay-go rules for any legislative initiatives that cost money. That means that any new expense must be offset with another reduction in federal spending. As a result, Congress will face some very difficult budget decisions this year. For every increase there must be a corresponding decrease in another federal program.
   The tough part about Medicare physician reimbursement is its underlying formula, the Sustainable Growth Rate, better known as SGR. The purpose of the SGR was to keep Medicare spending for physician services at a predictable level of growth. Through the SGR, if the volume of Medicare's physician services nationally exceeds certain targets, then the money available for physician reimbursement goes down proportionally so that Medicare's total expenditure targets for physician services are met.
   And here is the problem with the SGR - the volume of physician services has exceeded the formula's projections. The growth rate of services is so high that the formula calls for a decrease in payment to doctors over the next several years.
   There are wide variations in the volume of health services provided to Medicare beneficiaries with the same diagnosis in different regions of the country and so the overall increase in volume of Medicare services is hard to explain. The variations may stem from the threat of medical malpractice litigation, increased needs among the Medicare population, or other factors. No one knows.
   What we do know is that the SGR formula must be replaced with a more equitable formula which balances patient access to care with fair Medicare reimbursement rates for physicians. It is one thing, however, to diagnose what is wrong with the patient. It is entirely another to come up with an effective treatment. And the $64,000 question is: what will replace the SGR?
   Earlier this year, the Finance Committee held a hearing on the Medicare physician reimbursement rates and the SGR. We heard from witnesses including representatives from the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, the American Medical Association, the AARP, and the Congressional Budget Office better known as the CBO. Congress relies on CBO to project cost estimates on legislation over five and ten year periods.
   The American Medical Association and most medical societies favor simply replacing the SGR formula with an annual increase for medical inflation without paying attention to the growth in volume of physician services. According to CBO, that proposal would cost the federal government $252 billion between now and 2017!
   Under that option, spending for Medicare physician services would grow at an average annual rate of about six percent over the next 10 years, compared with a one percent increase projected under current law. Even by Washington standards, $252 billion is a lot of money.
   Of course, AARP is deeply concerned about how new legislation on physician reimbursement rates will affect Medicare Part B beneficiary premiums. According to AARP, premiums have doubled since 2000. AARP is a strong lobby and their membership is very convincing, to say the least! And I hate to tell you this but when the choice is between Medicare beneficiaries and doctors' salaries, there is limited sympathy on Capitol Hill for the so-called rich doctors!
   The bad news is that it is unlikely that Congress will be able to agree on a permanent solution to this issue in 2007. Both the Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Max Baucus of Montana and its Ranking Republican, Chuck Grassley of Iowa, have said in so many words that 2007 is not the year for an overhaul.
   The good news is that they have said they are committed to stopping the physician payment cut scheduled for 2008 and that they would like to have a small bonus payment for reporting data on quality of care. The Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, Frank Pallone of New Jersey, has made similar comments.
   Please know I will work closely on them to make sure there is not a negative update. Congress needs the input of both physicians and hospitals on how to handle this problem so we welcome your ideas.
   CMS Proposed Medicaid Rule
   Another issue I know is of great concern to your membership is CMS' proposed Medicaid rule. On January 18, 2007, CMS officials published a proposed rule that would radically change federal payments to public hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of Medicaid patients. The proposed rule has caused an outcry among public hospitals, many of which are also teaching hospitals for academic medical centers.
   Let me state at the outset that I am deeply concerned about this rule. While some of its provisions codify and create transparency in reforms that are needed, other provisions in the rule would place intolerable financial hardships on public safety net hospitals. Just so you know, I believe that reforms are needed in the area of intergovernmental transfers.
   This practice can be described as transferring funds from a qualifying hospital to the state, after which the state then uses the money to obtain a Federal Medicaid match. The hospital's own funds and the federal match are supposed to be transferred back to the contributing hospital to be used to cover losses from Medicaid and uninsured care.
   The Government Accountability Office (GAO) in 2005 reported that some states had taken transfers from government-owned or operated entities for the purposes of increasing the state's federal match but then kept the federal match. In the GAO's words, this practice created the illusion of valid expenditures resulting in increasing the federal share beyond that established by the formula under law.
   A GAO report of March 30th, completed at the request of Senators Baucus and Grassley, found that CMS had ended such abuses in 29 states, but had done so without a transparent process. The GAO concluded that the actions of CMS to correct these abuses contributed to concerns about inconsistency, that written guidance is needed, and that the proposed CMS rule should provide it.
   I support the provisions of the proposed rule that prohibit abusive financing schemes and create an open method by which CMS will handle them in the future. Another provision of the rule that I know concerns your industry is the definition of the government entity that may participate in such transfers.
   I will not make a judgment until I can consider feedback from both the National Association of Public Hospitals and CMS on this provision. The question is whether the states should have complete control over which hospitals are eligible to participate in this method of financing or whether the federal government should also have some role.
   I generally come down on the side of state over federal control but, given the history of this program, but I remain open on the issue. But one part of the rule does not require further study.
   Under current law, qualifying hospitals that participate in these arrangements are paid at the Medicare reimbursement rate. Under the proposed rule, they will be paid the cost of care of Medicaid patients, strictly defined by CMS.
   Most of the hospitals affected by this are public hospitals providing care for large numbers of low-income patients. Privately covered patients make up less than one-quarter of their volume. These safety net hospitals cannot shift their losses and their margins are 0.5 percent, well below the industry average of 4.8 percent. We are keenly aware that the safety net hospitals cannot take such cuts without also reducing services to our most vulnerable citizens.
   I am very troubled by this part of the CMS proposed rule. What is happening in Utah is one example of the problems with this part of the rule. Its effect on the University of Utah's hospital, a hospital in a state that never participated in intergovernmental transfer scams, would be devastating.
   Some hospitals can offset such losses by increasing their share of funds from disproportionate share funds. Utah hospitals cannot. he allocation of disproportionate share -or DSH - money is uneven among the states. Utah receives only 1.2 % of its Medicaid spending in DSH funds. Compare this to a state such as New Jersey which receives 15.5%. There is little room there for Utah to offset the effects of this proposal. In fact, the University of Utah Health Sciences Center would lose $40 million a year if the proposed rule goes in effect.
   And I put my money where my mouth is - I have written a strongly worded letter to CMS about this proposed rule. I am hoping that they will listen to me because this very serious. I predict that you will be hearing a lot more about this.
   Medicare Payment Reforms for Inpatient Hospital Services
   Unfortunately for your industry, CMS has been very busy this year. I know that another recently proposed rule also concerns America's hospitals.
   Just last month, CMS issued its 2008 Inpatient Prospective Payment System Proposed Rule to Better Recognize the Costs of Care. This is arguably the most significant revision of Medicare's inpatient hospital rates since the PPS was enacted in 1983.
   CMS proposes to use hospital costs - rather than charges - to set Medicare rates. Since the average hospital charge-to-cost ratio is 244 percent, with an extraordinarily wide range both among hospitals and between hospital departments, this aspect of the rule is not too hard to understand.
   In its 2006 and 2007 Inpatient Prospective Payment System rules, CMS adopted severity-adjusted Diagnosis-Related Groups that were designed to pay hospitals more for the care of sicker patients and less for the care of lower acuity patients.
   One of the main objectives was not to do what our current DRG system does- reward physician-owned specialty hospitals that treat the healthiest patients, while leaving the sick, the under-funded, and the emergency patients to community hospitals.
   I know how you feel about specialty hospitals so I cannot imagine that the AHA opposes any measure that levels the playing field between full service hospitals and physician owned specialty hospitals. I certainly do not.
   The CMS 2008 proposed rule takes the refinement of its severity-adjusted DRGs to a new level by proposing to replace the 536 current DRGs with 745 new ones. It projects that these improvements will result in a 4 percent decline in payments to physician-owned specialty hospitals on top of the 5 percent reduction that severity-adjusted DRGs have already achieved.
   But here is the rub. The CMS actuaries, who are independent, have calculated that what they call case mix creep will increase Medicare's costs by 4.8 percent in the first year. So, CMS decided to preemptively reduce Medicare payments 2.4 percent per year over 2008 and 2009 in order to maintain revenue neutrality.
   CMS does not characterize this proposed rule as a payment cut to hospitals nor do I believe it is the intent.
   The actuaries' calculations were modeled upon the experience in Maryland after it instituted a similar severity-adjusted DRG system two years ago. However, what was intended to adjust payment to the severity of the patients' illnesses resulted in increased overall hospital payments.
   CMS has stated that if its calculations are off and the result is an unanticipated reduction in hospital revenues, CMS will make them whole going forward. Your membership is obviously right to be worried about losing money before such a correction occurs if it is needed.
   I am supportive of the efforts of CMS to be certain that specialty hospitals that take care of healthier patients do not get overpaid, but I am sensitive to the fears of the hospitals that the proposed rule intends to help. It does not seem fair that an unproven projection is being used as the basis for this change.
   Let me assure you that the Senate Finance Committee will be examining this issue closely as we have more information. In particular, I urge you to provide your Senators and representatives with any information you can on the effect this proposal will have on your hospital. That type of specific information is like gold for us when we are meeting in Committee.
   I would like to leave time for a couple of questions so let me stop here. I hope this update has been helpful to you. Thank you so much for inviting me to speak to you this morning. You should be proud to be serving such a vital industry that does so much to help Americans. I salute you for your work.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 