HILL AIR FORCE BASE RECEIVES FUNDING IN DEFENSE SPENDING BILL
  The U.S. Senate today passed the Department of Defense spending bill, which provides funding for the next fiscal year for several key programs at Hill Air Force Base (HAFB).  
   "This funding ensures that Hill will continue to play a key role in the nation's military," Hatch said. "We're building on successful programs and implementing others that will strengthen Hill's ability to deliver for the men and women who risk so much to keep us free." 
   Hatch led the Senate Air Force Caucus to secure language in the bill to encourage the Air Force to continue its six-year depot maintenance investment plan, which provides $150 million each year to enhance the Air Force's maintenance repair and overhaul operations. Currently at its halfway point, the investment plan has helped HAFB expand its software engineering division and implement new "Lean" manufacturing principles that have produced 100 percent on-time delivery rates for many maintenance programs at Hill. 
   "Many are concerned that this vital depot maintenance plan will be cut short," Hatch said. "We are halfway through the six-year plan, and we have made enormous progress. But the Air Force must keep going and complete the full six years." 
   Following are Utah projects requested by Hatch that were included in the spending bill: 
   Hill Air Force Base
   * $9 million - F-16 Avionics Intermediate Shop Depot Replacement 
  F-16 avionics are currently repaired at Hill using 20-year-old avionics equipment that are increasingly more costly to maintain. A new AIS with state-of-the-art technology has been developed, reducing the time needed to evaluate the F-16 equipment by 62 percent. These funds will be used to purchase the new equipment, Rack-Mounted Improved AIS, R-IAIS. Hill received $3.9 million in FY 2005. 
   * $6 million - Productivity Improvements for Landing Gear Overhaul Technologies (PILOT) 
  The PILOT program is designed to bolster Hill's expertise in maintaining the landing gear systems on the Air Force's aging aircraft. Landing gear maintenance is among the highest priorities of every major command within the Air Force. 
   * $7 million - Aging Landing Gear Life Extension (ALGLE) 
  Hill is responsible for 70 percent of the Air Force's landing gear maintenance work. ALGLE is a continuing program that addresses many of the critical issues facing landing gear maintenance, which has already generated cost avoidance in excess of $900 million. This is the third year Hill has received funding for this program. 
   * $5 million - Science and Engineering Lab Data Integration (SELDI) 
  SELDI supports all intercontinental ballistic missiles and most aircraft maintenance performed at Hill. SELDI provides a maintenance and logistics information management tool that improves missile and aircraft readiness and safety. Through SELDI, personnel can track lab results relating to maintenance and overhaul operations, as well as equipment failures. These results provide for proactive aircraft inspection and maintenance. 
   * $1 million - Air Craft Defect Detection and Performance Management Application 
  This funding will allow Hill to use a new platform to better track mechanical malfunctions in aircraft. This will improve repair capabilities and lower long-term repair costs, as well as provide enhanced detection of safety related issues. 
   National Guard
   * $5 million - Senior Scout 
  Funds will be used to upgrade and improve the intelligence gathering system utilized by Utah National Guard. 
   Protecting the Troops
   * $5 million - Full Spectrum Active Close-In Layered Shield (FCLAS) 
  FLACS is a new technology using radar to detect an incoming kinetic energy weapon, anti-tank missile or rocket-propelled grenade. Once the incoming object is identified, FCLAS fires an explosive projectile to destroy the threat at a safe distance.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 