SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS ON SENATE FLOOR
  Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch Chairman, Senate Judiciary Committee 
  Before the United States Senate 
  Judicial Nominations
  Mr. President, I am pleased that the Senate is turning its attention to the confirmation of judges this evening. The record will note that the Senate Judiciary Committee has worked hard to ensure President Bush's judicial nominees have been given the appropriate scrutiny. I have also made every effort to ensure fair treatment of the nominees. While there has been a bit of obstructionism in the advice and consent process, including unprecedented filibusters, we have made significant progress.  
   During the 107th Congress, during which the Democrats held the majority for most of the Congress, the Senate confirmed 100 of President Bush's nominees. Thus far, in the 108th we have confirmed 98, and with the expected confirmation of these judges, we will match the record established by Senator Leahy. I recognize him for the good work he has done on many of the nominees and thank him for his cooperation as ranking member. There is still some work to be done, and I am hopeful that additional nominees will be confirmed by this Senate. 
   Today I rise in support of the nomination of Virginia Maria Hernandez Covington to the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida. Judge Covington is the first Cuban-American woman ever appointed to Florida's appellate courts and is currently the highest-ranking Hispanic woman serving in Florida's judiciary. 
   After graduating from Georgetown University Law Center, where she was the editor of the Tax Lawyer law review, Judge Covington began her career in public service as a trial attorney for the Federal Trade Commission. She then moved to Florida to work as an assistant state attorney for Hillsborough County, Florida. In 1983, she was appointed Assistant U. S. Attorney for the Middle District of Florida, and eventually was promoted to Chief of that District's asset forfeiture section. In 2001, Governor Jeb Bush appointed her to Florida's Second District Court of Appeal, where she has served with great distinction. 
   While serving as an Assistant U.S. Attorney, Judge Covington lectured extensively on asset forfeiture, money laundering, and complex prosecutions to prosecutors and law enforcement personnel throughout the United States. She also lectured, taught and participated in seminars on trial advocacy practice and procedure with prosecutors, law enforcement personnel, and judges in Chile, Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, Costa Rica, and Honduras. As a U.S. Department of Justice liaison, she also helped the Bolivian government establish its narcotics-related asset forfeiture program. 
   Judge Covington's professional and civic work has won her respect and recognition throughout central Florida. Most recently, she was honored as the 2003 Hispanic Woman of the Year by Tampa Hispanic Heritage Incorporated. 
   Judge Covington was reported from our Committee without opposition, and I am confident that she will serve with distinction as a federal judge. The ABA Committee agrees, unanimously rating her "Well Qualified" for the federal bench. There is absolutely no reason to delay her confirmation to the Middle District of Florida, and I urge my colleagues to join me in voting to confirm her. 
   Mr. President, I am also pleased to speak in support of Michael H. Schneider, Sr., who has been nominated to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. 
   Judge Schneider has had a distinguished legal career. He began his career more than 30 years ago as an assistant district attorney in the Harris County District Attorney's Office, with a particular emphasis on economic crimes. After four years there, he entered the private sector, working for various industries-including the Union Pacific Railroad Company where he served as its General Solicitor. In 1989, he joined the law firm of McFall & Sartwelle, LLP, as a trial attorney. He litigated cases involving products liability defense, commercial torts and commercial fraud cases. To date, he has tried approximately 150 cases to a verdict. 
   In 1990, Judge Schneider became the presiding judge of the 157th District Court in Harris County, Texas. From 1996 until 2002, he served as the chief justice of the Texas First Court of Appeals in Houston. In 2002, Governor Rick Perry appointed him to the Supreme Court of Texas. Justice Schneider was subsequently elected to a term that expires in 2008. 
   Judge Schneider brings a wealth of experience to the federal bench. Aside from a law degree from the University of Houston, he also earned his LLM from the University of Virginia School of Law. The ABA has rated him unanimously "Well Qualified," and I am confident that he will be an excellent addition to the federal bench in the Eastern District of Texas. 
   Mr. President, following the two scheduled roll call votes this evening, we will turn to the confirmation of Michael Watson, who has been nominated to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. I am hopeful that we can quickly conclude debate on this nomination and move promptly to a vote of approval for Judge Watson. 
   Judge Michael Watson began his legal career as a law clerk and bailiff to the Honorable Tommy L. Thompson of the Franklin County Court of Common Pleas in Ohio. He litigated a broad range of civil and criminal cases before joining the Ohio Department of Commerce as its chief legal counsel, where he served until 1992. He then joined the staff of the Office of the Governor as deputy chief legal counsel, and was promoted to chief legal counsel in 1994. 
   On January 1, 1996, then-Governor George Voinovich appointed Judge Watson to the Franklin County Court of Common Pleas. Judge Watson was subsequently re-elected and, in 2003, Governor Bob Taft appointed him to Ohio's 10th District Court of Appeals, where he currently serves. 
   Judge Watson brings a wealth of trial and appellate experience to the federal bench. A substantial majority of the ABA Committee rated him "Qualified" for this nomination to the federal bench, and I am confident that he will make a fine jurist. I urge my colleagues to vote to confirm him to the Southern District of Ohio. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 