SEN. HATCH PAYS TRIBUTE TO CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today paid his respects to Chief Justice William Rehnquist, who dedicated nearly 34 years of his life serving the American people as a Justice on the Supreme Court. Chief Justice Rehnquist passed away Saturday, September 3, 2005, and Hatch gave the following remarks on the floor of the United States Senate before attending the late Justice's funeral:  
   Mr. President, I want to pay tribute to a good man who was a good judge, the late Chief Justice William Rehnquist. His service and leadership on the Supreme Court, the principles he consistently followed, and the steady hand with which he guided the judiciary make him one of the judiciary's very best. 
   William Hubbs Rehnquist served on the Supreme Court of the United States for 33 years and almost eight months. He was the eighth longest serving of the Court's 108 members, having recently surpassed the tenure of the legendary Justice Joseph Story. He was the fourth longest serving of the Court's 16 Chief Justices, and one of just five individuals to have serve as both Associate and Chief Justice. 
   William Rehnquist's service was a powerful mixture of the personal and the professional. He brought a kind of dignified practicality, or perhaps it was practical dignity, to what is one of the most formal and respected posts in the federal government. 
   William Rehnquist was the historian who could play a practical joke, the defender of the judicial institution who played poker with his colleagues. We will miss this scholar and author, who also led an annual Christmas carol sing-along for the Court's employees. Yesterday, his former clerks surrounded his casket and carried it past his former colleagues into the Court where he lay in repose. We were all touched by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor weeping at the loss of a man who had been a fellow law student more than 50 years ago and was a fellow Justice for the past 24. 
   The respected legal analyst Stuart Taylor writes that one attribute of greatness is being esteemed by one's colleagues. Whether his fellow Justices voted with him or against him on the cases before the Court, they all cherished and esteemed him. Liberal icons such as Justice William Brennan called Chief Justice Rehnquist a breath of fresh air. Justice Thurgood Marshall called him a great chief justice. Justice Lewis Powell said he had a good sense of humor and was both generous and principled. 
   When President Nixon nominated William Rehnquist to be an Associate Justice in 1971, Attorney General John Mitchell said he expected Justice Rehnquist to be independent. Before the Judiciary Committee, the nominee pledged as his fundamental commitment to totally disregard his own personal beliefs when interpreting and applying the law. Democratic Senator John McClellan of Arkansas, a member of the Judiciary Committee, explained in the pages of the New York Times why he supported what he called a distinguished nominee. He said that William Rehnquist would not contribute to the trend of pursuing abstract goals driven by ideology rather than law. 
   As both Associate and Chief Justice, William Rehnquist confirmed Senator McClellan's judgment. Chief Justice Rehnquist strongly defended the prerogatives of the judicial branch. This alone might give pause to those who believe the judiciary was already too strong. But he coupled that commitment to institutional vigor with a fidelity to constitutional rigor. While insisting that the Court was the primary interpreter of the Constitution, he did not join those who said the Constitution's meaning ebbed and flowed with the latest cultural and political fad. 
   Chief Justice Rehnquist understood that we entrust interpretation of our laws to unelected judges only because, as he had, they promise to keep their own moral and political viewpoints on the sideline. Over time, by example and leadership, this principle helped him move the Court toward its traditionally modest role within our system of government. Commentators and reporters discussing the Chief Justice's legacy almost reflexively use the moniker Lone Ranger to describe the new Associate Justice Rehnquist. He was sometimes a lonely dissenter on a Court that saw itself as the vanguard of social change.
   In that role, however, he reminded us of the fundamental principles that should guide the judiciary. Judges may not exercise judicial review based on their personal opinions, preferences, or agendas. They must take the Constitution as they find it and apply it as it is. 
   As new Justices joined the Court, and Chief Justice Rehnquist continued articulating and applying such traditional principles, he found himself with more company. While some talk of Chief Justices as able to bring colleagues together in a particular case, Chief Justice Rehnquist did so, patiently and steadily, over the long haul of his entire tenure. In a 1996 address at American University's Washington College of Law, Chief Justice Rehnquist called judicial independence the crown jewel of the American judicial system. He took this seriously on a personal as well as a judicial level. 
   In this last year or so, William Hubbs Rehnquist lived and finished life on this earth in his own independent way. He shared what he wanted to share, when and how he chose to share it. He carried himself with dignity, in a way protecting his privacy publicly, if such a thing is possible. He was a good man and a good judge. Our lives, individually as citizens and collectively as a nation, are much better for him having been among us.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 