CONGRESS CLEARS SEN. HATCH'S DRUG ADDICTION TREATMENT MEASURE
  Many of the front-line fighters in the nation's war on drugs are its health care providers, and Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) is giving them some extra ammunition. Hatch successfully added a bill, S. 4115, to the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act (H.R. 6344), and this new provision would more than triple the number of patients that authorized doctors can treat for heroin addiction with the medication buprenorphine. H.R. 6344 cleared the Senate today by unanimous consent.  
   "Although our country continues to develop better treatments for drug abuse, countless Americans still fall prey to illicit drugs," Hatch said. "As their lives are torn apart by these addictions, many find the strength to call out to doctors for help. Unfortunately, some doctors are unable to answer these calls due to limitations on their treatment options." 
   Hatch's provision builds on legislation he authored with Senators Carl Levin (D-Mich.) and Joe Biden (D-Del.) in 2000, the Drug Addiction and Treatment Act (DATA). This groundbreaking legislation allowed certified physicians to prescribe buprenorphine to patients fighting addiction to heroin and other opiates. Since then, buprenorphine has been successfully prescribed to thousands of addicts, and has helped place these individuals on the road to recovery. Buprenorphine has become a vital tool in the treatment of opiate dependence, but to curb potential abuse, DATA permitted doctors to treat only 30 patients at one time. Time has shown that the abuse potential for the drug is very low, yet doctors are still forced to turn away patients who directly come to them for help. Under this proposed legislation, physicians who have been certified for more than one year could treat up to 100 patients. 
   "We need to break the pernicious cycle between heroin addiction and crime," Hatch said. "If we can encourage addicts into rehabilitation today, they and their families will be able to live more productive lives tomorrow. We can make major gains in our nation's crime problem and improve the social structure and stability of many families who today live under the scourge of drug abuse." 
   H.R. 6344, having already passed the House of Representatives, will now be sent to the President to be signed into law.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 