SENATE COMMITTEE CONSIDERS SEN. HATCH'S BSA LAND EXCHANGE BILL
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) testified today before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to advocate for his legislation to allow the exchange of two small parcels of land between the BSA Utah National Parks Council and Brian Head Ski Resort.  
   "This will be a tremendous help to the Boy Scouts program in Utah," Hatch said. "The additional land will allow the Scouts to expand their archery and rifle ranges at Parowan's Camp Thunder Ridge and make them safer for the boys. The land is clear and flat, which will make a better campground. This is a small land exchange, but it will go a long way in helping Utah's Scouts more fully enjoy their Scouting experience." 
   In 1983, the Bureau of Land Management gave the BSA roughly 1,300 acres near Parowan, Utah, for a Boy Scout camp. Under the agreement, land cannot be sold or exchanged without Congressional action. Hatch's bill would allow the BSA to give 120 acres on the south end of the camp to Brian Head in exchange for 120 acres on the eastern side of the camp, including 40 acres inside the camp's boundaries. 
   Senator Hatch's committee statement follows: 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Forests United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
   Hearing on "The Boy Scouts of America Land Transfer Act of 2005" 
   Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing today and for allowing me to testify is support of S. 476, the Boy Scouts of America Land Transfer Act of 2005. This legislation will allow for the transfer of 120 acres between the Utah National Parks Council of the Boys Scouts of America and Brian Head Ski Resort. Boy Scouts throughout Utah will greatly benefit from this legislation, and I am grateful for the opportunity to further explain the need for the bill today. 
   In a 1983 land patent, the Bureau of Land Management granted roughly 1300 acres to the Boy Scouts of America to be used as a Boy Scout camp. The Scout camp, known as Camp Thunder Ridge, is situated in the mountains adjacent to Brian Head Ski Resort and near Cedar Breaks National Monument. 
   At the time the patent was granted, a local rancher owned parcels of land adjacent to and in the middle of the camp. Several years ago, the rancher gave those lands to Brian Head. Now, it is in the interest of both parties to exchange these lands; the Scouts need to improve their camp and Brian Head needs access to their land. However, under the patent, land cannot be sold or exchanged without an act of Congress. Thus the need for S. 476. In drafting this legislation, I worked closely with the Boy Scouts, Brian Head, and the BLM to come up with legislation that all parties agree on. 
   Mr. Chairman, let me explain why this land is so important to the Boy Scouts and why they have fought for more than 20 years to secure it. The camp is located in a mountainous area. Much of it is situated in steep terrain, covered with pine and aspen trees. There is a small portion of the camp, however, that is level and clear. This area is used by the Scouts for their camp sites, camping facilities, and shooting and archery ranges. Currently, Brian Head Ski Resort owns acreage right in the middle of this part of the camp. 
   Obtaining additional acreage in this area will allow the Boy Scouts to expand their archery and rifle ranges and will allow them make these ranges safer for the boys. It also will help the Scouts expand and improve their camping facilities and will allow them to install much-needed septic tanks. This small land exchange will allow Camp Thunder Ridge to help young Scouts more fully enjoy their Scouting experience. 
   Hundreds of young Scouts visit Camp Thunder Ridge each year. The camp caters to both new and experienced scouts and offers a wide variety of programs and activities. The camp provides merit badge classes in Scoutcraft, handicrafts, ecology, shooting sports, and aquatics. It offers a unique opportunity for young men to learn vital skills and further their scouting goals. And, as any Scout knows, camps like these are essential to moving forward in the Scouting program. 
   I fondly look back on my own experiences as a Boy Scout; I learned important lessons that continue to serve me well. For that reason, I urge Committee members to support S. 476 and to promptly take action on this important legislation.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 