SENS. HATCH, FEINSTEIN PROMOTE STELL CELL RESEARCH, HUMAN CLONING BAN
  Sens. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and today reintroduced legislation to prohibit the cloning of a human being, while ensuring that potentially life-saving medical research is allowed to continue. 
   The Human Cloning Ban and Stem Cell Protection Act of 2007 would allow stem cell research - known as somatic cell nuclear transplantation - to proceed under strict oversight from the federal government. However, the bill would draw a distinct line between this promising research and human reproductive cloning, which it bans outright. 
   "American scientists have been pioneers in all major branches of medical research," Hatch said. "If we don't act quickly, the United States may lose the opportunity to lead the world with stem cells - and millions will suffer if we hesitate. But with the great power of stem cell research, we must accept the great responsibility to set ethical guidelines and prohibit research that no one wants to see."  
   "It is time to provide some certainty and sanity in our national policy. We must prohibit human reproductive cloning. It is unethical and should not be allowed," Senator Feinstein said. "At the same time, we must unleash our scientists to develop cures for catastrophic diseases that impact millions." 
   The legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.), and Tom Harkin (D-Iowa). 
   Specifically, the Human Cloning Ban and Stem Cell Protection Act of 2007 would: 
   * Make it a crime punishable by up to 10 years in prison to clone or attempt to clone a human being, without exception. 
   * Establish fines of $1 million or three times any profits made (whichever is greater) on any person who clones or attempts to clone a human being. This financial penalty is in addition to the 10-year prison term. 
   * Allow the most promising form of stem cell research (somatic cell nuclear transplantation) to be conducted on a human egg for up to 14 days only, under strict ethical standards and federal regulation. The National Academies of Science' Guidelines for Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research recommends the 14-day limit, which is also consistent with the standard established in the United Kingdom and the California Advisory Committee on Human Cloning. 
   * Allow this stem cell research only to take place on unfertilized eggs. 
   * Ban profiteering and coercion by requiring that all egg donations for this stem cell research be voluntary, and that women who donate eggs can only be compensated minimally - large payments to induce donation are prohibited. 
   * Prohibit the purchase or sale of unfertilized eggs, including eggs that have undergone nuclear transplantation. 
   * Require that nuclear transplantation occur in labs completely separate from labs that perform in vitro fertilization, to prevent a "blurring of the lines" and avoid the risk that eggs used in legitimate and important nuclear transplantation research would then be implanted in a woman. 
   * Prohibit the export of eggs that have undergone nuclear transplantation to any foreign country that does not ban human cloning. This prohibition is designed to avoid the risk that valuable research in the United States will result in a human clone anywhere in the world. 
   * Include strong ethics requirements that mandate informed consent by egg donors; review of any nuclear transplantation research by an ethics board; and safety and privacy protections. 
   * Establish civil penalties of up to $250,000 per violation for any researcher who violates the bill's ethics requirements (even without attempting to clone a human and becoming subject to the 10-year prison term and $1 million fine). 
   Hatch's full introductory floor statement follows: 
   Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senators Feinstein, Specter, Kennedy, and Harkin in introducing the Human Cloning Ban and Stem Cell Research Protection Act of 2007. 
   It is hard to imagine how far medical science has advanced in only 60 years. Penicillin was made available just in time for D-Day and saved thousands of lives in the Second World War. Before that time, pneumonia or an infected wound was a death sentence. Now, doctors replace damaged organs with heart, liver, kidney, and lung transplants. Cancers that were once fatal can be cured. Lives that were once forfeit to injuries are now saved by medical science. But there is no shortage of diseases that still ravage humanity. 
   Many scientists believe that we are on the verge of a new revolution in medicine created by human stem cells. The reason stem cells are important to medicine is that many organs cannot make a sufficient number of new cells to replace damaged or lost ones. Stem cells are the only way currently known that has the potential to replace damaged cells in organs such as the pancreas, kidney, heart, brain, and spinal cord. 
   Two common diseases may be treatable by stem cells sooner rather than later. Diabetes is reaching epidemic proportions in the United States Diabetes results when pancreatic cells cannot create enough insulin which is needed for the body to use glucose. Human embryonic stem cells can now be coaxed into differentiating into functioning insulin-producing cells and scientists at the NIH have concluded that creation of cells that could be transplantable may soon be possible. 
   Heart failure is one of the commonest chronic conditions of the elderly. The heart fails when it does not have enough functioning heart muscle. Clinical trials of injection of stem cells into failing hearts to create new muscle tissue are going on around the world as we speak. 
   And treatment of other common diseases with stem cells is on the horizon. In December of 1999 a group of investigators at Washington University School of Medicine implanted embryonic stem cells in rats with spinal cord injuries. The stem cells became nerve cells and the rats walked. I know families in Utah with spinal cord injured children who pray for such a result in humans. Like the Utah family, the Schmanskis, who flew their daughter Tori to China for stem cell transplantation. And like seventeen-year-old Travis Ashton from Highland, Utah who is raising money for the same procedure to treat his head injury. 
   Another example of how stem cells may treat common diseases is renal failure which occurs in an estimated 40 percent of critical care patients. Dr. Christof Westenfelder, professor of medicine and physiology at the University of Utah has found that injecting stem cells into failing kidneys improves kidney function, prevents tissue injury, and accelerates regeneration. These few examples of early stage research presage advances that we could only dream of before science knew of the possibilities of stem cells. 
   But with the promise of stem cells comes responsibility. Scientists are now working with stem cells created by a technique called somatic cell nuclear transfer. In this laboratory procedure, the DNA from the cell of one adult is inserted into an empty egg that has been donated from another adult. The result, if the science develops further, is a collection of stem cells that could become a kidney or liver that is identical to a missing or diseased organ of the donor of the DNA. However, this same collection of stem cells - if implanted into a woman's uterus - could possibly become a human being identical to the donor of the DNA. 
   Let me be absolutely clear: I support the use of such stem cells to treat human disease but abhor the possibility of their use for human cloning. 
   Our bill prohibits human reproductive cloning and imposes criminal penalties for attempting to do so. It provides a firm ethical framework for somatic cell nuclear transfer for therapeutic purposes and establishes stiff civil penalties for not following them. 
   It specifies that research in somatic cell nuclear transfer must comply with NIH regulations. 
   It prohibits the use of fertilized eggs for somatic cell nuclear transfer. 
   It limits maintenance of eggs receiving somatic cell nuclear material to 14 days. 
   It specifies that the egg must be voluntarily donated and not purchased. 
   It prohibits purchase or sale of eggs to which DNA has been transferred 
   It is our responsibility to promote stem cell research to treat human diseases. It is equally our responsibility to be certain that such research is conducted in accordance with the best ethical standards and that the technology can never be used to clone a human being in the United States. 
   Mr. President, the majority of the US public supports stem cell research and opposes human reproductive cloning. If we do not act soon to set ethical guidelines for legitimate research and to prohibit research that no one wants to see, then we may lose the chance. We may also lose the opportunity for America to lead the way in the treatment of diseases that are the scourge of mankind. 
   I urge the Senate to take up this bill and to pass it.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Scott Gerber, 202/224-9629.
 
 