SEN. HATCH: MEDICAL LIABILITY IS A PROBLEM WE CAN FIX
  A medical liability system run amok has spread like cancer through the American health care system, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) told the U.S. Senate today, and if Congress doesn't act quickly, medical costs will continue to rise, forcing doctors - especially OB/GYNs - to leave practice. 
   To address these issues, Hatch voted for the Medical Care Access and Protection Act of 2006 (S. 22) and the Healthy Mothers and Healthy Babies Access to Care Act (S. 23). Democrats blocked the bills from moving forward by votes of 48-42 and 49-44 respectively. 
   "These bills address the medical liability and litigation crisis in our country," Hatch said on the Senate floor. "This crisis is limiting or denying access to vital medical care and needlessly increasing the cost of care for every American."  
   S. 22 and S. 23 aim to decrease the number of malpractice lawsuits and the payment amounts awarded in successful claims. Specific reforms include creating a federal statute of limitations, limiting exorbitant attorney fees, and capping the amount juries may award in damages. These proposed reforms are comparable to California's Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975. From 1976 to 2000, liability premiums increased nationwide by 505 percent, while California's increased only 167 percent. 
   "As a result, doctors are not leaving their practices in California the way they are elsewhere in the nation," Hatch said. 
   OB/GYNs are particularly vulnerable to unjustified lawsuits, because of the tendency to blame physicians for brain-injured infants, although research has proven that physician error accounts for less than 4 percent of neurologically impaired babies, Hatch said. Three out of four OB/GYNs report patients sue them at least once in their career, which is decimating the ranks of doctors who deliver babies. The Utah Medical Association found that 50.5 of Utah family practitioners have already given up obstetric services, and an additional 16.2 percent plan to stop these services in the next 10 years. Moreover, the Utah Chapter of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists reported the liability crisis has forced 53 percent of Utah OB/GYNs to change their practices: they retiring, relocating, or dropping obstetrics. 
   Additional liability statistics Hatch shared with the Senate include: 
   * Only 17 percent of liability claims filed actually involve a negligent injury. 
   * From 2004 to 2006, medical liability insurance has increased 145 percent nationwide. 
   * The Utah Hospital Association's malpractice premiums increased 300 percent in the last 10 years. 
   "Skyrocketing medical litigation costs directly increase health care costs for all Americans, while decreasing access to quality care and corroding the doctor-patient relationship," Hatch said. "This is a crisis that we can fix." 
   Today's floor statement is available below. 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch 
  Before the United States Senate 
  On the Medical Litigation Crisis 
   May 8, 2006
   Mr. President, today I rise to speak in support of S. 22, the Medical Care Access and Protection Act of 2006 and S. 23, the Healthy Mothers and Healthy Babies Access to Care Act. I am a proud cosponsor of both bills. 
   These bills address the medical liability and litigation crisis in our country, a crisis that is preventing patients from receiving high-quality health care - or, in some cases, any care at all because doctors are being driven out of practice. This crisis is limiting or denying access to vital medical care and needlessly increasing the cost of care for every American. 
   This issue is much more difficult to assess than just studying physicians who leave practice. The more important issue is how physicians are changing their mode of practice and financial structure in response to increasing costs from medical malpractice insurance premiums. 
   As many know, this crisis began when obstetrician/gynecologists started getting out of the obstetric care business. Unfortunately, it has now progressed to almost all medical specialties limiting high risk/low return activities, such as emergency room coverage, to limit exposure. Just last week, the RAND Corporation reported that over 70% of emergency rooms in this country do not have adequate physician staffing. And who ends up suffering the most as a result? The patient does. 
   In a city like Salt Lake, where there are academic medical centers, this results in patient cases shifting from lower cost community hospitals to the higher cost settings. The Chief Operating officer of our University of Utah Hospital was in my office recently to discuss the impact of this problem on the financial stability of the hospital. He told us that it is becoming increasingly difficult for his hospital to provide care to the poor and uninsured. 
   On the financial side, we are seeing physicians' practices modifying their financial structure. And in some cases taking advantage of the fact that there is growing demand and diminishing supply in the physician world. Primary care physicians are creating up-front fees for services which also allow for reduced practice size. The bottom line is that, lacking a different strategy for reimbursement and/or practice cost, (a good part of which is driven by malpractice insurance), we are driving private physicians away from traditional settings. Instead, we are creating a trend that adversely affects physician access and supply, and increases costs in other sectors of the health care environment. 
   The Utah Hospital Association president tells me that a major hospital system in Utah saw its malpractice premiums increase 300% in the last 10 years while at the same time being continually recognized nationally for its outstanding clinical practice. 
   Mr. President, the time to act is now. This crisis is jeopardizing access to health care for many Americans. The medical liability crisis also is inhibiting efforts to improve patient safety and stifling medical innovation. Excessive litigation is adding billions of dollars in increased costs and reducing access to high quality health care. 
   I am deeply concerned that we are needlessly compromising patient safety and quality health care. We know that about four percent of hospitalizations involve an adverse event and one percent of hospitalizations involve an injury that would be considered negligent in court. 
   These numbers have been consistent in large studies conducted in my home state of Utah, New York, California, and Colorado. However, the equally troubling statistic is that few cases with actual negligent injuries result in claims and less than one fifth (17%) of claims filed actually involve a negligent injury. 
   This situation has been likened to a traffic cop who regularly gives out more tickets to drivers who go through green lights than to those who run red lights. Clearly, nobody would defend that method of ensuring traffic safety, and we should not accept such an inefficient and inequitable method of ensuring patient safety. These numbers are a searing indictment of the current medical liability system. 
   I believe we can do better for the American people. The two bills before us are important steps in that path. 
   The problem is particularly acute for women who need obstetrical and gynecologic care because ob-gyn is among the top three specialties with the highest professional liability insurance premiums. This has led to many leaving their practices, thus resulting in a shortage of doctors in many states, including my home state of Utah. 
   Studies by both the Utah Medical Association and the Utah Chapter of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) underscore the problem in my state. Over half, 50.5 percent, of Utah family practitioners have already given up obstetrical services or never practiced obstetrics. 
   Of the remaining 49.5 percent who still deliver babies, 32.7 percent say they plan to stop providing obstetric services within the next decade. Most plan to stop within the next five years. 
   An ACOG [A-COG] survey revealed that over half (53.16%) of ob-gyns in Utah have changed their practice; they are retiring, relocating or dropping obstetrics because of the medical liability reform crisis. This change in practice leaves 1,458 pregnant Utahns without ob-gyn care. 
   The medical liability crisis, while affecting all medical specialties and practices, hits ob-gyn practices especially hard. 
   Astonishingly, over three fourths (76.5%) of obstetrician/gynecologists report being sued at least once in their career. Indeed, over one-fourth of ob-gyn doctors will be sued for care given during their residency. These numbers have discouraged Americans finishing medical school from choosing this vital specialty. I know this is the case my home state of Utah. 
   Currently, one third of ob-gyn residency slots are filled by foreign medical graduates, compared to only 14% one decade ago. Ob-gyn doctors are particularly vulnerable to unjustified lawsuits because of the tendency to blame the doctor for brain-injured infants, although research has proven that physician error is responsible for less than four percent of all neurologically impaired babies. 
   Mr. President, ensuring the availability of high-quality prenatal and delivery care for pregnant women and their babies, the most vulnerable members of our society, is imperative. We must pass this legislation. 
   An August 2003 GAO report concluded that states that have enacted tort reform laws with caps on non-economic damages, have slower growth rates in medical malpractice premiums and claims payments. From 2001 to 2002, the average premiums for medical malpractice insurance increased about 10% in states with caps on non-economic damages. In comparison, states with more limited reforms experienced an increase of 29% in medical malpractice premiums. 
   Overall, the situation has gotten worse. In 2004, malpractice insurance costs increased 55%, in 2005, 34%, and in 2006,18%. That is 107% in just three years! This is an unfair cost for physicians to bear for a system that does not achieve the goal of either rewarding most injured patients or improving the safety and quality of health care. 
   Medical liability litigation directly and dramatically increases health care costs for all Americans. 
   In addition, skyrocketing medical litigation costs indirectly increase health care costs by changing the way doctors practice medicine. 
   Defensive medicine is defined as medical care that is primarily or solely motivated by fear of malpractice claims and not by the patient's medical condition. According to a survey of 1,800 doctors published in the journal Medical Economics, more than three fourths of doctors felt they must practice defensive medicine. A study of defensive medicine by the current director of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Dr. Mark McClellan, using national health expenditure data, showed that medical liability reform has the potential to reduce defensive medicine expenditures by $69 billion to $124 billion in 2001, an amount that is between 3.2 and 5.8 times the amount of malpractice premiums. 
   The financial toll of defensive medicine is great, and especially significant for reform purposes, as it does not produce any positive health benefits. Not only does defensive medicine increase health care costs, it also puts Americans at avoidable risk. 
    Nearly every test and every treatment has possible side effects. Thus, every unnecessary test, procedure, and treatment potentially puts a patient in harm's way. Seventy six percent of physicians are concerned that malpractice litigation has hurt their ability to provide quality care to patients. 
   What can we do to address this crisis? The answer is plenty - and there are excellent examples of what works. 
   HHS has reported how reasonable reforms in some states have reduced health care costs and improved access to and quality of care. More specifically in states with limits of $250,000 to $350,000 on non-economic damages, premiums have increased at an average of just 18% compared to 45% in states without such limits. 
   California enacted the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act, also known as MICRA, more than a quarter century ago. MICRA slowed the rate of increase in medical liability premiums dramatically without affecting negatively the quality of health care received by the state's residents. As a result, doctors are not leaving California. 
   Furthermore, between 1976 and 2000, premiums increased by 167% in California while they increased three times as much, 505%, in the rest of the country. Consequently, Californians were saved billions of dollars in health care costs and federal taxpayers were saved billions of dollars in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 
   Before coming to Congress, I litigated several medical liability cases. I have seen heart-wrenching cases in which mistakes were made. 
   But, more often, I have seen heart-wrenching cases in which mistakes were not made and doctors were forced to expend valuable time and resources defending themselves against frivolous lawsuits. 
   An Institute of Medicine report, "To Err is Human" concluded that "the majority of medical errors do not result from individual recklessness or the actions of a particular group--this is not a 'bad apple'problem. More commonly, errors are caused by faulty systems, processes, and conditions that lead people to make mistakes or fail to prevent them." 
   We need reform to improve the health care systems and processes that allow errors to occur and to identify better when malpractice has not occurred. 
   The reform that I envision would address litigation abuses in order to provide swift and appropriate compensation for malpractice victims, redress for serious problems, and ensure that medical liability costs do not prevent patients from accessing the care they need. 
   And so we need to move ahead with legislation to improve patient safety and reduce medical errors. 
   Without tort reform, juries are awarding astounding and unreasonable sums for pain and suffering. A sizable portion of those awards goes to the attorney rather than the patient. The result is that doctors cannot get insurance and patients cannot get the care they need. All Americans deserve the access to care, the cost savings and the legal protections that states like California and Texas provide their residents. Today's bills will allow us to begin to address this crisis in our health care system, give our citizens, especially women and their babies, access to ob-gyn doctors and enable physicians to provide high quality, cost-effective medical care. 
   I strongly support this legislation and urge my colleagues to support cloture on the motion to proceed. 
   Thank you, I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 