SEN. HATCH: MAJORITY PRIVATE FUEL STORAGE PARTNER LOOKING AT ALTERNATIVES TO SKULL VALLEY
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) teamed up with Deputy Secretary of Energy Clay Sell, today, in his effort to point out to Xcel Energy, the majority owner of Private Fuel Storage (PFS), that their plan to build a private spent nuclear fuel storage site at Skull Valley, Utah, should be scrapped in favor of much better alternatives that would have the support of the Federal government. Xcel Energy CEO Dick Kelly, and President Paul Bonavia, attended the meeting.  
   "When you're a utility, and you're moving upstream against the future Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and the Administration, you know it's time to take a very critical look at where you're heading," Kelly said. "Senator Hatch was very convincing." 
   Summing up the meeting, Hatch said, "I let them know that I will pull out every stop in the book to stop the PFS Plan, and I think we made major progress today. This is a large step in the right direction. We're very close to the point where we can move past the private Skull Valley plan and focus instead on a national policy for the interim storage of our spent nuclear fuel." 
   During the meeting with Xcel Energy, Senator Hatch laid out the significant obstacles he has raised and will raise which Xcel Energy and PFS would have to overcome if they continued to pursue the Skull Valley plan. "I believe Xcel Energy understands that the Administration and I have laid out an impassable mine field that PFS should not want to or even try to run through," Hatch said. 
   Also, during the meeting Senator Hatch and the Deputy Secretary discussed with Xcel Energy the company's need for alternative solutions to Skull Valley. 
   After the meeting with the Deputy Secretary and Senator Hatch, Dick Kelly remarked, "They understood that Xcel Energy believes that the people of Minnesota deserve a solution to this problem. They were very focused on possible solutions to interim storage rather than just saying `no.'" That meant a lot to us. I think these are two men we definitely want in our corner." 
   Xcel Energy is the majority 33.7 percent shareholder and the majority partner of Private Fuel Storage. Each of the other seven PFS partners is less than a 12 percent shareholder. "Xcel Energy is the 800-pound gorilla for Skull Valley", Hatch said. "So that is where I'm focusing my energy and attention for now, and we're making a great headway."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 