SEN. HATCH SETS RECORD STRAIGHT ON MEDICARE
  In a speech before the United States Senate late tonight, Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) challenged partisan attacks on the new Medicare law that are discouraging seniors and the disabled from much-needed health care benefits. 
   "Beneficiaries deserve to know the facts, not to be fed lines that amount to nothing more than political-year pot shots" Hatch said. "They deserve to know how the new benefit will work, not to be given misleading information that may cause them to forego learning more about the prescription drug benefit."  
   "Some who claim to care about seniors and the disabled have unfairly distorted the new law and have spread falsehoods about what it does," Hatch continued. "To me, their actions are irresponsible and should be condemned as election-year politicking at its worst." 
   Since the Medicare Modernization Act was signed into law last December, opponents of the law have spread misleading and false claims that Congress was misled by cost estimates, the law prohibits negotiation on drugs, and the law caused significant increases in Medicare premiums. 
   "We did have the official cost estimate on the Medicare bill before the vote," Hatch said. "That cost estimate is from the Congressional Budget Office, not the CMS. That cost estimate - our official cost estimate by the entity we in the Congress rely upon - was available to every member of Congress before the measure was presented to the House or Senate for a vote. Case closed." 
   Claims that the government will not negotiate with drug makers comes from a non-interference clause in the Medicare law that prohibits CMS from interfering with negotiations between prescription drug plans and drug makers - a clause included in President Clinton's Health Security Act 10 years ago and introduced in a prescription drug bill sponsored by Minority Leader Tom Daschle (D-S.D.) and co-sponsored by 33 Democrats. 
   "This clause is at the heart of the bill's structure for delivering prescription drug coverage," Hatch said. "It ensures drug savings will result from market competition, rather than through price fixing by the CMS bureaucracy. Because direct government negotiation is not the answer. The government does not negotiate drug prices. The government sets prices. The bill's entire approach is to get Medicare beneficiaries the best deal through vigorous market competition, not price controls." 
   Hatch is concerned about the high annual jump in Medicare premiums, especially for seniors who are living day to day off their Social Security checks and can barely afford the extra cost. But he decried attempts to distort the factors causing the premium increase. 
   "Some of today's most vocal critics joined with 71 Democrat and Republican Senators to sign a letter to the administration calling for immediate action to prevent payment cuts to physicians," Hatch said. "Now opponents criticize the part B increase - four-fifths of which is directly attributable to the actions they requested to prevent the decrease in physician payments." 
   Hatch also highlighted that the premium increase will not affect low-income beneficiaries because their premiums are paid for by the government, and the premium also reflects new Medicare coverage for important preventive benefits, such as screenings for cholesterol and diabetes, as well as an initial physical. 
   "I hope my colleagues will think twice about frightening beneficiaries with untruths and distortions," Hatch said. "The new Medicare law is a solid attempt to improve some glaring deficits in the Medicare program. It should be heralded as what it is - a bipartisan attempt to help the seniors and disabled, not hurt them as some so irresponsibly charge." 
   Hatch's full floor statement follows: 
   Statement by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch 
  On the Medicare Modernization Act and 
  Other Health Care Issues
   Mr. President, over the past few weeks, several of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle have given rousing statements on health care. 
   There is no question that health care is of paramount importance to American families. On that we all agree. 
   I am sure it will come as no surprise that I disagree with a number of points my colleagues have raised. In fact, some of their allegations are just wrong - particularly with respect to the Medicare prescription drug law which I helped negotiate. 
   It is mind-boggling that some senators seem to willing to sacrifice the health and well-being of beneficiaries by spreading mistruths about the law. These mistruths could cause a beneficiary to forego learning more about provisions in the law that could really help, such as the Medicare-Approved Drug Discount Card Program, which study after study shows is delivering real savings, or the voluntary Part D benefit that begins in 2006. 
   This continued misinformation and damaging attacks are a tremendous disservice to Medicare beneficiaries. And so, I wanted to take this opportunity to set the record straight. 
   Opponents have characterized the Medicare law as a failure for beneficiaries. To me, we would have failed had we not passed the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) - had we not given beneficiaries what they need - meaningful prescription drug coverage and a stronger Medicare program. 
   Let me highlight a few areas in which we need to set the record straight. The first is on the cost estimates of the MMA. 
   Cost Estimates 
   A central theme echoed by those who seek to discredit the new Medicare law is the allegation that the Administration hid the true cost of the Medicare law from Congress before the final vote. 
   This is simply political election-year hyperbole. 
   The opponents of the drug benefit have made this claim because the complete and final cost estimate from the CMS Office of the Actuary was not finished before the vote took place. 
   Let's be clear, the Administration's cost estimate was not withheld from Congress, because there wasn't a final cost estimate from CMS to withhold. The CMS cost estimate wasn't even completed until December 23 , 2003 -long after the House and Senate vote, long after the bill was signed into law. 
   Rick Foster, the Chief Actuary for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services confirmed these facts to us earlier this year in a Finance Committee briefing. Even after that briefing, however, some chose to continue this erroneous attack, perhaps because they did not take the time to attend the briefing. 
   To me, this is but another indication of election-year hyperbole. 
   Let me also be clear that we did have the official cost estimate on the Medicare bill before the vote. That estimate, as my colleagues are well aware, is the one from the Congressional Budget Office, not the CMS. 
   That cost estimate-our official cost estimate- by the entity we in the Congress rely upon - was available to every Member of Congress before the measure was presented to the House or Senate for a vote. 
   No one should doubt that we had the true cost estimate for the prescription drug bill last year and everyone had access to it before the vote. 
   There also have been claims that the Administration changed its cost estimate. Again, that is not the case. The President's Mid-Session Review did update the estimates of Medicare outlays, but it did not change the estimate of the Medicare Modernization Act. 
   In fact, Rick Foster, the CMS actuary has said that you simply cannot add the change in estimated outlays to the MMA estimate and declare that you have a new estimate. 
   Apparently Mr. Foster's words - the words of a trained actuary - don't matter. If opponents of the Medicare bill value his opinion of cost estimates so highly, why do they ignore him now? Mr. Foster has said that the MMA estimate has not changed. But despite that, opponents of the MMA have wrongly claimed that it did. 
   Again, it's just political hyperbole. We had - and have - the true cost-estimate from CBO. Case closed. 
   Non-Interference 
   Now let me address the accusations that the bill prohibits Medicare from negotiations with drug companies. 
   Those who make this charge imply, wrongly, that the price charged to beneficiaries is not subject to negotiation. That could not be further from the truth. The truth is that Medicare prescription drug plans will be negotiating with drug makers. These negotiations are at the heart of the new Medicare drug benefit. 
   The absurd claim that the government will not be negotiating with drug makers comes from a non-interference clause in the Medicare law. 
   This non-interference clause does not prohibit Medicare from negotiating with drug makers. It prohibits CMS from interfering in those negotiations. 
   Let me be clear, the noninterference clause is at the heart of the bill's structure for delivering prescription drug coverage. This clause ensures those savings will result from market competition, rather than through price fixing by the CMS bureaucracy. 
   What is ironic about the minority charges on this provision is that the same non-interference clause was in the Daschle-Kennedy-Rockefeller bill and the Gephardt-Dingell-Stark bills in 2000. 
   In fact, I want to read this to you: 
   "In administering the prescription drug benefit program established under this part, the Secretary may not- (1) require a particular formulary or institute a price structure for benefits; (2) interfere in any way with negotiations between private entities and drug manufacturers, or wholesalers; or (3) otherwise interfere with the competitive nature of providing a prescription drug benefit through private entities. 
   What is the source of that language? 
   It's from S. 2541, the Medicare Expansion for Needed Drugs or MEND Act, introduced in 2000 by Senator Daschle and cosponsored by 33 Democrats, including Senator Kerry. 
   I find it curious that this approach - which is mislabled as "preventing Medicare from negotiating" - was fine in the year 2000, but not fine when enacted into law by a Republican President in 2003. 
   I must remind my colleagues that Senator Daschle once said, 
   "Our plan gives seniors the bargaining power that comes with numbers. ... Our plan mirrors the best practices used in the private sector. For beneficiaries in traditional Medicare, prescription drug coverage would be delivered by private entities that negotiate prices with drug manufacturers. This is the same mechanism used by private insurers." 
   A related charge I heard one minority Senator make was that this so-called "non-interference" language contributed to next year's Part B premium increase. That is just plain wrong. 
   The Part B premium reflects costs of Part B benefits. These include physician services and other outpatient services. And I would like to remind my colleagues that when Medicare was first created, the government paid 50% of the premiums and beneficiaries paid 50% of the premiums. Today, the government pays 75% of the premiums and the beneficiaries pay 25% of the premiums because we in the Congress were trying to help limit beneficiaries' out-of-pocket costs. 
   Our colleague also said "the drug lobby did its job" by getting the non-interference provision in the MMA. Well, they did their job four years ago, too, when they got the Democrats to add the same provision to their bill. And I guess they also did their job when they got President Clinton to insert the provision in his Health Security Act over 10 years ago! 
   Those who suggest that this "non-interference" language will drive up the costs of implementing the law simply do not have the facts on their side. 
   Here is what the CBO said about eliminating the non-interference clause in a letter earlier this year: "the Secretary would not be able to negotiate prices that further reduce federal spending to a significant degree." 
   The CBO, in that letter went on to say, "CBO estimates that substantial savings will be obtained by the private plans." 
   Let us be clear: direct government negotiation is not the answer. The government does not negotiate drug prices. The government sets prices. 
   The bill's entire approach is to get Medicare beneficiaries the best deal through vigorous market competition, not price controls. 
   Again, it might be illustrative to quote from Senator Daschle when he outlined the principles for the MEND Act: 
   "We should take a lesson from the best private insurance companies: Cost-savings should be achieved through competition, not regulation or price controls." 
   This year, even the Washington Post in a February 17 editorial stated that "Governments are notoriously bad at setting prices, and the U.S. government is notoriously bad at setting prices in the medical realm." 
   And there's proof of that. 
   In an August 2000 report, the Government Accountability Office - the GAO - found that drug manufacturers could respond to a mandate that they extend federal prices to a larger share of purchasers by adjusting their prices to others. The larger the group that would be newly entitled to receive a federal price, the greater the incentive for drug manufacturers to raise that price. 
   The GAO stated that with the Medicaid rebate experience, specifically, that following enactment of the rebate program, discounts for outpatient drugs decreased significantly because manufacturers raised the prices they charge large private purchasers. This shows how federal and non-federal drug price discounts could change if Medicare beneficiaries had access to the same price discounts available to federal purchasers. 
   It is common sense that expanding access to the Medicaid rebate means weaker discounts for everyone. If almost everyone can get the Medicaid "best price," then no one gets a discount. 
   Another charge we hear frequently is that Congress should give Medicare beneficiaries access to the Veterans' Administration approach. What they don't tell beneficiaries about the VA model is that it's a very restrictive formulary and that the drugs are available only through a limited number of VA pharmacies. 
   The VA has lower prices in part because it has a very restrictive formulary. This puzzles me because many proponents of the VA system also have expressed concern ensuring beneficiaries' access to drugs. 
   In calling for the VA system, Families USA spotlighted 15 drugs commonly taken by Medicare beneficiaries. In fact, of the 15 drugs mentioned by Families USA, only nine are even on the VA formulary. The rest aren't covered. 
   Sixty-one percent of the drugs on the VA formulary are generics. If a Medicare beneficiary needed a brand-name drug - and the vast majority either do or will - the beneficiary would have to meet a narrow set of exceptions to get that brand-name drug under the VA system. 
   The drugs are only dispensed at VA facilities. Such a closed system would limit Medicare beneficiaries' access to their neighborhood pharmacy. I am not for limiting beneficiaries' access to their neighborhood pharmacies. And I don't think any of my colleagues are, either. 
   So, while proposing the VA system might make for a good sound bite, there are some really important facts that its proponents are not sharing that could do more harm than good. 
   We did not rely on CMS price fixing, but instead created a new drug-benefit that relies on strong market competition - an approach in keeping with the principles of the MEND Act, as introduced by Senator Daschle and cosponsored by 33 Democrats, including Senator John Kerry. But that was then, and this is now. 
   Medicare Premium Increase 
   Moving along, I want to talk about the Part B premium increase. 
   There has been a good deal of criticism on the increase in the part B premium, and that was understandable as many of us were shocked at so high a jump. Many of us were concerned about the impact this could have on beneficiaries, especially those living on fixed incomes. 
   But it might be helpful to look at why this increase occurred. 
   The vast majority of the premium increase resulted from physician payment changes made in a previous year and by those in the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) that were needed to ensure beneficiaries' access to care. 
   Mr. President, I cannot relate how many letters I have received over the past few years from beneficiaries and providers alike who were concerned about the negative impact of reductions in physician reimbursement. Preventing these cuts was not a partisan issue. Indeed, Republicans and Democrats worked to prevent payment cuts to physicians so access to their services was protected. 
   In fact, some of today's most vocal critics of the Administration joined with 71 Democrat and Republican Senators to sign a letter to the administration calling for immediate action to prevent payment cuts to physicians. Virtually all of us hailed the ensuing action to prevent the physician pay cuts. 
   And yet, today many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle criticize the part B premium increase, four-fifths of which is directly attributable to the actions they requested to prevent the decrease in physician payments. 
   Is that right? I don't think so. 
   Let's look at another reason the part B premium increased so much this year. 
   Congress increased payments made on behalf of beneficiaries who choose a Medicare Advantage (MA) plan. The higher payments - like the physician payments - were necessary to preserve access to MA plans and were supported by Republicans and Democrats. 
   In a letter to Medicare conferees, several prominent Democrat Senators expressed support for including these higher payments in the final Medicare bill. Senator Kerry was a lead cosponsor of an amendment to increase Medicare Advantage funding. In his floor statement last June, he said - and I quote - 
   "The Schumer-Santorum-Kerry amendment focuses on protecting this important option for seniors who have nowhere else to turn for the quality health coverage they need. I urge my colleagues to support the additional funding that is urgently needed to strengthen the Medicare+Choice Program for seniors. This should be among our highest priorities in this year's Medicare debate." 
   Among the highest priorities! 
   I find it so disingenuous for some of my colleagues to question the premium increase when they in fact supported the changes that led to the premium increase. 
   There were also six amendments to the Medicare bill - introduced by Democratic Senators - that if approved, would have increased the part B premium even more. 
   And yet, we hear the persistent minority drumbeat against this increase. 
   And when we hear charges that the new Medicare bill drove up the Part B premium, which as I have noted are largely false, we must also keep in mind the fact that the premium increase will not affect low-income beneficiaries, whose premiums are paid for by the government. 
   We must also bear in mind the important fact that the premium also reflects new Medicare coverage for important preventive benefits. 
   Practically every other American with private health coverage has a wide array of preventive benefits. But Medicare beneficiaries - who could possibly benefit the most from the value of prevention - did not have the benefit of coverage for many of these basic preventive services prior to enactment of the MMA. 
   That didn't make sense. Now Medicare will cover important screenings for cholesterol and diabetes as well as an initial physical. 
   Finally, the MMA can save beneficiaries money. Reforms in overpayments for drugs combined with the new preventive benefits will lower beneficiaries out of pocket costs by $270 million in 2005. 
   Mr. President, beneficiaries deserve to know that facts - not to be fed lines that amount to nothing more than political year pot shots. They deserve to know how the new benefit will work, not to be given misleading information that may cause them to forego learning more about the prescription drug benefit. 
   Quite frankly, I'm surprised and dismayed that some who claim to care about seniors and the disabled have unfairly distorted the new law and have spread falsehoods about what it does. To me, their actions are irresponsible and should be condemned as election-year politicking at its worst. 
   Mr. President, beneficiaries deserve much better. I hope my colleagues will think twice about frightening beneficiaries with untruths and distortions. The new Medicare law is a solid attempt to improve some glaring deficits in the Medicare program and should be heralded as what it is: a bipartisan attempt to help the seniors and disabled, not hurt them as some so irresponsibly charge.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 