SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON 'JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS' ON SENATE FLOOR
 Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch 
  Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary before the United States Senate
   On the Nominations of: 
  Susan B. Neilson to the 
  United States Circuit Court for the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals; 
   Micaela Alvarez to the  
  U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas; 
   Keith Starrett to the 
  U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi; and 
   Christopher A. Boyko to the 
  U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio 
   Mr. President, I rise to speak about four fine judicial nominees that deserve votes before we adjourn this Congress. Three of these four nominees received the ABA's highest rating, unanimously Well-Qualified. The Judiciary Committee has thoroughly reviewed their background and qualifications, and determined that they would all make fine federal judges. All four were reported favorably by the Committee, three of the four by unanimous vote. They have put forward their good names for the Senate's evaluation, and they deserve our attention before we adjourn. We owe them no less. 
   Susan Neilson has been waiting a long time for a vote. She was nominated to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, for a seat that has been classified as a judicial emergency, on November 8, 2001. That's nearly three years that she has been waiting for this body to consider her nomination. Mr. President it is time. 
   Judge Neilson is an outstanding candidate for this post. She received a unanimous Well Qualified rating from the American Bar Association. She graduated with high distinction from the University of Michigan Honors College in 1977 and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. Judge Neilson received her law degree, cum laude, from Wayne State University School of Law in 1980 and was a member of its law review. Following her graduation, Judge Neilson began her legal career as an associate at the Detroit law firm of Dickinson Wright, one of the oldest and most prestigious law firms in Michigan. She became a partner in the firm in 1986 and continued to practice there until 1991. While in private practice, Judge Neilson appeared in court on a regular basis and handled hundreds of cases at both the trial and appellate levels. 
   In 1991, Governor John M. Engler appointed her to the 3rd Judicial Circuit Court of Michigan, the largest trial court in the state. She was reelected to that post in 1992, 1996 and 2002. She currently is assigned to the criminal division of the Court. 
   Despite her busy schedule, Judge Neilson makes it a priority to give back to the community. She is active in many service organizations including the Catholic Lawyers Society and the Worship Commission of her church. She served as President of her local chapter of Soroptimist International, a word-wide organization working to promote human rights and the status of women. 
   Judge Neilson is also a prolific writer. She has written numerous articles and was co-editor and author of Michigan Civil Procedure, a two-volume treatise on all areas of Michigan civil practice. This treatise was selected by the Michigan Judicial Institute for purchase on behalf of every trial court judge in the State of Michigan and received the "Plain English Award" from the State Bar of Michigan. I also understand that she is currently working on a new book. 
   Judge Neilson is imminently qualified for the Sixth Circuit. I commend her to my colleagues and urge them to vote for her confirmation. 
   Micaela Alvarez, nominated to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, is an experienced attorney and trial judge. She began her legal career in 1989 as an Associate Litigation Attorney at the law firm of Atlas & Hall, in McAllen, Texas. Her practice focused primarily on insurance defense, employment defense, and wrongful discharge defense. Judge Alvarez later joined the Law Offices of Ronald G. Hole where she expanded her practice to include medical malpractice defense and products liability. In 1995, she was appointed to the 139th Judicial District Court in Hidalgo County, Texas, where she served as Presiding Judge. 
   Judge Alvarez brings a wealth of experience to the federal bench and she will make an excellent addition to the Southern District of Texas. 
   Keith Starrett, nominated to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi, is an exceptional nominee with a long and distinguished record both as an attorney and judge. He is a graduate of Mississippi State University and the University of Mississippi - School of Law. He is an experienced litigator who has represented plaintiffs, defendants, debtors, creditors, and criminal defendants in both state and federal courts. While in private practice he litigated over four hundred cases. In 1992 he was appointed to the Fourteenth Circuit Court of Mississippi where he presently serves. The American Bar Association unanimously gave him its highest rating of "Well Qualified." The Mississippi Bar Association awarded him with the Judicial Excellence Award in 2003. Undoubtedly, he will be a wonderful addition to the federal bench. 
   Christopher Boyko has been nominated to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. Judge Boyko brings 25 years of legal experience and sterling credentials to the federal bench. He has served as a judge for the Court of Common Pleas in Cuyahoga County for eight years. He also served on the Parma Municipal Court before joining the Court of Common Pleas. 
   Prior to his appointment to the bench, Judge Boyko built a successful law practice, which he coupled with his duties as assistant prosecutor, prosecutor, and director of law, for the city of Parma. He also served as the legal advisor to the local police department's S.W.A.T. team, as a statutory legal counsel for the Parma School District, and as chief legal counsel for the Southwest Enforcement Bureau. 
   The ABA has recognized this seasoned nominee with a unanimously "Well Qualified" rating. In addition, he has received Martindale-Hubbell's highest rating of "AV". He has the distinction of having been elected to Who's Who in American Law, and the Judicial Candidates Rating Coalition, in Cleveland, unanimously gave him an "Excellent" rating for 2004. 
   Mr. President, I think that you will agree that these four, fine nominees possess the credentials, reputation and experience to be federal judges. I am convinced that each of them would serve with distinction. 
   Now, Mr. President, let me take a minute to dispense with the old canard that Judges aren't confirmed late in an election year. When Senator Thurmond chaired this Committee, during a presidential election year, the Senate confirmed six Circuit Judges after August 1st - one in August and five in October. In addition, twelve district judges were confirmed in September and October of that year. So I will follow that Thurmond rule and continue to bring the President's nominees to the Committee for action and to the Senate for consideration. 
   Mr. President, I am only too well aware of the unprecedented and constitutionally suspect tactics my colleagues across the aisle have used to filibuster circuit court judges. So I am under no illusion that Judge Neilson will be given the up-or-down vote that the Constitution requires. Certainly this is unlikely to occur in the closing days of this session. Be that as it may, I hope that the devious tactic of filibustering circuit judges will in no way prevent the Senate from confirming three superbly qualified district judges. I hope they will be included in the final executive calendar package along with four commissioners for the Sentencing Commission and four U.S. Attorneys. 
   Mr. President, I understand time is precious. We are in the waning hours of this Congress, and still much is left to be done. We should not, however, in our haste to adjourn, neglect consideration of all these outstanding nominees. They deserve our attention. They deserve our time. I call on the leadership on both sides of the aisle to move these nominations and urge my colleagues to vote for the confirmation of all these distinguished nominees.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225. 
 
 