SEN. HATCH LAUDS PETRAEUS, CALLS ON CONGRESS TO STAY COURSE
  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) today lauded American troops and their successes in bringing greater stability and security to Iraq as part of Gen. David Patraeus' "surge" strategy. Speaking on the Senate floor, Hatch praised Petraeus and called on Congress to stay the course and help American troops achieve victory in Iraq. 
   Highlights from Hatch's speech on the Senate floor follow: 
   "If we are not successful in this war, the result will be catastrophic for our nation and the Western world. This enemy - and despite what some in the media would lead us to believe, our main adversary in Iraq is al-Qaeda - will pursue us home. Imagine the horrors that will follow, if al-Qaeda, with reinvigorated resources provided by Iraq's oil wealth, were to defeat us in Iraq."  
   "One of the great historical truths of our nation is that in our most dire hours, our military has continually provided us with leaders of great resolve and strategic brilliance. Gen. David Petraeus amply fits that mold." 
   "Equally as impressive is the International Monetary Fund estimate that Iraq's Gross Domestic Product will grow by 7 percent in real terms this year. Seven percent! That rate of growth ... is a level that I wish that the United States could enjoy." 
   "In any conflict their will be dark days. But if our cause is just and our will is strong, there is nothing that we cannot accomplish as a people ... Our forces have accomplished much. It is now our responsibility to sustain them until they achieve the victory for which they deserve." 
   Hatch's floor speech in its entirety follows: 
   Mr. President, a little over a year ago I stood before the Senate and recited the words of Thomas Paine - who in his essay titled "Chaos" - spoke about commitment and sacrifice to a noble cause even when it appeared that all hope was lost. His words still resonate today: 
   "These are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of his country; but he that stands it now deserves the love and thanks of man and woman." 
   Paine wrote those words when it seemed the American Revolution was lost. However, their effect was to rally what remained of the Continental Army and ensure the success of Washington's raids on Trenton and Princeton. 
   When I recited Paine's words, our nation faced a dilemma. Despite the great heroism and noble sacrifice of our service members, large portions of Iraq were under the control of al-Qaeda. The mainstream media had concluded that, at best, our forces were locked in a stalemate. Many advocated that the only recourse was to bring the troops home and allow Iraq to fall in the abyss of an implosion. 
   For some, including the senior Senator from Arizona and I, that was never an option. The knowledge, experience and, hopefully, wisdom that I have accumulated over the years in this august body allowed me to make only one conclusion: If we are not successful in this war, the result will be catastrophic for our nation and the Western world. This enemy - and despite what some in the media would lead us to believe, our main adversary in Iraq is al-Qaeda - will pursue us home. Imagine the horrors that will follow, if al-Qaeda, with reinvigorated resources provided by Iraq's oil wealth, were to defeat us in Iraq. 
   However, one of the great historical truths of our nation is that in our most dire hours, our military has continually provided us with leaders of great resolve and strategic brilliance. Gen. David Petraeus amply fits that mold. 
   The new strategy that Gen. Petraeus proposed - which he has so ably been assisted in its execution by Ambassador Ryan Crocker - is based on the classical counterinsurgency tenet of providing security to the population of a nation under attack. 
   Why is this critical? By providing security to the Iraqi people, that nation's citizens develop a vested interest in the creation of institutions that will ensure their security for the future. Simply put, only in a secure environment can the majority of Iraqis earn a living, put food on the table and provide a better life for their families. 
   What once was theory is now becoming reality. The Iraqi people are seeing considerable results from Gen. Petraeus' strategy and their actions and plans for the future increasingly reflect this new reality. 
   How do we know this? Since the beginning of 2007, well over 100,000 individuals have joined the Iraqi Army and security forces. This means that a total of 540,000 Iraqis now serve in that nation's security forces. This includes the 91,641 individuals, who in little over a year, have joined the Sons of Iraq, the coalition of citizens that are tasked with providing security to their local communities. One should remember that 80 percent of the Sons of Iraq are Sunni Muslims. In addition, it should be noted that al-Qaeda receives most of its support from Sunnis. Frankly, this alone is a major triumph. 
   The Iraqi people are also providing us intelligence. One of the methods by which we find weapons and explosive caches is through tips from the local population. In 2006, Coalition forces found and cleared 2,660 such weapons caches. In 2007, after the Petraeus strategy was implemented, that number increased to 6,963. What is even more impressive is that though we have just entered the fourth month of this year, Coalition forces have seized more weapons caches then in all of 2006. Clearly, this increase in seizures would not be possible without greater support from the Iraqi population. 
   In the area of ethno-sectarian violence, we have seen a dramatic reduction in deaths. When our new strategy was first implemented, there were more than 2,000 ethno-sectarian deaths a month in Iraq and over 1,500 in Baghdad alone. Today, there are less then 250 ethno-sectarian deaths a month in all of Iraq. 
   All of these events have occurred during the period of enhanced security brought about by General Petraeus' strategy. For example, shortly after the implementation of this strategy, there were greater then 1,400 Weekly Security Incidents in Iraq. Today that number has dropped to less then half. 
   In addition, the number of High Profile Attacks, which include car bombs, suicide car bombs and suicide vests - the preferred means of murder by al-Qaeda - have also decreased by more than half from March 2007 to the present day. 
   Enhanced security has strengthened the foundations of political institutions and economic ventures. This is evidenced by a poll conducted by the Center for International Private Enterprise, which was summarized by Ambassador Crocker in his testimony. That poll, which was conducted last month, concluded that 78 percent of Iraq's business owners "expect the Iraqi economy to grow significantly in the next two years." 
   Equally as impressive is the International Monetary Fund estimate that Iraq's Gross Domestic Product will grow by 7 percent in real terms this year. Seven percent! That rate of growth will only be matched by some Asian Tiger economies and it is a level that I wish that the United States could enjoy. 
   This economic growth and strengthening of political institutions is also evidenced by the fact that the United States will no longer fund major infrastructure projects. Ambassador Crocker reports the reason for this fundamental shift is that Iraq's economy is now earning sufficient funds for the Iraqi government to independently build their own infrastructure. 
   This does not mean that we should view this conflict through rose-colored glasses. As evidenced by the events in Basra last week, there remain many challenges ahead. The fact is that the Iraqi operations in Basra were not properly planned. However, as General Petraeus said: "In the wake of recent operations, there were units and leaders found wanting in some cases ... Nonetheless, the performance of many [Iraqi] units was solid, especially once they got their footing and gained a degree of confidence, and certain Iraqi elements proved quite capable." 
   In addition, it should be noted that in previous years no one would have dreamed that the Iraqi Government would have launched such an operation. Remember, the Prime Minister gave an order to the security forces. Those orders were executed. In Basra, the results were mixed. Some units did well; some did not. However, the fact that the Government thought they could execute this major operation independently is a positive development. As General Petraeus testified, "Operations in Basra highlight improvements in the ability of the Iraqi security forces to deploy substantial number of units, supplies and replacements on very short notice; they certainty could not have deployed a division's worth of army and police units a year ago." 
   Further progress is also being made by Iraq's political institutions. When our new strategy was first being implemented, there seemed to be an inextricable stalemate in Iraqi's Parliament. During my trip to Iraq in May 2007, I spoke to senior members of the Iraqi Parliament and strongly urged them to pass legislation vital to the reconstruction and the establishment of effective political institutions. As with any democratic political process, it has been slow going. However, the Iraqi Parliament has recently passed important laws. These include the a new pension law, de-Ba'athification reform and a new Provincial Powers Law that sets elections for this fall and defines the structure of power between the Iraqi federal government and its provinces. 
   I believe that Ambassador Crocker summed up the situation best when he said yesterday: 
   "Al-Qaeda is in retreat in Iraq, but it is not yet defeated. al-Qaeda's leaders are looking for every opportunity they can to hang on. Osama bin Ladin has called Iraq "the perfect base," and it reminds us that a fundamental aim of al-Qaeda is to establish itself in the Arab world. It almost succeeded in Iraq; we cannot allow it a second chance. 
   "...the world ultimately will judge us far more on the basis of what will happen than what has happened. In the end, how we leave and what we leave behind will be more important than how we came. Our current course is hard, but it is working. Progress is real although still fragile. We need to stay with it." 
   Mr. President, the road has been long and hard. However, as I said one year ago, the words of Thomas Paine remind us that great causes require sacrifice, that in any conflict their will be dark days. But if our cause is just and our will is strong, there is nothing that we cannot accomplish as a people. 
   Mr. President, our forces have accomplished much. It is now our responsibility to sustain them until they achieve the victory for which they deserve.
   Contact: Mark Eddington and Jared Whitley, 202/224-5251.
 
 