SEN. HATCH INITIATIVES INCLUDED IN CONGRESS-PASSED TAX, HEALTH PACKAGE
  Early this morning, the United States Senate overwhelmingly approved H.R. 6111, legislation that would extend a series of Hatch-sponsored tax, energy, and health initiatives critical to Utah and the nation. Having already passed the House of Representatives late Thursday night, H.R. 6111 is expected to be signed into law by the President. 
   "Many of these provisions are vital to sustaining our economy, and I'm very glad that after months of effort, we were able to save Americans an enormous tax hike next year," Hatch said.  
   The tax package includes several Hatch-authored provisions that will make health savings accounts (HSAs) more user-friendly for employees and businesses. Approximately 3 million people have already enrolled in these consumer-driven health plans that allow participants and their employers to save pre-tax dollars and withdraw them-tax free-for medical expenses. Hatch's provisions enhance the availability and affordability of these plans for small business owners and individuals. 
   "HSAs are a great option for many people," Hatch said. "They address the chief health care concerns of families-price and portability. Putting health care decisions back in the hands of consumers will drive down costs by encouraging a more prudent use of health care dollars. And HSAs allow employees to take their health care savings with them when they switch jobs." 
   The package contains many of the provisions Hatch first introduced last summer in S. 3585, The HSA Improvement and Expansion Act, including: 
   * Allowing rollovers to an HSA from existing HRAs and FSAs. 
   * Simplifying personal contribution limits. 
   * Requiring the government to complete cost of living adjustments earlier in the year to provide individuals and employers with more time to modify their plans. 
   * Authorizing full contributions for mid-year enrollees. 
   * Allowing families to "seed" an HSA with funds from an IRA. 
   * Giving employers the opportunity to make greater contributions to the accounts of non-highly compensated employees. 
   Hatch also ensured H.R. 6111 extended his research tax credit, which gives a boost to thousands of research-based companies in Utah. Since its enactment in 1981, the research credit has become a powerful and effective incentive for firms to increase research spending. The research credit expired December 31, 2005. Hatch's provision would extend the credit retroactively through 2007. 
   "Many companies - especially in Utah - rely on this tax credit to remain competitive and innovate," Hatch said. "Research and development is the lifeblood of not only Utah's but the nation's economy. In short, our nation's future economic health depends on the innovations of today." 
   The legislation would also extend through 2007 a provision Hatch first authored in 2001 providing school teachers a tax deduction for $250 for the costs of classroom expenses. The deduction is available whether or not the teacher itemized deductions. Last year, 3.3 million teachers took advantage of this deduction. Hatch is grateful the deduction will continue, and he intends to continue his efforts to provide teachers an unlimited deduction for their out-of-pocket and professional development expenses in the next Congress. 
   "Dedicated teachers - who have enough challenges as it is - sacrifice by paying out of their own pockets for classroom supplies to meet the needs of their students," Hatch said. "This deduction is a modest means of helping them cover their costs." 
   Experts say Utah has one of the largest underground geothermal reservoirs in the nation, and Hatch's tax incentives for electricity produced from geothermal and other renewable energy facilities - first enacted in the 2005 comprehensive energy bill - were extended through 2008. The U.S. has the reserves to provide energy from geothermal sources to more than 22 million homes if fully developed. A July 2006 Government Accountability Office study estimates that because of this provision, future electricity production from geothermal resources could increase by 25 to 367 percent by 2017. 
   "Geothermal is a clean, renewable energy resource that is not affected by the price or supply of oil - yet it makes up only a small percent of the nation's energy consumption," Hatch said. "But these incentives are spurring construction on more geothermal plants across the nation, including a new plant in Cove Fort, Utah, that's expected to be completed by December 2007." 
   The tax package also included several health-related initiatives backed by Hatch. The legislation prevents physician payment cuts in 2007 by freezing payments for physician services. H.R. 6111 also provides a one-year extension of a provision that allows Medicare beneficiaries to apply for additional physical, occupational, and speech language therapy services. 
   In 2003, Hatch successfully changed the formula for Medicare reimbursements to physicians, since the previous formula penalized those practicing in rural settings. The bill extends this new formula through 2007, which will continue to raise payments in certain rural areas. Hatch also fought to extend the availability of the Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) program, which is of interest to those providing long-term, acute care for frail elderly in rural areas, including Grand County in Utah.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 