SEN. HATCH: INTERIOR TO RE-EVALUATE PRIVATE FUEL STORAGE LEASE
  In a rare move, the Department of the Interior in response to a request from Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today announced it will re-open public comment on granting rights of way through public lands that Private Fuel Storage (PFS) needs to build a private spent nuclear fuel storage site at Skull Valley, Utah.  
   "Interior has the obligation to protect the public interest, and today's action shows that it is seriously reconsidering the safety of the PFS plan," Hatch said. "I urge everyone in Utah who shares my concerns about the PFS proposal to make their voices heard during this public comment period. I am hopeful this new review will lead the Interior to deny the rights of way and put an end to the Skull Valley site." 
   Hatch has been working closely with the Bush Administration and officials in the Department of the Interior to express his concerns about the safety and financial viability of proposed site in Skull Valley, which he formally laid out in a letter to Interior Secretary Gale Norton Thursday. The Interior, through the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), responded today acknowledging his concerns and agreeing to open public comment to conduct a full review before making a decision on granting the rights of way. 
   "You are quite correct that a significant amount of time has passed since this process began and since the cooperating agencies formally sought input," wrote James M. Hughes, deputy director of programs and policy at BLM. "We therefore plan in the near future to publish a notice in the Federal Register seeking additional comments on the (PFS) right-of-way applications for a period of 90 days. By soliciting comments BLM will have an opportunity to obtain additional information to more fully inform the decision makers." 
   In May 1997, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) gave preliminary and conditional approval of the PFS lease, and one of the conditions that must be met before construction of the site may begin is the Bureau of Land Management's approval of rights of way across their land for a PFS rail spur or a PFS intermodal transportation facility. 
   Today's announcement from the Interior follows on confirmations Hatch received Thursday from Southern Company that it will cease its support for building the Skull Valley site and Xcel Energy, the majority-stockholder in PFS, will place a moratorium on its funding for PFS. Hatch believes that without their financial support, the viability of the PFS proposal is now seriously threatened. 
   * For BLMletterreopencommentperiod_12092005, see http://hatch.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=DataPipes.ViewPDF&Id=1492
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 