SEN. HATCH: GOAL OF CLASS ACTIONS TOO OFTEN A HEFTY ATTORNEYS' FEE
 Following a meeting with President Bush and other key senators to discuss the issue, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) stressed the need for reform of the nation's class action system today in a speech before the United States Senate.  
   "Without question, many of today's class actions are nothing more than business opportunities for some lawyers to strike it rich," said Hatch. 
   "In recent years, we have witnessed a disturbing trend in which some lawyers are bringing and settling class action lawsuits that chiefly serve the interests of the plaintiffs' counsel," said Hatch. "Too often, these lawyers recover millions of dollars in attorneys' fees while the class members get little more than a coupon, if that." 
   In a meeting with President Bush at the Department of Commerce, Hatch and other Senate leaders from both sides of the aisle discussed the urgent need to pass S.5, The Class Action Fairness Act of 2005, which would shift many class action suits from state courts to federal courts and protect injured parties from unfair settlements made on their behalf by plaintiffs' attorneys. 
   "As we noted in the Judiciary Committee, this bill is a 'modest, balanced bill to address some of the most egregious problems in the class action practice,'" Hatch later said on the Senate floor. "This bill is the result of intense, bipartisan negotiations and is our best effort to address a problem that is pervading our state court system." 
   Hatch added that he is a supporter of the class action system, in which multiple plaintiffs, often from different states, file suit together as members of a "class" of injured parties. 
   "I want to make clear that I am not an opponent of class action lawsuits," said Hatch. "When they are legitimate and brought in the best interests of class members, they are a vital part of our judicial system. Frequently, class actions are the best way to compensate large groups of injured consumers. Most lawyers are honorable people. Only a few are causing the lion's share of trouble."
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 