SEN. HATCH: TRIAL LAWYERS GETTING RICH OFF OF ASBESTOS CLAIMS
 Too many people have died, too many people have lost their jobs, and too many asbestos attorneys have private jets because of the existing asbestos litigation nightmare, Sen. Hatch said on the Senate floor Thursday. The following is his complete speech responding to criticism of S. 852. 
   Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch, United States Senate 
  S. 852, Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005, February 9, 2006  
   Mr. President, I rise in support of S. 852, the bipartisan Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005. Over the last several days opponents of this legislation have made several misleading claims, and I would like to take a moment to respond. 
   Mr. President, opponents of this bill have claimed that it amounts to a bailout of big business generally and asbestos manufacturers specifically. Well guess what--they are--as usual--almost right. Webster's defines bailout as a rescue from financial distress. It is true that we are trying to save 90 percent of this country's industry from financial distress. And it is also true that we are trying to rescue literally hundreds of thousands of asbestos victims from the plague of uncertainty, the avarice of asbestos attorneys, and the cruel reality of asbestos bankruptcies. So, using the word bailout is a complete mischaracterization of what this bill does. 
   This bill saves an overburdened legal system. 
   This bill saves asbestos victims from unfair and untimely compensation. 
   This bill saves ordinary Americans from a tremendous strain on our national economy. 
   And this bill saves veterans who have nowhere else to turn. 
   I ask my colleagues, did you know that once vibrant companies, who are now bankrupt due to asbestos liability, employed over 200,000 workers? 200,000! 
   The asbestos crisis affects over 85% of the United States economy. Over $200 million in lost wages. $200 million! Gone. Almost no one has been spared. 75 out of 83 industrial sectors in this country are affected. Has not this body been working for several years now to save domestic jobs and help our industry? 
   Not a single Senator questions the fact that this nation faces an immediate crisis. Not a single Senator disputes the fact that our legal system cannot handle the thousands upon thousands of asbestos claims. And hopefully, not a single Senator questions that we must do something, and do it now. 
   Too much time has passed. 
   Too many people have died. 
   Too many people have lost their jobs. 
   Too many people have gone uncompensated. 
   And too many asbestos attorneys have private jets and luxurious yachts as a result. 
   Some of my colleagues claim this bill lets defendant companies off the hook. I believe the distinguished Senior Senator from Massachusetts said yesterday that S. 852 would shift more of the financial burden on to the backs of injured workers. While I share my colleague's concern for injured workers, I disagree with his assessment of how this bill works. The FAIR Act does not add to the burden on injured workers--it lessens it. 
   This bill will ensure that asbestos victims are compensated over a three to four year period. Individuals with exigent claims will receive their compensation within one year. Moreover, asbestos victims under this bill will receive the entire award themselves instead of giving enormous percentages to attorneys. Of course, claimants may elect to utilize an attorney, in which case attorneys' fees are capped at 5%. That's a far cry from what some of the exorbitant attorneys fees being charged today. I wholeheartedly believe that attorneys should be compensated for their efforts, but I also believe that such compensation should be reasonable. 
   Under the FAIR Act, defendant companies are not let off the hook under this bill. Defendant companies, along with insurers and re-insurers, do not get a free ride under S. 852 unless you think a combined $136 billion obligation constitutes a free ride. Defendant companies are responsible for payments up to $90 billion over the life of the Fund. 
   Insurer participants are responsible for payments up to $46 billion. 
   That is not pocket change. 
   Indeed, as some of my colleagues have pointed out, there are companies and insurers that oppose this bill because of this obligation. I ask my colleagues, why would some of these companies oppose this legislation if it amounted to a free ride? 
   This brings me to my next subject. Some of my colleagues have alleged that taxpayers will be footing the bill for the FAIR Act. $140 billion! That would be a truly frightening allegation if it were true. Fortunately for us, it is not true. 
   The FAIR Act is entirely funded by private means. American taxpayers do not pay one dime. 
   Or nickel. 
   Or penny. 
   The truth is, as I mentioned before, private entities provide the funds for this bill. $140 billion, and none of it from the coffers of the United States. 
   Defendant companies pay $90 billion. 
   Participant insurers pay $46 billion. 
   And the remaining $4 billion? Bankruptcy trusts. At present, there is somewhere in the range of $4 to $7 billion sitting in bankruptcy trusts. This bill would consolidate those monies and fold them into the trust it creates. Now, it is true that some of those trusts do not relish this idea. I do not blame them--I do not like living in the shadow of this problem either. But the fact is, Congress can and should consolidate the existing bankruptcy trusts as part of a comprehensive solution to a critical national problem. 
   Now, as I understand the situation, there are two primary claims against including the existing bankruptcy trusts in this legislation. The first argument amounts to a finality claim--some argue that Congress should let sleeping dogs lie. Critics in this camp believe that we should not undo what has been done in the bankruptcy courts since victims in those circumstances have been compensated to a degree and the channeling injunction that accompanies a 524(g) trust effectively terminates residual liability. Well, there are a few problems here. In many instances, the sleeping dog here is in fact a very sick puppy. It cannot take care of itself. The Manville Trust, for example, pays only pennies on the dollar and it does not address the global problem. In fact, the Supreme Court has, on more than one occasion, struck down attempted global settlements while simultaneously calling upon Congress to act. 
   The fact is, the Supreme Court was right--the asbestos problem is a horrific mess and it is time for Congress to intervene. I understand why companies that are on the receiving end of a channeling injunction would not want to upset the balance they have struck, but they will have the protections of this bill while simultaneously providing much needed funding that will be used to compensate the true victims of the asbestos crisis. 
   One further point on existing asbestos bankruptcy trusts. For reasons that I will explain in a moment, most bankruptcy trusts in this context were established by the plaintiffs' trial bar. The provisions of 11 U.S.C. 524(g) do not permit a channeling injunction unless 75% of the claimants approve the measure. That means that plaintiffs' attorneys have a very big say in how the trust is set up and, more troubling, how they--the asbestos lawyers--are compensated. I can see why the asbestos plaintiffs' bar would not like to see this change. 
   The second problem is a little more complicated. Certain asbestos bankruptcy trustees have argued that the inclusion of their assets in the larger trust established under the FAIR Act constitute an unlawful taking in violation of the Fifth Amendment. 
   I admit, I was surprised when I discovered that Professor Lawrence Tribe and I actually agree on a point of constitutional law, but it is true--he was correct to say it is a well-settled rule that legislatures may act rationally to modify or abolish causes of action, impose assessments, and create new compensation programs without violating due process or triggering the right to just compensation under the Takings Clause [end quote]. I also agree with Professor Tribe's assessment that [quote] the bankruptcy process, and in particular the confirmation of a plan of organization, does not provide a debtor or a resulting trust with ongoing immunity from the operation of federal law as it might evolve over time. 
   In a nutshell, there is not a final property interest at issue in this context. 
   I agree with Mr. Carter G. Phillips that [quote] any property rights arising from the trusts are contractual in nature....and the law is well established that contracts, however expressed, cannot fetter the constitutional authority of the Congress [end quote]. I do not believe a valid Takings claim can exist in a vacuum of property rights. 
   Mr. President, in the interest of time, I will not bore my colleagues with a more detailed legal explanation on the Takings issue, but I would like to submit two letters for the record. The first, dated February 6, 2006 from Professor Lawrence H. Tribe, and the second, dated February 7, 2006 from Mr. Carter G. Phillips. 
   Mr. President, I would like to close by taking a brief moment to address the budgetary issues. Earlier I spoke to the private versus public funding issue. Some of my colleagues believe that the tax payer is on the hook for this bill and I would like to help explain how that is not the case. These are serious concerns. 
   But, the FAIR Act does not use federal dollars. 
   It is privately funded--lock, stock, and barrel. 
   Those of you who might be watching at home might be wondering why some people are worried about the FAIR Act if it is privately funded--and in the spirit that underlies this bill, I will try to explain it. 
   To my knowledge there is only one way by which the FAIR Act may touch federal funds, and that is through the borrowing mechanism. The Administrator created by this Act may borrow such funds as are necessary to maintain the liquidity of the fund--but--and this is a big but--the Administrator may not borrow amounts which would exceed the fund's ability to repay. 
   So, the bottom line is that American taxpayers do not pay for this fund. 
   The defendant companies and insurer participants do. 
   At the end of the day, asbestos victims cannot wait any longer. 
   Veterans cannot wait any longer. 
   The overburdened legal system cannot wait any longer. 
   The only group that does not mind waiting are the few unscrupulous asbestos lawyers who do not mind exploiting a broken system. They are slow-walking this bill, and I implore my colleagues to resist these efforts. 
   Before I conclude my remarks, I would like to speak briefly to Senator Cornyn's medical-criteria amendment. I agree with my colleague from Texas that the FAIR Act is not a perfect bill. I have several concerns of my own. But I have to say, that as much as I agree in principle with Senator Cornyn, I am not sure this approach does the trick. 
   In my opinion, the medical criteria approach fails to help too many sick and injured people. The veterans, for example, have very few places to turn under a medical criteria bill. This is really the main reason why we switched to the trust fund approach. But, as I do with every amendment, I will give this one a hard look. In an ideal world we could run with my colleague's idea, but unfortunately the realities of the asbestos crisis prevent a medical criteria-only solution. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 