SEN. HATCH: PASS H.R. 3, LET DOCTORS SAVE LIVES
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch today spoke at a bipartisan press conference touting the promises of stem cell research, which he and other Congressional stem cell advocates hope to enhance with National Institutes of Health funding via H.R. 3, scheduled for a House vote this week, after which time it will come to the Senate. Also speaking at the event were Rep. Diana DeGette (D-Colo.), Rep. Mike Castle (R-Del.), Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) and Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.).  
   Hatch's statement follows: 
   "Tomorrow a couple from my state will fly their daughter to China for a stem-cell therapy. Their daughter - an avid snowboarder and dancer - was involved in a car crash about two years ago that caused intense brain damage. It's left her unable to speak, eat, or move her limbs. 
   "Yesterday, the father said something that struck me. He said, 'Our hope is that next time we do this, we won't have to go to China.' 
   "This family is willing to go across the world because of the promise of stem cell research. They shouldn't have to. Ever since I got involved in this issue years ago, I have pushed the Federal government to do all it can to support this research. 
   "Let me be very clear - everyone here supports all forms of stem cell research that can be conducted in an ethical manner. This includes adult stem cell research. This includes cord blood stem cell research. This includes amniotic stem cell research. And it most certainly includes embryonic stem cell research. 
   "Each field of research should complement the other. The Federal government shouldn't be hamstringing any promising field of research. Yet the President's policy - which I believe was intended to promote this research to the fullest - is, unfortunately, doing just that. To fulfill his vision, an expansion of embryonic stem cells available for research must be increased. 
   "Instead of standing in the way of embryonic stem cell research, the Federal government should be leading out in creating the moral and ethical guidelines in which that research should be conducted throughout the country. 
   "Americans shouldn't have to go overseas for stem cell treatments. H.R. 3 is an important step in making sure our nation will become among the leaders in this promising field of research. So let's pass it and let our scientists and doctors do what they were trained to do: save lives."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 