SEN. HATCH VOICES STRONG SUPPORT FOR FEDERAL MARRIAGE AMENDMENT
 In a speech before the United States Senate, Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today urged Congress to protect traditional marriage now by passing a Constitutional amendment. Hatch's full floor statement follows: 
   I rise in support of an amendment to our Constitution that would maintain the institution of marriage between a man and a woman, an institution arrangement that is to this date supported by all of our state legislatures. The bedrock of American success is the family, and it is traditional marriage that undergirds the American family. The disintegration of the family in this country correlates with many serious social problems, including crime and poverty. We are seeing soaring divorce rates and out-of-wedlock birth rates that have resulted in far too many fatherless families. Weakening the legal status of marriage at this point will only exacerbate these problems. We simply must act to strengthen the family.  
   Supporters of this amendment have been criticized for our proposal. Our opponents reduce our arguments to silly and distracting at best, or hostile and intolerant at worst. With so many important issues facing this nation, why are national legislators concerning themselves with marriage policy in the states? My colleagues and I vehemently disagree with these assessments for the simple reason that nothing is more important to our society than the institutions of the family and marriage. 
   This strategy to undermine our arguments purposefully ignores essential questions at stake in this debate. How a people govern themselves, and whether they can decide important questions of public policy by evaluating the issues on the merits, or whether the courts will dictate a solution from above, reversing the will of the people and stripping away the sacred right to self-government from citizens in every state in the land. 
   If we allow this to happen, if we permit ourselves to be ruled by judges in the area of marriage and families, we further erode the civic responsibility that is central to our republican government. Many in this body and in the ivory tower frequently feel that Americans do not take politics seriously enough. Perhaps that is because we routinely suggest to them through our inaction that the most important questions facing us as a political community should be decided by a handful of Ivy-League lawyers rather than by the people. A free people should abdicate their collective power and responsibility to few unelected, elite judges. Our hope for this amendment is that it will maintain the traditional right of the American people to set marriage policy for themselves. 
   We do not make this proposal lightly. The Constitution has functioned to secure and extend the rights of citizens in this nation, and it serves as a model of democratic self government to the world. Aside from the Bill of Rights, it has rarely been amended. But when it is, we have done so to expand the rights of democratic self-government, and to re-secure the Constitution's original meaning. That is precisely what we are intending here. Marriage policy has traditionally been set by the state legislatures. The states have made their opinion on the subject clear. They have overwhelmingly acted in recent years to preserve traditional marriage. 
   Still, absent an amendment, we can have no firm guarantee that the courts will uphold these decisions. Believe me, there are other ways we would rather spend our time. We did not choose this schedule. The courts did. But as public representatives, bound by oath to defend the Constitution, we will not hide from our obligations. 
   The problem is clear. Last November, in its "Goodridge v. Dept. of Public Health" decision, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts declared same-sex marriage to be the policy of the Commonwealth. Today, same-sex married couples live in 46 states and activists are implementing a well-funded, multi-faceted, and highly coordinated legal assault on traditional marriage. The inescapable conclusion is that, absent an amendment to the U.S. Constitution, same-sex marriage is coming whether you like it or not. 
   The opponents of this amendment urge us to remain patient. Our actions are premature, they tell us. Those opposed to protecting traditional marriage keep moving the goal line, and to ignore this strategy is to guarantee defeat. Marriage first became a national issue in 1996. Then, as now, a state court threatened to impose same-sex marriage on the citizens of their own state, and in so doing, they jeopardized the traditional marriage laws of the entire nation. 
   Given this scenario, it would have been flatly irresponsible for us not to act. And so, faced with the potential of the Supreme Court of Hawaii dictating marriage policy for all 50 states, we passed the Defense of Marriage Act, or DOMA. 
   Then as now our opponents accused us of playing election year politics. The opposition insisted that there was no need for DOMA. Senator John Kerry argued that it was not necessary since no state has adopted same-sex marriage. Well, eight years later, a bare majority of his own state's Supreme Court has brought marriage to the citizens of Massachusetts. And what is his position now? Sounding much like he did eight years ago, he said, and I quote, I oppose this election-year effort to amend the Constitution in an area that each state can adequately address, and I will vote against such an amendment if it comes to the Senate floor. 
   Keep in mind that the only thing that would permit each state to decide this issue on its own is DOMA. But what was Senator Kerry's opinion on DOMA? He called it fundamentally unconstitutional. In fact, this was the opinion of much of the Democratic party and our academic legal establishment at the time. So let me get this straight. We do not need DOMA because no state has actually pursued same-sex marriage. But now that Massachusetts has, we do not need an amendment because we fortunately have DOMA. How convenient. Except for the fact that DOMA they also believe is unconstitutional. A person's head starts to spin just trying to undo this logical mess. 
   And in the end, that is the point. They act in a way that can only confuse, and obfuscate, and by so doing, maybe create apathy on this important subject. Fortunately, this issue is actually rather simple for those who approach it with any sincerity. 
   There are two key questions that Senators must consider before voting on this amendment. The first is whether they support traditional marriage. I strongly suspect that overruling majorities in this body do. So too, do the American people. The second question is whether the majority's desire to protect traditional marriage can be guaranteed without a federal constitutional amendment. The assertion that this is a state issue, that the states can protect marriage, neglects the likelihood that the courts will overturn the well-considered opinion of citizens in every state. 
   Some claim, sometimes even relying on traditional Republican and conservative principles of limited government and federal boundaries, that this is not a place for the national government to act. We must be clear. The states have already acted. Since marriage first became an issue in 1996, over 40 states have acted explicitly to shore up their marriage laws. But all of this legislation is endangered by the Massachusetts Court's action this past fall and recent decisions by the United States Supreme Court. 
   The courts, and an elite legal culture out of touch with average Americans, have made this a national issue. It can no longer be adequately resolved in the states. More and more coordinated lawsuits are filed every day, and the question of same-sex marriage will terminate in the federal courts, at which point, same-sex marriage will become the law of the land. 
   Let me say this slowly so it can sink in. Absent a constitutional amendment that protects the rights of the states to maintain traditional marriage, the Supreme Court or other courts will decide this issue for them. 
   In November, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court took it upon itself to decide, that the state must extend marriage to same-sex couples. Never mind that the Massachusetts Constitution created by the hand of John Adams clearly did not contemplate this conclusion. Never mind that there is a long standing and obvious rational basis for the state's traditional marriage laws. And never mind that the people of the state were adamantly opposed to this judicial usurpation of policy development best left to legislative representatives. 
   The Massachusetts Court went right ahead and made an argument that certainly made them the toast of the town in some liberal elitist quarters. Unfortunately and unjustifiably the decision threatened the marriage laws of every state in this country. 
   The people of Massachusetts acted quickly to amend their constitution and overturn this egregious abuse of judicial authority. The problem is this. That amendment cannot be ratified for two years - a fact, by the way, of which the court had to be keenly aware. In the meantime, people will be married in Massachusetts, and they will move to other states. What will become of these marriages? Will they be recognized or will they be dissolved? Can they divorce in other states? Who will have custody of children in the event of dissolution? Already, as a result of the extra-legal issuance of marriage licenses to same-sex couples by the Mayor of San Francisco, same-sex married couples live in 46 states. These actions have stirred up a hornets' nest of litigation. 
   When allowed to choose, legislatures protect marriage rather than dismantle it. Therefore, advocates of same-sex marriage resort to strategies involving the executive or judicial branches. In states such as California, Oregon, New York and New Mexico, rogue local officials have simply defied their own state marriage laws and married thousands of same-sex couples. While saying that New York law does not allow same-sex marriages, state attorney general Eliot Spitzer will nonetheless recognize such marriages performed in other states. These actions have an impact on the legal landscape for sure, but in most cases, advocates turn to the courts to impose their preferred policies upon their fellow citizens, and their legal war against traditional marriage has at least five fronts. 
   First, as in Massachusetts, gay citizens who wish to marry allege that state laws protecting traditional marriage are violations of their own state constitutions. So far there are 11 states facing these challenges to their marriage laws. Just this week, the ACLU filed suit in Maryland arguing that the state's failure to recognize same-sex unions violates the state constitution. In California, even though more than 60 percent of the voters recently approved a statewide ballot initiative to maintain traditional marriage, the California Supreme Court is now considering the constitutionality of that democratic action. In Nebraska, the ACLU has actually challenged a duly passed state constitutional amendment that defines marriage as being between a man and a woman. Similar challenges are pending in Florida, Indiana, Washington, and West Virginia, all of which have passed laws to secure traditional marriage just in the last 10 years, as a result of a focused consideration of the subject by the citizens of those states. 
   The legislatures in Delaware, Illinois, Michigan, North Carolina, and Vermont are considering constitutional amendments to protect traditional marriage. Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, and Oregon have signature-gathering campaigns under way. Amendments are already on the ballot in Arkansas, Georgia, Kentucky, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, and my own state of Utah. One would expect and hope that given this public concentration on the subject, a proper respect would be given to popular resolution of this issue. We can be sure though, that the legal advocates of same-sex marriage will not display any such reservations. 
   The second type of case against traditional marriage will emerge once two citizens, legally married in Massachusetts, move to Ohio, Louisiana, or some other state and seek to have their marriage recognized. It is simply implausible to believe that this scenario will not unfold. Already a suit has been filed in Washington state, requesting that Washington recognize same-sex marriages performed in Oregon, under a now halted order issued by a rogue county chairman, even though Washington law expressly precludes such unions. 
   The third and fourth strategies specifically involve challenges to DOMA. One of the standard crutches of those opposed to an amendment is that DOMA remains the law of the land. In the hearing before the Judiciary Committee several weeks ago, Senator Durbin said that DOMA has "never been challenged in court." This is simply untrue. DOMA has been challenged for violating the United States Constitution. Let me repeat. It is being challenged right now. 
   The Defense of Marriage Act did two things. For the purposes of federal benefits such as social security, it reserved the definition of marriage to traditional unions. And most importantly, it gave a blanket exception to the Full Faith and Credit Clause for marriage policy. 
   As it is now, the Constitution requires that barring a rational public policy to the contrary, my marriage in Utah must be recognized in Virginia. DOMA ensures that states would not be compelled under the Constitution to recognize same-sex marriages performed in other states. Now DOMA is under direct assault in a lawsuit filed in Florida court challenging the first prong of DOMA. There is no doubt that a suit will eventually be filed challenging the constitutionality of DOMA's exception to the Full Faith and Credit Clause. 
   And finally, the fifth attack will be that state laws that protect traditional marriage will be challenged as violating the federal constitution. That the United States Constitution protects no such right will hardly be an obstacle to these suits. The death penalty is explicitly provided for in the Fifth Amendment, but that has not stopped liberal interest groups from attempting to undo this through judicial action. The First Amendment was obviously intended to guarantee political speech, but that has not stopped the ACLU from getting nude dancing declared a constitutional right. Nothing in the Constitution guarantees a right to an abortion, but through a creative analysis of the text, the Court was persuaded to create a right to privacy, extended in recent years to include, and I quote, the right to define one's own concept of existence, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life. 
   These cases will inevitably wind up in federal court. And we cannot wash our hands of the implications of this issue's likely judicial resolution. As a Senator, my oath obligates me to protect the Constitution. That includes protecting it from usurpation at the hands of the judiciary. These transgressions have become commonplace, and they are extremely difficult to undo once secured. We have tried in the past. When constitutional meaning was violated in moment of silence cases, in abortion rights cases, in flag burning cases, we attempted to undo the decisions and to restore the original Constitution. To rate, we have never succeeded. 
   In fact, once these decisions are in place, the very people who tell us to wait for the Court to decide abdicate their stewardship of the Constitution. As an example, consider the response of some Democratic lawmakers to the Supreme Court's rulings on abortion. 
   With all due respect, this is absurd. Abraham Lincoln, the founder of my party, understood this. When Chief Justice Roger Taney handed down his infamous "Dred Scott" decision, Lincoln did not defer to the court and accept its decision as a proper interpretation of the Constitution. He rejected it root and branch, and explained that, the candid citizen must confess that if the policy of the government upon vital questions affecting the whole people is to be irrevocably fixed by decisions of the Supreme Court...the people will have ceased to be their own rulers. 
   The members of this body have a sacred trust as constitutional officials, and we must take seriously the results of our inaction. If we fail to pass an amendment, and we delegate our authority over this matter to the Supreme Court of the United States, the decision should come as no surprise. On this point, many justices have made themselves amply clear. There is no reason to believe that state marriage laws protecting traditional marriage will be allowed to stand. 
   In the "Lawrence" decision handed down just last year, the Supreme Court announced its intentions by effectively overturning "Bowers v. Hardwick." "Bowers" was hardly an antique. It was decided only in 1986, and it basically put the brakes on 20 years of judicially created privacy rights. That decision concluded that the states remained able to regulate certain sexual practices in order to protect the health, safety, and morals within its political community. 
   But in "Lawrence" the court reversed course. There the court concluded that Liberty presumes an autonomy of self that includes freedom of thought, belief, expression, and certain intimate conduct, and therefore, our laws and tradition afford constitutional protection to personal decisions relating to marriage, procreation, contraception, family relationships, child rearing, and education. 
   According to the Court these are fundamental rights, and the states must, therefore, advance a compelling reason for any legislation that denies them. Unfortunately, in "Romer v. Evans," the Court has previously held that any such legislation could only be based on an "irrational animus" toward homosexuals. 
   So what then of same-sex marriage, which denies to homosexuals the privilege of marrying? In his dissent in "Lawrence," Justice Scalia understood that State laws against bigamy, same-sex marriage, adult incest, prostitution, masturbation, adultery, fornication, bestiality, and obscenity are likewise sustainable only in light of Bowers' validation of laws based on moral choices. Every single one of these laws is called into question by today's decision; the Court makes no effort to cabin the scope of its decision to exclude them from its holding. 
   Those who favored the decision publicly said that the decision did no such thing. Privately, however, they understood what it meant. And the judges in the "Goodridge" case were quick studies. In the decision to rewrite the Massachusetts Constitution to compel same-sex marriage, the "Goodridge" court relied heavily on these rulings. Their conclusions that marriage is a fundamental right and that the decision to restrict that right is patently irrational were taken straight out of the United States Supreme Court playbook. 
   Goodridge has shown us the way. DOMA will not stand, and absent DOMA the states will have to defend their marriage laws on their own. Their success is in serious doubt. 
   Now I do not subscribe to the conclusions of the court. There is an obviously rational basis for legislation that protects traditional marriage. Traditional marriage has been an anchor of civilized societies for thousands of years. Society has an interest in the future generations created by men and women. 
   Decoupling procreation from marriage in order to make some people feel more accepted denies the very purpose of marriage itself. Marriages between men and women are the essential institutions through which future generations are produced and reared. Political communities are only as solid as their foundation, and these families and homes, the first school yards of citizenship, are essential for the future of republican government. 
   The fact that so many in the Democratic party are openly opposed to same-sex marriage should undercut the conclusion that the desire to maintain traditional marriage is grounded simply in rank bigotry. 
   Senator John Kerry has said, I oppose gay marriage and disagree with the Massachusetts Court's decision. 
   Majority Leader Tom Daschle explained that The word 'marriage' means only a legal union between one man and one woman as a husband and wife. 
   Representative Richard Gephardt is clear. "I do not support gay marriage." 
   Governor Bill Richardson argues, "I do believe that marriage is between a man and woman. So I oppose same-sex marriage." 
   Even President Bill Clinton contended when he signed the Defense of Marriage Act that he has "long opposed governmental recognition of same-gender marriages." 
   Finally, Vice-President Al Gore, no friend of this administration, has said that he favors "protecting the institution of marriage as it has been understood between a man and a woman." 
   These officials are merely responding to a certain common sense articulated by the American people, and that common-sense has expressed itself in legislative actions in nearly every state. 
   There is a developing national consensus on the issue of same-sex marriage. State after state has acted to protect this vital institution, but it is simply too risky to rely upon the Supreme Court to affirm this consensus. When California acted through the super-democratic action of a statewide referendum to protect traditional marriage, that did not stop the liberal mayor of San Francisco from defying this law and instantiating his own preferred policy preference instead. When it comes to a liberal agenda at odds with the beliefs of average Americans, legal impediments, or even simple respect for these popular decisions, do not long stand in the way. 
   It is important to mention another effect of abandoning our definition of marriage. We have vast numbers of institutions and individuals in our society that will be stigmatized and marginalized by courts trying to enforce a new moral norm. A group of notable legal scholars in Massachusetts, including Professor Mary Ann Glendon, warned about the danger to religious institutions in this country in a recent legal opinion. They said: "Precedent from our own history and that of other nations suggests that religious institutions could even be at risk of losing tax-exempt status, academic accreditation, and media licenses, and could face charges of violating human rights codes or hate speech laws." Is this really the road we want to go down? 
   Gays and lesbians have a right to live as they choose, but I am sorry, they do not have the right to redefine marriage. I have been a leader in advocating hate crimes legislation against gays and lesbians. I know there is tremendous prejudice out there against them and I reject each and every instantiation of it. But this amendment is not about discrimination. It is not about prejudice. It is about safeguarding the best environment for raising children. Some support traditional marriage as the ideal for this very same reason. I do not doubt that alternative families can lovingly raise children, but decades of studies show children do best when raised by a mother and a father. 
   Given the acknowledged importance of this institution, popular reservations about undoing it should be given the utmost importance. Same-sex marriage is an unproven experiment, though other nations have had some experience with it. The Netherlands has recognized same-sex unions since 2001 and registered partnerships since 1998. Since those reforms began, there has been a marked decline in marriage culture. Just yesterday, in a letter published in a Dutch newspaper, a group of respected academics from the fields of social science, philosophy and law made a modest assertion. The decision to recognize same-sex marriage depended on the creation of a social and legal separation between the ideas of marriage and parenting. And in that time, there has been, in their words, "a spectacular rise in the number of illegitimate births." These scholars do not argue that this rise is solely attributable to the decision to recognize same-sex partnerships. But the correlation is undeniable. They conclude that further research is needed to establish the relative importance of all factors. 
   Precisely! The jury is out on what the effects on children and society will be and only legislatures are institutionally-equipped to make these decisions. If nothing else, given the uncertainty of a radical change in a fundamental institution like marriage, popular representatives should be given deference on this issue. However, recent actions by courts prove that no such deference is being given. 
   Without an amendment to the Constitution, same-sex marriage will be imposed by judges on an American people who would not choose this institution for themselves. This amendment does not violate principles of federalism and limited government. 
   Among other things, the Constitution guaranteed to the people a right to govern themselves in many instances through their state governments. The Constitution protected traditional prerogatives over subjects such as marriage and family policy. And should those be endangered, the Constitution guaranteed to the people a right to re-secure those prerogatives through the amendment process. 
   That is precisely the situation we face here. The states have acted on this issue. Time and time and time again, they have rejected same-sex marriage. And yet we face legal advocates and a judicial system that care little for these judgments and are ready and willing to substitute their own judgments for the common sense of the American citizenry. 
   In the end, the only argument against this amendment is that the Supreme Court is the sole institution that determines the meaning of our Constitution. I reject that conclusion. It grossly misstates the history of this nation. The Alien and Sedition acts were repealed through legislative action, not through the courts. The Civil War was an executive action, as was the Emancipation Proclamation. The Civil War Amendments that guaranteed citizenship and the right to vote to black citizens came through Congress and the state legislatures. The New Deal protected Americans in a time of need. The 1964 Civil Rights Act promoted the rights of racial minorities. 
   President Ronald Reagan readjusted the New Deal settlement, protecting the rights of small business owners and spurring on property ownership and innovation. And in recent years this body has acted to protect the rights of female victims of violence, the victims of hate crimes, and to protect the rights of disabled citizens. 
   The popular branches of government, not the courts, are the primary guarantors of our rights. We are obligated to interpret the Constitution, and in this case we are not denying rights to same-sex couples, but protecting and extending the right of citizens to govern themselves and to determine marriage policy on their own. 
   To delay action on the marriage amendment now is like agreeing to repair a cracked dam only after it has burst and forever changed the landscape. We know what the legal situation is on this issue and we know what we have to do to repair it. A Constitutional amendment is the only viable alternative to protect the most foundational relationship in society. We must act, and we must act now. 
   We need to send a message to our children about marriage and traditional life and values. The American people must have a voice. The people, through their elected representatives - not judges - should decide the future of marriage. 
   Montana, Louisiana, West Virginia, Colorado, Washington, Maine, North Dakota, Ohio, New Hampshire, Nebraska, South Carolina, Arkansas, Alaska, Pennsylvania. 
   All of these states and many others have made independent determinations to protect traditional marriage. Without an amendment to the Constitution, all that work will be for naught. I respectfully ask my colleagues to do the right thing here and to guarantee that the right to self-government on important issues such as this remains with the people rather than in the courts.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 