JUDGE PRYOR CONFIRMED TO 11TH CIRCUIT
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) voted with his colleagues today to confirm the nomination of William Pryor to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit by a vote of 53 to 45. 
   "Judge Pryor is now a permanent member of the Eleventh Circuit," Hatch said. "Those who know Bill Pryor paint a very consistent picture, and it's not the distorted caricature portrayed by left-wing extremists. He is a man who cares deeply about what is right, and who has the character to do what is right, no matter the political cost. Judge Pryor has demonstrated that he will never go down the politicized road of judicial activism. In each phase of his career, he has followed the law, and that's exactly what Americans need in their judges."  
   The Senate is also expected to approve the nominations of Richard A. Griffin and David W. McKeague to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit today, both of whom were first nominated in 2003 but were targets of filibusters by Senate Democrats. 
   Hatch's floor statement follows: 
   Statement of Sen. Orrin G. Hatch 
  before the United States Senate 
  on the nomination of William H. Pryor 
  to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit
   Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the nomination of William Pryor to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Or to put it more precisely, I rise to support the permanent appointment of Judge William Pryor to the Eleventh Circuit. 
   Judge Pryor's credentials, his character, and his commitment to judicial restraint already made a compelling case for his appointment. His continuing service on the Eleventh Circuit only adds to that compelling case. I urge my colleagues to vote for confirmation so Judge William Pryor can continue to be a valuable member of the United States Court of Appeals. 
   Debate about this nomination did not just begin. President Bush nominated William Pryor more than two years ago. During a lengthy hearing before the Judiciary Committee in June 2003, he answered more than 185 questions. It has now become common practice for Senators to deluge a nominee with post-hearing written questions. Judge Pryor answered nearly 300 of those as well. 
   The Judiciary Committee debated this nomination during three different business meetings, and favorably reported it twice here to the Senate floor, where we have already debated it in the context of two previous attempts to invoke cloture. And here we are debating the Pryor nomination again. I am one of the many Senators who believe that we should have confirmed this nomination a long time ago. Yesterday, more than one of our Democratic colleagues complained that we are debating judicial nominations when, they said, we should be doing legislative business. 
   Mr. President, that is exactly what we would be doing were it not for the confirmation obstruction campaign led by those same Democratic Senators. 
   They are the ones who met in 2001 to change the confirmation ground rules. They are the ones who demand dozens and dozens and dozens of unnecessary roll call votes that have eaten up literally days of floor time. They are the ones who launched this campaign of outrageous and unprecedented judicial filibusters. 
   Our Democratic colleagues have changed the way we do our judicial confirmation business, and that has changed the way we do our legislative business. 
   They have no one to blame but themselves. Under the standards the Senate traditionally applied to judicial nominations, we would already have confirmed the nomination before us. Although some across the aisle have attempted to change the ground rules, I am pleased that we have now invoked cloture and are in the final stretch of debate on this nomination. There is light at the end of the confirmation tunnel. 
   Mr. President, we have become accustomed to the pattern of attack by those who oppose President Bush's judicial nominees. They equate a nominee's personal views with that nominee's judicial views. They create the most wretched and distorted caricature of a nominee, turning him into some creature one might see on Law & Order or America's Most Wanted. What it really boils down to is the wrong-headed notion that no one who thinks for himself, who does not tow the left-wing line, whose perspective or values do not turn the liberal litmus paper the right (or left) color, or who as a judge may fail consistently to deliver politically correct results is acceptable. 
   These advocates of an activist judiciary are certainly not foolish enough to attack every nominee, and they will remind us of how many of this president's judicial nominees they have supported. But the circumstances that have brought us here today demonstrate that the confirmation ground has shifted. 
   I urge my colleagues not to be persuaded by the caricatures created by Washington-based lobbyists and left-wing groups which need to send out the next fundraising appeal. Instead, I urge my colleagues to listen to those who actually know William Pryor, who have worked with William Pryor, because they are among his strongest supporters. 
   Dr. Joe Reed, chairman of the Alabama Democratic Conference, the state Democratic Party's African-American caucus, knows William Pryor. 
   He has worked with William Pryor. And he strongly supports William Pryor. Note here what Dr. Joe Reed has to say about this nominee. He says that William Pryor "will uphold the law without fear or favor. I believe all races and colors will get a fair shake when their cases come before him. I am a member of the Democratic National Committee and, of course, General Pryor is a Republican, but these are only party labels. I am persuaded that in General Pryor's eyes, Justice has only one label - Justice!" 
   Any of us, Mr. President, would be hard-pressed to come up with a better endorsement, a more substantive compliment, for any judge, on any court, anywhere in America. 
   Or listen to Alvin Holmes, an African-American who has served in the Alabama House of Representatives for nearly three decades. He introduced the bill to remove the state constitution's ban on interracial marriage. Representative Holmes says that while white political leaders in the state, Democrats and Republicans, either opposed the bill or kept quiet, then-Attorney General William Pryor spoke out. William Pryor urged Alabamans to vote for removing the ban on interracial marriage and then, when it passed, he defended the measure in court against legal challenge. 
   Representative Holmes knows William Pryor. He has worked with William Pryor. And he strongly supports William Pryor. 
   Listen to what Representative Holmes says about this nominee. "I request your swift confirmation of Bill Pryor to the 11th Circuit because of his constant efforts to help the causes of blacks in Alabama." 
   Or consider the opinion of Judge Sue Bell Cobb, who sits on the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals. This is what she tells us: "I write, not only as the only statewide Democrat to be elected in 2000, not only as a member of the Court which reviews the greatest portion of [Attorney] General Pryor's work, but also as a child advocate who has labored shoulder to shoulder with General Pryor in the political arena on behalf of Alabama's children. It is for these reasons and more that I am indeed honored to recommend General Pryor for nomination to the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals." 
   These testimonies - and there are many more like them - describe a man who cares deeply about what is right, and who has the character to do what is right, no matter what the political cost. People like these are in the best position to know the real William Pryor. If this were a court of law, their testimony would be deemed especially credible. Theirs is not hearsay testimony. They are not repeating someone's talking points. They are not offering generalities or clichés. 
   Talking points, generalities, and clichés, however, are all that Judge Pryor's opponents have to offer. The left-wing Washington-based lobbyists who appear to make their living opposing President Bush's judicial nominations repeat the same rhetoric about nominee after nominee. Sometimes I wonder whether they put together their press releases and action alerts simply by cutting and pasting in the name of a new nominee. They use the same mantra now, saying that Judge Pryor is hostile to civil rights, hostile to virtually every right under the sun. Perhaps he is also the cause of childhood asthma, global warming, and rising interest rates. 
   Mr. President, if there is any reason to believe such a thing, then these left-wing Washington lobbyists should be able to convince Dr. Joe Reed, Representative Alvin Holmes, and Judge Sue Bell Cobb that Judge William Pryor is hostile to civil rights. I wish them luck. 
   Perhaps the most important element of judicial duty is the commitment to follow the law regardless of personal views. Throughout his career, William Pryor has not just stated such a commitment to judicial restraint. He has demonstrated it. 
   We all know, for example, that William Pryor is pro-life. His belief in the sanctity of human life no doubt helps explain his advocacy for children. 
   Like millions of Americans, most Alabamans apparently share such pro-life values, and in 1997 the state legislature enacted a ban on partial birth abortion. If William Pryor were what his critics claimed, that would surely have been his chance to take a stand, stake a claim, defy the Supreme Court, and seek to impose his personal moral code. He did no such thing, proving once again that his critics are just flat wrong. 
   After the United States Supreme Court ruled in Stenberg v. Carhart that a state legislative ban on partial birth abortion is unconstitutional, Attorney General William Pryor instructed state law enforcement officials to abide by that decision. The Senator from Tennessee, Senator Alexander, reminded us earlier today that this was at General Pryor's own initiative. The law, not his personal views, informed how he carried out his official duties. 
   Attorney General Pryor filed an amicus brief in the Lawrence v. Texas case defending a state's right to prohibit certain sexual conduct. Alabama had a statute similar to the Texas statute being challenged in that case. When the Supreme Court ruled against his position, he immediately released an official statement that the Supreme Court decision rendered Alabama's law unenforceable. 
   Similarly, the entire country knows that, as Alabama Attorney General, William Pryor took an unpopular stand regarding the Ten Commandments display in the Alabama Judicial Building. One respected religious magazine placed a picture of Judge Pryor on its cover with a headline asking whether his legal stance amounted to political suicide. It is clear that Judge Pryor places the law above personal priorities or political expediency. 
   This stuff about following the law rather than personal opinions is not rhetoric, talking points, or window dressing. This is not just William Pryor's stated commitment. This is his demonstrated commitment. It is a record that makes former Alabama Attorney General Bill Baxley, another Democrat, strongly support Judge Pryor's nomination. 
   Here is what General Baxley said of William Pryor: "In every difficult decision he has made, his actions were supported by his interpretation of the law, without race, gender, age, political power, wealth, community standing, or any other competing interest affecting judgment. I often disagree, politically, with Bill Pryor. This does not prevent me from making this recommendation because we need fair minded, intelligent, industrious men and women, possessed of impeccable integrity on the Eleventh Circuit. Bill Pryor has these qualities in abundance....There is no better choice for this vacancy." 
   Mr. President, these Democratic leaders from Alabama paint a very consistent picture of William Pryor. He will uphold the law without fear or favor. He makes decisions without regard to political or irrelevant factors. He is fair minded, intelligent, and industrious. 
   I certainly agree with this assessment, though it does not come first from the Senator from Utah. Democrats such as Dr. Joe Reed, Representative Alvin Holmes, Judge Sue Bell Cobb, and Attorney General Bill Baxley know the difference between private views and public duty. They know the difference between personal opinion and judicial opinion. And they strongly support William Pryor's nomination to the Eleventh Circuit. 
   I wish some of my Democratic colleagues and their left-wing enablers knew the difference. Instead, they focus only on results. All that matters, it appears, is that a judge rules right, or left as the case may be. On Tuesday, a Democratic member of this body summed up their results-oriented litmus test approach when he said "with respect to a whole series of issues, this nominee is profoundly wrong." 
   No doubt each of us in this body has heard something like that in a campaign commercial. We might here it here when the Senate is in legislative session. But this is a judicial nomination we are debating. What does it mean to say that the judicial nominee is wrong on the issues? Never mind being judicially correct, they seem to say, just be politically correct. Results are all that matter. 
   Yesterday, during the debate on the Brown nomination, the Senator from California, Senator Boxer, took a similar tack. She put up one poster after another, each stating in the most simplistic terms the result of a case, and then claimed that Justice Brown personally favored the result for which she voted. This insidious tactic claims, for example, that if a judge votes that the law does not prohibit racial slurs, then the judge must favor racial slurs. If a judge votes that the law does not prohibit an employer's hiring decision, then the judge must favor that hiring decision. 
   Mr. President, in March of 2000, 29 current Senators, including my friend from California, Senator Boxer, voted against a constitutional amendment to allow protection of the American flag. How would any of them respond, how would the Senator from California respond, to the accusation that by that vote they were siding with the flag desecraters? 
   That would be an outrageous charge. Yet opponents of these judicial nominees, including the Senator from California, are using exactly the same tactic, exactly the same logic. They continue doing so in this debate over William Pryor's nomination. But this tactic misleads the American people about what judges do, and it twists and distorts these debates about whether to confirm judicial nominees. 
   I am reminded of a 1998 article written by the distinguished Judge Harry Edwards, appointed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit by President Jimmy Carter, in which he warned that giving the public a distorted view of judges' work is bad for the judiciary and the rule of law. The tactics being used against nominees such as William Pryor are indeed giving the public a distorted view of judges' work. 
   Thankfully, Mr. President, Judge Pryor knows the difference between personal views and the law. He knows the difference between means and ends.
  I am proud to say that Judge Pryor refuses to go down the politicized road of judicial activism. He has demonstrated where his commitment lies. He has shown, in each phase of his career, that he will follow the law. 
   Our colleague and my fellow Judiciary Committee member, Senator Sessions, has worked very hard to educate this body about this fine nominee. He has a special perspective on Judge Pryor's commitment to follow the law. He hired William Pryor in the Alabama Attorney General's office, and Judge Pryor replaced him when then-Attorney General Sessions joined us here in the Senate. I want to thank our colleague for his tireless and principled efforts. I know this Senator's understanding of this nominee is better as a result. 
   William Pryor is demonstrating that same commitment on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. That is exactly what America needs in her judges, and I urge my colleagues to support a permanent appointment for Judge William Pryor.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 