SEN. HATCH HONORS PRESIDENT REAGAN
  Statement by Senator Orrin G. Hatch before the United States Senate
   "Honoring President Ronald Wilson Reagan"
   Mr. President, I rise to join my colleagues, millions of Americans, and indeed countless more around the world in mourning the loss of the greatest American President of the 20th century, President Ronald Wilson Reagan. 
   After suffering nearly a decade, our beloved President died this weekend. I join those in this body here today in sending our condolences to Mrs. Reagan and their entire family.
   It is hard to imagine any American alive who has not been touched by the legacy of Ronald Reagan. Even those born after he left office in 1989 have benefitted from his selfless service, as they grew up in an era of unprecedented global freedom, a result of the end of the Cold War brought on by President Reagan's bold vision of this country and our faithful mission in the world.
   Certainly, I was touched by the life of President Reagan. Perhaps I might not be here today were it not for the invigorating support of this great leader, whose endorsement of my candidacy in my first Senate run was certainly instrumental in my service to the people of Utah. I was pleased and honored to return the favor at every opportunity - and, in 1980 and 1984, I campaigned for Ronald Reagan in almost every state of the union. Let no one believe that this repaid my debt, political or personal, to this great man - because I believe I will remain in his debt as long as I live. And so will our country.
   President Reagan was both political mentor and inspiration to me as a young senator. We both started as Democrats. We were inspired by our country's bold international leadership and sacrifice during World War II, under a Democratic president. Yet we both saw the political landscape shift early in our adult lives. We both grew dismayed at our country's direction, as citizens lost faith, lost optimism and lost the dynamism that once made this land great. At the same time, we both grew to appreciate the principles of the Republican Party, where individual initiative and personal freedom are enshrined, and where the fight against international communism took a backseat to no other foreign policy. 
   When I came to the Senate in 1977, our country was still reeling from the Vietnam War, perceived by the Soviets as a weakness in American resolve inspiring them to proxy adventures in Latin America, Africa and Asia. As the liberal elites of the 1970s denounced and disparaged our international sacrifices of the past decade, as it became commonplace to equate the use of American force with the encroachments of communist tyranny, America became uncertain of itself and turned inward. As communist tyranny gained around the world, drug use here reached an all-time high. The economy of the most productive nation in the world was unraveling with high taxes and higher inflation. Our sense of mission was gone; our belief in our natural strengths and goodness receded. It was not our finest moment. 
   One of the things I loved the most about Ronald Reagan was that he recognized his duty to lead a conservative movement back into the political majority; by so doing he declared that we would never concede to cultural decline. Reagan's victory in 1980 put an end to this malaise and changed our country forever. 
   Originally from the Midwest, Reagan moved to California and found his talent in the industry of American dreams, showing our country that an American Everyman could be a star. Many scorned Reagan the actor for seeking political office. But, once again, he showed them wrong. He won our hearts as a President - as he had as an actor - showing us all that a man well-practiced in the arts of both heart and mind could be a perfect leader for a nation which had lost its sense of imagination. Only in America could a man from the middle class, from the middle of the country, rise to become the greatest American leader of the 20th century. 
   Ronald Wilson Reagan achieved this by appealing to the essential American values in all of us - the values of individualism and enterprise, initiative and optimism, charity and sacrifice. And he restored those values in our country's policies. Many misjudged Reagan. Many underestimated him. Many confused a man of simple beliefs with a simple man. 
   Those of us who knew him well recognized Reagan as a man of deep convictions. Deft of wit, he always deflected a tough moment with humor. But, under it all, a gravity of purpose shone through. 
   What I came to admire in Ronald Reagan was his core belief that government could lead society, but not build society. He recognized that government's most important economic role was to foster American innovation and industry. And his policies followed that principle. 
   In foreign policy, he knew that communism was an abominable scourge on the face of the planet. He eagerly tackled that challenge as he had most obstacles in his life, and in so doing left a legacy unparalleled by any American leader. Who can forget his momentous call, "Mr. Gorbachev, tear down that wall?" And who can forget watching as the wall fell just two years later? 
   In the most fundamental way, President Ronald Reagan inspired us all to believe in our great nation, and what it could do to help its people lead better lives. 
   As a junior Senator, I watched President Reagan take office, facing his first challenge: an economy misfiring on all cylinders, mired in the mud of inflation, high taxes and bureaucracy. With a strong voice of optimism, President Reagan unfurled an ambitious plan to rejuvenate the economy and lead the nation to economic recovery. I remember how excited we were to see his bold plan, the change in direction that our new President charted. 
   He led us to pass the landmark Economic Recovery and Tax Act, including the Kemp-Roth personal income tax cuts of 25 percent over three years. This major initiative stimulated the economy by providing for accelerated depreciation deductions and an investment credit. It also enhanced the retirement of millions of Americans by introducing Individual Retirement Accounts. And perhaps most significantly, it indexed income tax brackets to inflation, limiting this punishing form of spending growth. 
   The result? The economic boom in the 1980s. Inflation dropped from 13.5 percent in 1980 to 3.2 percent in 1983. By 1986, the fourth year of the tax cuts, economic growth had increased a cumulative 18 percent. And, when Ronald Reagan left office in January 1989, more than 18 million jobs had been created. 
   President Reagan also led the way for Congress to approve the landmark 1986 Tax Reform Act. Despite the naysaying of critics, President Reagan did it again. The 1986 Act lowered the top marginal income tax rate from 50 percent to just 28 percent. Also, it reduced the number of tax brackets from 14 to just two. The fact that subsequent presidents and Congresses have reversed the gains made in terms of simplicity does not take away from the monumental victory that President Reagan scored by his leadership of the Tax Reform Act of 1986. 
   Throughout the Reagan era, I had the privilege of serving on the Labor and Human Resources Committee, much of it as Chairman. I worked closely with the President and his staff on issues related to public health and welfare, issues showcasing the President's compassion and dedication to improving the quality of life of all Americans. The country was still in a major recession, and we worked to pass the Job Training Partnership Act. This legislation changed emphasis from providing government jobs to unemployed workers to providing them with job training to find jobs. 
   The President's initiatives often focused on releasing decision-making initiatives from an old federal bureaucracy, as with the innovative health block grants that returned decision-making to the states, providing them with the resources and flexibility to deliver preventive services, maternal and child health care, and mental health services in a totally new model. I also remember how strongly the Reagan Administration supported biomedical research, a love for and appreciation of the power of scientific inquiry Mrs. Reagan carries forward this day. 
   Other key accomplishments under President Reagan's tenure were significant Food and Drug Administration legislation, such as the Orphan Drug Act, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, the National Organ Transplantation Act, pediatric emergency medical services, vaccine compensation, tobacco warning labels, and the national practitioner data bank. 
   How well I remember the battle President Reagan waged to seat C. Everett Koop as the Surgeon General. Dr. Koop defined the modern-day role of Surgeon General, and today is revered by all, Democrats and Republicans alike, for his independent minded advocacy of public health, from AIDS awareness and prevention to anti-tobacco initiatives. 
   I would be remiss if I didn't highlight President Reagan's other significant healthcare accomplishment. As we know, the use of illegal drugs had hit a historic high in the late 1970s. Again, President Reagan recognized that government needed to find new ways to address this social blight. Once again, however, the President recognized that leadership was as much in the message as in the bureaucracy. His beloved First Lady introduced the "Just Say No" campaign, a flat rebuttal to an ingrown acceptance of drug use in our society. Derided by some elites, this program of declaring unequivocally the unacceptable use of illegal drugs has become a foundation of all subsequent drug use. 
   I loved President Reagan, and I loved his personal style of leadership. But I loved even more his undying love and affection for one of the classiest first ladies this country has come to know. Nancy Reagan's quiet support of her husband, so evident in all his successes, is often overlooked, as is her courage in leading the "Just Say No" campaign. 
   I remember as if it were today when President Reagan signed the 1986 drug law. I was standing behind him when he signed the bill. Reagan said with that special twinkle in his eye, "I am going to give this bill to the woman who has crusaded to end drug use in this country." With that, he walked past expectant advocates and lawmakers straight to his wife Nancy, and presented her with the pen. 
   Some focus on President Reagan's talents as an actor and image-maker. Yet I have never known a more authentic man. We all know that one of a President's greatest legacies is his nominations to the third branch of government. In appointing more judges than any president in American history, President Reagan's judicial legacy can be seen on two levels. First, he described, in both principled and practical terms, the kind of judge America needs. And then he moved to appoint individuals with those qualifications. 
   We had seen decades of judicial activism, through which judges took more and more control over the policies governing the country and the culture in which Americans lived. President Reagan came into office not just saying judges were going too far, but explaining why. He refocused Americans on the principles America's founders laid down at the dawn of the Republic: the people, through their elected representatives, decide how they wish to be governed and make the law to do so. Judges can only interpret and apply that law, they cannot make or change it. 
   Implementing those basic principles, President Reagan shaped the judiciary by the individuals he nominated and appointed. He appointed some of the legal academy's best minds to the U.S. Court of Appeals - such as Ralph Winter to the Second Circuit, Frank Easterbrook and Richard Posner to the Seventh Circuit, and of course Robert Bork to the District of Columbia Circuit. 
   I served on the Judiciary Committee during those years, seeing first hand the depth and breadth and quality of President Reagan's nominees. The first cloture vote ever taken on an appeals court nominee, for example, occurred during President Reagan's first term, and the confirmation process changed entirely in his second. The seeds sown then have borne fruit today in the filibusters being used against President Bush's nominees. But the issue remains the same, whether unelected federal judges may take over from the people the business of making law and defining the culture. 
   Many believe that President Reagan's lasting legacy will be his successful leadership during the last stage of the Cold War. Ronald Reagan's tenure began at what was our lowest point in the Cold War. The loss in Vietnam and the Watergate debacle led to a withdrawal from our global policy of containment. The Soviets filled the gap, and their proxies gained around the globe. 
   President Reagan came to office dedicated to redressing the military balance and engaging the Cold War. His administration saw the largest peace-time growth of military spending in modern American history. That escalation combined American resolve with American ingenuity, and this was no more evident than in President Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative. 
   Ronald Reagan did not accept the status quo. He did not accept a static geopolitical division of the world between the free nations and the captive nations of the evil empire. He and his allies - and I will be proud to my dying day to have considered myself one of his allies - believed that we could roll back communism, on the ground, and in the minds of people. For democracy to succeed, people striving to break the yoke of tyranny had to have a friend in the United States. And we were that friend, to Solidarity in Poland, the resistance in Nicaragua and the Afghan resistance. We've had democracy in Poland for over a decade. Nicaragua has also had democratic elections over the past decade. And our support for the Afghan resistance led to the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan, dealing the Soviet Union a military, financial and psychological blow from which it would never recuperate. 
   Mr. President, when Ronald Reagan left office, this country had been transformed. He left a legacy in economic reform, health care, and foreign policy to name a few, which remain unequaled. Reagan, a child of the Midwest who understood mythically the role of the western frontier in the American psyche, left us looking to the horizon, to the future. 
   Ronald Reagan was a humble man, who left office gladly, having served his term, but who never stopped loving the American people. We will always love him for that legacy, which did so much to improve our country and our world. We will respect him for that parting letter, in which he spoke so frankly and bravely to his adoring public. 
   And so, this week we pause to thank God for the gift of the greatest American president of the twentieth century, Ronald Reagan. We have lost a great American. 
   I think it is fitting to quote another great American, Daniel Webster who spoke so eloquently about the passing of two other Presidents, Thomas Jefferson and John Adams. Webster's words were never more true than today: 
   "A superior and commanding human intellect, a truly 
  great man, when Heaven vouchsafes so rare a gift, is 
  not a temporary flame, burning brightly for a while, 
  and then giving place to returning darkness. It is 
  rather a spark of fervent heat, as well as radiant 
  light, with power to enkindle the common mass of human 
  kind; so that when it glimmers in its own decay, and 
  finally goes out in death, no night follows, but it 
  leaves the world all light, all on fire from the 
  potent contact of its own spirit." 
  I pray that America will always be alight with the spirit of Ronald Reagan.
   Contact: Adam Elggren, 202/224-3370.
 
 