SEN. HATCH FLAG AMENDMENT SET FOR JUNE DEBATE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) applauded Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist for announcing that the Senate will debate Hatch's "Flag Protection Amendment" at the end of June. The House of Representatives approved the amendment on June 22, 2005.  
   "I'm thrilled that the Senate will soon have the chance to restore the right of Utahns and other Americans to protect the flag," Hatch said. "Congress had that right for more than 200 years until five unelected Justices found a previously unknown Constitutional right to desecrate the flag. The American people want this amendment, and I am hopeful that this will be the year the Senate sends it to the states for ratification." 
   Hatch is the Senate's leading champion of the flag protection amendment, which has just 17 words: "The Congress shall have power to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States." The amendment would not ban flag desecration; rather, after ratification, it would restore the authority of the people's representatives in Congress to prohibit this activity, if they choose to do so. 
   About a decade ago, the Utah State Legislature overwhelmingly urged the Congressional delegation to support a constitutional amendment to protect the flag, which led Hatch to introduce this amendment and fight for its passage in every succeeding Congress. To date, every state in the union has petitioned Congress to pass this amendment. 
   "Should the Senate pass the flag amendment, the nationwide debate over state ratification will be one of the greatest public discussions in American history," Hatch said. "It will lead Americans toward a deep study of our nation's history and values and cause many Americans to renew their faith in the ideals and values of America. By putting this issue back in the hands of the American people, this amendment restores the very liberties that our flag represents."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 