SEN. HATCH TAPS SIX UTAH STUDENTS FOR SENATE INTERNSHIPS
  Six Utah college students are learning about life inside the Beltway with a semester internship in the Washington, D.C., office of Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). Interns in Hatch's office help his work for Utah constituents. Exploring a variety of Capitol Hill experiences, the interns also attend press conferences, hearings, and committee meetings. 
   "I welcome these fine students to my D.C. office," Hatch said. "This is an exciting time to be in Washington, because so many high-profile issues are on the table right now. They get to see first-hand how Congress reacts to issues like immigration, terrorism, and the economy."  
   Each semester, Hatch selects interns from Utah from the dozens of students who apply for the office's few openings. Summer spots are the most competitive because more students are generally available. 
   Schools recommend a group of applicants to the internship program based on their grade point average, extra-curricular activities and other accomplishments, then Hatch makes the final cut. Students may also apply on their own using Hatch's website, hatch.senate.gov. (Click on "Teachers and Students," then "Internships.") 
   "Internships in Congress are very tough to land," Hatch said. "There is competition among the students, but there is also competition among the various organizations and offices for the best interns. It's fortunate that so many young people in Utah are eager to come here and serve their country." 
   An internship can be a springboard to new experiences and opportunities for students. Hatch's interns this semester are: 
   Elizabeth Anne Cromar, 21, is studying political science and campaign management at the University of Utah. She is assigned to aid Hatch with his work on education and fiscal policy. Cromar is from Wenatchee, Washington. 
   "The way people get really excited on Super Bowl Sunday is the way I get excited to watch election returns," Cromar said. "Getting to work in Congress is a spectacular adventure. I've already learned an incredible amount." 
   Ryan Evans, 29, studies Criminal Justice at Weber State University, finance at the University of Utah, and aviation technology (pilot) at Salt Lake Community College. He is assigned to help Hatch with his work regarding judicial matters, defense, and trade. Evans is from Pocatello, Idaho. 
   "I have done a lot of different things in my life, from waiting on tables to building bombs while in the military," Evans said. "This experience was something I never thought of doing. I have had the experience to meet people who have been involved with decisions that have affected this country. I have found that many of these individuals started out as an intern." 
   Nicole Anna Frazier, 22, studies psychology and business at Southern Utah University. She is assigned to aid Hatch's chief of staff, personal assistant, and press staff. Frazier is from Mapleton, Utah. 
   "I love new challenges and adventures," Frazier said. "Whether it is taking Utahns on tours of the Capitol, visiting the Smithsonian Museums, or hitting the social events on the weekend, there are adventures everywhere." 
   Caitlin Gamble, 22, recently graduated from the University of Oregon in molecular and cell biology. She is assigned to aid Hatch's staff in charge of health policy. Gamble is originally from Salt Lake City, Utah. 
   "After having studied biology in undergrad, I wanted to learn about the policy side of public health and science issues facing our country," Gamble said. "What better way than to experience the inner workings of a U.S. Senate office?" 
   Joel Larson, 25, recently graduated from Utah Valley State College in psychology. He is assigned to aid Hatch's staff on a variety of legislative topics, including energy and immigration policy. Larson is from Cedar Hills, Utah. 
   "I enjoy being embedded in the happenings of United States government," Larson said. "This experience is satisfying my thirst for adventure and helping me to learn more about being a great American." 
   Diana Kay Leo, 24, recently graduated from Utah State University in international studies and sociology. She is assigned to help Hatch respond to constituents on various topics, such as agricultural, energy, and natural resources policy. Leo is originally from North Logan. 
   "This is a wonderful opportunity to see Congress up close," Leo said. "I enjoy every part of my internship, from seeing prominent political figures to giving Capitol tours to Utahns. Also, I enjoy getting a sense of what our Founding Fathers had to go through to shape our government the way it is today."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 