SEN. HATCH COMMENTS ON KAVANAUGH's NOMINATION
  COMMITTEE STATEMENT ON KAVANAUGH NOMINATION
   I would like to take most of my time to make a few comments rather than to ask questions at this time. 
   I think that during his first hearing two years ago in 2004, and in his written submission afterwards, Mr. Kavanaugh more than adequately answered all the questions that have been posed to him. The Committee already has a 159-page hearing record before it on this nominee. 
   I have confidence that Mr. Kavanaugh will again today demonstrate his deep understanding and knowledge of the law. 
   I expect that he will once again display his intellect, sound judgment and judicial temperament. I have no doubt that fully appreciates the proper role and limitations placed on federal appellate judges in our constitutional system.  
   While I am not pleased with all of the circumstances that have resulted in holding this unusual, if not unprecedented, second hearing, I take solace in the fact that Chief Justice Roberts - whom many in the public and a super-majority of Senators found to be an extremely capable individual after his confirmation hearings last September - was also subjected to two confirmation hearings for the D.C. Circuit. 
   I hope that Bret Kavanaugh's confirmation will not be as delayed as long as Chief Justice Roberts' confirmation to the D.C. Circuit. I believe that there was a 12-year gap between the time that President George H. W. Bush first nominated John Roberts to the D.C. Circuit in 1991 and the time the Congress confirmed him in 2003 after he was re-nominated by President George W. Bush. 
   While today's hearing will - and should - focus on the qualifications of Bret Kavanaugh to serve on the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, when you see nominees with the backgrounds of John Roberts and Bret Kavanaugh being held up for so many years for so little reason, sometimes you just have to ask yourself if there may be motivations at play that have nothing at all to do with the nominee's actual fitness to sit on the bench. 
   To date, it has been almost three years since Mr. Kavanaugh was first nominated. 
   It is time to vote on his nomination. Frankly, it is past time for the Senate to vote on Bret Kavanaugh. 
   At this point, I just want to add my welcome to Mr. Kavanaugh and his family. Since the last time he was before the Committee, he has become a husband and father and I join in welcoming his wife, Ashley, and his eight-month old daughter, Margaret, to the Committee. 
   I also want to take the time to acknowledge the nominee's parents, Ed and Martha Kavanaugh. 
   I have known Ed Kavanaugh for many years. He headed up a major trade association - the Cosmetic, Toiletries, and Fragrances Association - and he is deservingly admired by many in this town. His mother served with distinction as a state court judge in Maryland for many years. 
   Sometimes in these confirmation hearings in the rush to get to more controversial matters, there is a tendency to skip over too quickly on the qualities and attributes that led the President to nominate the individual in the first place. 
   Senator Specter has already given us an overview of the nominees impressive educational and employment background. 
   We have also heard the testimony of the federal appellate judges for whom he clerked: Judge Alex Kozinski of the 9th Circuit and Judge Stapleton of the 3rd Circuit. We should weigh their words carefully. 
   Not only did Mr. Kavanaugh distinguish himself as a clerk on two appellate courts, he also enjoys the high honor of having been selected to serve as a law clerk on the United States Supreme Court, where he worked for Justice Kennedy. 
   We know of his stellar academic career at Yale, both as an undergraduate and at Yale Law School. 
   Brett Kavanaugh has held a series of impressive and highly responsible jobs in both the Executive branch and in the private sector. 
   An extremely talented appellate advocate who has argued before the Supreme Court, Mr. Kavanaugh has been a partner in the highly respected law firm of Kirkland&Ellis. 
   Despite the fact that his practice at Kirkland&Ellis was no doubt more financially rewarding than the federal pay scale - by literally hundreds of thousands of dollars each year - Bret Kavanaugh has been drawn to public service throughout his career. 
   In addition to his three judicial clerkships, Mr. Kavanaugh has worked in the very prestigious Office of the Solicitor General in the Department of Justice. 
   He also worked under Ken Starr at the Office of Independent Counsel that was charged with examining improprieties associated with former President Clinton. 
   Apparently many, including some on this Committee, take umbrage at the fact that Bret Kavanaugh worked for Judge Starr at the Independent Counsel's office. If this is the case, I think it tells you more about the politics of those individuals than it does about the capacity of Bret Kavanaugh to serve as a federal judge. 
   Since 2001, Mr. Kavanaugh has worked in a number of important capacities in the Bush Administration, including in the White House Counsel's Office and serving in his current role as Staff Secretary. 
   In all of these past positions, Brett has made a strong impression on those with and for whom he has worked, from his current boss, President Bush, and, as we heard a few minutes ago, from the judges for whom he served as a law clerk early in his career. 
   I have watched with admiration as Bret has grown and developed throughout his career and strongly support his nomination for the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. 
   I take exception with those who argue that this very bright, very honest, very fair, very hard-working lawyer is somehow not qualified to sit on the bench. 
   Some have said that he is simply too young. If there is one advantage about the undue delay that has accompanied his nomination, it is the fact that the age issue is taking care of itself each day! 
   Among those confirmed to the D.C. Circuit at a younger age than Mr. Kavanaugh include Chief Judge Douglas Ginsburg, Judge Harry Edwards, and former Judge Ken Starr. 
   Likewise, Justice Alito was younger than Bret Kavanaugh is today when he first joined the 3rd Circuit. So was now-Justice Anthony Kennedy when he first was confirmed for the 9th Circuit. With your permission Mr. Chairman, I would like to provide for the record a list of 17 appellate judges who joined the bench at an earlier age than Mr. Kavanaugh is today. I am sure there are many others as well. 
   Some will say that Bret Kavanaugh is not experienced enough to serve on the D.C. Circuit because he has no prior judicial experience. 
   I would point out that President Clinton nominated, and the Senate confirmed, 32 lawyers to various federal appellate judgeships without any prior judicial experience. Both David Tatel and Merrick Garland were Clinton Administration appointees confirmed on the D.C. Circuit without any prior judicial experience. Other Democratic nominees confirmed on the D.C. Circuit without previous judicial experience include Harry Edwards, Abner Mikva, Patricia Wald and, Ruth Bader Ginsburg. So if you hear arguments about the lack of judicial experience, put them in perspective. 
   Much will be made about Bret Kavanaugh's ABA rating today. 
   This is a clear case of much ado about nothing - although some of my friends across the aisle will try to may a big deal about the changed, current rating of Majority Qualified, Minority Well-Qualified. 
   While I was only able to participate for a few minutes in yesterday's Conference call with the ABA representatives that discussed the change from his former rating of Majority Well-Qualified, Minority Qualified and do not pretend to understand all the reasons for this change, I would note that every representative who has rated Mr. Kavanaugh in his three ratings has found him either Well Qualified or Qualified. No one from the ABA Committee has ever rated him not qualified, or, to my knowledge, ever suggested that Bret Kavanaugh is somehow unqualified to serve as a judge. This is a fact that I suspect may be blurred or outright twisted by some involved in this debate. 
   Do not let anybody fool you with any false suggestion that the ABA is somehow taking the position that Bret Kavanaugh's Majority Qualified, Minority Well Qualified Rating somehow renders him unfit to sit on the bench. 
   It is my understanding that President Clinton nominated, and the Senate confirmed, no fewer than 14 Circuit Court nominees with significantly lower ABA ratings than those received by Mr. Kavanaugh, including at least three nominees rated as Not Qualified by some ABA reviewers. 
   Let me close by stating the obvious: there are broader political dynamics at play with respect to this nominee. 
   I only hope that we focus on the qualifications and character of the nominee we have before us today. 
   If we do that, I have no doubt that Bret Kavanaugh merits our support and when confirmed will serve the public well as a fair and impartial jurist.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 