SEN. HATCH ANNOUNCES MEDICAL RESERVE CORPS MILESTONE
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) today joined the Office of the Surgeon General in announcing that the Medical Reserve Corps (MRC) has reached a milestone - 500 active units nationwide - with the launch of one in Summit County, Utah. The MRC are pools of local volunteer medical professionals and lay people who can supplement medical and public health agencies in a crisis or with other public health activities and educational campaigns.  
   "With Utah's remarkable reputation for volunteerism, I think it's fitting that the corps' milestone happen in the Beehive State," Hatch said. "Medical Reserve Corps members are eager to volunteer their life-saving services, not only in their own communities, but elsewhere in the nation when the call to serve comes." 
   The Medical Reserve Corps started after President Bush's 2002 State of the Union address, in the wake of 9/11, so communities would be better prepared in case of a terror attack. 
   "Summit County is proud to be the latest addition to the Utah and National Medical Reserve Corps," said Katie Mullaly, emergency response coordinator for the Summit County Health Department. "This is an important program that will no only provide the needed medical personnel resources during an emergency, but will also bring the medical and emergency preparedness communities together in Summit County. We look forward to working with other local and national MRC to improve the preparedness of all communities." 
   Rear Admiral Kenneth Moritsugu, acting U.S. Surgeon General, said, "The civilian, volunteer Medical Reserve Corps serves as a wonderful example of true American patriotism. Through the work and service provided in towns, cities, and counties across the United States, MRC volunteers are making an immediate and lasting effect on the health and safety of their neighbors - and the Nation." 
   Following Hurricane Katrina, five members of Utah's Bear River MRC were deployed to Gulf Coast recovery. 
   "Medical Reserve Corps are local assets, but Katrina proved that MRC members can mobilize to assist the nation in a catastrophic disaster," said Mike Weibel, Utah's statewide MRC coordinator. "All five corps members went to help after Katrina without being paid. They were truly humanitarians." 
   Hatch met with MRC leaders in March when he visited the Bear River Health Department. He praised local Utah leaders for their support in activating and supporting MRC units: all county health departments in Utah have units in their areas and the Utah Legislature passed a law two years to provide liability protection and emergency licenses for volunteer medical professionals. Lawmakers elsewhere in the nation are using the law as a model. 
   "Because MRC members are already trained and credentialed, public health agencies can call on them immediately to respond after a natural disaster or terrorist strike," Hatch said. "No one plans to have a crisis, but before one strikes, you need to have a plan. That's why I'm such a booster for the MRC."
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854; Jared Whitley, 202/224-0134.
 
 