SEN. HATCH: SKULL VALLEY FIGHT JUST BEGINNING
  Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) vowed to pursue legislative, legal and administrative challenges to today's decision by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to approve a license for Private Fuel Storage (PFS) to build a private, temporary, aboveground spent nuclear waste storage facility in Skull Valley, Utah.  
   "In my view, the plan is already dead on arrival," Hatch said. "It's no secret that the NRC had its own motivations for granting this license, and up until now the PFS plan has enjoyed the protection of the NRC process. Today's decision opens the proposal up for legal challenges from the state and administrative challenges from the Department of Energy and the White House, and we are still pursuing legislative solutions." 
   "There are just too many administrative and legal hurdles to clear for this to ever become a reality," Hatch continued. "But that won't stop us from continuing to pursue every angle possible to put an early end to the plan." 
   The proposed PFS facility would be located on the Reservation of the Skull Valley Band of Goshute Indians, about 50 miles southwest of Salt Lake City. Although the most casks of spent nuclear waste at any current site in the U.S. is 60, PFS proposes to place 4,000 casks directly in the flight path of 7,000 F-16 fighter jets carrying live ordnance. 
   "This is a reckless, dangerous proposal, and I am pulling out all the stops to make sure this waste never makes a home in Utah," Hatch said. "Along with the danger this poses to those along the Wasatch Front, this site wouldn't be managed by the federal government, but by a shell corporation protected from liability should a catastrophe occur." 
   Separate from the NRC's actions, the Bureau of Indian Affairs must issue final approval of the lease between the company and the Skull Valley Band of Goshute Indians. Also, the Bureau of Land Management must approve a revision of the land resource management plan for Skull Valley to permit PFS to construct and operate a rail line on a right-of-way through BLM land to connect the PFS site and the Union Pacific Railroad main line.
   Contact: Peter Carr, 202/224-9854.
 
 