SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $2 MILLION FOR ST. JAMES HOSPITAL
  Senator Norm Coleman today announced St. James Health Services has been selected to receive a $2,000,000 Community Facility Direct Loan from the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development program. The loan is slated to be used in the purchase of equipment for the new hospital currently under construction in St. James. Senator Coleman visited the St. James facility in October of 2006.  
   "I am thrilled USDA Rural Development continues to recognize the importance of this new hospital in St. James, where I have seen firsthand the high level of commitment to healthcare in this community," said Coleman. "One of my great passions is rural healthcare, and I often here about the challenges of both access to services and lack of funding for the latest medical technologies. The quality of your healthcare should never be dependent on your ZIP code, and this loan will go a long way in bringing high-quality healthcare to folks in St. James and the surrounding area." 
   "This is great news,'' stated Mike Kircher, Board Chair for St. James Health Services. "The new medical center is important to the quality of life in our community because it keeps health care accessible and close to home. The initial funding from USDA made our new medical center possible. These funds will allow us to move forward with the additional equipment we need to complete the new medical center project. We very much appreciate the way the Senator Coleman and the USDA have responded to meet the needs of our community." 
   USDA Rural Development has provided substantial financial resources for construction of the new hospital in St. James, including a $16.325 million guaranteed loan for construction and a $3 million direct loan for equipment in 2006. The new hospital in St. James is expected to open in December of 2007. 
   Since 2001, USDA Rural Development has invested nearly $4.3 billion into rural Minnesota for a variety of improvements. For more information, please visit www.rurdev.usda.gov.
 
 