SENATE DEBATES SEN. COLEMAN BILL TO MOVE STEM CELL RESEARCH FORWARD IN ETHICAL MANNER
  After working with advocacy groups and Congressional Leadership to broker a compromise on stem cells, Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN), along with Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA), has introduced legislation aimed at moving stem cell research forward, while prohibiting research that destroys human life. The Hope Offered through Principled and Ethical Stem Cell Research (HOPE) Act (S.30), which is being debated on the Senator floor this week, authorizes federal funding for pluripotent stem cell research, including certain types of embryonic stem cell research, which does not harm embryos, such as deriving cells from amniotic fluid or placentas, and on embryos that have died naturally. This approach will allow a significant expansion in federally-funded stem cell research, while ensuring no taxpayer dollars are used for the destruction of human embryos.  
   "While embryonic stem cell research offers great promise, we must address ethical concerns related to taxpayer dollars. Fortunately, science is moving faster than the politics, and new research methods provide a common ground for moving ahead without destroying embryos," said Coleman. "We know that the President has promised to veto any legislation that does not protect human life. My legislation offers an expanded role for federal funding but has been carefully developed so that, unlike the other bill being debated by Congress, it could avoid a veto and actually become law - ultimately providing hope of medical breakthroughs in the very near future for those struggling with a debilitating disease." 
   The legislation will also require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to determine the best way to run and maintain an amniotic and placental stem cell bank program and to identify ways to maximize the potential of such a program, including amniotic stem cell collection and storage, standards, information sharing, distribution, reimbursement, and research. 
   "In order to bring results to patients, we need to provide for a wide range of genetic matches," said Coleman. "The HOPE Act incorporates all of the most promising current scientific advancements, including methods using adult stem cells and some using embryonic stem cells. We must ensure that any research remains firmly within pro-life ethical guidelines."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 