SEN. COLEMAN TO SPEAK AT MINNESOTA-CHINA CONFERENCE ON BIOTECHNOLOGY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY
  Sen. Coleman today announced he will speak on the development and importance of biotechnology and renewable energy in Minnesota and the global economy as part of the Minnesota-China Conference on Biotechnology and Renewable Energy being held at the University of Minnesota on Wednesday, April 12th. The conference will be held from 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in the St. Paul Student Center Theater on the University of Minnesota's St. Paul Campus. The conference is part of a continuing partnership between Minnesota and China to promote the development and use of renewable fuels on a global level.  
   "I am anxious to participate in this important discussion on Wednesday," said Coleman. "Minnesota is a national leader in the use and development of renewable fuels through the innovations of biotechnology. Anyone paying attention to volatile energy prices understands the need to rethink our national, as well as global, energy strategy. Renewable energy is the future, and this conference will provide a perfect opportunity to discuss what we are doing here at home, as well as learn about the actions being taken in China - one of the fastest-growing and leading countries in the areas of biotechnology and science." 
   Wednesday's conference will merge two of Coleman's Senate priorities: renewable energy and the U.S. relationship with China. Last month, Senator Coleman participated in a three-day visit to 12 western Minnesota communities, where he spoke on the future of renewable energy and met with a number of constituents involved in the industry. He is also co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus, whose goal it is to promote and increase the use of biofuels in the U.S. In January, Sen. Coleman announced the creation of a bipartisan Senate China Working Group, established to gain better understanding of the growing influence of China on the global stage. 
   "As China continues on its path of economic development, the pressure it could place on global energy supplies will be felt in our pocketbooks, not to mention the environmental impact Chinese energy consumption could produce," added Coleman. "Here in Minnesota, we have a direct interest in helping to promote renewable fuels in China, and I look forward to being part of that discussion." 
   Also participating in Wednesday's event will be a number of Chinese government officials and researchers from the University of Minnesota. China's highest ranking biotechnology official, Dr. Wang Hongguang, Director General of the China National Center for Biotechnology Development, will be the keynote speaker at the conference. Additionally, Richard Hemmingsen, the director of the University of Minnesota Initiative for Renewable Energy and the Environment (IREE) will open the conference. The IREE, who co-sponsored and participated in the World Biofuels Symposium in Beijing, China this past November, is a sponsor of the event - along with the University of Minnesota China Center, the Minnesota Department of Agriculture, and the University of Minnesota Center for Biorefining. 
   SCHEDULE - Wednesday, April 12th 2006 
   8:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. 
   Minnesota-China Conference on Biotechnology and Renewable Energy 
  St. Paul Student Center Theater 
  2017 Buford Avenue, St. Paul
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 