SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON SIGNING INTO LAW OF COMPETITIVENESS LEGISLATION
  In an effort to maintain and improve the United States' ability to innovate and thrive in the 21st Century, President Bush today signed into law the America COMPETES Act. As an original cosponsor of this legislation and a member of the House-Senate conference committee, Senator Norm Coleman was successful in including a key provision to provide incentive grants to elementary and secondary schools for improved achievement in math and science. Overall, the America COMPETES Act aims to increase research investment, strengthen educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics from elementary through graduate school, and develop an innovation infrastructure.  
   "As competition and the demand for new technology continues to grow, it is essential for America's youth to be equipped with the academic and intellectual tools it takes to succeed in this new type of environment," said Coleman. "The America COMPETES Act, and my amendment in particular, zeroes in on this important matter by investing in math and science education, which will allow our children to explore new technological and innovation frontiers. Providing our nation's children with the means to innovate and create allows the United States to continue its legacy in such fields as biotechnology, information technology and cutting-edge alternative energy resources. I applaud the President for signing America COMPETES into law, as it is critical in sustaining America's position as a top competitor in the global market." 
   "This is the prime model of bipartisan cooperation on a massively important issue to every citizen of our country," said Senator Lamar Alexander. "The America COMPETES Act is a direct response to the challenge our country faces in keeping our good jobs from going overseas to places like India and China. Our brightest minds said the number one way to do this is to focus on K-12 education, and Senator Coleman has recognized the importance of keeping America's brainpower advantage by rewarding outstanding teaching. Senator Coleman was an early supporter of legislation to preserve our brainpower advantage, and I appreciate the support he has given to this important legislation at every step in the process."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 