SEN. COLEMAN HOSTS 'HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS': REUNION FOR FAMILIES OF INTERNATIONALLY ADOPTED CHILDREN IN MINNESOTA
  Sen. Coleman announced today that he will hold a holiday reunion, "Home for the Holidays," for Minnesota families who have successfully adopted children internationally on Saturday, December 18, 2004. The event will take place at the Rice Park Ballroom in Saint Paul at 10:30 a.m.  
   Over the past two years, Senator Coleman has become a national leader in international adoptions, helping hundreds of families connect with children from all over the world. On Saturday, many of these families will join together to share their stories of success and pictures of their growing families. 
   "This is one of my favorite events of the year, and the holidays are the perfect time to celebrate the joy and blessings of family," said Coleman. "These families have opened up their homes and hearts to these wonderful children, and I am touched to be part of this day that celebrates their lives together. I am very excited to visit with the families and get updates on all of the remarkable children who have found a home here in Minnesota." 
   "It is such a tremendous thing that Senator Coleman and our President are taking a distinct interest in adoption," said Nila Neumiller, Founder and President of Reaching Arms International, Inc. "It is the heart of the people of the United States of America to embrace other nations to the point we want to bless their children by becoming families to them." 
   Along with RAI, a leading national Minnesota based adoption agency that frequently works with Senator Coleman on international adoptions, families from all around Minnesota will attend, including the Norby family, who recently adopted their daughter, Gabi, from Guatemala this past May. After more than 14 months had passed during the adoption process, Janie and Craig Norby were able to bring Gabi back to their home in Exelscior. 
   "Senator Coleman was incredible, and he did everything he could to help us," said mother Janie Norby. "But the most amazing thing in the process was that he called when we were down in Guatemala to make sure everything was ok. It felt so good to have help in this foreign country. He really was unbelievable with us." 
   Patience Carlson's homecoming received much attention last year when brought to Minnesota from war-torn Liberia. She and her family will also reunite with other couples and the Senator to reflect on an entire year with their daughter. 
   "As we prepare for this holiday season and reflect on all we have, we can't help but think of the impact the Senator and his staff have had on our daughter," said mother Ellen Carlson of her daughter, Patience. "There is much to celebrate as we think of our daughter coming from an environment where food, toys, even education were all just about inaccessible to an environment where her options are limitless. She has done nothing but flourish since she joined our family - we couldn't be more excited to come celebrate with the Senator who has helped our family so very much." 
   The children whom Senator Coleman has helped placed in Minnesota families have come from countries all over the world, including: Guatemala, Russia, Kenya, Poland, Ukraine, Haiti, Mexico, Liberia, China, India, Togo, Sierra Leone, Japan, South Africa, and Syria. 
   Many are expected to attend this Saturday to celebrate the season together as family. 
   Home for the Holidays 
   When: Saturday, December 18th 
  10:30 AM 
   Where: Park View Ballroom 
  317 Washington Street 
  St. Paul
 
 