SEN. COLEMAN REPORTS CRUCIAL PROGRESS MADE ON HOLMAN-FIELD FUNDING
  Sen. Norm Coleman today reported that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has approved $20 million in discretionary funding under the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) to help make improvements to the St. Paul Downtown Airport (known as Holman Field). Holman Field has been shut down three times due to flooding since 1993, and the project would include the construction of a flood wall in order prevent future flooding. Senator Coleman urged the FAA to fund these improvements based on the many merits of this project. Holman Field plays a key role relieving the Minneapolis/St. Paul International Airport when a buildup of flights occurs and serves a vital function to Minnesota businesses. On February 7, 2006, the FAA wrote the Metropolitan Airport Commission that if all statutory and administrative requirements are met, FAA is prepared to recommend an AIP discretionary funding level of up to $20.1 million for the dike project.  
   "I have strongly supported the construction of a perimeter dike at Holman Field since my years as Mayor of St. Paul," said Coleman. "This dike is essential to avoiding a repeat of the flood events that have caused the airport to close for significant periods of time year after year. When the Mississippi River floods, we lose service at this key airport. The air service provided by Holman Field is a fundamental component of St. Paul's transportation infrastructure, and I am committed to making it fully functional through this dike project." 
   In order for full AIP funding to be granted by the FAA, local levels of funding must also be put in place. 
   "I hope that after years of overcoming problems through the hard work of so many, we will be able to secure a local funding commitment that matches the commitment set at the federal level," continued Coleman. "It is critical St. Paul's Planning Commission and the City Council follow through with the necessary dollars to make this federal funding possible. I will continue to work with officials on all levels to see this plan through to a much-needed completion."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 