STATE DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCES BEGINNING OF ISSUANCE PERIOD FOR PASSPORT CARDS FOR LAND BORDER TRAVEL
  Senator Norm Coleman announced today that the State Department will begin taking applications for passport cards beginning February 1st, 2008. Passport cards will serve as an acceptable document for land and sea border crossings under the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative slated to go into effect in June of 2009. The cards, which will cost $45 for adults, will be accepted for land and sea crossings between the U.S. and Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean.  
   Since hearing concerns over the original proposal of a passport for land and sea crossings from residents living along Minnesota's northern border, Sen. Coleman has consistently pushed for a cheaper, more convenient alternative to a regular passport such as the one announced today. 
   "While I am pleased that Congress moved back the final date for WHTI implementation until June 2009, today's announcement means folks will be able to start planning for the future," Coleman said. "This secure, wallet sized card, which will be half as expensive as a regular passport, is certainly a better option than a full-scale passport for many of our border residents. Also, by making the card available starting this year, I am hopeful that we will not see a repeat of the passport problems that plagued the State Department last year. In the meantime, I would encourage folks planning to cross the border between now and next June to get copies of your birth certificates ready at a minimum." 
   The implementation deadline for WHTI's land and sea travel requirement was recently extended until no earlier than June of 2009 as part of the Omnibus Appropriations bill that passed into law at the end of December. The new passport cards will not be required until that date, but citizens will be allowed to apply for a card beginning February 1st, 2008, with the first cards scheduled to be issued later this spring. Children carrying a birth certificate will still be allowed to cross the border without a passport or passport card if they are traveling with their parents or in a school or civic group. 
   Notwithstanding the June 2009 extension, all travelers will be required to present a passport, passport card or combination of birth certificate and driver's license beginning January 31, 2008. 
   For more information, please visit the State Department's website at: 
  www.travel.state.gov/pdf/WHTI_Passport_Sheet.pdf.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 