SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT'S IRAQ PLAN
  STATEMENT FROM SEN. NORM COLEMAN ON PRESIDENT BUSH'S IRAQ PLAN:
   This evening, the President laid out his plan for a new course in Iraq. I applaud the President for admitting mistakes and recognizing a need to change strategy in Iraq. However, I disagree with the President's decision to provide a troop surge in Baghdad. My concern about a troop surge is compounded by the impact it will have on Minnesota National Guard troops in Iraq and their families here at home. I am extremely disappointed by the news that our National Guard soldiers in Iraq will have their tour of duty extended. When I visited them a few weeks ago in Iraq, they were excited about coming home in March. At a time when our National Guard troops and families are making the ultimate commitment to serve our country and defend our freedom, they deserve better than to be told only a short time before their scheduled return that their service is being extended.  
   Baghdad is ground zero for a sectarian civil war. The Iraqi government must demonstrate the resolve and ability to quell the sectarian violence if they expect continued American commitment. Failure in Iraq would unleash destructive ethnic cleansing and regional instability. Success in Iraq requires reconciliation between Shiites and Sunni. I do not believe a troop surge is the answer. 
   What is clear to me is that we are fighting two different wars within Iraq. The first is the war we intended to fight, a war against al-Qaeda forces and insurgent extremists. I have met with our commanders and soldiers fighting this battle against extremists and I believe we are winning. I support the President's call for reinforcing our troops in Anbar province because that is an area where our military is fighting an enemy that has made Iraq a central front of the War on Terror. This is an entirely different kind of battle than the second war, the sectarian violence raging on the streets of Baghdad. 
   I was also encouraged by the President's move to establish a series of benchmarks for the Iraqis to demonstrate their commitment and ability to achieve reconciliation, quell sectarian violence and stabilize the country politically and economically. Requiring the Iraqis to create a national revenue-sharing agreement on oil profits, ease government restrictions on former Baathists, and commit more money toward reconstruction work will place us on the right path to victory. The battle against al-Qaeda and extremism in Iraq is the battle of our time. Failure is not an option. But success requires something other than more troops today.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 