SEN. COLEMAN TO EXAMINE SECURITY CONCERNS IN SOMALIA AT HEARING
  Recognizing pressing humanitarian concerns and the need to stop terrorism at the roots, Sen. Norm Coleman tomorrow will examine the current situation in Somalia and attempt to identify options for more constructive U.S. engagement at a Senate Foreign Relations Africa Subcommittee hearing. Recently, factional violence in the capital of Somalia has erupted, killing hundreds and displacing thousands. A coalition of Islamic courts backed by a militia has gained control of Mogadishu and other parts of Somalia. The recent rise of extremist Muslim leadership within this coalition has further fueled the urgency of the situation. Coleman believes that this hearing will offer an opportunity to discuss how the U.S. can work to address the wide range of challenges that exist in Somalia and pave the way for peace and stability.  
   "I am concerned for the safety and security of the people of Somalia, as well as the national security of the United States," added Coleman. "We have witnessed growing extremism from the Islamic militias. We cannot stand idly by and let Somalia become a breeding ground for terrorists, and tomorrow's hearing will give us an opportunity to explore way the U.S. can help to bring about peace to this war-torn nation." 
   Coleman recently introduced a bipartisan resolution directing the United States to increase its support to the people of Somalia in their efforts to establish a peaceful and stable democracy. The resolution outlines U.S. priorities in Somalia and urges the federal government to adopt a comprehensive strategy to help Somalia overcome decades of violence, neglect and civil strife. 
   Specifically, Coleman's resolution: 
   * Expresses support for a democratic system in Somalia; 
   * Calls on the U.S. government to develop a comprehensive stabilization and reconstruction strategy that aligns humanitarian, development, economic, political, counterterrorism and regional strategies, which must be presented to Congress within 90 days; 
   * Urges the U.S. to provide training and support to the Transitional National Government to fight terrorism and extremism in addition to strengthening civil society; 
   * Calls on the U.S. to send a special envoy to Somalia to help guide and inform U.S. policy on Somalia. 
   Minnesota is the home of the largest Somali community in the U.S, with about 70,000 Somali residents. 
   WHAT: Foreign Relations Africa Subcommittee Hearing on Somalia: U.S. Government Policy and Challenges 
   WHEN: Tuesday, July 11, 2006 
   TIME: 2:00 p.m. 
   WHERE: SD- 419 
   WITNESSES: 
   Jendayi Frazer, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs; 
   Michael Hess Assistant USAID Administrator for Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance; 
   Ambassador David Shinn, Adjunct Professor at the Elliott School of International Affairs of The George Washington University; 
   Dr. Andre Le Sage, Assistant Professor and Academic Chair for Terrorism and Counterterrorism at the Africa Center for Strategic Studies of the National Defense University; 
   Dr. J. Stephen Morrison, Director of the Africa Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 