SEN. COLEMAN JOINS BIPARTISAN SENATE MAJORITY IN PASSING PRO-CONSUMER BANKRUPTCY REFORM BILL
  Sen. Norm Coleman today voted in favor of the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005, which passed today with strong bipartisan support by a vote of 74 - 25. The bill curbs abuse of bankruptcy protections, promotes responsible borrowing through consumer education and tougher requirements on lenders to disclose risks, protects patients in bankrupt hospitals from having their medical records sold, and includes debt-repayment exemptions for the poor and deductions for education and medical bills.  
   "The average American family pays an annual $550 hidden tax due to abuse of bankruptcy protections," said Coleman. "This pro-consumer bill will curb gaming of the system and I'm sure that's why it enjoys such overwhelming and bipartisan support in the Senate." 
   Last year, 1.6 million Americans filed for bankruptcy. Many of these filings were submitted by wealthy people trying to use loopholes in bankruptcy law to skip out on their debt, even though many have the means to pay back what they owe. 
   Elaborating on today's important vote, Coleman gave the example of a woman from Dallas who filed for Chapter 7, attempting to discharge $122,527 in credit card debt. She wasn't poor or strained by most standards. She earned $11,500 a month, was paying a monthly mortgage on her $385,000 home, and just before filing decided to buy herself a $50,000 Mercedes. "This might be an especially egregious example, but the bottom line is we do need to end this kind of blatant abuse," Coleman said. 
   "This bill is all about stopping those who would abuse the system while allowing those who really need bankruptcy protection to start with a clean slate," Coleman continued. 
   Under this bill, individuals who earn less than their state's median income and owe debts will still be able to wipe them out, as they have always been able to. The legislation also permits payment deductions for a family's medical expenses and school tuition. The bill also prohibits credit card companies from advertising deceptively low rates, and requires them to provide a toll free number for consumers to get information on how long it will take to pay off their balance. The bill creates penalties for creditors who file bad faith motions to try to collect on debts. 
   While Coleman supported bankruptcy reform, he expressed disappointment that two amendments to increase the federal minimum wage were rejected. 
   Coleman concluded: "The federal minimum wage has not kept pace with the increases in the cost of living. I am disappointed that we were not able to raise the minimum wage in this bill, but expect we will re-examine this issue again this Congress." 
   Other provisions in the bill include stronger bankruptcy protections for farmers and fishermen, debt deductions for victims of domestic abuse, and stronger child support enforcement.
 
 