SEN. COLEMAN STANDS UP TO PROTECT MINNESOTA SUGAR FARMERS
  During a key hearing to examine the operation of the sugar program, Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today testified to the importance and effectiveness of the sugar program in delivering a stable supply of high quality sugar to the market at no net cost to the federal government. While applauding the success of the sugar program for maintaining a vital Minnesota industry, Coleman defended the program from its detractors who falsely contend the program cost U.S. jobs.  
   "The current U.S. sugar program has afforded America's sugar farmers the opportunity to do what they do best: deliver a stable supply of high quality sugar at no-net cost to the federal government," Coleman said. "The sugar program enables Minnesota's over two billion dollar a year sugar industry to continue to thrive and support thousands of jobs from Roseau to Renville regardless of poor markets and weather." In fact, Coleman questioned Steve Williams, President of the Red River Valley Sugarbeet Growers Association and a native resident of Fisher, MN, about the job this sugar program is doing for Minnesota farmers. Mr. Williams responded with unequivocal praise for the sugar program, testifying that it not only supported sugarbeet farmers, but also that it supported entire communities in Minnesota, from the implement dealer to the banker to the local small business. 
   Coleman took a tough line with Joe Goehring of the Hershey Company regarding the Department of Commerce study often cited by opponents of the current sugar program as causing jobs to go overseas. "When wholesale sugar prices were lower in 2005 than they were in 1990, and when they have dropped 20 percent from 1996 to 2004, when most relocations in the candy industry occurred, it doesn't make sense that the U.S. sugar program was the real issue," said Coleman. Coleman also addressed the future by citing the importance of continuing to take a hard look at the potential of developing a viable sugar-to-ethanol industry in the United States. 
   Recently, Coleman introduced the Energy Efficiency Act of 2006 which will reduce foreign oil dependence by establishing specific national goals for replacing oil imports through a significant expansion of renewable fuel infrastructure, increased use of vehicle technologies such as hybrids, and increased conservation measures. As a complement to this bill, Coleman also announced introduction of the Enhanced Energy Security Act, which will expand incentives for the purchase and production of advanced vehicles such as hybrids and fuel cell, along with containing key incentives to help save natural gas. 
   "Producing ethanol from sugar has proven successful in Brazil, a country that, by the end of this year, will be completely independent from foreign oil," Coleman said. "Likewise, I believe growing the U.S. renewable fuels industry will play a large part in our ability to free ourselves from Middle Eastern oil. Ethanol from sugar holds much potential to help our nation meet its energy needs, and I believe we must continue to explore the benefits of having a viable sugar-to-ethanol program in the U.S." 
   The sugar beet industry provides over $2 billion per year to Minnesota's economy and sustains nearly 40,000 jobs.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 