SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES PASSAGE OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS CONFERENCE REPORT
  Sen. Norm Coleman today joined with the Senate in unanimously voting (91 to 0) to pass the FY2006 State and Foreign Operation Conference report which provides $20.9 billion in funding to combat AIDS, TB and malaria; support the Millennium Challenge Account (MCA) to promote economic and democratic development, and fund the Peace Corps. Included in this legislation was a provision to fully fund the U.S. Agency for International Development's (USAID) foreign treatment centers for torture survivors, money that supports programs authorized in Sen. Coleman's Torture Victims Relief Act.  
   "This legislation reflects America's commitment to promoting freedom and prosperity throughout the world, while working to address the needs of the most vulnerable populations," said Coleman. "This bill funds our efforts to help fight the global spread of AIDS and rehabilitate the victims of torture. In addition, it supports the vital efforts of promoting freedom and democracy. I am proud that my colleagues recognize the importance of assisting other countries to acquire the same freedoms we enjoy here at home, and have approved this critical appropriations bill." 
   This bill includes funding for programs contained in the Torture Victims Relief Reauthorization (TVRA) Act of 2005, authored by Senators Coleman and Dayton, introduced in February of this year. TVRA is aimed at providing funding for domestic and foreign treatment centers and the U.N. Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture. The U.S. Agency for International Development supports programs in 26 countries around the world, and the U.N. Voluntary Fund helped to provide financial assistance to 186 projects in 77 countries. 
   The FY06 Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill will fully fund USAID's foreign treatment centers for torture survivors and provide $6.58 million for the UN's Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture. 
   "I am pleased this report continues funding for victim centers in the U.S. and around the world," said Coleman. "Minnesota is home to one of the world's leading torture victim centers, and by backing these institutions, we are assuring that thousands of victims of repressive regimes will continue to receive the help and hope they need to recover and rebuild their devastated lives." 
   Today's conference report also includes funding for other global programs, including: $2.8 billion to combat global AIDS/HIV, including $450 million for the Global Fund; $1.77 billion for the Millennium Challenge Account; and $320 million for the Peace Corps. 
   In 2003, Senator Coleman traveled to Africa to discuss methods of combating AIDS and to hear firsthand how the United States can best assist in these efforts. To date, Senator Coleman has coauthored three amendments to secure an additional $350 million to help fights AIDS in Africa. This bill, together with funding expected in the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill, will fully fund the President's commitment at $3.4 billion this year to treat and fight the spread of AIDS around the globe. 
   "I have witnessed firsthand the devastation AIDS has brought to the people of Africa," Coleman added. "We have reached epidemic proportions, and its spread to millions of innocent victims with no access to treatment is heartbreaking. Today nearly 30 million people suffer from AIDS in Africa, including three million children under the age of 15. There are whole countries in Africa where more than one-third of the adult population carries the infection. I am pleased that this bill will contribute $2.82 billion to help the millions suffering around the world from the world's more severe epidemics." 
   The Millennium Challenge Account is charged with helping developing nations through the promotion of sustainable economic growth. Funding is used to help reduce poverty through investments in areas such as education, private sector development, and capacity building. This bill will provide $1.77 billion for the MCA. 
   "The MCA represents the most effective way of helping countries come out of poverty by providing them with an incentive to make the reforms needed to help stimulate economic growth," Coleman continued. "The $1.77 billion provided in this bill is a significant investment towards ending abject poverty around the world."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 