SEN. COLEMAN PARTICIPATES IN ECONOMY, JOBS TOWN HALL MEETING IN ST. PAUL WITH COMMERCE SECRETARY EVANS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today met with U.S. Secretary of Commerce Donald L. Evans and local business and manufacturers at Minnesota Cable & Wire in St. Paul for a roundtable discussion and town hall meeting on the economy and the creation of new jobs in Minnesota. Secretary Evans was on hand to discuss President Bush's manufacturing agenda and the Administration's tax cuts and how they affect Minnesota. 
   "Our economy has grown significantly under the Bush tax cuts," said Coleman. "Minnesota businesses have grown almost 23,000 new jobs over the past four months, and we've added another 9,500 new manufacturing jobs in the past year. But we must continue to grow and search for ways to keep Minnesota competitive. Secretary Evans's presence at this event marks the importance of focusing on Minnesota's economy and the creation of new jobs."
   The event was held at Minnesota Wire & Cable Co.'s 30,000 sq. ft. headquarters in St. Paul, MN. The meeting included a closed roundtable discussion, followed by an open tour of the Minnesota Wire & Cable Co.'s facilities, as well as an open Town Hall meeting.
   The tour showcased Minnesota Wire & Cable Co.'s machine operations, product development, manufacturing of low and high end wires, as well as highlighted the latest investments the company has made in robotics and high-end machinery.
   Minnesota Wire & Cable Co., founded 1968, is a leading manufacturer of wire and custom cable assemblies for the Instrumentation, Medical, Defense, and Telecommunications industries. The company's $80,000 in tax savings last year, which helped the company to reinvest in growth for research and development projects like robotics, earned them a place recently as one of three companies across the countries to be invited by the White House to give President Bush first hand information about their business experiences as a small firm able to re-invest in their company due to tax credits.
 
 