SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES PASSAGE OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL; LEGISLATION INCLUDES PROVISIONS IMPORTANT TO MINNESOTA
  Sen. Norm Coleman praised the passage this weekend of the Ronald Reagan National Defense Authorization Act of 2004, which includes the Minnesota senator's amendment that brings Camp Ripley one step closer to becoming a mobilization station for Minnesota National Guard and Reserve units. 
   "When I visited Camp Ripley last April, the folks there told me that making Camp Ripley a mobilization station would mean that Minnesota military personnel would no longer need to travel out of state for basic training, but instead could remain closer to home," Coleman said. "It would also mean jobs and an economic boost for the whole region. I believe that Camp Ripley has the space and expertise to serve once again as a mobilization station, and I firmly believe that when the DOD studies it, they will reach the same conclusion that I have."
   Coleman's provision requires the DOD to complete a feasibility study within 120 days of passage of the bill to lay out exactly what reestablishing Camp Ripley as a mobilization station would entail.
   In addition, the bill includes a provision supported by Coleman that will convey to Lex Cralley of Princeton, MN an abandoned World War II aircraft he recovered in North Carolina that had been the subject of a legal dispute between Cralley and the Navy. The compromise language, acceptable to both the Navy and Mr. Cralley, provides a practical solution to Mr. Cralley's dilemma and allows him to keep the aircraft he recovered in 1991.
   "I am glad we were able to develop a common-sense solution for Mr. Cralley," Coleman said. "The Navy has not needed or wanted this plane in decades. I'm pleased that this bill will help Mr. Cralley hold on to the plane he recovered and wants to restore."
   The bill authorizes improvements to the Air National Guard base in Duluth and a joint security initiative that will benefit all of the services located at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport area, projects which Coleman believes will be funded in the upcoming Military Construction Appropriations bill.
   The bill also has provisions to increase the size of active duty forces, expand access to TRICARE for Reservists, and increase incentive pay for Reservists. The bill gives our troops a 3.5 percent pay raise, and boosts their family separation allowance and danger pay.
   The bill includes priority programs for veterans, including full concurrent receipt for 100 percent disabled veterans and the elimination of the so-called "widows tax" for military retiree survivors.
   "This bill goes a long way toward keeping our promises to veterans and giving a fair deal to Reservists," Coleman added.
 
 