SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON IRAQ
  The testimony of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crooker today shed new light on the political and military situation in Iraq. The General brought clear and definitive evidence that militarily the surge in Iraq is indeed working. I share General Petraeus' view that we must continue the surge while training Iraqi Security Forces to ensure al-Qaeda does not undo our military progress, and believe his assessment that the "surge" troops may be home by next July underscores the fact that progress is being made - and that America's commitment, while long-term, is not open-ended.  
   Despite the sense of optimism brought by the progress of our military, it's clear the Iraqi government has failed to meet the benchmarks needed to achieve political reconciliation. In his testimony Ambassador Crocker maintained that political progress is being made, albeit slowly. However, we can no longer be satisfied by the slow pace at which Prime Minister al-Maliki is working to meet these objectives. Without political reconciliation, long term stability in Iraq cannot begin to take hold. 
   For this reason, I am pleased that General Petraeus plans to make an initial troop reduction of about 5,000 troops by Christmas. As I have previously noted, such a reduction should send a strong message to the Iraqi leadership that it must do its part to advance political reconciliation immediately. We must also implement a diplomatic surge, particularly with Sunni Arab nations in the region who can work with Iraqi Sunni areas to aid our efforts in fighting al-Qaeda. The United Nations must also play a greater role in order to curb Iran's efforts to destabilize Iraq. 
   The reality is that our national security interests demand that we have a long term presence in the region - but not caught in the crosshairs on sectarian violence. Our mission must change, with the ultimate goal of having the Iraqis assume responsibility for their security and political environment.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 