SEN. COLEMAN HONORS DECADES OF U.S.-CHINA PING PONG DIPLOMACY
 Celebrating the history of good relations between the United States and China ushered in through the game of Ping Pong, Sen. Norm Coleman last night played in series of exhibition matches with current and former members of the Chinese National Table Tennis team during his Congressional visit to the country. "Ping-pong diplomacy", which began in 1971, has consistently been recognized as a watershed moment in U.S.-China relations, which led to high-level exchanges between the Nixon administration and the Chinese government. Among the members Coleman played against yesterday was Mr. Zhang Xielin, a former World Champion and member of the 1971 ping pong diplomacy team. In addition to playing Xielin, Coleman also played against current national team members Wang Zhen and Vang Xi at the National People's Congress Convention Center.  
   "I was truly honored to be in the presence of those who helped turn a new page in the relations of the American and Chinese people," said Coleman. "Ping-Pong diplomacy opened the door to cooperation, discussion and an exchange of cultural ideas and helped forge diplomatic ties between our two nations. In the same spirit, we must continue to engage each other in issues such as energy and international security, and I am confident that we can continue working together to solve these pressing global issues." 
   At the 1971 World Table Tennis Championships in Japan, the Chinese National Table Tennis team extended an invitation to the U.S. team to visit the People's Republic of China. On April 12, 1971 they became the first American group to enter mainland China since Mao Zedong's communist forces overthrew the Nationalist government led by General Chiang Kai-shek in 1949. This helped pave the way for the normalization of bilateral relations. That fall, U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger visited China, followed by a visit by President Richard Nixon in 1972 - the first American president ever to visit China. 
   During his trip to China, Coleman is also scheduled to hold meetings with members of the Chinese parliament and government to discuss global energy issues, as well as trade, investment, and international security. 
   "As the demand for oil increases throughout the world, our two nations will need to move forward with a shared commitment to tackling our dependence on foreign oil by placing a focus on renewable fuels," said Coleman. "I look forward to having these frank and substantive discussions with members of the National People's Congress."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 