SEN. COLEMAN TO VISIT SLAYTON, WORTHINGTON, LUVERNE, PIPESTONE ON AUG. 16
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced he will be visiting the Southwestern Minnesota cities of Slayton, Worthington, Luverne and Pipestone on Wednesday, August 16th to discuss renewable energy, agriculture, and other local issues with area leaders. The one-day visit is one of six that Coleman will be making to regions across the state during the month of August, and is part of his ongoing effort to visit every county in Minnesota during the year.  
   "I am anxious to get down to Southwest Minnesota to hear from local residents about energy, agriculture and other chief concerns in the area," said Coleman. "The southwest part of the state is helping lead the nation in both agriculture and renewable fuels, especially wind power, and this visit will be extremely valuable to me as we look ahead to a new Farm Bill and continue tackling our nation's energy needs." 
   Coleman will begin the day in Slayton, where he will attend a ceremony at the Southwest Regional Development Organization to accept an award from the National Association of Development Organizations for his leadership in promoting federal community, economic, and transportation development programs. 
   Coleman will then participate in a listening session in Worthington to discuss the 2007 Farm Bill. This forum will include time for local farmers in attendance to address panelists and to provide input in advance of the bill's drafting, which will begin this fall. 
   Following the listening session, Coleman will attend a lunch meeting with representatives from the Luverne ethanol plant, MinWind, and rural water groups at Sharkee's Sports bar in Luverne. 
   Coleman will wrap up the day in Pipestone with a tour of Suzlon Rotor Corporation, which is currently building wind turbines in the Pipestone area. 
   Details on the day's schedule are as follows, with local media welcome to attend: 
   Wednesday, August 16, 2006 
   Southwest Regional Development Organization Award Presentation 
  8:15 a.m. - 9:15 a.m. 
  240 Broadway Ave. Suite 1 
  Slayton, MN 
   2007 Farm Bill Listening Session 
  10:15 a.m.- 11:45 a.m. 
  Travel Lodge 
  2015 Humiston Ave 
  Worthington, MN 
   Lunch with Luverne Officials 
  12:25 p.m.- 1:25 p.m. 
  Sharkee's Sports bar 
  705 S Kniss Ave 
  Luverne, MN 
   Tour of Suzlon Rotor Corporation 
  2:15 p.m.- 3:00 p.m. 
  620 3rd Ave SE 
  Pipestone, MN.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 