SEN. COLEMAN CHASTISES PENTAGON FOR BOTCHING MINNESOTA GUARD NOTIFICATION ON EXTENDED TOUR OF DUTY
  Outraged by the lack of notice given to the Minnesota National Guard's 1st Brigade Combat Team and their families about an extension of their current tour of duty in Iraq, Sen. Norm Coleman today sent a stern letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates expressing his extreme frustration over the extension and lack of official notification to these troops.  
   "I am extremely disappointed to hear that the President's decision to implement a troop surge in Baghdad will have a major, negative impact on the Minnesota National Guard," Coleman wrote in the letter. "These soldiers have made the ultimate commitment to serve our country and defend our freedom. They deserve better than to find out just two short months before their planned return that their tours will be extended for at least another 125 days. Most don't know when they'll be coming home at all, and none know what their extended mission will entail." 
   Coleman, who recently visited Iraq and met with many Minnesota troops currently serving in the country, opposes a troop surge in Baghdad due to the sectarian nature of the violence in the city. In the letter, Coleman called on Secretary Gates to immediately provide Minnesota soldiers serving in Iraq with their official orders including information on their mission and expected length of stay. Coleman also requested that the Department of Defense immediately make available to the Minnesota National Guard all of the resources they will need to provide the necessary support for the families and soldiers affected by the extension. 
   "Their families also deserve better than the insensitive manner in which this announcement was handled," Coleman continued. "These families have been eagerly counting the days until they could welcome our veteran heroes back to the United States. To find out that their soldier's stay has been extended is heartbreaking. To find out by watching the news on TV is completely unacceptable." 
   Coleman is also encouraging Minnesota troops and their families to contact his office with any questions, needs or concerns in response to the tour extension. They can contact his office by calling 651-645-0323 or via his website at www.coleman.senate.gov.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 