SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES PASSAGE OF TAX RECONCILIATION ACT AS GOOD NEWS FOR U.S. ECONOMY
  In an effort to prevent a tax increase on middle-income taxpayers and small business, Sen. Norm Coleman today joined his colleagues in the Senate in passing the Tax Relief Act of 2005 conference report by a vote of 54-44. The tax reconciliation bill provides relief for middle income taxpayers from the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), a two-year extension of small business expensing tax relief, and extends investment tax relief for two years. Today's Senate action sends the bill to the President's desk for signature.  
   "We have a responsibility to ensure that our nation's hard-working taxpayers and small businesses do not see a massive tax hike," said Coleman. "By providing alternative minimum tax relief and extending the small business expensing tax provision, we are preventing the over-taxation of middle-income families and helping Minnesota companies innovate and grow jobs." 
   The bill provides critical AMT relief for 2006 by increasing the AMT exemption amount to $62,550 for married couples and $42,500 for others. When the AMT was enacted it 1969, it was intended to affect only the very wealthy of taxpayers. However as the AMT has not kept up with inflation, America's middle income taxpayers are now being hit by this tax. Without this relief some 15 million taxpayers would be hit by the AMT this year. 
   Additionally, the extension of the capital gains and dividend relief, which has led to a stock market resurgence, will continue to encourage greater savings and investment and provide important income relief to seniors and middle-income taxpayers. At a tax rate of 20 percent in 2002, taxes paid on capital gains totaled $49 billion. In 2005, taxes paid on capital gains reached $80 billion--at a rate of 15 percent. Also, the provision outlining the amount that small businesses may expense, which was increased in 2003 to $100,000 for every three years, is extended until the end of 2009. 
   "For those who have reservations about tax relief, I would simply note it has helped our economy to create more than 5 million new jobs and pushed the unemployment rate to four-and-a-half year lows, all while our economy continues to grow faster than many other industrialized nations. These figures are a true reflection of a strong economy, and behind the statistics and percentages are business owners looking to expand and families working to send their kids to college."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 