SEN. COLEMAN: SENATE DEMOCRATS CONTINUE TO PLAY POLITICS WITH HEALTHCARE LEGISLATION
  Sen. Norm Coleman expressed deep frustration today as, for the third time this week, the Senate Democrats held up important healthcare reform legislation designed to make healthcare more affordable and available for small business employees. The bill, the Small Business Health Plan bill (SBHP), would have empowered small business owners to band together through their trade or industry associations to insure their employees using small business health plans. The measure failed to attract the necessary 60 vote to overcome a procedural hurdle by a vote of 55-43. This pooling of small business groups would have allowed these groups greater numbers and leverage to negotiate for more affordable health care benefits.  
   "While this may not be a perfect bill, it would provide a good starting point for addressing this critical issue and I'm disappointed that as healthcare costs continue to skyrocket, Senate Democrats refuse to engage in meaningful conversation," Coleman said. "The issue of rising healthcare costs isn't going to solve itself and this is the third bill that Senate Democrats have held hostage this week. They denied cloture, which would've allowed us to meet at the table and discuss amendments and real solutions. In the end, it's the small business owners who will lose because of their obstruction tactics." 
   SBHP was designed to level the play field for small businesses by negotiating their own health plans and prices - much like larger businesses and unions already do. This bill would give small business greater bargaining power and the same allowances that larger businesses have, such as being able to work around expensive state mandates. As costs decrease, more employers will be able to offer health insurance to their employees. It is estimated that this legislation would allow as many as one million currently uninsured workers to receive health benefits. 
   As a member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, Coleman has consistently been a strong advocate of Association Health Plans to help small businesses provide insurance for their workers, and cosponsored alternative bipartisan legislation, the Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005 (S. 406). 
   "We need to provide small businesses an avenue for offering affordable health plans to their employees," Coleman said. "The Senate owes it to the millions of uninsured Americans to have a serious debate on this issue. This legislation paves the way for millions of American workers to save money on health costs and it's ridiculous that Senate Democrats won't even sit down to talk about a real solution. Their alternative bill would cost the federal taxpayers 50-73 billion over 10 years verses the Enzi bill, which costs nothing to taxpayers. In our current budgetary environment, this type of spending is not a possibility. Their solution was not a real solution." 
   In addition to covering more than one million uninsured Americans in working families, this bill, would also reduce the cost of health insurance for small employers by 12 percent - $1,000 per employee - according to recent projections.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 