SEN. COLEMAN VOTES TO PASS JOBS LEGISLATION VITAL TO MAINTAINING AMERICAN ECONOMIC EXPANSION
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today joined a majority of his colleagues in passing the Jumpstart Our Business Strength (JOBS) Act of 2004, a bill vital to helping U.S. manufacturers stay competitive in the global market place and necessary to stop European Union (EU) retaliatory tariffs against U.S. products, including many products from Minnesota. Senate Democrats have been filibustering this economically vital piece of legislation since March, and finally agreed to a vote today.  
   "Today is an important and great day for the American economy," said Coleman. "The European Union had imposed retaliatory tariffs against U.S. products, including many Minnesota products, and would have stepped those tariffs up each month. The JOBS bill, legislation I have worked hard to get passed and voted for today, will put an end to those tariffs and provide $170 billion in tax relief for U.S. manufacturers to help them compete on a global playing field that is not always level. This legislation is going to help grow American jobs." 
   The National Association of Manufacturers said that is was absolutely necessary to pass the JOBS bill in order to keep U.S. manufacturers competitive and to retain American jobs. In January of 2002, the World Trade Organization (WTO) authorized the European Union to impose tariffs on nearly 100 types of U.S. exports if a tax credit (Known as FSC/ETI) was not retooled. The punitive tariffs started at 5% on March 1st, increased to 7% on May 1st, and were scheduled to increase 1% each month until reaching 17% next March. 
   The JOBS bill restructures U.S. tax code to help American businesses compete in a global market that is not always free or fair. The JOBS bill brings U.S. tax policy into compliance with WTO rules while at the same time reducing the top tax rate for U.S. manufacturers from 35% to 32%. 
   The JOBS bill also includes renewable energy provisions vital to Minnesota, including wind energy tax incentives, without which we would have risked losing thousands of jobs this year alone and would have put new wind energy production and nearly $2 billion in economic activity on hold, and the biodiesel tax credit, which is essential to triggering the 2 percent state requirement and getting this industry off the ground. The ethanol volumetric tax credit, which Coleman has led the effort in promoting, is also included in this bill and would give Minnesota an 81-percent increase in highway funding, the largest in the country. Finally, the small ethanol producers tax credit is improved to make Minnesota farmer owned plants more competitive. 
   "I'm thrilled we were finally able to get these vital renewable fuels provisions past the Senate and closer to becoming the law of the land," Coleman said. "I worked hard to include a provision in the JOBS bill that expands and extends the wind and biomass energy production tax credit. And thanks to volumetric tax credit for ethanol and biodiesel included in this legislation, we are well on the way to expanding renewable fuel use in this country while at the same time increasing Minnesota's share of federal transportation funds by 80%, the largest increase in the country." 
   The JOBS bill that passed the Senate today also includes an amendment authored by Coleman and Senator Blanche Lincoln, a Democrat from Arkansas, that would eliminate the discriminatory triple tax on farmer-owned cooperative dividend. Also included are tax credits coauthored by Coleman for rural communities that would provide a tax credit for up to 30% of qualified investments in rural small businesses, up to a 70% credit for investment in newly constructed buildings in rural areas, and a 30% credit for investment in expansion of existing buildings. Also included in the bill was a provision to eliminate the triple tax on cooperative dividends, which are currently 60% higher than the tax on corporate dividends. 
   "I am also pleased to report that a provision I authored with Senator Lincoln was included in the JOBS bill and would end the triple tax on farmer-owned cooperatives," Coleman said. "Minnesota is the number one farmer-owned cooperative state in the country and this legislation will be a big boost in increasing investment in rural areas." 
   Finally, the JOBS bill that passed the Senate today includes an amendment authored by Coleman, who is chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), and Senator Carl Levin (D-MI), the Committee's ranking member, that would increase penalties for the promotion of abusive tax shelters. In November, PSI held two hearings on controversial tax shelters sometimes promoted by major financial consulting firms that annually cost the U.S. Treasury $11-15 billion in lost revenue. 
   "As a result of the PSI hearings on abusive tax shelters, I vowed to work with Senator Levin on legislative solutions," Coleman said. "Today, I am pleased that both sides of the aisle were able to agree that harsher penalties for tax shelter promoters is such a solution. Our amendment's provisions to substantially increase penalties for the promoters who manufacture these sham transactions so that they must give back all of their ill-gotten gains is vital to restoring the integrity of our tax laws and deterring future tax avoidance. Equally, increasing the amount of penalties for aiders and abetters of tax shelters to include entities other than the tax return preparer will address the issue of accountants, lawyers, investment advisors, and bankers who collaborate and facilitate putting together abusive tax scams that rob the Treasury of billions of dollars in revenue." 
   The Levin-Coleman amendment increases the penalties for the promotion of abusive tax shelters from 50% of the promoters' gross income from the shelter to 100% and also increases the penalties for knowingly aiding and abetting an understatement of tax liability from 50% of the gross income from the prohibited activity to 100% of the gross income and expands the penalty to apply to all persons who aid and abet. Current law limits the aiding and abetting penalty to tax preparers.
 
 