SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $100 MILLION ALLOCATION IN TAX CREDITS TO HELP STIMULATE ECONOMIC GROWTH, JOBS IN LOW-INCOME COMMUNITIES
 Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that the U.S. Department of Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund has awarded Community Reinvestment Fund (CRF), USA, headquartered in Minneapolis, $100 million allocation from its highly competitive New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Program. CRF is one of 41 organizations selected from a pool of 208 applicants receiving $2 billion in funding from the NMTC program. To date, CRF has received the largest combined allocation of New Market Tax Credits, totaling $412.5 million. Of these combined awards, $35 million has been earmarked for Minnesota.  
   The NMTC program, part of the Community Renewal Tax Relief Act of 2000, is aimed at stimulating private investment in low-income communities by providing tax credits to investors who make qualified equity investments in privately managed community development entities (CDE). Investments must then be used by the CDE to provide investments in low-income communities, money that will help finance community development projects, stimulate economic growth and create jobs. The industry estimates that for every $1 gained by NMTCs, awardees are able to leverage $21 on average from the private sector. 
   "I applaud the CDFI and Community Reinvestment Fund for putting money back into the communities that need it the most," said Coleman. "These funds and CRF's work in low-income communities will help spur on Minnesota's growth, as well as contribute greatly to the economic revitalization in rural and urban cities and towns that otherwise might be left behind. I commend CRF for working within Minnesota to help build our communities and boost economic development." 
   "This third round allocation provides sustained program momentum towards delivering economic development services to the nation's most underserved communities," said Frank Altman, President and CEO, Community Reinvestment Fund, USA. "As a Minneapolis-based national organization, we're working with our partners here in Minnesota as well as partners around the country to provide capital to targeted communities." 
   Community Reinvestment Fund, USA, is a national, nonprofit organization that originated in Minnesota and that provides capital to low to moderate income communities across the U.S. In Minnesota, CRF has six NMTC lending partners to serve Southwest Minnesota, Minneapolis, St. Paul, the extended Metro county area, as well as greater Minnesota. CRF buys economic development, affordable housing, and community facility loans from local lenders to help recycle scarce capital and speed up the revitalization of local communities. CRF will use NMTC funds to purchase qualifying small business loans originated by community development lending partners; and funds will also be used to purchase qualifying commercial real estate loans in targeted geographic areas. A portion of the funding will also be set aside to provide grants, training, and technical assistance to workers and residents in low-income areas.
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 