SEN. COLEMAN SENDS LETTER TO ADMINISTRATION URGING EXTENSION OF PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM DEADLINE
  Citing concerns that millions of seniors will incur a considerable penalty for missing the sign up deadline for the Medicare Part D prescription drug program, Sen. Norm Coleman today sent a letter to Administration officials urging the extension of the enrollment date past May 15th. Coleman also noted that an early computer glitch that temporarily delayed reimbursement for some individuals who were eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid, may have resulted in many seniors postponing enrolling until the program was up and running effectively.  
   "My concern is that there will not be enough time to address the questions that seniors have about the program," said Coleman. "We have more than 199,000 seniors in Minnesota who are still eligible to take advantage of this comprehensive, affordable and guaranteed prescription drug coverage. Nationwide, there are over 40 million Part D eligibles. By extending the deadline, we can clear up any confusion that still exists, while organizing a greater push to enroll seniors." 
   Recently, the Administration waived the penalties and extended the deadline for low-income beneficiaries and hurricane Katrina evacuees. For the rest of the population, those who miss the May 15th deadline will have to wait until November for their next chance to enroll and will pay seven percent higher premiums. Beneficiaries who sign up after the deadline will have to pay a one percent increase in their premium for each month enrollment is delayed. 
   "The seniors that have already enrolled are raving about the program, and I believe with a little more time we can drastically increase that number," Coleman added. "At the end of the day, this program is working, reducing out-of-pocket costs of prescription drugs and saving seniors money in the long-run. Medicare Part D offers expansive coverage at an affordable price and I don't want anyone to miss out on this extraordinary opportunity to upgrade their health plan." 
   In Minnesota, 72 percent of the estimated 702,000 Part D eligibles have already enrolled. The Medicare administration estimates that the average senior citizen will save $1,100 annually thorough this program that has already attracted more than 25 million Americans. People with questions can call 1-800-Medicare to get their questions answered, or can contact the Senior LinkAge Line at 1-800-333-2433, or email them at senior.linkage@state.mn.us for more information.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 