SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF DISASTER ASSISTANCE TO MINNESOTA FARM FAMILIES
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded passage of disaster assistance for Minnesota farm families who suffered crop losses in either 2003 or 2004, at the producer's election. 
   "Early on, I helped successfully lead a bipartisan effort to craft and pass a disaster bill in the U.S.
   Senate," Coleman said. "I am pleased that the final disaster package that will be signed into law by President Bush will be substantially the same as our bipartisan package."
   Disaster assistance under the legislation would largely mirror traditional disaster assistance provided in previous years. "I remember the year before I got to the U.S. Senate when disaster relief would often be promised but would never be delivered," said Coleman. "In the two years I've been in the Senate, I've been part of two successful efforts to pass disaster assistance into law."
   Passage of the disaster legislation was cleared after the Senate agreed to House demands that the cost of the provision be offset with savings elsewhere, specifically in the Conservation Security Program (CSP). The program would be capped at $6 billion, $3 billion less than current law allows. However, the program last year only operated at $41 million and may actually spend less than $200 million in 2005.
   "The package I put together was not offset with savings from CSP because this is an emergency," said Coleman. "Still I voted for the relief with the budget offset because my farm families really need the help and the savings from CSP will not affect them."
   To express their view that emergency funding for agricultural disaster should not be offset, senators approved a Sense of the Senate resolution against such offsets in the future and Senator Coleman supported this resolution.
   "I expect that when we come back in November to wrap up our work, we will try to eliminate the offset and designate this funding as an emergency," Coleman added.
 
 