SEN. COLEMAN HOSTS TOWN HALLS TO GATHER INPUT ON MAKING AFFORDABLE HEALTHCARE ACCESSIBLE FOR EVERYONE
  During three town hall forums he hosted yesterday in Rochester, St. Cloud and Minneapolis, Sen. Norm Coleman presented his ideas for health reform and gathered feedback about the best ways to ensure all Americans have access to affordable health insurance. At each of the three stops, which included testimony from local health care officials as well as an open public forum for area residents, Coleman stated his belief that all Americans should have access to affordable health insurance that they own and control. 
   Additionally, Coleman heard from local health officials and residents about the need for comprehensive health care reform that empowers individuals, addresses costs, covers the uninsured and levels the playing field so that all Americans have access to necessary health insurance.  
   "Yesterday's listening sessions were extremely valuable to me as I continue seeking bipartisan, comprehensive solutions to the serious challenge of healthcare reform," Coleman said. "I believe every American deserves access to affordable health insurance. The question is how we get there. The discussions I had yesterday with healthcare officials, business owners and residents from across Minnesota have reaffirmed my belief that we need reform that covers all Americans, but ensures individuals, not the government, control their healthcare. By keeping decisions in the hands of the individuals, enhancing their ability to make educated decisions about health care options for their families, providing peace of mind for folks who currently have health coverage, and promoting quality and prevention, we can inject much-needed reform into a currently broken system." 
   Sen. Coleman also put forth a comprehensive rural healthcare initiative in February. His plan, which came as a result of several visits to rural hospitals across the state during 2006 and working with the Minnesota Hospital Association, addresses the numerous challenges facing rural communities through a series of bills aimed at the shortage of rural health care personnel, the need for improved mental health services in rural communities, and the expansion of remote monitoring to make the most advanced healthcare more accessible. His agenda also focuses on the long-term sustainability of Critical Access Hospitals (CAH), rehabilitating dilapidated CAH buildings, and enabling those rural hospitals to better compete for funding in order to modernize their health information technology systems. 
   "Senator Coleman's focus on health care reform is a great example of proactive representation and leadership," said Bruce Rueben, President of the Minnesota Hospital Association. "We are very interested in his approach because it calls for coverage for all, quality improvement through transparency and cost savings through administrative streamlining and effective use of technology. Senator Coleman's vision for our health care future provides a framework that deserves serious consideration." 
   "Senator Coleman is correct in his assessment of concerns that many families have on the rising cost of healthcare," said Stella Whitney-West, Interim CEO of NorthPoint Health & Wellness Center, who participated in yesterday's forum in Minneapolis. "NorthPoint and many other community health centers are also struggling with the increasing cost of delivering affordable, quality care. We believe that community health centers are a very effective and efficient way to address these healthcare concerns. Reforming the healthcare system to ensure our patients have access to necessary healthcare will be extremely important in the future." 
   "The rising cost of health care continues to be one of the critical concerns of the business community," said Audrey Groteboer, Board Chair of the Rochester Area Chamber of Commerce, who hosted the town hall in Rochester. "Our membership appreciates Mayo Clinic's and Senator Coleman's leadership in providing a vision for the future of health care." 
   Coleman also announced that he will be holding additional town hall meetings around the state to gather further input from constituents in the coming months. Additionally, Coleman has set up a link on his website where constituents can offer their comments or concerns on the issue. 
   "I am seeking input from all Minnesotans on this issue," Coleman said. "I encourage anyone with ideas, questions or concerns to contact my office, as I want to this to be a collaborative process that incorporates the tremendous insight Minnesotans have to offer." 
   Senator Coleman presented his four key principles for health care reform during yesterday's town halls, which include keeping health care decision in the hands of individuals and their doctors, ensuring that all Americans buy health insurance, increasing access and health care security; and promoting quality and prevention. 
   For more information on Sen. Coleman's vision for healthcare reform, or to add your comments or ideas on the issue, please visit www.coleman.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Initiatives.Detail&Initiative_id=13 .
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 