SENS. COLEMAN, KLOBUCHAR SECURE TRANSPORTATION BILL AMENDMENT FUNDING I-35W EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE
  Minnesota Senators Norm Coleman and Amy Klobuchar today secured passage of an amendment to the FY08 Transportation Appropriations Bill, H.R. 3074. The amendment appropriates the remaining $195 million of the $250 million authorized by the Senate earlier this year for the rebuilding of Minnesota's I-35W bridge following its sudden collapse on August 1. The Department of Transportation has previously released $55 million towards recovery and rebuilding.  
   On August 3, following their visit to the bridge site with the Secretary of Transportation, Mary Peters, Senators Klobuchar and Coleman secured Senate passage of an authorization for emergency assistance. That bill authorized $250 million for the repair and rebuilding of the bridge, along with $5 million in funds from the Federal Transit Administration to maximize public transportation services while rebuilding takes place. 
   "The overwhelming support and quick action of our colleagues in authorizing funding for the 35W bridge immediately following its collapse did not go unnoticed in Minnesota and has helped lay the groundwork for fast and efficient reconstruction," Coleman said. "As we seek to begin the physical rebuilding process as soon as possible, it is critical that we have actual dollars in place for Minnesota. Once again, our Senate colleagues stepped up the plate and recognized this need - and I thank them for approving this critical funding today." 
   "The day after our tragedy, I said that a bridge in America just shouldn't fall down - today I add, when one does fall down, we must rebuild it," said Klobuchar. "Fully funding the federal commitment of $250 million towards rebuilding I-35W is an imperative step in our recovery. As Minnesota officials are working expeditiously to rebuild, this federal funding is needed to complete the process. We've made the commitment - this amendment will deliver the funds." 
   The Amendment is now part of the FY08 Transportation Appropriations Bill, which is likely to be voted on by the full Senate later tonight.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 