SEN. COLEMAN BILL ENABLES COMMUNITIES TO BETTER ADDRESS THE FALLOUT OF SUBPRIME CRISIS
  Continuing his efforts to address the effects of the subprime crisis, Senator Norm Coleman today introduced the Community Foreclosure Assistance Act of 2007. Coleman's bill would provide $1 billion in emergency Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding to states and communities to better respond to the impact of subprime crisis. Communities could use the funding for services such as prevention of neighborhood blight due to abandoned or foreclosed properties, relocation assistance for renters who have lost their homes due to foreclosure, and mortgage counseling. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) is a cosponsor of the legislation. The bill has the support of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, National Association of Counties, National Community Development Association, National Association of Local Housing Finance Agencies and the National County Community Economic Development Association, and the Minnesota Association of Counties.  
   "As one of the most foundational components of society, homeownership is critical to creating safe, livable and vibrant communities. That is why I am concerned about the collateral damage that is being inflicted upon communities by the subprime crisis. As a former Mayor, I understand the on-the-ground impact of this crisis. To address the problem, I am proposing $1 billion in emergency CDBG funding to empower communities to better address the wide-ranging and harmful effects of the current mortgage crisis." 
   Coleman's bill also seeks to provide states and communities with additional flexibility so they can more effectively respond to challenges associated with the mortgage crisis by lowering the current low-and-moderate income requirement from 70 to 50 percent and increasing the public services cap from 15 to 25 percent. The bill would require states and communities to submit to HUD, for approval, a comprehensive report detailing the proposed use of funds. States and communities would also need to provide a quarterly report to HUD accounting for the use of the funds. 
   In addition to proposing assistance for hard-hit communities, Senator Coleman has introduced homeowner relief legislation that would make it easier for homeowners to use their retirement savings to avoid foreclosure. Modeled after the Katrina Emergency Tax Relief Act of 2005, Coleman's Home Ownership Mortgage Emergency Act (HOME Act) would allow homeowners who are 60 days late in their mortgage payments to withdraw penalty-free up to $100,000 through 2009 to be used to refinance into an affordable mortgage or avoid foreclosure. Senator Coleman is also a cosponsor of legislation to provide temporary, targeted, middle-class mortgage bankruptcy relief and legislation to make mortgage debt forgiveness tax-free. The Senator is also a strong supporter of Federal Housing Administration reform legislation that could help more folks refinance into an affordable mortgage. 
   In November, the Minnesota Senator hosted a town hall forum at Greater Twin Cities United Way to hear firsthand from affected homeowners about the impact of the subprime crisis, as well as to discuss ways to assist at-risk and distressed homeowners and communities. At the forum, Coleman was joined by U.S. Treasury Under Secretary for Domestic Finance, Robert Steel, and Richard Todd, Vice President of Supervision, Regulation and Credit at Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, community and key industry groups and housing experts. 
   Coleman has been a champion of the CDBG program and has fought in recent years to prevent harmful cuts to the program. This year, Coleman lead a bipartisan effort to reject the Administration's proposed 20% cut in funding and instead provide level funding. In 2005, the Senate adopted by a vote of 68-31 a Coleman amendment to Fiscal Year 2006 budget resolution to maintain funding for CDBG and keep CDBG within the Department of Housing and Urban Development. That year the Administration had proposed to consolidate CDBG with at least 17 other community and economic developments program under the Department of Commerce.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 