SENATE PASSES SENS. BAYH-COLEMAN AMENDMENT TO REDUCE DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL
  Sen. Norm Coleman today led the effort, along with Sens. Bayh, Lieberman, Salazar, and Brownback, to increase oil savings in the energy bill currently before the U.S. Senate by passing an amendment will drastically reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. The amendment contains a key component of the bipartisan Dependence Reduction through Innovation in Vehicles and Energy (DRIVE) Act, legislation Coleman has co-authored and worked to pass in the last two sessions of Congress, and was passed by today by a vote of 63 to 30. Specifically, the amendment will direct the White House to identify within 9 months, and to publish within 18 months, federal requirements that will achieve a 2.5 million barrel-per-day reduction in U.S. oil consumption by 2016, which is the amount of oil currently imported from the Middle East and will reduce our dependence on foreign oil by 35 percent by 2030.  
   "I have fought long and hard for independence from foreign oil, and I'm thrilled the Senate has passed an oil savings target equal to the task of addressing our dangerous dependence on foreign oil," said Coleman. "With the addition of this oil savings plan to the underlying energy bill, most of the key components of the DRIVE Act are included in the energy bill before us. This is an important step toward strengthening our energy security, while improving our economy and environment. Failure to address our energy dependence will mean a future for our kids that is less prosperous, less safe and less free. It is extremely rewarding to see this amendment pass today, but I know the fight is far from over, and I will continue to work for its passage into law in the months ahead." 
   The DRIVE Act would achieve a seven million barrel-per-day reduction by 2026, and a 10 million barrel-per-day reduction by 2031 - roughly 50 percent of the per-day oil consumption of the United States today. This amendment would also direct the Office of Management and Budget to publish an analysis to ensure the government's action plan will achieve the oil savings targets, and the amendment will hold the government accountable by including specific requirements for the Executive Branch to evaluate, review, and update the action plan. With the addition of this oil savings plan amendment, the underlying energy bill now includes much of the DRIVE Act's oil independence blueprint with programs targeted at energy conservation, vehicle technology, and renewable fuel production.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 