SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO REAUTHORIZE TORTURE VICTIMS RELIEF ACT
  In an effort to provide continued support and resources for victims of torture, Sen. Norm Coleman today introduced the Torture Victims Relief Reauthorization Act, which will allocate $98 million over two years to both domestic and foreign programs that treat victims of torture. The funding allocated for domestic projects will help programs such as the Center for Victims of Torture (CVT), which is based in Minneapolis. Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) is a co-sponsor of the legislation.  
   "This legislation will help ensure that thousands of torture victims will continue to receive the help and support they need to recover from the devastating effects of these unthinkable acts of violence," said Coleman. "I am committed to doing all I can to alleviate their suffering and provide resources to the worldwide programs that help these victims recover from the torture done to them at the hands of brutal regimes. Through the work of programs like the Center for Victims of Torture in Minnesota, torture victims and their families are given a second chance to restore their lives. I have seen firsthand the great work that the CVT has accomplished and the success stories that continuously come out of the program." 
   "Torture is the most effective tool against democracy there is," said Douglas A. Johnson, executive director of the Center for Victims of Torture. "TVRA is a very visible message to torture victims throughout the world that the American people do not condone torture and will not allow victims to suffer alone. We are very proud of Sen. Coleman's commitment to the healing of torture survivors." 
   Of the $98 million allocation, $50 million will be directed to domestic programs over a two year period. The remaining $48 million will be allocated to assist foreign treatment centers through the U.S. Agency for International Development and the U.N. Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture, which supports projects in over 70 countries worldwide. 
   Minnesota has been at the forefront of assisting victims of torture. The CVT was the first such organization in the U.S. and third in the world. The funding authorized in this bill will help CVT continue its role as a world leader in the development of comprehensive treatment programs that bring hope to thousands of torture victims worldwide. 
   "The work of the CVT serves as a great source of pride for Minnesota," said Coleman. "It's extremely rewarding to work with the CVT and help support their activities. Through our combined efforts, not only will be able to secure reauthorization of this vital legislation, but we will also secure financial support for torture victims assistance programs throughout the world."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 