SENATE MAJORITY LEADER APPOINTS SEN. COLEMAN TO INTELLIGENCE BILL CONFERENCE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Norm Coleman will be part of a small group of members of Congress that will have the final say in what kind of intelligence reform legislation the President will ultimately sign. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) has announced that Coleman will serve as a negotiator in the House - Senate Conference Committee for the Intelligence Reform Act of 2004, which consists of a few members of the House and Senate that will blend the respective versions passed in each house into one bill. 
   "I'm honored," Coleman said. "This is one of the most important pieces of legislation to come before the Congress in decades, and shaping the final version of this bill is a serious responsibility. This will be hard work, but I'm confident my colleagues and I will work in a bipartisan way to craft meaningful intelligence reform that will centralize our intelligence operations so that federal agencies can work more efficiently and cooperatively in tracking down those who would hurt our homeland."
   The Senate version of the Intelligence Act of 2004 was passed by the Upper Chamber on October 6th. It was crafted by the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, which held extensive hearings on the subject of national intelligence reform during the Senate's summer recess. Coleman, a member of the GA Committee, played an active role in shaping this legislation and attended each of the Committee's hearings on this subject in full. He also assisted in managing the bill during its consideration by the Senate at the request of the Senate Government Affairs Committee Chairman, Senator Susan Collins (R-ME).
   The other Republicans Frist appointed as negotiators to the Conference Committee are Susan Collins of Maine, George Voinovich of Ohio, John Sununu of New Hampshire, Pat Roberts of Kansas, Mike DeWine of Ohio and Trent Lott of Mississippi, 
   Their Democratic counterparts are Senators Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, Carl Levin of Michigan, Richard Durbin of Illinois, John Rockefeller of West Virginia, Bob Graham of Florida and Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey.
 
 