FEDERAL AGENCIES TO APPROVE MINNESOTA NORTHSTAR RAIL PROJECT
  Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman today applauded the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for announcing their intent to approve the Northstar Corridor Rail Project. With this approval, the project will move to a mandatory 60-day Congressional review period, the final step in the approval process. At the conclusion of this 60-day period, Northstar will receive a Full Funding Grant Agreement, assuring the project of federal appropriations of around $160 million and $95 million in state bonding dollars. This comes as big news to Northstar as they are faced with an $11 million project payment to the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway on December 17, 2007, whose existing railroad tracks will be used for the commuter line. Additionally, Northstar expects to award a $40 million contract for the purchase of railcabs and cars in December. Senator Coleman wrote a letter to OMB Director Jim Nussle and Transportation Secretary Mary Peters on October 4th to alert them to the urgency of these upcoming payments and requested expedited consideration of the project.  
   "This decision is the most important step for Northstar since the project came to the drawing board," Coleman said. "Northstar is critical to the future of Minnesota's transportation infrastructure and, following the 60-day review, this project can finally become a reality. When finished, Northstar will remove thousands of cars from Minnesota's roads - relieving traffic congestion, pollution and allowing for an improved daily commute." 
   The Northstar Corridor Rail Project is a $320 million project that will run from downtown Minneapolis up through the northwest suburbs to Big Lake (largely in Anoka County). The 40-mile commuter rail system will serve six stations in Hennepin, Anoka and Sherburne counties and will have the capacity to carry 10,000 passengers a day. Recently, Senator Coleman secured $65 million for the Northstar Project in the fiscal year 2008 Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill. The bill now awaits consideration by the full Senate.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 