SENATE PASSES SEN. COLEMAN BILL PAVING WAY FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP FOR MINNESOTA HMONG STUDENT
  Late last night, the United States Senate unanimously approved Sen. Norm Coleman's private relief legislation that moves Tchisou Tho another step closer to the American dream, providing him permanent resident status and a green card, allowing him to pay in-state tuition in Minnesota where he has resided most of his life. Tho will need to wait for passage of the bill in the House and for the President to sign it in order to finalize his education plans, but Coleman noted this is a positive step in the process. The Minnesota Senator called Tchisou early this afternoon to update him on the progress of this important legislation. 
   "This is great news," Coleman said. "Tchisou's parents made a mistake in entering this country illegally, but he should not have to suffer for a mistake he did not make and one made so long ago. He is a remarkable young man and a fine student. There is no question he is a member of and an asset to our community. I am proud to stand behind him."
   A year ago, Tchisou Tho's 2003 graduation from Como Park High School in St. Paul was to have marked an important achievement for any first generation family in the United States: he was to be the first member in his family to graduate from high school. However, 22 days before graduation, immigration problems threatened to interrupt his commencement ceremony, as well as his life. Tho and his family of seven, were to be deported from the U.S. after overstaying their visitors' visas. Senator Norm Coleman immediately introduced legislation to keep Tho in Minnesota and allow him to complete his education.
   That extension worked to help Tho graduate high school and get started at the University of Minnesota as an international student. However, he was forced to leave the University and go to work full time because he could not afford the out-of-state tuition.
   Tho's family came to the United States fourteen years ago on visitors' visas from France after fleeing Communist rule in Laos in 1975. They moved to Minnesota in 1993 to find work and to give their children an opportunity to receive a quality education. Tchisou Tho was brought to the United States as a child of five.
   Last May, the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Service found that the family had defied a judge's order to leave the U.S. voluntarily before March 26, 2003. Previously, the family had been granted work authorizations in the United States. The family then met with immigration officials to request modifications in their immigration status, which resulted in their deportation order.
   Tchisou's parents and some of his siblings were deported last year, and currently live in France. Tchisou currently lives with his sister and her husband, a U.S. citizen.
 
 