SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES UNANIMOUS PASSAGE OF ANTI-METH BILL IN SENATE
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that on Friday, September 9, 2005, the Senate unanimously approved the Combat Meth Act of 2005, legislation that will limit access to cold medicines containing pseudoephedrine, the primary ingredient used to make methamphetamine. The bill was added to the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill, and Friday's passage marks a major victory in the war on drugs as the bill moves these cold medicines behind the pharmacy counter and limits how much one person can buy in a month to 7.5 grams. The comprehensive bill also authorizes $43 million in new anti-meth funding for law enforcement, training, and treatment, including $25 million for local law enforcement and federal prosecutors to bring meth manufacturers and dealers to justice, $13 million for meth treatment and research, and $5 million to help children who have been affected by meth.  
   "Passage of the Combat Meth Act of 2005 is a major victory and milestone in the war on drugs," said Coleman. "I have heard an outpouring of concern by many communities and residents about the devastation meth brings to Minnesota. Fighting meth requires a comprehensive approach designed to assist states, and this is one of the major steps needed to shut down meth labs all across the country. We must continue to do all we can to fight this epidemic before the problem gets any larger." 
   Specifically, The Combat Meth Act of 2005: 
   Moves cold medicines containing pseudoephedrine behind the counter, sets a limit of how much one person can buy at 7.5 grams a month, and will require signatures and identification for purchases (the Attorney General will develop regulations to ensure uniformity). 
   Creates alternate procedures for stores without pharmacies and stores in rural areas. The Drug Enforcement Administration and States will be able to develop additional procedures to continue to allow cold medicine to be sold at retail stores without pharmacies and in rural areas (but which meet appropriate security criteria), consistent with the intent of the bill to limit access to pseudoephedrine. 
   Establishes a uniform federal standard that strengthens all existing state laws. 
   Creates a national meth treatment center to research effective treatments for meth abuse. 
   Authorizes $43 million for enforcement, training, and research into treatment.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 