SEN. COLEMAN BILL REQUIRES INSURANCE COMPANIES TO DISCLOSE FLOOD INSURANCE ELIGIBILITY
  In response to a problem he heard about directly from residents affected by the recent flooding in Southeast Minnesota, Senator Norm Coleman today introduced the Flood Insurance Disclosure Act of 2007. Coleman's bill would amend the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 to require insurance companies to disclose non-coverage of flood insurance in homeowner's and renter's policies as well as the resident's eligibility for flood insurance. Coleman's legislation, which is national in scope, is similar to Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty's proposal to require insurance companies to provide flood insurance eligibility information to Minnesotans. Senator Amy Klobuchar is a cosponsor of the legislation.  
   "In my recent travels to flood-stricken southeastern Minnesota, I heard firsthand from residents that some insurance agents told them they were not eligible for flood insurance, which is completely unacceptable," said Coleman. "I will not stand idly by and allow residents to be misinformed about flood insurance eligibility. This is an issue that can have an enormous impact on the lives of Minnesotans and I will work to ensure that insurance companies do their part to provide critical flood insurance information to residents." 
   During the month of August, Coleman made three visits to Southeast Minnesota and met with citizens affected by the flooding. During these meetings, several flood victims told Coleman that, contrary to their understanding, their homeowner's insurance did not cover flood damage. 
   Standard homeowners' insurance does not cover flood damage; however, 92 percent of Minnesotans are eligible for flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance Program. Most Minnesota counties participate in this program. Out of the entire flood stricken region, the only communities that do not participate in the National Flood Insurance Program are Altura, Lewiston, Minneiska, Utica, Eitzen and Spring Grove.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 