SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES OPENING OF GRAND RAPIDS OFFICE
  As part of his ongoing effort to continue to reach out to constituents across Minnesota, Sen. Norm Coleman today announced he will be opening his second field office in Greater Minnesota when his Grand Rapids Senate office opens to the public on Tuesday, April 18th. Coleman also announced the hiring of Melissa Roberts, an area resident, to staff the office on a regular basis. The office will be located at 206B Northeast 3rd Street in the Northbank Center. Public Office hours will be Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. every week, with Roberts available for individual meetings and events as well.  
   "Reaching out to my constituents across Minnesota is my top priority and I am excited to open this new office in Grand Rapids," said Coleman. "Having Melissa available to meet with local residents and listen to their concerns will be a great benefit not only to the area, but to me as well. Hopefully, this office will allow folks across northern Minnesota a more convenient option to get in touch with me and a chance for me to directly hear their concerns. I encourage everyone to make use of this new resource and I look forward to having Melissa on staff." 
   "I am looking forward to joining Senator Coleman's staff to help reach out to constituents in northern Minnesota," added Roberts. "Grand Rapids and the surrounding area have so many unique benefits, as well as concerns, and I am excited to work directly with the region on behalf of the Senator. I encourage area residents to make use of our office in Grand Rapids and I am anxious to get started next Tuesday." 
   As an Alumnus of the Blandin Community Leadership Program, Vice -President/Commissioner of the Grand Rapids Economic Development Authority, a Representative on the Grow Minnesota Task Force, and a member of the Grand Rapids Central Business District Association, Roberts has extensive experience in Grand Rapids and the surrounding community. She has represented the Grand Rapids Economic Development Authority on numerous occasions and is currently pursuing her bachelor's degree from the College of St. Scholastica in Duluth, where she majors in marketing and economics. 
   The Grand Rapids office is Senator Coleman's third in Minnesota. His central office is located in St. Paul, and he has a southern Minnesota field office in Mankato. The Grand Rapids office will be aimed at increasing direct outreach and offering a more convenient option for constituents in northern Minnesota. The office officially opens to the public at 9:00 a.m. on Tuesday, April 18th, 2006. 
   Senator Coleman's Grand Rapids Office Details: 
   Location: 
   200 Northbank Center 
  206B Northeast 3rd Street 
  Grand Rapids, MN 55744 
   Contact Numbers: 
   218.327.9333 
  218.327.8637 fax 
   Public Office Hours: 
   Tuesday and Thursday from 9 a.m - 2 p.m. each week
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 