SEN. COLEMAN TO HOST 4TH ANNUAL 'HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS' REUNION FOR FAMILIES OF INTERNATIONALLY ADOPTED CHILDREN
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that he will hold his fourth annual holiday reunion, "Home for the Holidays," for Minnesota families he has helped to successfully adopt children from other countries, on Saturday, December 16th. The event will take place at the Park View Ballroom on 317 Washington Street in St. Paul beginning at 10:00 a.m. During Saturday's event, these families will have the opportunity to reunite with Coleman and his staff to celebrate with other families who have faced both the challenges and rewards of international adoption.  
   "This is probably the event I look forward to most each year," said Coleman. "International adoptions require immense patience and persistence, and despite what are sometimes overwhelming challenges, these families have opened up their hearts and homes to these children. Helping Minnesotans bring their families together is perhaps the best part of being a Senator, and I am humbled to have been in a position to help these families along the way." 
   Attending this reunion will be families from across Minnesota, including Jim and Harriet Abdo, who adopted their son Jimmy from Lebanon this past summer with Coleman's help. In July, Harriet Abdo was in Lebanon to pick up Jimmy and bring him back to Minnesota when fighting broke out between Israel and Lebanon. While Harriet and Jimmy awaited assistance in the mountains of Beirut, Coleman and his staff worked directly with the US Department of State and the US Embassy in Beirut to obtain the necessary visa approval. After helping get the adoption documents approved, Coleman arranged passage for Harriet and Jimmy by ship to Cyprus, where they were finally able to fly back to United States to join Jim in Minnesota. 
   "When the war started on July 12th, I started to scramble around to try and find a way to get Harriet and Jimmy out of Lebanon," said Jim Abdo. "Senator Coleman's office was in constant contact with me and took care of making sure that little Jimmy had the necessary paperwork needed to get out of the country. When I saw Harriet and Jimmy being escorted off of the USS Trenton onto the Island of Cyprus on MSNBC, my heart jumped and I thanked God first and then thought about the people at the Coleman office who really cared about getting Jimmy and Harriet out of there. We owe them all a debt of gratitude." 
   Since taking office in 2003, Sen. Coleman has worked closely with the State Department and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to help Minnesota families connect with children from all over the world. In 2006 alone, Coleman's office assisted 47 families with the adoption of 53 children from the countries of Guatemala, Haiti, Columbia, China, Lebanon, Manila, Mexico and Ukraine. In past years, the country representation included Nepal, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Kenya, Poland, India, Russia, Togo, Japan, South Africa, Uganda, and Syria.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 