SEN. COLEMAN DISCUSSES TRADE, PORT SECURITY, DEMOCRACY WITH TOP POLITICAL, BUSINESS LEADERS IN HONG KONG
  Sen. Norm Coleman today returned from a three-day trip to Hong Kong to conduct meetings with key business leaders and advocates of democracy in the region, in advance of the World Trade Organization ministerial meeting which began today, December 13. As China increasingly expands and grows economically and influentially across the globe, Sen. Coleman traveled to the region to discuss global trade issues with Minnesota companies and U.S. and foreign trade representatives; gain insight about the rise of China and the enormous amount of commerce that occurs in Hong Kong; tour the Port of Hong Kong to review key port security issues; and discus democracy and religious freedom with advocates in the region.  
   "There is a new world emerging from the one we have previously known," said Coleman. "This trip is important as Minnesota and our nation strive to stay ahead of the global curve. Every day, China is gaining more economic momentum. It is important to understand this region's importance for Minnesota's economy and see firsthand the challenges of doing business in Asia if we are to continue to be globally competitive. Also important was my visit to the Hong Kong port, the largest container port in the world, to get an understanding of what is further needed to keep trade, and American borders, safe and secure." 
   China is home to 20 percent of the world's population. The Chinese economy has been growing at nine percent per year since 1979, and is the United State's fourth largest export market for agriculture. Yet, it is also the country with which the U.S. runs the highest trade deficit at $1.62 billion in 2004, with projections to run even higher for 2005. 
   In September, Coleman chaired a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Narcotics, and Peace Corps on China's Role in Latin America that focused on China's influence in the region, examined this country's growing need to acquire more energy sources such as oil, and explored ways the U.S. would maintain its historical influence in the region in the face of an increasingly active China. Between 1999 and 2004, China's imports from Latin America increased six-fold. 
   While in Hong Kong, Coleman met with companies such as Target, 3M, Northwest Airlines, Cargill, MoneyGram, Wilson's Leather, Boston Scientific, and other Minnesota companies doing business in Asia. 
   "China's economic power is itself both a danger and an opportunity," continued Coleman. "This trip presented a great opportunity for me to examine how our Minnesota businesses can continue to grow and expand in this competitive market and still protect our own interests. China presents unique opportunities and challenges. It is one of the world's fastest growing economies, yet issues of democracy and human rights cannot be overlooked. It is important that we address these issues now." 
   Coleman also toured the Hong Kong port to examine crucial port security measures. As Chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), Coleman has led a two year investigation into two critical homeland security programs administered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection - the Container Security Initiative (CSI) and the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) - to confront the terrorist threat. Last month, Coleman announced that he co-sponsored the GreenLane Maritime Cargo Security Act. The legislation is aimed at bolstering cargo security while maintaining the efficient flow of commerce. 
   "Keeping America's borders secure means keeping a vigilant eye on port security," continued Coleman. "As the largest container port in the world, Hong Kong's port security measures have a direct impact on commerce as well as safety and security here in America. I intend to continue to monitor security issues at this and other key ports around the world."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 