SEN. COLEMAN COSPONORS MENTAL HEALTH PARITY LEGISLATION
 Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today cosponsored bipartisan legislation to ensure greater health insurance parity for persons suffering from mental illness. The Mental Health Parity Act of 2007, introduced by Sens. Pete Domenici (R-NM), Edward Kennedy (D-MA) and Mike Enzi (R-WY), would require health insurance plans that offer mental health coverage to provide that coverage on par with financial and treatment coverage offered for other physical illnesses.  
   "Simply put, this is a matter of fairness. This bill will allow the millions of Americans that suffer from mental illness to receive the proper treatment," said Coleman. "I am also encouraged by the leadership Congressman Ramstad has provided on this critical issue. As we continue moving this bill forward in Congress, I will seek ways to strengthen it along the lines Congressman Ramstad has proposed." 
   The legislation would provide mental health parity for about 113 million Americans who work for employers with 50 or more employees. It will ensure that health plans do not place more restrictive conditions on mental health coverage than on medical or surgical coverage. As such it would require parity for financial requirements like deductibles, co-payments, and annual and lifetime limits; and parity for treatment limitations such as the number of covered hospital days and visits. 
   The 1996 Mental Health Parity law only provided parity for annual and lifetime limits between mental health coverage and medical surgical coverage. The new bill expands parity by including deductibles, co-payments, out-of-pocket expenses, coinsurance, covered hospital days, and covered out-patient visits. The measure includes a small business exemption for companies with fewer than 50 employees, and also includes a cost exemption for all businesses. 
   Today, about 26 percent of American adults, or nearly 58 million people, suffer from a diagnosable mental disorder each year. Six percent of these adults suffer from a serious mental illness. Mental illness is also closely linked to the more than 30,000 suicides in the United States every year. In addition, an estimated 16 percent of all inmates in state and local jails suffer from a mental illness. 
   Senator Coleman was also a cosponsor of the Senator Paul Wellstone Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act, which would provide equal coverage of mental health benefits with respect to health insurance coverage unless comparable limitations are imposed on medical and surgical benefits.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 