SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES YOUTH EXCHANGE SUPPORT ACT OF 2006
  In an effort to encourage more Americans to bring foreign students into their homes and communities, Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman recently introduced legislation increasing the tax credit for families hosting foreign exchange students. The legislation, titled the Youth Exchange Support Act of 2006, is co-sponsored by Tim Johnson (D-SD) and represents a bipartisan effort to interest more families in opening their homes to foreign exchange students, and better compensate those who do so.  
   "I know that it is important to learn about other cultures and teach others about the United States," Coleman said. "Youth exchange programs offer a great deal of value to our schools, communities, and to the future impact of America's international relationships. Minnesota has a lot to offer students who come to the U.S. from all regions of the world, and I applaud all of the families who have opened up their doors to welcome these students cultivate international relations here at home. Their great work deserves recognition. This bill will help ease the economic impact of hosting a foreign exchange student and provides incentive for families considering the possibility of becoming a host family." 
   The Youth Exchange Support Act of 2006 will increase tax credit for families who host high school foreign exchange students from $50 per month to $200 per month. It is supported by the Council on Standards for International Education Travel (CSEIT) as well as Nacel Open Door - a St. Paul based nonprofit organization dedicated to international understanding and language education. 
   "Youth exchange plays an important role in America's effort to provide opportunities for foreign students to learn about our culture, share ideas and promote understanding and friendship," Frank Tarsitano, President of Nacel Open Door Inc. "American host families play an important role in this public diplomacy effort. Raising the tax deduction will not only support our fellow citizens to continue to host and mentor exchange students but will also open hosting opportunities to more American families. This tax bill strengthens our public diplomacy effort by supporting American host families who are integral to the success of this program." 
   Minnesota ranks fifth in the nation for hosting high school exchange students, with nearly 1,300 exchange students. This legislation will help all the Minnesota families who have opened their homes and their communities to foreign exchange students.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 