SEN. COLEMAN URGES CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES TO IMMEDIATELY FIX GLITCH IN MEDICARE PART D TO RESTORE BENEFITS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today urged Dr. Mark McClellan from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to immediately resolve a computer glitch in the Medicare Part D program that has denied dual eligible beneficiaries and their community pharmacists coverage and reimbursement payments for important medications. These dual eligible beneficiaries, low-income elderly and disabled individuals who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid, received their prescription drugs through Medicaid until December 31, 2005 when they were switched to a drug plan allowed under Medicare Part D. However, when many of these beneficiaries went to order their medications, many found that they had been lost from the computer system and were asked to pay the full amount to cover high deductibles.  
   "I understand the difficulties and enormity of this transition from Medicaid drug coverage to Medicare," said Coleman. "However, the most important goal of this transition is continued access to medications, continuity of care by ensuring the health care of each beneficiary in the most efficient and seamless matter. Due to a computer glitch, this did not happen. We must not let the millions of those who rely on this program for life-saving medicine to suffer because of a lapse in the system. We need to fix the problem immediately. This is an urgent matter." 
   Enrolled beneficiaries should have automatically and electronically been linked with pharmacists that covered the patients' drug plans. However, the system randomly assigned them to a drug plan that did not cover the drugs the patients needed. After they selected a different plan, they were lost altogether from the system. 
   Sen. Coleman has been a strong supporter of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit and has held four informational sessions throughout Minnesota to urge those eligible for the program to sign up for benefits. 
   Today, Sen. Coleman sent a letter to call on CMS and its administration to immediately correct the computer malfunction, inform pharmacists about reimbursement for filled prescriptions during this period, and provide pharmacists with clear information about the transitional error.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 