DEMOCRATS BLOCK SEN. COLEMAN'S AMENDMENT TO PREVENT REINSTATEMENT OF FAIRNESS DOCTRINE
  On the Senator floor today, Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN) attempted to offer an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill that would prohibit the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) from reinstituting the Fairness Doctrine, which would require the government to monitor political discourse on American's airwaves and regulate the expression of political views. Rather than allowing the measure to move forward to a full debate, the amendment was objected to by Senate Democrats. Leading the Democrats objection was Majority Whip Dick Durbin (D-IL), who insisted government should have a direct hand in regulating political ideas to ensure an equal balance.  
   "Rather than allowing a full and complete debate on the amendment, Senate Democrats prematurely chose not to allow it to move forward. After blocking the ability of the entire Senate to debate this measure, they suddenly proceeded to rationalize the Fairness Doctrine on the Senate floor. It's quite clear that the reinstitution of the misleadingly-named Fairness Doctrine would threaten our constitutional right to free speech and fundamentally undermine the workings of our free market democracy," said Coleman. "In this day and age, reinstituting the Fairness Doctrine is not about equal balance, as its supporters claim, it is about muzzling broadcasters. I believe it is a dangerous proposition for the government to be in the business of rationing free speech and determining what is fair. At the very least, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle should have allowed this amendment to be debated." 
   In 1949, the FCC established the Fairness Doctrine requiring broadcasters to provide fair and balanced public affairs related programming. In 1985, the FCC determined that the Fairness Doctrine was no longer necessary due to the emergence of a "multiplicity of voices in the marketplace." The FCC was also of the view that the Fairness Doctrine may have violated the First Amendment. In 1987, following a Federal Court's ruling that the FCC was not statutorily bound to enforce the Fairness Doctrine, the FCC abolished the Fairness Doctrine. Also that same year President Reagan vetoed Fairness Doctrine legislation. Nevertheless, in recent weeks several prominent Democrats have been voicing a desire to bring back the Fairness Doctrine. 
   "Since the repeal of the Fairness Doctrine talk radio has flourished, thanks to free speech and free market ideals. Americans have not only been witness to, but have directly benefited from, the information revolution that has changed our daily lives. Cable television, radio and the Internet are all in their own ways bringing forward a multiplicity of information and view points. Despite today's efforts by my opponents, I will continue working to ensure our free speech and free market principles are protected by fighting against reinstitution of the Fairness Doctrine," Coleman added. 
   Co-sponsors of the amendment include Senators Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Jim DeMint (R-SC), John Thune (R-SD), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Larry Craig (R-ID), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John Cornyn (R-TX), John McCain (R-AZ), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Wayne Allard (R-CO), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Jim Bunning (R-KY), Richard Lugar (R-IN), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Judd Gregg (R-NH), John Ensign (R-NV), Bob Bennett (R-UT), Elizabeth Dole (R-NC), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Mike Crapo (R-ID), and Bob Corker (R-TN).
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 