SEN. COLEMAN CO-SPONSORS RESOLUTION HONORING MINNESOTA NATIONAL GUARD
  Senator Norm Coleman today joined Senator Amy Klobuchar in introducing a Concurrent Resolution commending Minnesota's returning National Guard soldiers on their completion of the longest continuous deployment of any United States military unit during Operation Iraqi Freedom. Sens. Coleman and Klobuchar were joined in honoring the 1st Brigade Combat Team by Representatives Walz, McCollum, Ramstad, Ellison, Oberstar, Peterson, Kline and Bachmann, who introduced the same Resolution in the House of Representatives.  
   "For nearly two years, our brave Minnesota troops have selflessly and honorably served our state and our nation, demonstrating a level of commitment and sacrifice beyond anything our country could ask of them," Coleman said. "They spent more time in any Iraq than any other National Guard unit, facing extended deployments and more time away from their families than they ever expected. Through it all, they continued to serve the nation the way they always have: honorably and without complaint. As they continue returning home in next few days, it is incumbent upon both Minnesotans and Americans to honor and recognize the enormous sacrifices these brave citizen-soldiers have made, and this Resolution is aimed at doing exactly that." 
   The 1st Brigade Combat Team/34th Infantry Division mobilized in September 2005 and deployed to Iraq in March of 2006. They served as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom for 16 consecutive months. During their time in Iraq, they completed thousands of combat logistics patrols and logged millions of convoy miles. The unit helped start local Iraqi newspapers and produced documentaries on the work of the U.S. military in Iraq. The 1st Brigade Combat Team completed 137 reconstruction projects while capturing some 400 detainees. In January of this year, the unit's mission was extended by 125 days, making theirs the longest continuous deployment of any United States military unit during Operation Iraqi Freedom.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 