SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $470,588 FOR LUTHERAN SOCIAL SERVICE OF MINNESOTA FOR SAVINGS INCENTIVE PROGRAM IN ST. PAUL
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced the Department of Health and Human Services has awarded a $470,588 discretionary grant to Lutheran Social Service of Minnesota. The grant will go towards the non-profit agency's Assets for Independence Demonstration Program, and will specifically help low-income families in St. Paul in saving and accumulating personal financial assets.  
   "This program helps give families in tough financial situations the ability to save money and to improve their economic standing," Coleman said. "The Assets for Independence Demonstration Program, as well as other programs established through social services agencies around the country, helps lower the nation's overall poverty rate and close the gap between low and middle-class families. I would like to applaud the Department of Health and Human Services for recognizing the great work continually being done by Lutheran Social Service of Minnesota and for awarding them this important grant." 
   "We are very excited to receive this grant," said Bill Vanderwall, vice president of Lutheran Social Service of Minnesota. "The Assets for Independence Demonstration Program is similar to a program we implemented in Minneapolis called Phillips Saves. This grant will help us take what we've learned from that program across the river to the east side of St. Paul. Lutheran Social Service of Minnesota, along with our partners, is enthusiastic to begin helping St. Paul families accomplish their goals of starting a business or buying their first home. A great antidote to poverty is building wealth through home ownership and starting a business." 
   The Assets for Independence Demonstration Program encourages eligible low-income individuals and families to save and helps them accumulate assets through a savings match program. The program creates a Reserve Fund to match the project participants' savings from earned income in Individual Development Accounts (IDAs). The money in the IDA can then be used by the participant to purchase a home, start a business, or pay for post-secondary education for themselves or their children. 
   These programs have enjoyed success with the help of partners such as Thrivent Financial and U.S. Federal Credit Union. Thrivent Financial contributes to these programs by providing savings matches, as well as operating dollars, while U.S. Federal Credit Union helps eligible families utilize the banking system. East Side Neighborhood Development Corp., also partnered with Lutheran Social Service of Minnesota, is a local community organization that provides affordable housing development and economic development to families with a range of incomes.
 
 