SEN. COLEMAN SUCCEEDS IN PASSING AMENDMENT TO ENHANCE PORT SECURITY
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) today was successful in attaching his bipartisan amendment aimed at strengthening port security to the fiscal year 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which was passed unanimously by the Senate. The amendment will create a pilot program to outfit three foreign seaports with an integrated scanning system to cover 100 percent of containers bound for the United States from these ports within one year. The integrated scanning system will combine nonintrusive inspection equipment with radiation detection equipment to ensure the free flow of commerce and enhanced security. Sen. Charles Schumer (D-NY) was co-sponsor of the amendment.  
   "I fought hard to pass this amendment as I know it will bring us yet another step closer to strengthening the safety and security of America's ports and our global supply chain," Coleman said. "By establishing a system that will detect 100 percent of the radiological material prior to being shipped to the U.S., we will be better prepared to fill the security gaps that have been identified through the bicameral and bipartisan oversight investigation that I have led over the past two years." 
   Approximately 95 percent of our nation's overseas trade, worth nearly $1 trillion, enters or leaves through our seaports. Foreign vessels carry the bulk of the approximately 800 million tons of goods that come into our country. In fiscal year 2005 alone, more than eleven million containers arrived on American soil by sea and this number is growing at a rate of over 10 percent a year. 
   Today's passage of the 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations bill also allocates $31.73 billion in discretionary spending for the Department of Homeland Security, which includes: 
   * $6.63 billion for customs and border protection; this includes funding for an additional border patrol agents 
   * $3.86 billion for investigating and enforcing immigration and customs laws; and 
   * $442.5 million for the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office to improve the nation's capability to detect and report attempts to import, possess, store, develop or transport nuclear and radiological material for use against the nation. 
   Additionally, the legislation provides $10.3 million for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) to fly over the borders. The Senate also approved an amendment cosponsored by Senator Coleman that will require the Secretary of Home land Security to conduct tests of UAVs for border surveillance along the northern border. 
   "By allowing UAV's to patrol our northern borders will be better positioned to identify and stop potentially harmful situations, such as the trafficking of illegal and dangerous substances," said Coleman. "We need to ensure that the Department of Homeland Security has adequate funding to properly perform the crucial job of protection our nation. I am pleased the Senate allocated the necessary funding to ensure the safety and security of the American people."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 