SEN. COLEMAN JOINS BIPARTISAN SENATE MANUFACTURING CAUCUS
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) today joined the Senate Manufacturing Caucus, a bipartisan coalition of senators focused on strengthening the U.S. manufacturing sector in order to maintain and create good paying manufacturing jobs in the United States  
   "My number one goal as Minnesota's senator is to maintain and create good paying jobs here at home," said Coleman. "Manufacturing is extremely important to Minnesota and we need to do all we can to strengthen this sector and to keep America ahead of the curve in an increasingly competitive world market place. That's what this bipartisan caucus is about." 
   Last month, Senator Coleman introduced bipartisan legislation, known as the COMPETE Act of 2005 (S.1020), geared toward making the United States more competitive in an increasingly global economy, and to help keep and grow good paying, high quality jobs here at home. The COMPETE Act of 2005 offers significant steps to improve America's competitiveness by expanding the existing research and development tax credit; creating a workforce tax credit that will help "upskill "America's workforce; establishing partnerships between educational institutions and those in private industry who have expertise in math and science; providing the U.S. Patent Trademark Office with the funding needed to reform the patent and trademark process so that U.S. companies remain on the forefront of the technological revolution; and offering incentives to strengthen and improve math and science education. 
   "The Senate Manufacturing Caucus complements the COMPETE Act and my work as part of a bipartisan, long-term competitiveness group headed up by Senator Max Baucus, the Ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which will help the U.S. stay ahead of the curve when it comes to competing in today's global economy," Coleman added. "The COMPETE Act focuses on putting U.S. technology on the cutting edge through promotion of robust research and development, "upskilling" our workforce through public-private partnerships, and through education incentives in areas like math, science, and engineering." 
   Senate Manufacturing Caucus members include: 
   Senators Lindsay Graham (R - SC), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D - NY), Tom Coburn (R - OK), Barack Obama (D - IL), Arlen Specter (R - PA), Debbie Stabenow (D - MI), Mike DeWine (R - OH), Ben Nelson (D - NE), Thad Cochran (R - MS), Mark Dayton (D - MN), Saxby Chambliss (R - GA), Evan Bayh (D - IN), and Richard Durbin (D - IL).
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 