SEN. COLEMAN TO HOST MINNESOTA FARM POLICY SUMMIT
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that he will be holding a Farm Policy Summit in Owatonna, Minnesota with the Chairman of the U.S. Senate Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry Committee, Thad Cochran (R-MS), in order to discuss the full range of issues affecting Minnesota farm families today. 
   "There is a vast range of issues affecting the profitability of Minnesota farm families and the vitality of Main Street Minnesota," said Coleman. "I am very pleased that the Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Senator Thad Cochran, will be in Owatonna with me to explore these issues with Minnesota's farm leaders."
   The issues expected to be discussed at the Farm Summit include the farm safety net, federal crop insurance, conservation, agriculture research, farm credit issues, renewable fuels, transportation, lock and dam modernization, regulations, value-added agriculture, trade policy, national animal identification, and taxes.
   "Joining me, Chairman Cochran, and Minnesota farm leaders from all over the state will be Governor Pawlenty, Minnesota Agriculture Commissioner Gene Hugoson and two key agriculture policy advisors, Chuck Conner, a Special Assistant to President Bush, and Bill O'Conner, the Staff Director of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Agriculture," Coleman said. "I am looking forward to an in depth dialogue on some issues that really matter to Minnesota."
   Minnesota farm leaders participating in the Policy Summit include Minnesota Farm Bureau Federation President Al Christopherson; Minnesota Farmers Union President Doug Peterson; Minnesota Corn Growers Association President Ron Obermoller; Minnesota Soybean Growers Association President Ron Jacobsen; American Sugar Beet Growers Association Past President Paul Mathiason (representing all 3 of Minnesota's beet sugar cooperatives); Minnesota Association of Wheat Growers Executive Director Dave Torgerson, who will also represent the Minnesota Barley Growers Association; Red River Valley Potato Growers Association President Duane Maatz, also representing the Minnesota Dry Bean Council; Minnesota Pork Producers Association President Larry Liepold; Minnesota Cattlemen's Association President Steve Brake; Minnesota Milk Producers Association President George Bakeberg; and Minnesota Turkey Growers Association Executive Director Steve Olson, also representing the Minnesota Broiler and Egg Association.
   "We have an all star line up of Minnesota farm leaders and I hope that farmers from throughout the state and all Minnesotans who care about Main Street will join me," said Coleman. "Be there on time though because Minnesota's Future Farmers of America President Jeff Buyck will get the ball rolling at 9 a.m. sharp when the Owatonna Area Boy Scouts will present the American Flag for our Pledge of Allegiance!"
   The Farm Policy Summit details are as follows:
   Who: Everyone is welcome 
   Where: Cabela's Retail Store Board Room, 3900 Cabela Drive, Owatonna, MN
   When: 9 a.m. to 12 noon on Monday, July 26, 2004.
 
 