SEN. COLEMAN, REP. KENNEDY CALL FOR VOTE ON EMERGENCY AGRICULTURAL DISASTER RELIEF FOR MINNESOTA FARMERS
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Rep. Mark Kennedy (R-MN) today sent a letter to Senate and House Leadership expressing their outrage that funding for emergency disaster assistance for farmers was not included in the conference report of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act. The letter, addressed to Speaker Dennis Hastert and Majority Leader Bill Frist, calls on Congressional Leadership to bring agriculture disaster aid up for a vote. Text from the letter is as follows:  
   Dear Speaker Hastert and Majority Leader Frist: 
   As representatives of a state where widespread flooding and dramatic increases in energy costs threaten the survival of our farmers and the communities which depend on them, we were extremely disappointed by the decision to remove agriculture disaster assistance from the FY2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act. Such assistance is absolutely critical if farmers in Minnesota and elsewhere are to survive the unprecedented challenges they face. 
   That is why we urge you in the strongest terms possible to call for a separate vote on the agriculture disaster assistance provisions originally passed by the Senate. These provisions have broad support in both the House and Senate and represent a measured response to a genuine, unanticipated emergency. Thus, it is critical that Members be given the chance to have an up-or-down vote this year on an agriculture supplemental that can provide immediate relief to this critical sector of our economy. 
   While Congress must maintain a strong sense of fiscal discipline, we cannot overlook the needs of farmers across the country who are dealing with drought, flooding and unprecedented energy costs. We thank you for your leadership for America's farmers, and we look forward to working with you to extend a helping hand to our farmers in this time of need. 
   Sincerely, 
   Mark Kennedy 
  Norm Coleman
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 