SEN. COLEMAN WELCOMES DIRECTOR OF WINONA-BASED NATIONAL CHILD PROTECTION CENTER TO CAPITOL HILL TO DELIVER KEY ADDRESS ON FIGHTING CHILD ABUSE
  Sen. Coleman announced today that he, along with Sen. Landrieu and Rep. Gutknecht, have invited Victor Vieth, Director of the National Child Protection Training Center in Winona, to speak at Congressional Staff Briefing and Luncheon June 14, 2004. The Winona based National Child Protection Training Center, is our nation's premier trainer of child abuse investigators and prosecutors in the U.S. The NCPTC's is a partner of Winona State University in Minnesota, and provides ongoing training, technical assistance and publications to the nation's police officers, prosecutors and social workers. NCPTC also advances awareness of the numerous negative consequences of child abuse.  
   "The National Child Protection Training Center is to be commended for the crucial work they do in their ongoing fight against child abuse," said Coleman. "It is important that we recognize their efforts to eliminate child abuse, and that we continue to work together to make sure we have the best resources and training possible. I look forward to continue working with Congressman Gutknecht, Senator Landrieu and the Center in order to promote awareness of the lasting negative consequences of child abuse. Together, I believe we can make a difference in the lives of children who need it the most." 
   "The innovative work of the National Child Protection Training Center was made possible by the strong support of Minnesota's congressional delegation," said Victor Vieth, Director of the NCPTC. "A year ago, NCPTC was zeroed out of the federal budget and would have had to close its doors if not for the intervention of Coleman and his staff. There is every reason to be optimistic about the center's future." 
   Coleman was able to secure $200,000 for the NCPTC in the FY 2005 Appropriations Bill. The NCPTC is a partnership between the America Prosecutor's Research Institute and Winona State University. Each year, NCPTC trains approximately 14,000 professionals and responds to approximately 4,000 technical assistance requests.
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 