SEN. COLEMAN SUPPORTS LEGISLATION AIMED AT EARLY HIV TREATMENT
  As part of his continuing commitment to combat the devastating effects of HIV/AIDS, Sen. Norm Coleman joined a bipartisan group of Senators to introduce the Early Treatment for HIV Act of 2007, which would allow states to provide Medicaid coverage for low-income individuals infected with HIV. Sen. Coleman is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. In 2005, over 5,200 Minnesotans were living with HIV/AIDS.  
   "While we have made significant advances in the treatment of HIV/AIDS in the past several years, many people suffering with this devastating disease are unable to afford treatment and are ineligible for other forms of financial assistance," said Coleman. "Individuals suffering from HIV/AIDS need access to these treatments regardless of their income levels. Moreover, we should make early treatment of HIV a priority to help alleviate or prevent the effects of the disease's progression. This legislation accomplishes both of these goals by providing financial assistance to low-income individuals while at the same time making certain that they begin getting treatment as early as possible." 
   The Early Treatment for HIV Act of 2007 would amend the Social Security Act to allow states to extend Medicaid coverage to individuals who are HIV positive and classified as low income before they become disabled by the AIDS virus. 
   "By giving states the flexibility they need to provide financial assistance for HIV treatment, they will be able to better tailor assistance to the needs of individuals suffering from HIV in their states," Coleman added. 
   Senator Coleman has been deeply involved in both domestic and international efforts to treat and prevent HIV/ AIDS. Last year, he was a strong supporter of the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006 (H.R. 6143) and worked toward its being signed into law. Earlier this year he introduced, along with Senator Durbin (D-IL), the African Health Capacity Investment Act (S. 3775), which would bolster the number of trained physicians, nurses and health workers staffing African hospitals dealing with the HIV/AIDS crisis. Senator Coleman has also consistently supported funding increases for global AIDS programs, recently working with his colleagues to restore over $1 billion in funding for 2007.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 