SENATE PASSES 9/11 COMMISSION BILL CONTAINING SEN. COLEMAN AMENDMENTS TO IMPROVE BORDER TRAVEL, COMMUNICATIONS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded the Senate passage of the Improving America's Security Act of 2007 (S.4). The Senate approved an amendment by Coleman to ensure that both small and large border communities are considered for cross-border interoperable communications projects. The legislation also contains a Coleman provision adopted during committee consideration of the bill to require the Department of Homeland Security to institute a pilot program to determine if enhanced driver's licenses are suitable documentation for travel between the United States and Canada as part of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). S.4 passed by a vote of 60 to 38, and will now head to a Senate-House Conference for debate. 
   "We are by far safer today than we were on 9/11. However, we all recognize there is still room for improvement and the bill is another important step towards that end," said Coleman. "This legislation improves information sharing amongst the federal, state and local governments, reforms how homeland security grants are distributed, increases private sector preparedness, and heightens surface transportation and rail security."  
   Coleman's amendment will ensure various population densities are considered in a pilot program to facilitate cross-border communications interoperability for border personnel and first responders. The International Border Community Interoperability Communications Demonstration Project will foster international interoperable emergency communications systems at a minimum of three sites along the northern and southern border to address the needs of first responders and the National Guard. It will also provide training and equipment to first responders and facilitate their communication with stakeholders and the public in the event of a disaster. 
   "Just as firefighters need to be able to talk to policemen and other first responders during a disaster, U.S. personnel along our borders need to be able to communicate with their Canadian or Mexican counterparts in order to keep our borders secure," said Coleman. "However, it would be wrong to just assume that what works in one border community will work in all of them. A solution that works for Detroit and Windsor may not work for International Falls and Fort Frances. I am pleased the Senate has recognized that different sized communities need to be considered for these pilot projects." 
   "I really appreciate Senator Coleman's help in assuring that Minnesota's interests are reflected in this legislation. As a result of his efforts, the unique challenges of Minnesota counties along the Canadian border will be reflected in the cross-border interoperable communications demonstration project provided for in the legislation" said Ron Whitehead, ARMER/911 Program Director at the Minnesota Department of Public Safety. 
   The bill also contains Coleman's amendment to require the Department of Homeland Security to institute a pilot program to determine if enhanced driver's licenses are suitable documentation for travel between the U.S. and Canada as part of WHTI. The amendment also requires DHS to submit a report to Congress evaluating the pilot project and mapping out the next steps, including an expansion to additional states and Canadian provinces. Coleman's amendment would require DHS to sign a memorandum of understanding to conduct the pilot program with one or more states as part of the requirements. 
   "Passage of this bill is a step in the right direction as driver's licenses are becoming more secure and should be explored as a potential form of documentation for travel to and from Canada," said Coleman. "For the last year, I have been pushing for a pilot program that would move this concept forward. Not only does my amendment ensure that a pilot takes place, but it also requires an analysis of the next steps involved in expanding this possible solution to additional states. This amendment will not delay the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, but will require DHS to study a possible solution that makes sense to many Americans, particularly those in border communities." 
   WHTI will require all travelers, including U.S. citizens, to and from Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean, to have a passport to enter or re-enter the United States. The proposed changes were originally scheduled to go into effect by December 31, 2007. An amendment to extend the deadline to June 1, 2009 was passed as part of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations conference report, but the Administration has signaled an intent to implement as early as January 2008. 
   The Senate also unanimously approved another Coleman amendment that creates a pilot project to conduct demonstrations of security management systems for private sector preparedness.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 