SENS. COLEMAN, PRYOR INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN BILL AIMED AT INCREASING U.S. ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS
 This week, Sens. Norm Coleman and Mark Pryor introduced bipartisan legislation, known as the COMPETE Act of 2005 (S.1020), geared toward making the United States more competitive in an increasingly global economy and to help keep and grow good paying, high quality jobs here at home. The COMPETE Act (also known as the Collaborative Opportunities to Mobilize and Promote Education, Technology, and Enterprise Act), is based in part on Senator Coleman's work as a member of a bipartisan working group of 10 Senators, which is examining ways to keep America ahead of the curve in global competition, and on his discussions with Minnesota business and educational leaders.  
   The COMPETE Act offers significant steps to improve America's competitiveness by expanding existing research, development, and educational tax credits; establishing partnerships between educational institutions and those in private industry who have expertise in math and science; providing the U.S. Patent Trademark Office with the funding needed to reform the patent and trademark process so that U.S. companies remain on the forefront of the technological revolution; and offering incentives to strengthen and improve math and science education. 
   "While the economic recovery has erased much of the job losses from the recession, there is a lot of work to do so that America does not get left behind when it comes to global competition," said Coleman. "The JOBS bill that we passed last year took steps to help America's manufacturers get back on their feet, but we need to go beyond this if we are to get ahead of the curve. My bill focuses on putting U.S. technology on the cutting edge through promotion of robust research and development, making our workforce second to none through education incentives in areas like math and science." 
   Earlier this year, Senator Coleman held a series of public meetings with educators and business leaders at colleges and universities in Moorhead, Hibbing, and Rochester on the COMPETE Act. These meetings provided an opportunity for public comment on the COMPETE Act. 
   "Not all great ideas come from Washington-they usually come from outside of Washington-from those on the front line in business and in education. So I am thankful that the folks in Minnesota provided invaluable input on ways to improve the COMPETE Act." Coleman said 
   The COMPETE Act of 2005 will: 
   Improve the ability of American companies to stay on the forefront of the technological revolution by expanding the R&D tax credit and improving the patent and trademark process; 
   Create private-public partnerships between institutions of higher education and those in the private sector who have expertise in science, technology, engineering and math. These partnerships will provide training, technical assistance, professional development opportunities, and distribute math and science education materials to teachers and students in the surrounding region; 
   Ensure the U.S. Patent Trademark Office has the funding needed to technologically enhance its ability to carry out examinations of patents and trademarks, which is vital to U.S. businesses and innovators; 
   Establish a tax credit that will help "upskill" America's workers so that they can compete in an economy increasingly more dependent on information, communication and technology (ICT) skills; 
   Reward high performing schools in math and science by establishing a bonus grant of $500,000 to the top five elementary and secondary schools in each state who improve the most in their math and science state assessment test scores and at the same time provides an incentive for businesses to get more involved in helping high-need schools to improve in the areas of math and science. 
   "Making the U.S. more competitive in today's global economy is an issue that Republicans and Democrats should equally care deeply about. So I am very pleased to be joined by my very good friend and colleague, Senator Mark Pryor (D-AR) in introducing the COMPETE Act." Coleman added. 
   A number of diverse organizations already support one or many of the provisions of the COMPETE Act, including: Minnesota High Tech Association, Minnesota State Colleges and Universities, R&D Credit Coalition, National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, National Science Teachers Association, Computing Technology Industry Association (CompTIA), American Association for the Advancement of Science, National Association of State Universities & Land-Grant Universities, American Electronics Association, ASSE Engineering Deans Council, Council of Graduate Schools, American Society for Training & Development, Association of American Universities, and the Intellectual Property Owners Association.
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 