SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $792,300 FOR FOUR MINNESOTA VALUE-ADDED AGRICULTURE PROJECTS
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that the State of Minnesota has received $729,300 in grants from the United States Department of Agriculture's Value-Added Agricultural Product Market Development (VAPMD) program to help provide capital investment for value-added enterprises owned and operated by Minnesota farm families. 
   USDA Rural Development funds are made available to farm families who add value to their products for their customers. Grant funds will be awarded to Heartland Corn Products in Winthrop, Minnesota; Wood Campaign, Inc. in Itasca; Elk Marketing Council Corporation in Rogers; and New Harvest Ethanol in Crookston.
   "Today's funding is good news for Minnesota farm families who care about adding value to what they produce on the farm," said Coleman. "I want to thank President Bush who understands the importance of value-added agriculture and renewable fuels, of how important it is to add value to products right here at home in Minnesota so farm families earn more of the retail value of a product and create jobs on and off the farm while they do it."
   The VAPMD program has strengthened the capability of small and mid-sized farms and ranchers to expand their production around practices that benefit the environment and our natural resources.
   Heartland Corn Products in Winthrop will receive a $279,000 grant for planning activities associated with adding value to the by-product stream of ethanol.
   Minnesota Wood Campaign, Inc. in Itasca will receive a $193,300 grant to be used for working capital for marketing branded northern Minnesota wood and forest products.
   Elk Marketing Council Corporation in Rogers will receive a $150,000 grant to be used for working capital expenses for marketing elk meat products.
   New Harvest Ethanol in Crookston will receive a $170,000 grant to be used for a business plan and feasibility study for a coal/bio-mass fired ethanol plant in northwest Minnesota.
   USDA Rural Development Deputy Under Secretary Tim Ryan will be in Owatonna on Friday, October 15, and will appear on the Linder Farm Network to talk about these grants and their importance. Ryan will also be visiting Northfield to talk about USDA Rural Development funding for the Montessori School and Daycare, which received a $2.7 million loan in July previously announced by Senator Coleman.
 
 