SEN. COLEMAN TO RECEIVE FRIEND OF FARMER AWARD FROM MINNESOTA FARM BUREAU IN NEW ULM
  Sen. Norm Coleman will receive the Friend of the Farmer award from the Minnesota Farm Bureau in New Ulm as part of a one day visit to Brown and Redwood Counties on Monday, October 16th to discuss agriculture and renewable energy issues. The visit is part of Sen. Coleman's ongoing effort to visit every county in Minnesota this year.  
   "I am honored by the recognition for my work on behalf of Minnesota's and America's farmers," said Coleman. "This trip to New Ulm and Redwood Falls is an opportunity to focus attention on two issues I have the greatest passion for--developing Minnesota's renewable energy programs and supporting our state's agricultural system. Through my discussions with local community leaders I look forward to hearing additional perspectives on how I can help build on the great work of Minnesotans in the development of renewable energy and agricultural production." 
   "We are pleased to present Senator Coleman with this award in recognition of his voting record in support of Minnesota agriculture, farm families and communities," said Kevin Papp, President of the Minnesota Farm Bureau. "We're excited to have the senator in this part of the state, visiting and discussing issues important to agriculture, especially in light of the upcoming Farm Bill." 
   Coleman plans to meet with local Redwood Falls leaders Monday morning to discuss the community's efforts toward developing renewable energy sources. From there, Coleman will travel to New Ulm where he will participate in the Farm Bureau Award Presentation at the Associated Milk Producers, Inc. 
   The Friend of Farm Bureau award is given to those individuals who have supported Farm Bureau issues, as shown by their voting records. The voting records are based on priority issues, such as energy, taxes, trade, animal agriculture and regulatory issues as selected by the American Farm Bureau Federation Board of Directors. 
   Local media are welcome to attend each event. 
   Schedule: Monday, October 16, 2006 
   Coffee with local Leaders 
  11:00 - 12:00 pm 
  Farmer Union Marketing & Processing Association (FUMPA) 590 W. Park Road, Redwood Falls 
   Farm Bureau Award Presentation at AMPI 
  1:00 - 2:00 pm 
  Associated Milk Producers Inc. 
  315 North Broadway, New Ulm
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 