SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS BUSH ADMINISTRATION FOR PROVIDING DISASTER RELIEF TO FARM FAMILIES IN 29 MINNESOTA COUNTIES
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that farm families in 29 Minnesota counties will receive additional disaster assistance thanks to a disaster declaration made for these counties by the Bush Administration today. 
   Counties receiving disaster declarations today by the Bush Administration include: Aitkin, Becker, Beltrami, Carlton, Cass, Chippewa, Chisago, Clearwater, Cook, Crow Wing, Douglas, Hubbard, Isanti, Itasca, Kanabec, Kittson, Koochiching, Mahnomen, Marshall, Norman, Pennington, Pine, Polk, Red Lake, Roseau, St. Louis, Swift, Todd, and Wadena.
   18 other counties are declared contiguous natural disaster areas by the Bush administration and farm families in these counties will also be eligible for help. These counties are Anoka, Big Stone, Clay, Grant, Kandiyohi, Lac Qui Parle, Lake, Lake of the Woods, Mille Lacs, Morrison, Otter Tail, Pope, Renville, Sherburne, Stearns, Stevens, Washington, and Yellow Medicine.
   The disaster assistance comes in the form of emergency low interest loans from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency. Farm families can begin applying with local FSA offices today.
   "Today's decision by the Bush Administration will provide much needed disaster relief for Minnesota farm families who have suffered crop losses due to the August freeze," said Coleman. "This assistance comes on top of the disaster relief legislation I helped craft and push through the U.S. Congress last weekend and which President Bush will sign into law."
   Coleman coauthored bipartisan disaster relief legislation recently that was ultimately included on the Military Construction Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2005 and approved by the Congress. This disaster relief legislation provides direct payments (rather than loans) to farm families who have suffered qualifying crop or livestock feed losses in either 2003 or 2004, at the producer's election. This relief, combined with crop insurance, is designed to cover the losses producer's suffered from the freeze.
   "As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, I appreciate President Bush's leadership on issues important to Minnesota farm families," said Coleman. "Whether it is his support of disaster assistance, my legislation to extend the Milk Income Loss Compensation program, or all he has done to promote ethanol and biodiesel as we've seen this past week with passage of the JOBS bill, President Bush has been there for Minnesota farm families."
   "Over the past two weeks alone, this President has increased Minnesota farm family income by 8 cents per bushel on corn and another 3 cents a bushel on soybeans with the adjustment of Loan Deficiency Payment rates that have been terribly uneven between Minnesota and our neighboring states," added Coleman.
 
 