SENATE VOTES OVERWHELMINGLY FOR SEN. COLEMAN PORT SECURITY AMENDMENT
  In a move that will bolster security efforts at our nation's ports, the U.S. Senate today voted 95 to 3 in favor of an amendment introduced by Sen. Norm Coleman to the Port Security Bill currently before the Senate. The amendment builds upon a provision by Coleman in the underlying bill to require a pilot project in three foreign seaports to test an integrated scanning system using non-intrusive inspection and radiation detection equipment. This system is designed to scan 100 percent of all the cargo containers transiting the port, strengthening port security by helping ensure nuclear materials are detected before they could enter the country.  
   "The broad support for my amendment today shows that we are serious about port security in the United States," said Coleman. "This amendment builds on my proposed pilot program from containers at three foreign ports to all incoming containers as soon as it is practicable. In the meantime, my amendment requires the screening of all containers and scanning of all high-risk ones, as well as semi-annual updates on our progress toward the vision of 100 percent screening. We can and must strive to scan all containers entering U.S. ports - and this amendment puts in place the steps needed to make it happen." 
   Specifically, the Coleman amendment requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to fully deploy the integrated scanning system once it has been fully tested through the pilot program and can be done in a way that is effective and does not significantly disrupt international trade. To help ensure the transition to full implementation, the amendment also instructs the Secretary to issue progress reports on the screening system every six months. The system will mirror a similar one Coleman examined in Hong Kong, where each maritime container passing through port is scanned for dangerous materials without impeding the flow of commerce. 
   "The amendment realistically addresses concerns that America isn't moving fast enough to prevent weapons of mass destruction from entering U.S. ports," Coleman added. "The amendment will ultimately bolster homeland security, while also ensuring that 100 percent scanning does not cripple or hinder global commerce"
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 