SEN. COLEMAN TO CONVENE MINNESOTA FIELD HEARING TO INVESTIGATE REFUND ANTICIPATION LOANS, OTHER COSTLY PRODUCTS
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that on tax-day this Friday, April 15, 2005, he will hold a field hearing of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI) in Minnesota at the James J. Hill Reference Library, St. Paul from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. to increase awareness about the expensive costs of tax-related bank products offered by tax preparers, products and services that are expensive alternatives to the Internal Revenue Service's standard refund options and that penalize taxpayers seeking a speedy refund.  
   "Expensive tax-related bank products and services are becoming overwhelming and expensive problems that affect many people in our communities who can ill afford the additional fees," said Coleman. "Tax time can be painful and stressful enough without unnecessarily adding to the cost, especially for lower income Minnesotans. As Chairman, I feel it is my utmost duty to express this concern in a public forum in order to protect individuals from the high costs and temptation of buying products and services they may not necessarily need. In many cases, low-income individuals may be targeted for these services, and this is wrong. I can't think of a better day than April 15th to hold such a hearing and bring to light these concerns." 
   Friday's hearing, entitled "Tax Refund Products Can Be Costly," will provide a forum for the Chairman and his constituency to express their concerns about such products and services; draw attention to the growing problem of refund anticipation loans (RALs) and other tax related bank products that appear to be disproportionately used by low income individuals in the community; allow the principal tax preparation companies an opportunity to testify on behalf of their services; and seek remedies to alleviate the burden of high costs to those can least afford it. Additionally, the hearing would also bring to light alternatives available to low-income and elderly individuals from the IRS, as well as from Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) sites. 
   RALs are bank loans that are brokered through tax-preparation businesses. They are marketed to tax filers who expect to receive a federal tax refund but who want their refund immediately. More expensive than refund anticipation checks and refund transfers, banks and tax-preparation preparers both charge fees for RALs, which get deducted from the refund loan before the taxpayer gets his or her money. Preparers offering refund loans made over $200 million last year from clients who opted for RALs and other bank products. 
   The hearing will be comprised of three panels of witnesses that include: former tax preparers and clients, consumer interest groups, and tax preparation companies. 
   Panelists to include: 
   Former H&R Block employee and client 
  Former Jackson Hewitt employee and client 
  Beth Haney, Research and Outreach Director, Children's Defense Fund 
  Bonnie Esposito, Executive Director, AccountAbility Minnesota 
  Robert A. Weinberger, Vice President of Government Relations, H&R Block 
  Steven Barnett, Senior Vice President & General Counsel, Jackson Hewitt Tax Service 
   Location: 
  James J. Hill Reference Library 
  80 West 4th Street 
  St. Paul 
   Time: 1:00-3:00 p.m.
 
 