SENATE PASSES DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL WITH SEN. COLEMAN PROVISIONS BOLSTERING MILITARY HEALTH CARE, EDUCATION & REINTEGRATION EFFORTS
  The U.S. Senate today passed the National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report, which provides spending for the Department of Defense for Fiscal Year 2008. The final version includes amendments authored by Senator Norm Coleman to give the Secretary of Defense the flexibility to increase mental health reimbursement rates for TRICARE, create a national reintegration program for National Guard and Reserve troops, study the effects of extended deployments on professional reservists, and allow the Secretary of Defense to increase the authorized end strength of the Guard during times of national need. The bill passed the Senate on a vote of 90-3 and will now head to the President's desk. 
   "With so many of our young men and women currently serving overseas, it was imperative that we pass this critical legislation now," said Coleman. "The final language in this bill includes a number of priorities I have fought to deliver for our service members and their families - from improving the health of our returning soldiers to strengthening education benefits to easing the strain on our deployed men and women. I applaud my colleagues for honoring the sacrifice of our men and women in uniform with this legislation."  
   The final conference report authorizes a 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for all uniformed service personnel. It also includes important provisions from the Dignified Treatment for Wounded Warriors Act, which was added during Senate consideration with Senator Coleman's support. This important addition will enhance military health-benefits with particular emphasis on the treatment of Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI), Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and other serious battlefield injuries. 
   TRICARE AMENDMENT 
   Coleman's TRICARE amendment responds to a recent decrease in TRICARE reimbursement rates for psychologists and social workers. TRICARE is the healthcare program for members of the U.S. armed forces and their families. The amendment gives the Secretary of Defense the flexibility to increase mental health reimbursement rates for TRICARE should this rate reduction affect the delivery of mental health services to our troops and their families. 
   "Providing our returning men and women in uniform with the best healthcare available is one of Congress' most important responsibilities," said Coleman. "Mental health services have become an increasingly important component of this effort as we continue to see more cases of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and other psychological difficulties confront our troops as they return from abroad. The last thing we should do right now is make it more difficult for mental health professionals to provide treatment for these troops and their families as they deal with the challenges associated with reintegration. This amendment gives the Secretary of Defense new authority to increase reimbursement rates for mental health professionals who take care of our wounded warriors." 
   NATIONAL REINTEGRATION PROGRAM AMENDMENT 
   Coleman's national reintegration amendment, which is cosponsored by his Minnesota colleague, Senator Amy Klobuchar, will create a national reintegration program for members of the National Guard and Reserve based on the highly successful program Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program of the Minnesota National Guard. This program will provide informational events and activities to assist National Guard and Reserve soldiers, families, and community members through all phases of their deployment cycle including pre and post deployment. The events and activities created by this legislation include family and marriage counseling, financial planning and education, small business planning, community outreach, and healthcare and veterans benefits education. A similar provision was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman John Kline (R-MN). 
   "Our brave service members often face unique challenges when reintegrating back into society - particularly after long deployment overseas," said Coleman. "In order to ensure that we are meeting their specific needs, I have met with many members of the Minnesota National Guard to gain insight about what they are going through before, during and after they return home from combat. Beyond the Yellow Ribbon has had a positive impact on the lives of Minnesota's National Guard members, and I am pleased that we are making these services available to troops throughout the country." 
   NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE EDUCATION BENEFITS AMENDMENT 
   Senator Coleman also joined Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) in including the Total Force Educational Assistance Enhancement and Integration Act as an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill. Under current law, National Guard and Reserve soldiers are unable to utilize their education benefits after separating from the service, thus requiring them to complete their studies while they are still in the National Guard or Reserve. Unfortunately, an increased deployment schedule often prohibits these soldiers from finishing school before their enlistments end, costing them education benefit dollars they worked hard to earn. The Lincoln-Coleman amendment changes this policy by allowing National Guard and Reserve troops to use their education benefits up to 10 years after separation from service. 
   "Unfortunately, the National Guard and Army Reserve are still operating under an antiquated system of education benefits that does not reflect the additional and critical role they are playing in the Global War on Terror," said Coleman. "I have fought long and hard on this and other issues to ensure the best education benefits possible for our men and women in uniform. The inclusion of this amendment is a major victory in that effort and I look forward to its positive impact throughout Minnesota and the nation." 
   CERTIFIED NURSE AIDE AMENDMENT 
   Coleman's licensing and certification amendment, cosponsored by Senator Klobuchar, requires the Government Accountability Office to investigate the effects of extended deployments on civilian employment of National Guard and Reserve troops. Many National Guard and Reserve troops work in civilian professions at home that require them to maintain certain licenses and certifications that are often jeopardized by extended deployments. Unlike many other employment issues, most licenses and certifications are not protected from expiration due to active duty mobilization or extension. Coleman's amendment is an effort to compile data on professional licenses and certifications that are most impacted by extended deployments. The study will conclude with recommendations to Congress to provide protection for these service members. The amendment came about as a result of a conversation between Coleman and a Minnesota National Guard member. 
   END STRENGTH AMENDMENT 
   Coleman's end strength amendment gives the Secretary of Defense the flexibility to increase the Reserve Component by three percent of the Reserve Component's authorized end strength if it is in the national interest. The amendment does not, however, call for a larger military; it simply allows the National Guard to recruit at its maximum potential and allows the Minnesota National Guard to continue their impressive recruitment efforts. A similar provision was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman John Kline (R-MN).
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 