SENATE PASSES FARM BILL CONTAINING KEY COLEMAN PROVISIONS FOR MINNESOTA FARMERS
  Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today praised Senate passage of the bipartisan Food and Energy Security Act of 2007, known as the Farm Bill. Coleman successfully fought for a myriad of Minnesota priorities for farmers and families in need, including improving the safety net for sugar beet growers and dairy producers. He secured provisions to create a sugar-to-ethanol program, maintained the farmer safety net, and worked to establish a permanent disaster assistance program. Conservation funding was also substantially increased for policies that promote cleaner air and water, wildlife and wildlife habitat, including wetlands. Key investments were also made in nutrition for school children and low income families, including the promotion of fruits and vegetables as a part of daily diets, as well as funding of renewable energy and basic infrastructure for rural Minnesota communities. The bill will now head to a conference committee between the House and Senate to reconcile differences between their respective bills.  
   "Over the last year, I have worked to keep this legislation on track and to craft a bill in the Agriculture Committee that provides for our farmers, environment, and energy future. Today, Minnesota farmers can breath a sigh of relief as we passed a bill that maintains the farmer safety net, while making needed improvements for sugar, dairy, barley, wheat, and soybeans, along with other commodities," said Coleman. "In addition to farming needs, this bill also helps meet the food security challenges of America's low income families, provides the largest conservation investment in history, makes critical infrastructure investments in rural communities, and boosts investment in renewable fuels. With this bill heading to conference committee, I will be working closely to ensure vital Minnesota priorities remain in it." 
   The Farm Bill contains the following Coleman provisions: 
   Sugar: 
   As a longtime champion of the sugar program, which operates at no net cost to the federal government, Coleman worked hard to ensure the program's extension. Additionally, Minnesota's sugar beet farmers will receive a sugar loan rate increase of over one cent per pound. The measure will also create a sugar ethanol program that will present new opportunities for sugar producers and diversify our biofuel feedstocks. The sugar beet industry provides over $2 billion per year to Minnesota's economy and sustains nearly 40,000 jobs. 
   "With passage of this bill, Minnesota's sugar beet growers can continue to deliver a stable supply of high quality sugar to the market at no net cost to the federal government. From Roseau to Renville, the sugar program has enabled Minnesota's over two billion dollar a year sugar industry to thrive and support thousands of jobs, regardless of poor markets and severe weather," Coleman said. "America must look toward renewable fuels as an answer to our dependence on foreign oil, and sugar ethanol has the potential to play an important role in that effort. Brazil, which no longer has a need to import any foreign oil, has shown how successful a robust sugar to ethanol industry can be in attaining energy self-sufficiency. The creation of a sugar ethanol program will allow us to unlock its potential and will ultimately help our nation meet its energy needs." 
   Dairy: 
   A longtime defender of the Milk Income Loss Contract Program (MILC) that is vital for Minnesota's dairy producers, Senator Coleman fought to ensure its extension through the life of the Farm Bill and increase the payment rate back to 45 percent from the current 34 percent level. The MILC program provides income stability for Minnesota's dairy farmers when prices collapse due to factors beyond their control, while still allowing markets to readjust and return to more profitable levels. 
   "MILC is a critical program for Minnesota dairy farmers and is an invaluable safety net for these families. Increasing the MILC payment rate back to 45 percent is a huge victory for small and mid-sized dairy farms, as MILC helps farmers stay afloat when prices are depressed," Coleman added. 
   Commodity Safety Net: 
   The existing commodity title of the Farm Bill has proven to be an effective safety net for farmers, and the 2007 Farm Bill will not make cuts to this safety net. Senator Coleman has consistently led the charge to ensure there would be no cuts to the program, leading letters signed by 24 of his colleagues to the President and key Senate leaders. Minnesota ranks among the top 10 states in the production of nearly every commodity that can be produced in our climate - including corn, soybeans, wheat, oats, barley, sunflowers, dry edible beans, hay, potatoes, sugar beets, flaxseed, canola, sweet corn, green peas, wild rice, milk, beef, hogs, eggs, and turkey - and owes fully one-third of our overall state economy to agriculture. 
   "For Minnesota farmers, the stakes are high when it comes to the commodity safety net. Prices may be high now, but every farmer knows all too well how quickly that can change. And when our farmers struggle, it can be felt throughout our entire economy. In the United States, we have the safest, most reliable food supply in the world. To accomplish that, our farmers need a strong commodity title, which is why I worked hard to make sure our farmers' future wouldn't be compromised by any reduction in the safety net," Coleman said. 
   Disaster Assistance: 
   Senator Coleman fought hard for years to deliver disaster assistance to Minnesota farmers who have been devastated by flooding and drought. For this reason, Coleman worked to include a permanent agriculture disaster assistance program in the Farm Bill. The program included in the Finance Committee's portion of the Farm Bill will ensure that farmers receive critical assistance during future hardships by eliminating the current ad hoc process for disaster assistance. 
   "Farmers can't control the weather, yet they can lose an entire season's crop if the weather is severe enough. When disaster strikes, we need to provide them with the necessary assistance to survive. With a permanent agriculture disaster program on the books, our farmers will be able to breathe a sigh of relief - as they will have the resources and protection to recover from losses caused by forces outside their control," said Coleman. 
   Nutrition: 
   Senator Coleman worked to include an amendment that will help address the challenge food banks and homeless shelters are having in coming up with the resources they need to help those Americans fighting hunger. Coleman included an amendment to the Farm Bill to increase the funding available to the Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP), which provides food commodities to states to provide food aid for needy persons through food bank and homeless shelter projects, by $10 million a year. During Agriculture Committee consideration, the committee adopted an agreement, part of which included a commitment to fund Coleman's amendment to increase funding for the Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) with available monies. 
   "Our nation is too prosperous not to lend a helping hand when it is needed, and the Farm Bill's nutrition policies are an important part of that effort," Coleman said. "Food banks, homeless shelters and similar organizations have faced serious challenges in finding the resources they need to provide food for Americans who face real hunger challenges, and this increase in funding will go a long way toward helping those who are in dire need of assistance." 
   Rural Development: 
   Continuing his longstanding efforts to bolster Minnesota's rural communities and farm families, Senator Norm Coleman has worked to include a number of key provisions for rural Minnesota in the Senate version of the 2007 Farm Bill during committee markup of the legislation. In addition to including his longstanding Rural Renaissance initiative in the bill, Coleman included language to improve grain storage capacity for farmers, rehabilitate rural hospitals, encourage local ownership of ethanol plants, and protect rural drinking water. Notably, during committee markup, Coleman secured inclusion in the manager's amendment a provision to authorize $20 million annually for the Grassroots Source Water Protection Program through fiscal year 2012 from the $5 million funding level in the base bill.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 