SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF FHA MODERNIZATION ACT
  Senator Norm Coleman today applauded the Senate's passage of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Modernization Act of 2007, which passed by a vote of 93 to 1. The bill increases FHA single-family loan limits across the board, at both the high and low ends allowing more qualified homeowners to refinance into affordable FHA insured mortgages making it easier for them to keep their homes. The bill also increases penalties for fraud and ensures pre-purchase counseling demonstrations are available for first time home buyers. HUD estimates that through changes in the FHA program, they will be able to assist approximately 240,000 borrowers who are facing resets but are still current on their mortgages. Currently, Minnesota ranks third in nation in the percentage of sub-prime mortgages in foreclosure.  
   "If we do not act now, the effects of the subprime meltdown have the potential to reverse years of hard-won economic and community revitalization progress," said Coleman. "While there is no single solution to this crisis, there are a number of reasonable and measured steps we can take to help folks stay in their homes in these difficult times. Expansion of FHA loan limits represents an important step to help folks refinance into affordable mortgages so they can keep their homes. Additionally, I am pleased the bill will increase penalties for fraud and ensure pre-purchase counseling demonstrations are available for first time home buyers. As the housing crisis only continues to get worse, FHA reform is becoming increasingly imperative and I applaud the Senate for rallying around this problem and passing this bill." 
   It is estimated that 82 percent of the people who will take advantage of this reform have mortgages that are at or below $200,000. The bill also allows condominiums to be covered by the single-family loan program and authorizes FHA to raise their premiums from 2.25 percent to 3 percent. 
   "I want to stress that this legislation is not a bail-out. For people to refinance with an FHA insured mortgage at a prime rate, they have to show a good credit score, put down a 1.5 percent down payment and have been making regular payments on their mortgage before their rate dramatically increased. Additionally, folks have to pay an initial premium when they refinance into an FHA insured mortgage and continue to pay premiums on what is remaining on their mortgage." 
   This week, Coleman introduced with Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) the Community Foreclosure Assistance Act of 2007. Coleman's bill would provide $1 billion in emergency Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding to states and communities to better respond to the impact of subprime crisis. Communities could use the funding for services such as prevention of neighborhood blight due to abandoned or foreclosed properties, relocation assistance for renters who have lost their homes due to foreclosure, and mortgage counseling. The bill has the support of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, National Association of Counties, National Community Development Association, National Association of Local Housing Finance Agencies and the National County Community Economic Development Association, Association of Minnesota Counties and the League of Minnesota Cities. 
   In addition to proposing assistance for hard-hit communities, Senator Coleman recently introduced the Home Ownership Mortgage Emergency Act (HOME) ACT, which gives homeowners who are 60 days late in their mortgage payments the option of withdrawing up to $100,000 penalty-free from their retirement accounts through 2009. The HOME Act would make withdrawals tax-free, as long as they are paid back within three years. He is also a co-sponsor of legislation to make mortgage debt forgiveness tax-free.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 