SEN. COLEMAN TO UNVEIL COMPREHENSIVE RURAL HEALTH INITIATIVE IN NEW ULM, PIPESTONE, SAUK CENTRE, CROOKSTON ON FEB. 16
  Continuing his effort to enhance the quality and accessibility of Minnesota's rural healthcare services, Sen. Norm Coleman will host press conferences at Critical Access Hospitals in New Ulm, Pipestone, Sauk Centre and Crookston on Friday, February 16th to unveil his comprehensive rural healthcare initiative. Coleman's plan, which will officially be introduced in the Senate tomorrow, February 15th, contains several bills authored by Coleman that address the rural healthcare challenges he heard firsthand during visits to all of Minnesota's 87 counties last year.  
   "Access to high quality healthcare should never be dependent on your zip code," said Coleman. "Right now, however, 40 percent of the rural population in America lives in a medically underserved area, with access to care an average of 30 miles away. From my visits to communities and hospitals across Minnesota's 87 counties, I know firsthand about the many challenges our rural hospitals face - from declining populations to unrealistic reimbursement payments to limited financial resources. The initiative I am unveiling this week will directly address the concerns I have heard from Minnesotans, and I am anxious to discuss this plan with folks in New Ulm, Pipestone, Sauk Centre and Crookston on Friday." 
   Coleman's rural healthcare initiatives includes a series of bills aimed at the shortage of rural health care personnel, the need for improved mental health services in rural communities, and the opportunity to make the most advanced healthcare more accessible to rural areas through remote monitoring. His agenda also focuses on the long-term sustainability of Critical Access Hospitals, which provide healthcare to more than 1.6 million Minnesotans in rural communities each year. 
   Details of Friday's press conferences are as follows. Local Critical Access Hospital administrators will speak at each event. Local media and residents are welcome to attend. 
   8:00 - 8:45 a.m. 
  New Ulm Medical Center 
  1324 5th Street North 
  New Ulm, Minnesota 
   10:00 - 10:45 a.m. 
  Pipestone County Medical Center 
  916 Fourth Avenue SW 
  Pipestone, MN 
   12:00 - 12:45 p.m. 
  St. Michael's Hospital and Nursing Home 
  425 North Elm Street 
  Sauk Centre, MN 
   2:30 - 3:15 p.m. 
  Riverview Healthcare Association 
  323 South Minnesota 
  Crookston, MN
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 