SENATE PASSES SEN. COLEMAN LEGISLATION TO PROTECT VITAL MEDICAID SERVICES
  The U.S. Senate today passed by unanimous consent an amendment to the Indian Healthcare Improvement Act (S. 1200) authored by Senator Norm Coleman that protects vulnerable Minnesotan's access to critical health, education and social services. Cosponsored by Senators Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MD), the bipartisan legislation places a moratorium on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services' (CMS) December 4th rule on Case Management and Targeted Case Management (TCM). This moratorium would prevent these regulations from taking effect until March 2009. Case Management and TCM services are services that assist low-income individuals and families in gaining access to needed medical, social and educational services. New regulations issued by CMS, which will go into effect on March 3rd, would redefine and place strict limits on these services, severely limiting a state's ability to care for vulnerable populations. According to the Minnesota Department of Human Services, it is estimated that this rule could result in cuts of at least $60.9 million for Minnesota annually, based solely on the changes to child welfare services. It is likely the total loss to the state could far exceed this number when other services are also factored in. 
   "Case Management is the glue that holds together our nation's Medicaid system," said Coleman. "I have consistently heard from social-workers, county supervisors, healthcare providers and others about how devastating this new regulation would have been for at-risk individuals and families. The Senate's passage of our amendment will allow Congress, CMS and relevant stakeholders to develop a new regulation that will protect access to services for our most vulnerable Medicaid beneficiaries."
   Prior to CMS releasing this interim final rule, Senators Coleman and Klobuchar introduced another piece of legislation that would have required CMS to slow down the rule-making process, and provide relevant stakeholders greater opportunity to submit concerns.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 