SEN. COLEMAN PRESENTED MINNESOTA HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION AWARD FOR ADVOCACY OF RURAL HEALTH CARE
  At the trustee conference of the Minnesota Hospital Association today in Plymouth, Sen. Norm Coleman was presented with the MHA's 2005 Public Achievement Award by MHA President Bruce Rueben in recognition of his advocacy of rural hospitals and the communities they serve.  
   "While Senator Coleman has most certainly been working hard on behalf of rural hospitals, he has also been representing our hospital community as a whole," Rueben said in announcing the award. "Senator Coleman is not afraid to stand up on some tough issues." 
   In remarks to the audience at the Radisson Hotel and Conference Center, Coleman pledged to continue working to improve the quality and availability of quality health care. He has been a champion of utilizing new care technologies to improve the quality of health care delivered and the productivity of the health care system overall, particularly in rural Minnesota. 
   "I don't need to tell you all that nationally the health care system is reaching a breaking point," Coleman said. "Demographics, technology and liability issues are gathering to create a "perfect storm. As we triage our problems, in my mind, rural hospitals come first. It is the best way to help the most people at the lowest incremental cost." 
   In 2005 Coleman introduced the "Critical Access to Health Information Technology Act" to help Critical Access Hospitals compete for health information technology grants. Most rural hospitals don't have the personnel capabilities, access, or lobbying teams to compete with larger health systems for funding. This bill would give smaller rural hospitals a competitive edge for HIT grants. 
   "If Minnesota's 70 Critical Access Hospitals don't have access to up to date information technology, we are denying patients in hundreds of communities access to quality care," Coleman said. "This bill would create a grant program to help them get what they need." 
   Coleman has also agreed to take a leadership role in the Senate to help iron out Medicare Advantage reimbursement issues for Critical Access Hospitals, as well as new legislation that will provide rural areas better access to behavioral health services and telehealth for seniors. 
   The Minnesota Hospital Association is a trade association representing Minnesota's hospitals and health system. The MHA Annual Health Care Awards honor individuals who have offered dedicated service to hospitals throughout the state, and organizations that have implemented innovative, cutting-edge programs that have demonstrated success. Members to nominate health care leaders, hospitals and health systems and associate members to receive recognition for their tireless efforts to promote innovation and service in Minnesota health care.
 
 