SENS. COLEMAN, BINGAMAN INTRODUCE BILL TO ALLEVIATE CRITICAL NURSING SHORTAGE
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) today, along with Sen. Bingaman (D-NM), introduced legislation aimed at alleviating the nation-wide nursing and physical therapist shortage. The Nurse and Physical Therapist Education Act will provide grants to nursing schools for the recruitment and retention of new faculty as well as the promotion of nursing student enrollment and graduation. During the first year, the bill will grant ten awards of $100,000 to nursing schools for up to five years each, increasing to 30 awards in years three, four, and five.  
   "The nurse and physical therapist shortage in Minnesota and the nation a serious problem that must be addressed," said Coleman. "During my travels to health facilities around the state, I have heard time and time again about the need to address this shortage. By providing schools with these resources to educate and train the future workforce, we can ensure that our citizens and hospitals have access to adequate nursing care. Minnesota is home to some of the best nursing schools in the nation. There is no reason we can't become a state with one of the highest numbers of graduates." 
   This bill also promotes nursing education for the elderly by providing 125 geriatric academic career awards worth $75,000 per year for up to five years each. Awardees will spend 50 percent of their time in training nurses and interdisciplinary teams in clinical geriatrics. Additionally, this bill will create the Nurse and Physical Therapy Distance Education Pilot Program, an online program giving students in rural areas access to a nursing education. This program will encourage institutions of higher learning to expand their current nursing programs or create new programs. 
   "Currently, less than one percent of practicing nurses have a certification in geriatrics. As the Baby Boomer generation gets older, the need for elderly care will dramatically increase. We need an educated and properly trained workforce to ensure our aging society receives the necessary care," Coleman added. 
   A 2006 Health Resources and Services Administration report estimated that by the year 2020 the national nursing shortage would triple to more than one million nurses. One of the biggest constraints to growing the nursing workforce is a shortage of nursing faculty. Although applications to nursing programs have surged 59% over the past decade, the National League for Nursing estimates that 147,000 qualified applications were turned away in 2004. This represents a 27 percent decline in admissions over the previous year, indicating the need to increase capacity in nursing programs is more critical than ever.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 