SEN. COLEMAN SAYS AUSTRALIAN AGREEMENT IMPORTANT TO GROWING MINNESOTA MANUFACTURING JOBS
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that he will support the U.S.-Australian Free Trade Agreement because it is a top priority of Minnesota's 8,000 manufacturers and the 350,000 working men and women and their families that this industry employs, and because of the exclusion of sugar from the agreement and the important safeguards put in place to protect Minnesota's dairy farmers and cattlemen from unfair trade. 
   "The U.S.-Australian Free Trade Agreement is about sustaining and growing real, good paying manufacturing jobs in Minnesota," said Coleman. "Australia is Minnesota's 10th largest export market. Given that one in every five manufacturing jobs in Minnesota is due to exports, and some 6,700 Minnesota employers export the goods they make, the U.S.-Australian Free Trade Agreement is good for our state because it eliminates the tariff on 99 percent of the goods we manufacture - goods that account for 93 percent of all the United States sells to that country."
   According to the nation's manufacturing employers, the U.S.-Australian Free Trade Agreement would increase U.S. exports to that country by an estimated $2 billion every year, building on the trade surplus we already enjoy with that country. The United States currently sells $12 billion of manufactured goods every year to Australia, sales that create 160,000 American jobs.
   "Whether it is Polaris, Arctic Cat, or Blandin Paper in the Northland, 3M and Lockheed Martin in the Twin Cities, or our soybean farmers in southern and western Minnesota, the U.S.-Australian Free Trade Agreement means jobs," said Coleman. "I understand that Minnesota manufacturing employers alone will save some $5 million every year when Australian tariffs are immediately torn down under the agreement."
   While noting the many opportunities for Minnesota's manufacturers under the agreement, Coleman underscored the importance of agriculture to Minnesota's overall economy, stating that the safeguards put in place to protect Minnesota farm families from unfair trade were critical in his decision to ultimately support the agreement. Coleman spoke specifically about the handling of sugar under the agreement, the safeguards for dairy farmers and cattlemen, as well as issues important to Minnesota pork and wheat producers.
   "Senator Coleman worked hard to ensure that sugar was taken off the table in the Australian agreement and was decisive in making it happen," said Steve Williams, of Fisher, Minnesota, President of the Red River Valley Sugar Beet Growers Association and Vice President of the American Sugar Beet Growers Association. "The Australian agreement must be the template for all bilateral and regional agreements and we are proud to have Senator Coleman fighting the good fight for us in Washington."
   "Norm Coleman is a solid champion of Minnesota dairy farm families," said George Bakeberg, President of the Minnesota Milk Producers Association. "He has worked to close the Milk Protein Concentrate loophole and to extend the dairy farm safety net. During negotiation of the Australian trade agreement, he was successful in maintaining tariffs to protect Minnesota dairy farmers from imports of Australian dairy products. Through his actions, he has demonstrated that we can count on him to stand by Minnesota's dairy farmers and protect their interests."
   Concerning beef, Coleman worked with other senate colleagues to ensure that strong safeguards were put in place for Minnesota cattlemen in order to prevent import surges and to stop imports that would depress the price cattlemen receive for their products.
   "While the agreement is not perfect, the safeguards Senator Coleman worked so hard to secure that protect Minnesota cattlemen against import surges and depressed domestic prices are extremely important and we are grateful for all his work on our behalf," said Steve Brake, President of the Minnesota Cattlemen's Association. "Norm is a solid friend of the Minnesota cattlemen."
   Coleman also stressed the importance of reaching an agreement that will open the door for U.S. pork exports to Australia, which have been closed due to bogus sanitary and phytosanitary regulations not based on sound science, and applauded the immediate duty free access to Australia for Minnesota soybean and other oilseed farmers. Finally, while expressing disappointment that the Australian Wheat Board (AWB) was not done away with under the agreement, Coleman noted that the Australians did make a commitment to address this issue in the World Trade Organization which could help rid is of similar monopolistic state trading enterprises around the world, including Canada's.
   "I'm pleased with the progress we have made for Minnesota pork and soybean producers, although I would have liked to have seen more on the issue of eliminating the Australian Wheat Board," said Coleman. "Still, even on that front we are moving the ball forward."
 
 