SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON FEDERAL MARRIAGE AMENDMENT VOTE
  Statement from Sen. Coleman On Federal Marriage Amendment Vote
   "Today, I cast a vote in support of families and the institution of marriage. 
   Debate on the Federal Marriage Amendment is not intended to generate intolerance or discrimination. Let me be clear: this is about preserving the meaning of a sacred and ancient institution. It is not about discriminating against any segment of our society.
   I have said before that I support existing federal law and the time tested philosophy behind it that marriage is between a man and a woman. Although I had differences with the language of the proposed amendment, I acted on that principle today.
   The discussion of the definition of marriage is not new to our nation. In the late 19th century, Congress refused to admit Utah into the Union until it abolished polygamy and made a legal commitment to the traditional definition of marriage - a union between one man and one woman.
   There can been some discussion in the media that the Senate Republican Conference is split in its dedication to preserving a traditional meaning of marriage. This is not the case. There are, however, differing opinions among my colleagues about what are the most effective means of achieving this goal while respecting and upholding the civil rights of every American.
   Technically, this was a procedural vote. My preference on this issue would be to provide constitutional protection to existing federal law, the Defense of Marriage Act. That law states that as far as the federal government is concerned, "the word 'marriage' means only a legal union between one man and one woman" and that no state, despite the best efforts of overreaching judges in Massachusetts and elsewhere, need recognize a different meaning or one determined by another state. Had this motion passed today, I would have sought to amend the provision to reflect these principles. Unfortunately, I will not have that option.
   I believe the Constitution will ultimately be amended on the question of marriage: the real question before us is whether it will be amended by unelected judges insistent upon overstepping their constitutional authority or by the true source of sovereignty in the United States, the American people. Today I voted to bring the American people back to the table in this important national discussion."
 
 