SEN. COLEMAN OUTLINES PLAN TO ACHIEVE GREATER ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  Citing concerns about our nation's dependence on foreign oil and offering a plan to put America on the path to energy independence, Sen. Norm Coleman last week submitted testimony for the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee's hearing on energy independence. Coleman outlined his proposal to reduce U.S. consumption of oil by 2.5 million barrels per day over the next ten years and fuel our nation from the farm through renewable fuels, such as ethanol. Text of his testimony can be found below. 
   U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Hearing on Energy Independence 
   Testimony of U.S. Senator Norm Coleman  
   Mr. Chairman, it is time we stopped treating foreign oil dependence as another abstract statistic whose consequence is far removed from Americans' daily lives. The United States is going to have to face the reality that we must break our foreign energy dependence or risk losing our autonomy. 
   Our nation's energy dependence is undeniably one of the greatest threats to our national security and our freedom. By 2025 it is estimated that nearly 75 percent of America's oil supply will be imported. Also consider that two-thirds of the world's proven oil reserves are in the Middle East and that terrorists have identified oil as a strategic vulnerability - increasing attacks against oil infrastructure worldwide. One can just imagine what would happen if OPEC, which currently accounts for well over 50 percent of our oil supplies, shut off the oil spigot. 
   Beyond the national security implications, oil dependence also carries serious economic consequences. The total economic penalty of our oil dependence, including loss of jobs, output, and tax revenue, is estimated to exceed $300 billion annually. 
   This is not a crisis without a solution. We can cure this dependency affliction with a bold national vision and sincere commitment to innovative energy solutions. One of those energy solutions is renewable fuels, and I am proud to be Senator from the state leading the nation in renewable fuels production. 
   Mr. Chairman, first we need a plan to reduce our oil consumption. That is why, along with nine other senators, I introduced the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act (VFCASA) that makes a goal of saving 2.5 million barrels per day by 2016, roughly the same amount of oil currently imported from the Persian Gulf region and lays out an achievable plan to reach that goal. 
   One facet of this plan to reach 2.5 million barrels per day of oil savings is to promote the development and use of advanced and alternative fuel efficient vehicles. Key pieces include tax credit incentives for advanced technology motor vehicles, expansion of the consumer tax credits for advanced vehicles, loan guarantees and grants for hybrid vehicle projects, and a new federal commitment to hybrid vehicle technologies and materials. The national fuel savings generated by this bill will be immense, but if we want to free ourselves from foreign oil dependence, we must produce more fuel here at home. 
   Let me say, I have seen Brazil's renewable fuel economy firsthand; it's truly impressive. In fact Brazil will not import a drop of foreign oil this year. Brazil's energy independence success is indicative of their strong, national commitment to renewable fuels. Brazil invested heavily and directly in ethanol infrastructure, mandated that a high percentage of gasoline include ethanol, heavily supported sugar farmers during the transition to ethanol production, and ensured flex fuel vehicles were widely available. 
   The Energy Policy Act of 2005 Congress passed this summer included important provisions to expand energy conservation and renewable energy production, particularly through the creation of the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS). However, many of these provisions only support the current rate of growth for the renewable industry. If America is going to replicate Brazil's energy success, stronger, bolder policies are necessary. 
   I believe we need a national energy policy that increases availability of flex fuel vehicles, invests heavily in E-85 infrastructure, includes a sugar-to ethanol program, and sets a national mandate for ethanol that matches our energy independence ambitions. 
   Key elements of such a renewable energy policy are present in the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act referenced earlier. VFCASA will increase the availability of flex fuel vehicles by setting a reasonable requirement that 10 percent of vehicles sold in the U.S. are alternative vehicles, such as flex fuel vehicles, by 2012 and 50 percent by 2016. This requirement would be coupled with a new tax credit for manufacturers for upgrades necessary to begin or expand production of advanced technology vehicles - helping industry meet this requirement. 
   Additionally, we must dramatically increase the availability of E-85 infrastructure if we are to grow our fuel in our fields instead of importing oil from foreign deserts. VFCASA would provide the programs and resources needed for this infrastructure by: 
   1. Increasing the E-85 infrastructure tax credit 
   2. Using CAF? penalties to fund alternative fuel infrastructure 
   3. Creating a USDA loan guarantee program for E-85 infrastructure 
   Right now, about half of the nation's E-85 infrastructure is in my home state of Minnesota. While I am proud of the vision and hard work of my rural communities to promote these E-85 pumps, we need E-85 available coast-to-coast. 
   Brazil could not reach fuel independence without a strong sugar-to-ethanol program, and we should learn from that example. The technology is readily available and sugar's contribution to ethanol production could begin in the very near future. Importantly, VFCASA would increase Renewable Fuels Standard by 100 million gallons in 2008 for ethanol produced domestically from sugar. This would be on top of the current RFS and would not take away from the renewable mandate going to other commodities. 
   Yet, a mandate will not be sufficient to jumpstart a sugar-to-ethanol program in the United States. In addition to proposals included in VFCASA, Congress needs to enact a strong incentive package to match this mandate. Once a strong sugar-to-ethanol program is underway, America will have yet another abundant, reliable source for fuel. I am studying various incentive mechanisms for a sugar-to-ethanol program, and I plan to introduce legislation addressing this issue in the coming months. 
   Finally, America needs a renewable fuel requirement that matches our ambition, but does not exceed our potential. That's why I propose Congress enact legislation requiring 10 percent of the nation's gasoline be renewable fuel in 10 years (2016). 
   Today, at roughly 4 billion gallons of ethanol production, the U.S. is only using renewable fuels for 4 percent of our total fuel supply. But, at this industry's current rate of growth, the U.S. is capable of increasing its production of ethanol about 1 billion gallons a year, meaning that in ten years (2016) the U.S. should be able to produce about 14 billion gallons of ethanol, representing about 7 percent of our fuel supply. Ten percent in 10 years is aggressive and doable. Let's not forget that Brazil mandates gasoline contain at least 25 percent alcohol (ethanol), and that it is now so popular it accounts for 40 percent of all vehicle fuel in that nation. 
   Mr. Chairman, your work on the Energy Policy Act of 2005 demonstrated your strong commitment to this nation's energy and economic well-being. I urge you and this Committee to build on last year's achievements by moving forward a plan for oil savings through fuel conservation and promotion of innovative technologies, while building a more aggressive renewable fuel policy allowing America to grow fuel here at home. 
   Mr. Chairman, as always, I appreciate your leadership on energy issues and your continued willingness to offer an open ear to your colleagues. Thank you.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 