SEN. COLEMAN TO HOST HOUSING FORUM IN MINNEAPOLIS ON NOV. 19
  Continuing his efforts to address the current sub-prime mortgage crisis affecting Minnesota homeowners, communities and the economy, Senator Norm Coleman will be hosting a town hall forum at Greater Twin Cities United Way on Monday, November 19th to hear firsthand from affected homeowners about the impact of the current situation, as well as to discuss ways to address the downturn. At the forum, Coleman will be joined by U.S. Treasury Under Secretary for Domestic Finance, Robert Steel, and Richard Todd, Vice President of Supervision, Regulation and Credit at Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, along with homeowners, renters, community groups and housing experts.  
   "The effects of the sub-prime crisis are wide-ranging and serious, and it is important that we work to address them in a timely and effective manner," Coleman said. "This forum will provide us with the chance to discuss ways we can assist those in trouble today and avoid similar situations in the future. I am especially pleased that Under Secretary Steel will be traveling to Minnesota to be a part of this forum. I encourage all concerned Minnesotans to attend this forum so we can continue working together to address the crisis." 
   Minnesota is currently tied for fourth in nation in the nation in the percentage of sub-prime mortgages in foreclosure - with over 4,000 foreclosures in the third quarter alone. In the past year, there has been a 152 percent increase in foreclosures. 
   Last month, Senator Coleman introduced the HOME ACT, which gives homeowners who are 60 days late in their mortgage payments the option of withdrawing up to $100,000 penalty-free from their retirement accounts through 2009. The HOME Act would make withdrawals tax-free, as long as they are paid back within three years. He is also a co-sponsor of legislation to make mortgage debt forgiveness tax-free. 
   Senator Coleman also supports passage of the FHA Modernization Act of 2007 which will allow qualified homeowners to refinance into affordable FHA insured mortgages so they can keep their homes. The bill also increases penalties for fraud and ensures pre-purchase counseling demonstrations are available for first time home buyers. 
   Details of Monday's event are as follows: 
   WHAT: 
   HOUSING TOWN HALL FORUM 
   WHO: 
   U.S. Senator Norm Coleman 
  Robert Steel, Under Secretary for Domestic Finance, United States Department of the Treasury; 
  Richard Todd, Vice President of Supervision, Regulation and Credit, Federal Reserve Bank,MinneapolisMinnesota Home Owners & Renters 
  Community Groups, Housing Experts and Key Industry Groups 
   WHERE: 
   Greater Twin Cities United Way 
  404 South Eighth Street 
  Minneapolis, MN 55404-1084 
   WHEN: 
   Monday, November 19th, 2007 
  2:30 - 4:45 p.m. - Official Event 
  2:15 p.m. - Media Availability
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 