SEN. COLEMAN CHILDHOOD CANCER BILL MOVES FORWARD
  The Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee today approved Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Jack Reed's (D-RI) Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2007, which would provide $30 million per year through 2012 to expand childhood cancer research, create a national database to evaluate cancer trends and provide resources to patients and families affected by childhood cancer.  
   "Childhood cancer is a disease that affects far too many Minnesota families," said Coleman. "While we have seen improvements in survivorship rates, cancer remains the number one killer of children. We have the minds, we have the technology, all we need is to empower our researchers, physicians and families with the tools they need to confront this disease. I applaud the HELP committee for recognizing the importance of this bill and moving it one step closer to the President's desk." 
   Specifically, the legislation will allocate $30 million per year through 2012 to: 
   Provide funding for critical biomedical research programs aimed at preventing and curing childhood cancer and improving the lives of children with pediatric cancers; 
   Support a national childhood cancer database to monitor the incidence of pediatric cancers, identify cancer causes and aid in the development of prevention strategies and cures; 
   Foster clinical and translational research for pediatric oncologists especially in the early stages of their career development; and 
   Provide informational and educational services to patients and families affected by childhood cancer to help ensure access to the best available therapies for pediatric cancers. 
   More than 12,000 American children are diagnosed with cancer each year and more than 2000 more will succumb to this tragedy. In Minnesota, about 160 children under the age of 15 are diagnosed with cancer and about 25 children die of cancer each year. Based on current rates, it is estimated that 1 of every 385 children in Minnesota will be diagnosed with a cancer before age 15.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 