SEN. COLEMAN TO HOLD HEARING ON PROPOSED PASSPORT REQUIREMENT FOR TRAVELERS BETWEEN U.S., MEXICO
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) today sent a letter Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Maura Harty and Acting Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Border and Transportation Security Policy and Planning Elaine Dezenski expressing his serious concern with a newly announced initiative that might necessitate American and Canadian citizens to carry a passport each and every time they cross the U.S. - Canadian Border, seriously hampering border crossings vital to Minnesota's economy. Canada is America's most important trading partner, with over $1.6 billion worth of goods crossing the border each day and 16 million Canadians visiting the United States each year and 14.2 million Americans visiting Canada annually.  
   On April 6, the Departments of State and Homeland Security announced plans, called the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, to require all U.S. citizens, Canadians, citizens of the British Overseas Territory of Bermuda, and citizens of Mexico to have a passport or other accepted secure document establishing citizenship to enter or re-enter United States by January 1, 2008. 
   "While the National Intelligence Reform Act clearly requires enhanced U.S. border security, including documentation that more clearly denotes identity and citizenship, the possible requirement of passports as opposed to other forms of identification could create undue hardship and burden on legitimate interstate travel between the United States and our neighbors," Coleman wrote in his letter. 
   Yesterday, President Bush, displeased with these impending requirement changes, ordered them reviewed. In his letter, Coleman requested a meeting with Harty and Dezenski to discuss the review and offer assistance in remedying this matter quickly. If legislation is required to fix the passport requirement restrictions, Coleman will introduce a measure that would alter the law and fix the problem. 
   "When I first read that in the newspaper about the need to have passports, particularly today's crossings that take place, about a million for instance in the state of Texas, I said, 'What's going on here?," President Bush said yesterday. "I thought there was a better way to expedite the legal flow of traffic and people." 
   "I share the President's concerns and have a strong interest in ensuring that this problem is resolved, whether this is accomplished administratively or through legislation," Coleman wrote. "To the extent that a legislative remedy is required, I am prepared to introduce a measure and would like to discuss with you an appropriate clarification Congress might enact to resolve this matter." 
   Coleman, who chairs the Senate Foreign Relations Committee's Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, which has jurisdiction over North American trade and travel, announced that his Subcommittee will be holding hearings to examine this issue more closely in the very near future. 
   Text of the letter can be found below: 
   April 15, 2005 
  The Honorable Maura Harty 
  Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs 
  U.S. Department of State 
  Washington, DC 20520 
   The Honorable Elaine Dezenski 
  Acting Assistant Secretary for Policy and Planning 
  Border and Transportation Security Directorate 
  U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
  Washington, DC 20528 
   Dear Assistant Secretary Harty and Acting Assistant Secretary Dezenski: 
   I am writing to request a meeting with you at your earliest convenience next week to discuss what I believe are the possible unintended consequences of section 7209(b) of the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 (P.L. 108-458). 
   As you know, the State Department and Department of Homeland Security recently announced the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative which would require all U.S. citizens, Canadians, citizens of the British Overseas Territory of Bermuda, and citizens of Mexico to have a passport or other accepted secure documents establishing citizenship to enter or re-enter United States by January 1, 2008. 
   Following this announcement, I and other Senate colleagues noted that while the National Intelligence Reform Act clearly requires enhanced U.S. border security, including documentation that more clearly denotes identity and citizenship, the possible requirement of passports as opposed to other forms of identification could create undue hardship and burden on legitimate interstate travel between the United States and our neighbors. 
   As you are aware, just yesterday President Bush expressed similar concerns. 
   As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps, and Narcotics Affairs and as a member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee with oversight authority over the Department of Homeland Security and implementation of the National Intelligence Reform Act, I share the President's concerns and have a strong interest in ensuring that this problem is resolved, whether this is accomplished administratively or through legislation. 
   Specifically, at our meeting, I would like to discuss with you your views on possible administrative remedies to help avoid the disruption of legitimate interstate travel that a passport requirement would have while still carrying out the enhanced border security contemplated by the Intelligence Reform Act. 
   To the extent that a legislative remedy is required, I would also like to discuss with you an appropriate clarification Congress might enact to resolve this matter. 
   In addition, given the potential impact of Intelligence Reform on travel within the hemisphere and the possible implications for diplomatic, cultural, and economic relations with our neighbors, I would anticipate holding hearings in the Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps, and Narcotics Affairs Subcommittee on Foreign Relations. I would appreciate your participation in fully exploring this issue and others of particular relevance to the region. 
   Thank you for your prompt consideration of my request. I look forward to resolving this issue in a way that ensures our border security without disrupting legitimate travel with our neighbors. 
   Sincerely, 
   Norm Coleman 
  United States Senate
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 