SENS. COLEMAN, LINCOLN SEEK TO EXPAND TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT FOR VETERANS, NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS
  In an effort to ease the financial burden that service members and veterans face when traveling great distances for training and medical services, Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) today introduced legislation to improve and expand current travel reimbursement programs for National Guard and Reserve troops as well as veterans of all service branches. The Citizen Soldier and Military Veteran Travel Reimbursement Act will reimburse travel expenses, including lodging and meals, for National Guard and Reserve troops who travel more than 50 miles for Inactive Duty Training, commonly called drill. The bill will also increase the reimbursement rate veterans receive when traveling to VA medical centers from 28.5 cents per mile to 48.5 cents per mile, the current rate for government employees. The measure would also eliminate the costly deductible veterans pay to participate in the travel reimbursement program. The bill has been cosponsored by Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA). The bill was drawn in part from the recommendations of the Commission on the National Guard and Reserves, which released its report on January 31, 2008.  
   "With gas prices hovering around $3 per gallon, I am concerned about the financial burden high travel costs are placing on our nation's servicemembers and veterans," said Coleman. "In the Minnesota National Guard alone, we have nearly 5,000 troops who drive more than 50 miles for drill, with some driving as far as 450 miles, without adequate travel compensation. Moreover, our veterans - who have already sacrificed enormously for our nation - face inadequate reimbursement rates and high deductibles that leave many of them without any assistance in traveling long distances for medical care. We need to do better, and I look forward to working closely with Senator Lincoln to provide the resources our troops and our veterans deserve." 
   "It is essential that we do everything we can to provide for those who have served our country and those who are serving today," said Lincoln. "This bill will take positive steps to ensuring our veterans and citizen soldiers do not have to pay their own way to receive the care or training they need. Many of Arkansas's 270,000 veterans live in rural areas and have to travel great distances to receive necessary medical care. Easing the financial burdens of our veterans and citizen soldiers is an issue of basic fairness, and we must not fail those who have sacrificed so greatly on our behalf, or those who continue to fight for our freedoms today." 
   Recently, the reimbursement rate for veterans who travel by car to VA medical centers was increased from 11 cents per mile to 28.5 cents per mile - the first increase since 1977 when the average price of gasoline was about 60 cents per gallon. While this increase was encouraging, Senators Coleman and Lincoln's legislation would reflect their belief that reimbursement should be increased to the meet or exceed the rate already provided for government travel. 
   Last year, Minnesota's VA Medical Centers processed more than 80,000 travel claims from veterans.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 