SEN. COLEMAN RETURNS FROM MIDEAST REGION UPBEAT ABOUT PROGRESS, PROSPECTS FOR EMERGING DEMOCRACIES IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN
  Just back from a 9 day trip with Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist and other colleagues to the Middle East and South Asia, Sen. Norm Coleman held a press conference Saturday, January 15th in his St. Paul senate office to report back on his meetings with Minnesota troops stationed in Baghdad, discussions with the leaders of Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India, talks in Brussels with top NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) and the rising optimism over the growth of democracy and prosperity in the region.  
   "The world is prepared to seize this moment of opportunity," said Coleman. "There is real chance for democracy to spread throughout the region because of the recent elections that took place in Afghanistan and the elections which are going to take place in Iraq this month. Growth and prosperity are now taking the place of tyranny and suppression. Afghanistan's streets and markets are bustling where 15 months ago they had seemed lifeless. India's middle class is growing tremendously. Pakistan is making strides towards a civilian democracy in 2007. This region is changing, and changing for the better." 
   A member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Coleman left Thursday, January 6, 2005, on the trip to meet with leaders such as Prime Minister Ayad Allawi of Iraq, President Musharaff of Pakistan, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India, and President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to discuss a wide range of strategic issues from the impending national elections in Iraq, cooperation in the war on terror, economic development and trade, and the worldwide response to the devastating Southeast Asian tsunami. 
   "Part of the changing landscape in this region can be credited to America's role and military assistance in the area," said Coleman. "In part, we are looked upon more favorably because of the humanitarian assistance our troops provided in Southeast Asia. We had a quick and generous response. But there's also been a massive amount of goodwill directed toward the U.S. because of what our military personnel and President Bush have accomplished elsewhere in the region. For example, in Afghanistan, President Karzai ran on and was elected on a platform of working with the U.S. There's been a paradigm shift in this country because of last year's election. Ten million people were registered to vote, and an overwhelming 82 percent cast a ballot, many of them women. This is a different country than! the one previously under Taliban rule, and we look for this effect to spread throughout the region." 
   During the press conference, Coleman focused on the continuation of building strong U.S. ties and diplomatic relations with leaders in each of these countries. In India, Coleman discussed economic and humanitarian ties with Prime Minister Singh, noting that relations between the U.S. and India have never been better. While in Pakistan, Coleman and the senatorial delegation expressed their concerns over Musharaff's failure to hold elections as scheduled, but were impressed with the Pakistani leader's commitment to what he called a "vision of enlightened moderation" for Muslim countries in the region. 
   In Iraq, Coleman and the other senators met with Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, U.S. military officials and U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte, as well as 100 leaders and sheiks from the Sunni minority and grass roots activists. Despite the rise in violence, Coleman said his delegation of senators were impressed with the progress and preparations by local officials leading up to the January 30th national elections. Each of the senators were also given the chance to meet with troop members from their home state. 
   "One of the highlights of the trip was my visit with the soldiers and members of Minnesota's 134th National Guard unit," continued Coleman. "They are doing a tremendous job. Although being away from home is hard on our troops, what I saw was that our service men and women are proud, are willing, and are committed to the mission at hand. While there, I was able to call members of their families back home to thank them and show my appreciation for! their service. I return home humbled by the sacrifice of our brave troops and the Iraqi people and convinced that the elections this month will lay the foundation for the peace and prosperity that we saw taking hold in Afghanistan."
 
 