SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES BREAKTHROUGH ON JOBS BILL
 Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today joined a majority of his colleagues in passing the Jumpstart Our Business Strength (JOBS) Act of 2004, a bill vital to helping U.S. manufacturers stay competitive in the global market place and necessary to stop European retaliatory tariffs against U.S. products, including many from Minnesota. The House of Representatives passed similar legislation June 21. The bill, which had been blocked by a minority of senators, will finally proceed to a Senate-House conference to iron out differences. 
   "If you care about stopping the off-shoring of American jobs and keeping the economic recovery going, we need to pass the JOBS bill quickly," said Coleman. "This bill ends European retaliatory tariffs against U.S. products, including many Minnesota products, which are now 9% and rising, and will provide $170 billion in tax relief for U.S. manufacturers to help them compete on a global playing field that is not always free and fair. I can't understand why this bill has been blocked for so long by the minority, but I am glad we're back on track."
   The National Association of Manufacturers has stated that it is absolutely necessary to pass the JOBS bill in order to keep U.S. manufacturers competitive and to retain American jobs. In January of 2002, the World Trade Organization (WTO) authorized the European Union to impose tariffs on nearly 100 types of U.S. exports if a tax credit (known as FSC/ETI) was not retooled. The punitive tariffs started at 5% on March 1st, increased to 9 % on July 1st, and are scheduled to increase 1% each month until reaching 17% next March unless Congressional action is taken. The Senate Republican leadership has been working to send the bill to conference with the House for some time now but a minority of senators has been blocking that move.
   The JOBS bill restructures the U.S. tax code to help American businesses compete in a global market that is not always free or fair. The JOBS bill brings U.S. tax policy into compliance with WTO rules while at the same time reducing the top tax rate for U.S. manufacturers from 35% to 32%.
   The JOBS bill also includes renewable energy provisions vital to Minnesota, including wind energy tax incentives, without which we risk losing thousands of jobs this year alone by putting new wind energy production and nearly $2 billion in economic activity on hold, and the biodiesel tax credit, which is essential to triggering the 2 percent state requirement and getting this industry off the ground. The volumetric tax credit, which Coleman has led the effort in promoting, is also included in this bill and would give Minnesota an 81-percent increase in highway funding, the largest in the country. Finally, the small ethanol producers' tax credit is also improved to make Minnesota farmer owned plants more competitive.
   The JOBS bill that passed today also includes a provision authored by Coleman and Senator Blanche Lincoln, a Democrat from Arkansas, that would eliminate the discriminatory triple tax on farmer-owned cooperative dividends. Also included are tax credits coauthored by Coleman for rural communities that would provide a tax credit for up to 30% of qualified investments in rural small businesses, up to a 70% credit for investment in newly constructed buildings in rural areas, and a 30% credit for investment in expansion of existing buildings.
   "If you care about wind energy credits and that growing industry in southern Minnesota, if you care about the biodiesel tax credit and the tax credit for Minnesota's small ethanol producers, and if you care about securing an 81% increase in highway funding for Minnesota, you need to care about passing the JOBS bill," said Coleman. "This bill means real, good paying jobs in the manufacturing as well as in the renewable fuels and value-added agriculture sectors."
 
 