SEN. COLEMAN: AMERICA MOVES CLOSER TO SECURING CHEMICAL FACILITIES
  Recognizing that security experts and Administration officials cite chemical security as a major vulnerability, Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today joined his colleagues on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee in unanimously approving the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Act. This legislation, of which Coleman is an original cosponsor, adopts a risk-based and performance-based approach to improving chemical security.  
   All chemical facilities that are covered under this bill will be required to create and implement a site security plan and address any identified vulnerabilities. Assessments will be required to address the threats and consequences of a terrorist attack, including vulnerabilities from hazardous chemicals. The bill will now proceed to the Senate floor for consideration by the full Senate. 
   "Tough, national standards for the security of chemical facilities are needed and this legislation brings our nation one step closer to that reality," Coleman said. "In the wake of 9-11, our nation is facing the threat of global terrorism. We must focus our resources on improving and expanding national security measures to ensure the safety of these facilities. This legislation takes a major step towards implementing the 9/11 Commission's recommendation to address private sector vulnerabilities and institute real chemical security reforms." 
   The bill also directs the Department of Homeland Security to take into consideration potentially dangerous factors such as the risk of death or illness caused by a terrorist attack at a facility and potential impact on national security, the economy and critical infrastructure. Additionally, it equips the Secretary of Homeland Security with the tools to oversee chemical plants and ensure their security and preparedness to respond to a terrorist attack. 
   "This bill strikes the right balance between tough regulation to enhance security and the need to ensure that we do not put U.S. companies out of business and cost Americans good jobs because of over-regulation," said Coleman. 
   In Minnesota alone there are over 50 chemical facilities whose Risk Management plans show that more than 10,000 people, and in some cases more than 100,000 people, might be at risk in the event of a chemical release. 
   "We should not be content with the current state of affairs when improvements can be made to improve the safety of American citizens," Coleman added. "This bill works to ensure the wellbeing of all Minnesotans by addressing the security vulnerabilities that still exist at our nation's chemical facilities, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to make sure this legislation passes."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 