SEN. COLEMAN LEGISLATION TO REQUIRE 100 PERCENT PORT SCREENING PLAN BY DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman has introduced a comprehensive bill (S.2410) that will require the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide a plan within 90 days on how to install a system that will screen 100 percent of all inbound maritime containers. Due to key concerns raised in the current controversy over the security of U.S. ports and his investigations into global supply chain security as Chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, Coleman believes that the U.S. must increase efforts to secure cargo from start to finish. 
   "Maritime trade is too important to our nation to continue with the status quo - a dismal 5 percent inspection rate," Coleman said. "One-hundred percent screening is a goal we should demand. Technology is poised to make this goal a reality. Port security must become one of our nation's top priorities rather than an afterthought. Instead of security being a cost of doing business, it needs to become a way of doing business."  
   Coleman says technology exists to solve our port security problems. As part of the PSI probe, Chairman Coleman recently traveled to Hong Kong to examine a system that demonstrates the potential to screen 100 percent of maritime containers. Each container in the Hong Kong port flows through an integrated system featuring an imaging machine (similar to an x-ray), a radiation scan, and a system to identify the container. This system enhances inspections without impeding commerce. 
   The comprehensive legislation will also include the provisions from The Foreign Investment Transparency and Security Act (FITSA) of 2006, a bill Coleman recently introduced to prohibit foreign government controlled entities from managing a national security related facility or investment. Instead, the legislation will permit foreign governments to own and invest in such facilities provided that the foreign government establishes a U.S. general business corporation. Much like the concept of a blind trust, the foreign government can own and benefit economically from its investment, but cannot control or manage day-to-day operations in the U.S. 
   "For more than two years, my Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI) has been engaged in an oversight investigation into port security, supply chain security and nuclear terrorism. And my findings are troubling," Coleman said. "Our post-9/11 world demands new ideas for port security and foreign investment. While I'm pleased with today's announcement by Dubai Ports World as it complies with my proposed legislation that puts the day-to-day operations in the hands of a U.S. corporate entity, we have to remember this is not an isolated case. My legislation will address the future of these transactions, as well as other U.S. ports currently controlled by foreign governments. It is time to take security seriously and to implement these reforms to truly enhance our national and economic security." 
   The PSI investigation has found that four and a half years after the September 11th attacks, the U.S. still inspects less than 5 percent of maritime containers. Both the Government Accountability Office and the Homeland Security Inspector General have found that the targeting system - which identifies the containers to inspect - is seriously flawed. Equally disturbing, less than 40 percent of all containers entering the commerce of the U.S. are screened for radiation. The program to implement security standards in the supply chain - the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism - is completely voluntary. The U.S. still does not have standards for a uniform container seal or secure identification for port employees. 
   Coleman will hold additional hearings March 28th and 30th hearings to address supply chain security and the U.S. Government efforts to prevent terrorists from smuggling a radiological or nuclear weapon into the United States. At these follow-up PSI hearings, Coleman will unveil a Subcommittee report on supply chain security as well as two GAO reports commissioned by the Chairman on the domestic effort to deploy radiation equipment by the Department of Homeland Security and the international effort to deploy equipment led by the Department of Energy.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 