SENS. COLEMAN, KLOBUCHAR PRESSURE AIR FORCE TO DEVELOP LONG-TERM PLAN FOR DULUTH 148TH FIGHTER WING
  Minnesota Sens. Norm Coleman and Amy Klobuchar today held a joint meeting with Air Force, Minnesota National Guard, and Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce officials to discuss the future of the 148th Airbase aircraft. The base is currently outfitted with Block 25 F-16 fighter jets, which are scheduled to be gradually phased into non-combat training missions. In 2005, the Minnesota Congressional delegation was successful in securing a guarantee that the 148th Airbase would receive a long-term mission from the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC). During today's meeting, Sens. Coleman and Klobuchar received an assurance from Air Force officials that the 148th Fighter Wing will be upgraded to the Block 40 F-16 aircraft in fiscal year 2013. In the meantime, Block 25 aircraft will be used to continue the current mission to protect U.S. airspace, including participation in Operation Noble Eagle and other global support roles.  
   "While we were assured the 148th Fighter Wing is on track to receive upgraded aircraft, I still have concerns about the Block 40 F-16 representing a long-term solution," said Coleman. "In 2013, we cannot be put into a situation where we need yet another upgrade. My colleagues and I worked extremely hard through the BRAC process to ensure a continuing flying mission for the 148th in Duluth. The 148th has proven itself time and time again, and I will continue working with Senator Klobuchar, Congressman Oberstar, and Governor Pawlenty to create a concrete follow-on mission for the future of this critical wing and for the city of Duluth." 
   "This morning we stressed to the Air Force officials that now is not the time to start limiting the role of Duluth's 148th Fighter Wing, a highly decorated unit that has served two tours in Iraq. I am encouraged to hear they are developing a long-term plan for the Wing and the Air Guard base but we will continue to pressure the Pentagon to ensure that the 148th receives the airplanes it needs to continue its mission of defending this nation, at home and overseas," said Klobuchar. 
   Meeting attendees included: Major General Charles E. Stenner, USAF; Brigadier General Stanley Clarke, Air National Guard; General Tim Cossalter, Minnesota Air National Guard - 148th FW; Herb Bergson, Mayor, City of Duluth; Dave Ross, Mayor, City of Superior, WI; Dennis Dalbec, City of Superior, WI; Rachel Johnson, Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce; Mike Lundstrom, Hermantown Chamber of Commerce; David Minor, Superior/Douglas County Chamber of Commerce; Andy Peterson, Duluth Chamber of Commerce; Brian Ryks, Duluth Airport Authority; Peg Sweeney, St. Louis County Commissioner (5th Dist.)
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 