SEN. COLEMAN TO HOLD RURAL HEALTH CARE LISTENING SESSION IN MONTEVIDEO
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced he will be hosting a Rural Health Care listening session in Montevideo next Wednesday, March 22nd, at the Hunt on Main beginning at 10:45 a.m. as part of a three-day visit to western Minnesota. During the session, Coleman will hear from a number of local health care officials and workers on the advancement, challenges and future of rural health care. Coleman will also discuss his recent rural health initiatives, such as his Critical Access to Health Information Technology Act and his Remote Monitoring Access Act.  
   "I know that in rural Minnesota, residents face many unique challenges in terms of health care, and this event will be extremely valuable to me as we look at ways to address these challenges," said Coleman. "At the same time, Minnesota's health care system is one of the best in nation, and our rural doctors, clinics and hospitals play a large role in that. Next week's event will help me better understand both the successes and challenges of Minnesota's rural health care system, and ultimately allow me to continue working to improve the health care of folks in Greater Minnesota." 
   In November, Coleman introduced two bills directly aimed at improving rural health care. The first, the Critical Access to Health Information Technology Act, would help rural hospitals compete with larger hospitals for federal health technology grants. The second bill, the Remote Monitoring Access Act, would allow Medicare to cover physician services involved with the remote management of specific medical conditions, such as congestive heart failure and diabetes. These technologies allow physicians to monitor and treat patients without a face-to-face office visit, thereby increasing access to physicians for patients living in rural areas 
   During Wednesday's Rural Health Care Summit, Sen. Coleman will meet with a number of local officials and civic leaders. The Rural Health Care Summit is open to the general public and media availability will follow the event. 
   SCHEDULE--WENDESDAY MARCH 22, 2006 
   Time: 10:45 - 11:45 a.m. 
   Location: Hunt on Main (formerly the Hotel Hunt) 
  207 N. 1st Street 
  Montevideo, MN 56265
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 