SEN. COLEMAN URGES TOP STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL TO SWIFTLY ADDRESS MASSIVE PASSPORT BACKLOG
  Sen. Norm Coleman today pressed the State Department for quick action to address the massive passport application backlog during a meeting with Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Maura Harty. Harty, who oversees the passport application process at the State Department, met with Coleman at the senator's request and briefed him on additional measures being taken to respond to passport applicant needs, including new call centers, additional staff and mandatory overtime.  
   "The passport situation at the State Department right now is a mess," said Coleman. "My staff and I have heard from hundreds of constituents who are facing the potential loss of significant money and cherished family time through no fault of their own. I find it unacceptable that these families are correctly following the timeline for passport applications and still not receiving them in time. I have directed my staff to concentrate heavily on this issue until it is resolved. While I was glad to learn about additional State Department resources being devoted to resolving this situation, there is obviously much more that must be done." 
   Coleman, who recently hired an additional staff member to work exclusively on Minnesota passport cases, requested today's meeting in response to the more than 300 requests his office has received related to the delay in the past few weeks- which is threatening family vacations and potential losses of thousands of dollars for families that have already booked travel. The backlog is primarily a result of passport applications that have increased by over 40% from the same time period last year, due to the new passport requirement for air travel between the U.S. and Mexico, Canada and other Western Hemisphere nations. 
   "This situation also illustrates how disruptive the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative's land border implementation could be if the Administration seriously intends to use a January 2008 deadline to require a passport or other document to drive to Canada. Secretary Chertoff testified last month before the Homeland Security Committee that this year's roll-out of the air rule had been 'flawless.' Obviously this was not the case, and I intend to call him on that," Coleman added. 
   Anyone experiencing delays in their passport applications can check the status of their application by calling the National Passport Center at 1-877-487-2778 or logging on to http://www.travel.state.gov. Additionally, Sen. Coleman has put an advisory on his Senate website with contact numbers and background information on the backlog, which can be accessed at www.coleman.senate.gov. 
   "I want folks to know I will continue doing everything in my power to address this situation," said Coleman. "Going forward, I would encourage anyone in need of a passport within six months to apply now, just to be on the safe side."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 