SENS. COLEMAN, DAYTON, REPS. MCCOLLUM, PETERSON VISIT MINNESOTA TROOPS AT CAMP SHELBY
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN), along with Sen. Mark Dayton (D-MN),and Reps. Colin Peterson (D-MN) and Betty McCollum (D-MN) today will visit the Minnesota National Guard 1st Brigade Combat Team stationed at Camp Shelby, Mississippi, in advance of the unit's deployment to Iraq expected to take place on March 22nd. The event, entitled "Saint Paul to Camp Shelby: a Special Meal from Home," will be highlighted by a meal for the troops that includes char-grilled steaks from Mancini's and salad from Cossetta's Italian Market - both of which are located in St. Paul, as well as live entertainment from two Minnesota bands. The St. Paul-based "Serving Our Troops" group that also organized the "St. Paul to Kosovo" meal a few years back is sponsoring this event.  
   "I am both honored and excited to visit these brave Minnesota soldiers in advance of their deployment to Iraq," said Coleman. "With over 2,600 Minnesota National Guard now being deployed, this will mark the largest mobilization of Minnesota National Guard troops since World War II. The sacrifices they have made are immeasurable, and I am humbled by this opportunity to meet with them. Hopefully, the warm, home-cooked meal will serve as a small token of our appreciation, and provide them one last taste of home before the leave." 
   "The members of the Minnesota National Guard are dedicated to their mission; they redefine courage and patriotism as I understand those words," said Dayton. "I have huge respect for their commitment and dedication." 
   "These men and women of the Minnesota National Guard are always there for us - it's important for us to let them know that we are there for them too," said Peterson. "We will never be able to adequately express our gratitude for all they do and for what they are about to do, but for my part I guarantee them my own unwavering support and respect." 
   During Wednesday's event, the troops will be served by a number of St. Paul-area restaurant workers, members of the Twin Cities community and other volunteers. Senators Coleman and Dayton and Reps. McCollum and Peterson will meet and greet the soldiers during the meal. The event will also feature entertainment from two Minnesota-based bands - Paddy Wagon, along with members of GB Leighton. 
   Since September 11, 2001, the Minnesota National Guard has mobilized and deployed approximately 11,000 soldiers and airmen to more than 30 countries. The Minneapolis-based 1st Brigade Combat Team includes units from throughout the state of Minnesota. It is part of the 34th Infantry Division which is currently on active duty supporting Operation Iraqi Freedom. The Brigade has been training for the past six months at Camp Shelby, and is slated to spend 12 months overseas before returning to Minnesota in late spring 2007.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 