SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES UNANIMOUS PASSAGE OF FY06 DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL; INCLUDES SEN. COLEMAN'S AMENDMENT TO STRENGTHEN AMERICA'S FOREIGN LANGUAGE SKILLS
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today joined the full Senate in unanimously passing the FY 2006 Department of Defense Authorization bill (S.1042). This bill authorizes $441.6 billion in funding for our nation's military departments and agencies, including the National Guard and Reserve, and resources for the War on Terror. In addition, the bill authorizes supplemental funding of $50 billion to cover the cost of current military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. This bill also contains an amendment offered by Sen. Coleman that directs the Secretary of Defense to develop incentives for our nation's Military Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) students to study a foreign language, placing a special emphasis on Arabic and Chinese, in the interest of maintaining national security.  
   The FY06 DOD Authorization bill contains numerous measures aimed at improving the quality of life of military personnel and their families. Provisions include a 3.1 percent across-the-board pay raise for all military personnel, the extension of permanent Tricare health coverage to all members of the National Guard and Reserve, and an increase in the maximum amount of coverage available under the Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance program from $250,000 to $400,000. 
   "It is important that we enhance the welfare of those who defend America at home and abroad by providing them with the benefits they deserve," said Coleman. "The extension of permanent Tricare health coverage to all members of the National Guard and Reserve is a great accomplishment, and builds on other important provisions of the bill that meet the needs of Minnesota troops and provide vital resources for defense projects across the state. I am especially pleased that my foreign languages amendment was also included in this bill, as I feel that foreign language skills are a critical element in our national security strategy. America's public diplomacy efforts will be significantly bolstered through our ability to communicate our message in key languages such as Arabic and Chinese. The increase of foreign language skills will also serve to strengthen our intelligence gathering efforts, a key factor for success in the War on Terror." 
   Also included in the bill is an amendment authored by Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) to ensure that the U.S. remains true to its values when dealing with detainees from the war on terror. The McCain-Graham amendment establishes the Army Field Manual as the standard for interrogations, and prohibits the use of inhumane treatment for prisoners. This will standardize the treatment of detainees captured in the war on terror and prevent future cases of mistreatment. With Sen. Coleman's support, this measure was passed by an overwhelming majority of 90-9. 
   "Passage of the McCain-Graham amendment demonstrates the Senate's commitment to ensuring that the U.S. maintains the highest standards of human rights without undermining our ability to prosecute the War on Terror," said Coleman. "I am proud to have voted for this measure that upholds a high American standard."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 