SEN. COLEMAN TO TRAVEL TO GUATEMALA TO ADDRESS PENDING ADOPTION CHANGES
  Continuing his efforts to address the impact of changes for international adoptions in Guatemala resulting from the pending implementation of the Hague Convention on Intercountry Adoptions, Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman will be traveling to Guatemala shortly after Thanksgiving. Coleman will meet with Guatemalan government and U.S. State Department officials to discuss the implications of the treaty, as well as possible solutions to protect adoptions currently being processed for Minnesota families. Coleman also anticipates meeting with Minnesota families and adoptive Guatemalan children during his trip. The Hague Convention is an international agreement intended to safeguard adopted children from trafficking. Once the treaty goes into effect in Guatemala, which is currently expected to be on January 1, 2008, Guatemala will stop all processing of adoption cases with non-Hague countries, including the United States. The United States is expected to complete Hague implementation during the coming year.  
   Recently, Senator Coleman met with the Ambassador of Guatemala, Guillermo Castillo to discuss the Guatemalan government's next steps in addressing this issue. Castillo made assurances to Senator Coleman that he believes the Guatemalan legislature will pass legislation to allow any adoptions to the U.S. currently in the process to move ahead, even after implementation of the Hague Convention. During Senator Coleman's visit, he will work to ensure that all families with adoptions already underway are able to complete them, as well as to discuss other concerns relating to adoptions. Prior to his trip, Coleman will be holding a meeting with Minnesota families in the process of adopting Guatemalan children in order to raise their cases during his visit. 
   "Countless Minnesota families have brought children from Guatemala into a loving home through international adoption," said Coleman. "I've personally met with and assisted many of these families, and I am extremely concerned that changes to the adoption process in Guatemala could prevent future children from being adopted by a U.S. family. While I am pleased that Ambassador Castillo has indicated that Guatemalan officials are working to allow U.S. families to continue to adopt children after the implementation of the Hague treaty, I will use my visit to Guatemala to help ensure that U.S. families currently in the adoption process, as well as the affected children in need of a home, are not left out in the cold by the pending changes." 
   Last month, Senator Coleman, along with Senator Mary Landrieu (D-LA), sent two separate letters on this issue; one to Guatemalan President Oscar Berger and one to the leadership of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). These letters encourage an interim measure for pending adoption applications in Guatemala. Specifically, these letters encourage President Berger and the Guatemalan government to allow adoption applications filed before Hague implementation to continue after that date. This type of "grandfather clause" would allow for legal adoptions with United States citizens to continue uninterrupted. 
   As co-chairs of Congressional Coalition on Adoption, Senators Coleman and Landrieu have championed a number of initiatives to encourage adoption including, most recently, the passage of a provision to permit American foster children adopted after the age of 13 to file for federal college financial aid as independent students, removing a financial disincentive for teen adoptions. 
   Today Senators Coleman and Landrieu will also be introducing a Senate Resolution recognizing National Adoption Day, which will be celebrated this Saturday, November 17th. The resolution, which has 15 additional Senate co-sponsors, expresses the Senate's support for promoting national awareness of adoption and the children awaiting families; celebrating children and families involved in adoption; and encouraging Americans to secure safety, permanency, and well-being for all children.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 