SEN. COLEMAN BACKS DISASTER AID FOR MINNESOTA FARM FAMILIES
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that the Senate passed disaster assistance for U.S. farm and ranch families suffering from weather related crop losses. Coleman, who strongly backed the disaster legislation, noted that the bill provides traditional disaster assistance, including a crop disaster program, a livestock assistance program, and a quality loss assistance program.  
   "I am proud to have been a part of the effort to get this disaster relief legislation successfully passed in the Senate," said Coleman. "Minnesota farm families should know that the federal government is stepping up to assist with crop losses that will affect their bottom line. This bi-partisan effort is something we need more of in Washington." 
   The bipartisan disaster relief measure was included as an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. Under the amendment supported by Senator Coleman, producers are eligible for disaster relief for qualifying losses in the 2003 or 2004 crop years. The Crop Disaster Program covers all crops, including insurable crops, uninsured crops, and non-insurable crops. However producers must participate in crop insurance or in the Noninsured Assistance Program (NAP) for the next two years as a condition of eligibility for disaster assistance under this program. Crop losses in excess of 35% are covered at 65% of market value except uninsured crops are covered at 60% of their market value. Quality losses exceeding 20% will also be covered. Finally, livestock producers will be compensated for lost feed based on the value of the feed lost due to weather conditions. 
   "Whether you have already suffered losses or whether you are still waiting to see what weather conditions in the coming days bring, this disaster relief amendment will provide you with assistance if you suffer a loss," said Coleman. "As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, I was pleased to be part of the bipartisan group that developed this important legislation."
 
 