SEN. COLEMAN'S PROPOSAL TO RESTORE CRITICAL TITLE I FUNDING FOR MINNESOTA SCHOOLS CLEARS SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE
  Sen. Norm Coleman's efforts to prevent Minnesota schools from suffering a $12 million cut in Title I funding for schools with a high percentage of low income students took a big step forward today as his bi-partisan legislation to restore Title I funding in Minnesota and 11 other states cleared the Senate Appropriations Committee. Coleman's proposal, part of the Fiscal Year 2005 Labor/HHS/Education Appropriations bill, provides $71,577,000 which would, in effect, protect Minnesota and the other states from proposed Title I cuts.  
   "I'm very proud and pleased that the proposal I introduced in legislation earlier this year was incorporated into this appropriations bill," Coleman said. "We are one step closer to making sure Minnesota's much needed Title I education funding remains constant, not cut. One of my most important responsibilities as Minnesota's senator is to ensure that our schools have the resources they need to teach our kids. This kind of cut is unacceptable to me. This has been a long fight, but one that it looks like we're winning." 
   Coleman introduced the measure after the U.S. Department of Education changed its policy in distributing Title I funding this year. For the first time ever, the Department of Education plans to use "annually" updated child poverty estimates (following No Child Left Behind Act). These estimates, which are a statistical update of Census data and not the result of a head count, are of questionable quality and differ markedly from data available to Congress when developing the Fiscal Year 2004 Appropriations bill that passed the Senate on January 22nd. The census compares the poverty percentage rates among the states. 
   The legislation holds all states harmless that received cuts in 2004 in Title I funding over 2003 levels. That means the 11 states that received less Title I funding in 2004 will receive the same amount of funding in 2004 as they received in 2003. Minnesota received $12,080,401 less than in FY03. 
   Among those co-sponsoring the legislation were Senator Kennedy, Senator Dayton, Senator Bond, Senator Levin, Senator Roberts, Senator Talent, Senator Stabenow, and Senator Brownback. Besides Minnesota, the affected states are Kansas, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, Montana, New Hampshire, North Dakota, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. 
   The legislation will next be considered by the full U.S. Senate.
 
 