SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILL TO DIAL UP ENERGY SAVINGS FOR MINNESOTA FAMILIES
  Responding to the rising cost of heating Minnesota homes this winter, Sen. Coleman recently introduced the Home Energy Savings Incentives Act of 2005, S. 2105. This bill takes a new approach to bringing down costs by providing tax incentives to homeowners who make home upgrades that save electricity and heating fuel.  
   "As temperatures drop, Congress needs to be prepared to step up to address the problem of high energy prices and offer real solutions," said Coleman. "This bill provides a fresh way to keep prices down by offering incentives to individuals for taking steps to use less electricity and heating fuel. Families who take advantage of this program and make energy saving upgrades at home will benefit twofold as they immediately feel the impact in their pocketbooks from lower utility bills, which can save an estimated 30 to 50 percent, and when they receive tax credits--up to $5,000--at the end of the year based on the amount of energy they have saved." 
   While providing direct relief to program participants, this bill would provide tremendous benefits to all households across the country. These households that heat primarily with natural gas are expected to spend on average 48 percent more this winter in fuel expenditures and 32 percent more for heating oil. By lowering the demand for energy overall, this bill provides utility bill relief for all by taking pressure off of rising prices. 
   Here is how this bill provides utility bill relief to Americans: 
   * A homeowner or renter will consult a qualified energy rater who will inform the resident what level of energy savings can be achieved by making certain home upgrades. Qualified purchases can be as basic as energy efficient light bulbs and weather stripping or as substantial as a new energy efficient furnace. 
   * After consultation with an energy rater, the resident can then make the home upgrade purchases based on the desired level of energy savings. The resident will receive a tax credit of $10 for every therm of heating fuel savings and 65 cents for each kilowatt hour of electricity saved that year as a result of the upgrades. 
   * After the resident reaches a level of 15 percent energy savings, the homeowner can receive up to $5,000 in tax credits. 
   "Families in Minnesota and across the nation are facing a terrible home energy crisis right now and many do not have the financial resources to make changes that will drastically reduce their costs," said Coleman. "Unfortunately, home retrofit incentives are currently limited to $500 and are not tied to actual energy savings. This bill changes that by increasing the amount to $5,000 and bases those tax credits on the actual therms and kilowatt hours saved at home. This legislation would make a new, energy efficient home furnace a reality for many Minnesotans. The incentives in my bill put everyday homeowners and renters in a position to make commonsense energy upgrades that will make energy prices more affordable in the near term." 
   As Chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, Sen. Coleman will hold hearings in the upcoming new year to investigate the prices of natural gas to ensure that families are not paying more than they should to heat their homes. 
   Additionally, Coleman recently introduced the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act along with a bipartisan group of senators to help the U.S. achieve energy independence. This aggressive energy plan directs the federal government to save 2.5 million barrels of oil a day in ten years, and through the use of existing technology and renewable fuels that are made in Minnesota, the Act lays out a long-term plan to reduce our nation's imports of foreign sources of oil.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 