SENS. COLEMAN, KLOBUCHAR INTRODUCE LEGISLATION FOR CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF DM&E LOAN
  Continuing their efforts to address the safety concerns of Rochester, Minnesota Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) today introduced legislation to prevent the Department of Transportation (DOT) from making any loan of $1 billion or more, such as the Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad (DM&E) project, without Congressional approval. Specifically, the bill will prevent DOT from making a loan of $2.3 billion to the DM&E project even if the loan has been approved by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) unless both Houses of Congress pass a joint resolution approving the project. This bill will include fast-track procedures that will ensure transportation project loans are not blocked procedurally, but will receive an up or down vote.  
   On January 31, the FRA approved the Environmental Impact Statement for the DM&E project, which began the 90-day clock for FRA to make a final decision on the $2.3 billion loan. 
   "Only 73 days remain before a decision must be made by FRA, and there still isn't a mitigation plan that protects Rochester. This project poses serious safety concerns for Rochester, and we believe that transportation loans of this magnitude should be voted on by Congress," said Coleman. "If the DM&E loan is granted, the federal government is approving a multi-billion dollar project that affects the lives of thousands of Americans across several states. The American people deserve an opportunity for their Members in Congress to be heard on a loan of this size. In the end, I remain committed to finding a mitigation solution to the DM&E Railroad issue that will be a win-win for all parties involved. If that solution is unreachable, Congress should have the final say on this loan, which affects so many Americans." 
   "This legislation will give Congress the opportunity to make sure that the concerns of the citizens of Rochester and Minnesota are addressed" said Klobuchar. "More generally, this bill will allow members of Congress to do their job: to protect the public interest by reviewing and approving loans that affect thousands of their constituents and to make sure that any billion-dollar loan to a private company is a good investment of the public's money." 
   Specifically, the bill prevents the Department of Transportation from approving loans of $1 billion or more without the approval of Congress. The Secretary must send notice of such loans to Congress, and a joint resolution for approval would then be referred to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. The committees must then report on this resolution within 15 days or it will be put on the appropriate calendar of each House. Any Member in each House can then move to proceed to the consideration of the resolution, and all points of order against the resolution are waived, it is not debatable, subject to amendment, or any other procedural hurdle that would prevent an up or down vote.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 