SEN. COLEMAN AMENDMENT WOULD CREATE WHTI PILOT PROGRAM FOR DRIVER'S LICENSES
  The Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee yesterday unanimously passed Sen. Norm Coleman's amendment to the 9-11 Commission legislation (S. 4) that would require the Department of Homeland Security to institute a pilot program to determine if enhanced driver's licenses are suitable documentation for travel between the United States and Canada as part of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). The amendment also requires DHS to submit a report to Congress evaluating the pilot project and mapping out the next steps, including an expansion to additional states and Canadian provinces.  
   "The reality is that driver's licenses are becoming more secure and should be explored as a potential form of documentation for travel to and from Canada," said Coleman. "For the last year, I have been pushing for a pilot program that would move this concept forward. Not only does my amendment ensure that a pilot takes place, but it also requires an analysis of the next steps involved in expanding this possible solution to additional states. This amendment will not delay the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, but will require DHS to study a possible solution that makes sense to many Americans, particularly those in border communities." 
   Coleman's amendment would require DHS to sign a memorandum of understanding to conduct the pilot program with one or more states as part of the requirements set forth by the Leahy-Stevens amendment last year. 
   WHTI will require all travelers, including U.S. citizens, to and from Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean, to have a passport or other accepted document that establishes the bearer's identity and nationality to enter or re-enter the United States. This is a change from prior travel requirements. The proposed changes were originally scheduled to go into effect by December 31, 2007. An amendment to extend the deadline to June 1, 2009 was passed as part of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations conference report, but the Administration has signaled an intent to implement as early as January 2008.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 