SEN. COLEMAN TO MEET WITH PRESIDENT FOX OF MEXICO DURING MINNESOTA VISIT
  Sen. Norm Coleman, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps and Narcotics, will meet one-on-one with President Vicente Fox of Mexico during his visit to Minnesota Friday to discuss opportunities and challenges in the U.S.-Mexico relationship. 
   "I am pleased to welcome President Fox to Minnesota," Coleman said. "This visit, as well as the opening of a Mexican consulate in Minnesota, testifies to the important relationship between the state of Minnesota and the nation of Mexico."
   Coleman plans to engage Fox in a discussion of trade, energy and the importance of a continued partnership to fight terrorism, drug trafficking and human rights violations. Challenges elsewhere in the hemisphere, including Haiti and Venezuela, will also be on the agenda.
   "A tremendous opportunity exists for partnership with Mexico - opportunities related to energy, trade and economic development in both of our nations," Coleman said. "The shared interests between the United States and Mexico are great."
   Coleman will emphasize the importance of finding a resolution to sweetener discussions currently taking place between Mexico and U.S. sugar and corn growers and refiners.
   "Both Minnesota's sugar and corn producers have a big stake in the resolution of the sweetener dispute between our two countries," Coleman said. "I am encouraged that discussions are now taking place to resolve this issue, and I will underscore with President Fox how important a resolution is to both of our nations."
   In light of high gas prices the nation is confronting, Coleman will discuss the potential for increased energy cooperation in the Western Hemisphere and Mexico's role as a reliable oil exporter to improve energy security and affordability.
   Coleman will also underscore the importance of respecting the rule of law, raising the case of Cynthia Kiecker, a Minnesota citizen charged with a crime in Mexico. Coleman has pressed the Kiecker case with high-level Mexican and American authorities, including with Mexico's Ambassador to Washington last week.
   The Minnesota senator will accompany Fox at official events throughout the day, which include a welcome ceremony at the Governor's Residence, a public reception at the Academia Cesar Chavez Charter School in St. Paul and Head of State Dinner.
 
 