SEN. COLEMAN SCORES SEVERAL VICTORIES ON ENERGY BILL
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman scored several victories today as the Senate finance committee voted to include several Coleman backed provisions for wind and biodeisel in the tax portion of the Energy Bill, while the full Senate adopted an amendment coauthored by the Minnesota senator to require the U.S. to move toward wind energy for its electricity generation.  
   These efforts come on the heels of Coleman provisions already added in the bill earlier, including the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS), which more than doubles ethanol use in America by 2012, and the Excelsior Energy project which would fund clean coal technology in Northeast Minnesota. 
   This morning, the Senate Finance Committee adopted a package of energy tax items, including an extension of the biodiesel tax credit through 2008 and an extension of the 1.9 per kilowatthour wind energy tax credit, and authorization to issue bonds to raise capital for wind energy projects. All three legislative initiatives are based on Coleman coauthored legislation, including wind energy bonds which Senator Coleman proposed in his Rural Renaissance Act. 
   "I am very pleased that the Energy bill will extend the biodiesel and wind energy tax credits," said Coleman. "This is exactly what Minnesotans I spoke with at my Renewable Fuels Summit in Marshall earlier this year said they wanted. I am also pleased to have gained inclusion of bonding for wind energy projects that I first proposed in my Rural Renaissance bill. This is a good start." 
   Meanwhile, the full Senate adopted an amendment coauthored by Coleman that established a Renewable Energy Standard requiring that 10 percent of all electricity be derived from renewable resources, like wind, by 2020. 
   "With Minnesota's wind energy production the fastest growing in the nation, the extension of wind energy tax credits, the Rural Renaissance style bonding authority, and the Renewable Energy Standard are all important incentives, for greater energy independence, environmental protection, and economic development." 
   "With 3 biodiesel plants in Minnesota so far, and with the new state two percent requirement coming this summer, the extension of the biodiesel tax credit is critical." 
   Earlier this week, Coleman and a bipartisan coalition of colleagues succeeded in adding a Renewable Fuels Standard to more than double ethanol use in America by 2012. Before that he succeeded in adding the Excelsior Energy project to the Energy Bill. 
   "With 16 ethanol plants in Minnesota, the RFS means jobs, as well as cleaner air and water, less dependence on foreign oil, and lower fuel prices at the pump. Excelsior Energy introduces clean coal technology to America and more than 1000 new jobs in Northeast Minnesota. All in all, not a bad week for the State of Minnesota."
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 