SEN. COLEMAN'S OFFICE TO DISCUSS AREA CONCERNS IN SOUTHWESTERN MINNESOTA
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that Gerald Woodley, regional representative for Coleman's Mankato Office, will be visiting the Southwest communities of Arco, Wood Lake, Clarkfield, Russell, and Florence on Wednesday, May 25, 2005, on the Senator's behalf in order to help address issues of concern and rural economic development with local communities and area leaders. This tour is part of the Senator's goal of visiting each community across Minnesota, and in addition, Woodley will address the importance of Coleman's Rural Renaissance Act that was reintroduced this past March. The bill provides for a one-time federal investment to jump-start Minnesota's rural economy and develop and improve on vital infrastructure.  
   "As a former mayor, I know the importance of reaching out to local communities and officials who lead the charge in the growth and development of our state's cities and towns," said Coleman. "I know that rural America is facing some important infrastructure and economic challenges that make it hard for our communities to participate in the national economic recovery now underway. The Rural Renaissance Act will empower residents and business to upgrade their community's aging infrastructure, attract new investment and jobs, while still maintaining their small town values and way of life. I'm pleased to have Gerald out in the field so he can address these important concerns." 
   "I enjoy getting out in the field to discuss and listen to which issues most concern each individual community," said Woodley. "It's also a great time to meet with city officials and community members since the reintroduction of Senator Coleman's Rural Renaissance Act in March-my trip will help us assess what impact it can have on the region, especially in the Southwest where renewable energy has a lot of potential and where there is a growing need for improved infrastructure and essential community facilities." 
   Woodley's Clarkfield stop will include a visit to the Clarkfield Fire Hall for a reception and gear inspection in acknowledgment of the Senator's support to help the firehouse secure a nearly $90,000 FEMA grant last fall. The Clarkfield Volunteer Fire Department used the grant funds to purchase new turnout gear (jackets, bunker pants, boots, gloves, helmets, and air packs). 
   Senators Norm Coleman and Mark Pryor (D-AR) reintroduced the $50 billion Rural Renaissance Act on March 3, 2005. Coleman and Pryor were joined by Senators Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC). The $50 billion in grants and loans made available by the legislation would be distributed in communities with populations under 50,000 and be used for eligible rural projects including water and waste facilities; high speed internet access; essential community facilities like police and fire stations, assisted living and nursing homes, and hospitals; telemedicine and distance learning; teleworks; conservation projects; housing; as well as farmer-owned value-added and renewable fuels projects. 
   Coleman's recent visits to Southwest Minnesota included a Renewable Energy Forum in Marshall, Lyon County on March 4, 2005 to discuss the importance of renewable energy to Minnesota's environment and economy, as well as a visit to Luverne, Rock County, April 8, 2005, as part of a three-city tour to discuss issues regarding Minnesota veterans and veterans facilities. 
   Woodley also traveled to Storden, Jeffers, Wabasso, and Seaforth this past April as part of the Rural Renaissance bill reintroduction. 
   Schedule for the trip is as follows: 
   8:30 a.m. Wood Lake City Hall 
  10:00 a.m. Clarkfield Fire Hall 
  1:00 p.m. Russell City Hall 
  2:30 p.m. Florence City Garage 
  4:00 p.m. Bethany Lutheran Church in Arco
 
 