SEN. COLEMAN VOTES AGAINST BUDGET BILL WITH ARCTIC DRILLING
  Despite his opposition to the ANWR provision included in the 2007 Budget Resolution (S. Con. Res. 83), Coleman praised other aspects of the budget measure that leaves the Farm Bill whole, includes strong support for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), LIHEAP, Medicare, Medicaid and clean, affordable energy production. The 2007 Budget passed the Senate by a vote of 51 to 49. However, Coleman voted against the Budget, citing his longstanding opposition to oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). While Coleman was disappointed by ANWR's inclusion, he feels confident that this budget puts America on the path to meeting the President's goal of cutting the deficit in half by 2009. 
   "I am pleased that this budget reflects Republican efforts to restrain government spending, while funding national priorities such as homeland and border security, as well as health and education programs," said Coleman. "Despite the many positive aspects of this budget, I want to make it clear once again that opening up ANWR is not a long-term solution to either our energy or budget challenges. Nevertheless, in the end we passed a budget that is fiscally responsible and protects Minnesota priorities."  
   Coleman achieved a major victory with his amendment to fully fund the Clean Coal Power Initiative (CCPI) was included in the Budget Resolution. The CCPI program is authorized to receive $200 million annually through FY14 in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 signed into law last year. The President's budget proposal had requested only $5 million dollars for CCPI, leaving the program $195 million short of its mark. CCPI, which is in its fourth year of funding, supports cost-shared projects with the private sector to demonstrate new technologies that could boost the efficiency and reduce emissions from coal-fired power plants authorized. 
   "The Clean Coal Power Initiative provides critical funding for clean coal projects, like the Mesaba coal gasification power project in Northeast Minnesota that paves the way for the creation of hundreds of jobs and significant new economic development," said Coleman. "America's current struggle to deal with high natural gas and heating oil prices demonstrate the immediate need for clean coal technology. The United States has a 250 year supply of coal, and the CCPI program will allow us to use innovative technologies to cultivate this great energy resource cleanly and efficiently. Based on the six-fold increase in natural gas prices since 1999 and the volatility of natural gas prices after two major hurricanes, the U.S. must diversify our domestic energy resources to meet our energy needs, as well as our goal of energy independence. This funding for the CCPI program is a win for Minnesota and America's long term energy vision." 
   Coleman was particularly pleased this year's budget did not include mandatory spending reductions to key Minnesota programs and applauded his colleagues for producing a budget that places a high priority on important Minnesota issues such as the farm bill, Medicare, Medicaid, Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), LIHEAP, and clean, affordable energy. 
   "In the end, CDBG was taken off the chopping block where it was scheduled to be cut to the tune of one billion dollars," said Coleman. "Any mayor across this country will tell you the CDBG program is the lifeblood of their community, functioning as a catalyst for creation of jobs, affordable housing and long-term economic development. I am pleased to have co-authored an amendment that increases funding to $4.3 billion in FY2007-- a full $600 million above the 2006 level, and $1 billion above the president's request for 2007." 
   Coleman also voted in favor of an amendment to increase funding for LIHEAP by $3.38 billion, fully funding the program at $5.1 billion. To aid Minnesota's 140,000 plus Minnesota households in need of assistance, the Senate recently passed a bill coauthored by Senator Coleman to make an additional $1 billion immediately available for FY06. 
   "The Senate recognizes the needs of families across Minnesota, and appropriately, has chosen to fully fund LIHEAP for FY2007," said Coleman. "This winter, natural gas users are experiencing up to a 35 percent increase in prices. High energy costs have become a major financial burden on families across my state, as more than 60 percent of all LIHEAP households heat their homes with natural gas. Today's vote will ensure that families are not left in the cold this winter." 
   Also attached to the Budget Resolution are three amendments to combat the spread of methamphetamine, the fastest growing illegal drug in America. The first amendment restored funding for the Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Grant Program to $900 million. Byrne grants provide critical funding to state and local police efforts in the fight against meth. To restore funding for the Meth Hot Spots Program, which provides funding to investigation of meth trafficking in many heavily impacted areas, the Senate passed two amendments to bring funding to the authorized level of $162 million. 
   "I am gravely concerned about the recent studies showing meth's impact on communities across Minnesota," said Coleman. "Sadly, meth is now present in all 87 Minnesota counties. While I am pleased that my colleagues in the Senate have restored funding to these vital programs, we must continue to do all we can to battle this epidemic that is destroying families and tearing apart our communities."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 