SEN. COLEMAN LEADS EFFORT TO EXPAND CHEMICAL DEPENDENCY TREATMENT FOR MINNESOTA VETERANS
  Sen. Norm Coleman and other members of the Minnesota delegation today sent a letter to TRICARE Management Activity (TMA) urging an expansion of eligibility requirements to allow Minnesota's Chemical Dependency Treatment Centers to accept TRICARE insurance. Currently, TMA only provides coverage for Partial Hospitalization Programs, Residential Treatment Centers, and Substance Use Disorder Rehabilitation Facilities that have been certified by MAXIMUS, a subcontractor for TMA. However, the state of Minnesota uses a different organization called the Joint Commission, or Jayco, for certification of its treatment and rehabilitation centers. This means there are no Chemical Dependency Treatment Centers in the state certified with TRICARE, and only one in the entire Midwest area.  
   "Having no chemical dependency treatment centers certified by TRICARE in the entire state of Minnesota makes it nearly impossible to provide our veterans and military personnel with the timely medical attention that they may need," said Coleman. "By encouraging TRICARE to accept both Jayco and MAXIMUS accreditation, we will eliminate the largest barrier to chemical dependency treatment for Minnesotans covered by TRICARE. Providing our military men and women with accessible healthcare is one of the most important things we need to do as a community. With the sacrifices that they have made along with their families, we need to make certain that we are providing for them adequately here at home." 
   Minnesota treatment centers certified by Jayco must pass a series of stringent requirements prior to their certification. Given the lengthy and time-consuming nature of accreditation with Jayco and also the state, many centers are unwilling to go through the process for a third time with MAXIMUS. Encouraging TRICARE to accept both accreditations will increase the number of chemical dependency centers that sign up for TRICARE and enable participants to utilize more partial hospitalization programs. Currently, some hospitals are certified by TRICARE for inpatient and outpatient care with TRICARE, but because MAXIMUS certification is needed for partial hospitalization programs, TRICARE participants are unable to use those services. 
   "Government red tape should not prevent TRICARE participants from accessing available healthcare services," said Coleman. "With just a simple fix, we can extend these services to patients who are in need of more accessible medical care."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 