SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILL TO REDUCE AMERICA'S DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL, INCREASE AMERICA'S SECURITY
  Sen. Coleman, along with Sens. Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Evan Bayh (D-IN), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Richard Lugar (R-IN), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Bill Nelson (D-FL), and Jeff Sessions (R-AL) today introduced bipartisan legislation to put America on the path to fuel independence, strengthening our national security. The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act (VFCASA) directs the federal government to save 2.5 million barrels of oil a day in 10 years - outlining a plan to meet that goal by utilizing current, practical vehicle technologies such as flex fuel vehicles, and making energy independence a possibility by promoting fuel from the farm renewable fuels. 
   "The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act is a strong national vision and strategic plan for America's future that puts us on the path toward energy independence and increased national security," said Coleman. "Energy dependence is the greatest threat to our economy, our security, and our freedom this nation faces. This bill takes bold and aggressive action toward independence and offers real-world solutions, utilizing the resources we have on American soil and, in particular, on Minnesota farms. We must have energy independence, or we risk losing our autonomy. I am proud of the leadership, commitment, and work of Senators Lieberman, Brownback, Bayh, Graham, Lugar, Salazar, Sessions, and Nelson as we work to achieve these objectives nationally." 
   By making a commitment to producing sugar from ethanol, investing heavily in E-85 infrastructure, and setting requirements for the use of flex fuel vehicles, this bill brings us closer to the reality of fueling America from the farm. VFCASA increases the ethanol infrastructure tax credit to 50 percent; authorizes loan guarantees through the Department of Agriculture to assist farmer-owned ethanol producers to develop and build infrastructure for E85; creates a new grant program at the Department of Energy for alternative fuel infrastructure; and sets requirements for manufacturers to produce flexible fuel vehicles, along with alternative fueled vehicles to meet a 50 percent requirement by year 2016. 
   Additionally, VFCASA increases the Energy bill's Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) to require that by 2008 and beyond, 100 million gallons of ethanol be derived from domestically-grown sugarcane or sugar beets. This amount is in addition to the current RFS so as to not adversely affect requirements currently met by other commodities, such as corn or soybeans. 
   "During my travels to Brazil, I learned that nearly 60 percent of their cars run on Flex Fuel, and as early as next year they may no longer need to import a drop of oil," said Coleman. "This reality is not out of our nation's reach. As we make this push toward energy independence, we need a viable sugar-to-ethanol program and to make a greater push toward the use of E-85 fuel. Coupling the energy production of our farmers with the use of efficient vehicles and common-sense transportation efficiency initiatives laid out in this bill, we can begin solving our oil dependence problem. I believe our farmers are a major part of our energy independence, and we are now set to take advantage of the opportunity for our farmers to grow the fuel our nation needs."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.  
 
 