SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF PENSION REFORM BILL THAT STRENGTHENS PENSIONS, PROTECTS TAXPAYERS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today praised Senate passage of the Pension Security and Transparency Act of 2005 (S. 1783) that will ensure workers receive their promised pension benefits, help airlines recover from economic hardship, and relieve the burden on American taxpayers. This bill passed with an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 97-2. Sen. Coleman also cosponsored an amendment that passed by voice vote increasing the amount of time airlines have to pay off their pension liabilities from 14 to 20 years. Additionally, Coleman supported an amendment that passed 58-41 to further protect the pensions of 1700 airline pilots that reside in Minnesota.  
   "My goal has always been to pass a bill that will protect employees, their pensions, and our taxpayers," said Coleman. "Minnesota has nearly 22,000 people who depend on Northwest Airlines pensions and I want Northwest Airlines to continue to be one of Minnesota's most reliable and important employers. By providing airlines with the option to freeze their pension plans and fund their pension obligations on a more manageable schedule, we keep them flying and in business." 
   Also included in this bill are provisions that reach beyond the scope of the airline industry. It requires companies emerging from bankruptcy that terminated their pension benefits to pay $1250 a year for three years for each person in their pension plan if they went into bankruptcy after October 18, 2005. Moreover, this bill puts special safeguards in place that preclude companies from increasing their pension plan benefits after they go into bankruptcy if the pension plan was less than 80% funded. This important provision will help curb increases to the PBGC's liability. The bill also requires all companies accept airlines to pay off under-funded pension plans over a seven year period, and requires companies with poor credit ratings to make increased payments to their plans to further protect them. 
   "We are not trying to hurt companies that are struggling to get back on their feet, but we are holding them responsible for the pensions owed to their employees," said Coleman. "At the end of the day, Northwest and other airlines are not seeking a "subsidy" or a "bailout" from the government. Rather, it is just the opposite. They are asking for the opportunity to pay their pension liabilities versus shifting those obligations onto the taxpayers." 
   When an airline company is unable to meet its pension obligations, the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC), funded by tax dollars, assumes the pension liability. Operating in a climate of record high gas prices and a post 9-11 environment, deficit reduction contribution (DRC) rules were invoked, requiring carriers to make massive additional contributions to its defined benefit plans that they could not afford. Under this bill, retirees and plan participants will continue to receive the benefits they had earned to the date of the freeze. In addition, the PBGC will be in better shape financially since its liability will be capped, and each payment that an airline makes to the plan will reduce that liability. 
   "As it stands, the current pension funding rules are too volatile, unpredictable, inflexible and expensive for airlines to survive and compete in the modern, deregulated airline industry that demands delivering service to customers at competitive prices," Coleman added. "This legislation is an obvious solution because allows the airlines to fully fund its benefit plans, while at the same time protecting its employees, retirees, and the PBGC.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323. 
 
 