SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $32.5 MILLION FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE IN SENATE FY 2005 APPROPRIATIONS BILLS
  Sen. Norm Coleman, author of the Torture Victims Relief Reauthorization Act, announced today that $22.5 million for international treatment of torture victims and $10 million for domestic torture treatment centers were included in the Senate Foreign Operations and Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations Bills for Fiscal Year 2005, respectively. Both amounts are increases over current funding levels.  
   "Treatment centers in Minnesota set an example for those across the nation that assist these victims and their families," said Coleman. "This additional funding will help our Center for Victims of Torture continue its leadership role in developing comprehensive treatment programs that bring hope to thousands." 
   The foreign operations bill also included a $40 million increase for international refugee assistance, providing relief for those forced to relocate as a result of incidents in their home countries. 
   "This funding is desperately needed by displaced people across the world, such as those suffering right now in Sudan," said Coleman. "Organizations such as the American Refugee Committee in Minnesota make a real difference in countries like this, and they depend on this funding for their efforts. This increased funding will help them continue their admirable and much-needed work." 
   Coleman also secured funds for the Public Achievement program at the University of Minnesota, which supports civic engagement by young people and conducts similar programs in countries such as Israel, Northern Ireland, South Africa, and Turkey. 
   The legislation would also provide $2.86 billion for the global AIDS crisis. The foreign operations bill included $2.2 billion, a $70 million increase, and the Labor-Health and Human Services-Education bill would provide $660 million, over $450 million more than the current funding level. 
   "With increases like these, we're making substantial progress towards President Bush's goal of $15 billion for the fight against this disease," said Coleman. "Adding over $500 million to this effort is a sign that the Senate is committed to working with the President on AIDS awareness and prevention." 
   The Senate Committee on Appropriations approved the bills yesterday, making them available for consideration by the full Senate.
 
 