SEN. COLEMAN SECURES NEARLY $5 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR MINNESOTA IN COMMERCE, JUSTICE, STATE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that he was successful in securing nearly $5 million for Minnesota as part of the 2005 Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations Bill. The legislation is currently under consideration in the U.S. Senate.  
   "This funding will benefit communities throughout our state," Coleman said. "It will help us crack down on crime and allow our law enforcement to operate more effectively. This federal funding is important and I am pleased our efforts were successful." 
   A listing of the projects in Minnesota funded by this legislation follows: 
   * $2.39 Million for the State of Minnesota's Methamphetamine Hot Spots Initiative 
   This program concentrates on a variety of law enforcement initiatives pertaining to the investigation of methamphetamine trafficking and addresses such challenges as the discovery, interdiction, and dismantling of drug laboratories. In 2001, Minnesota state agencies created the Minnesota Multi-Agencies Methamphetamine Taskforce in conjunction with the state's Bureau of Criminal Activity (BCA) and Department of Public Safety in order to respond to the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine in Minnesota. The taskforce focuses on five areas: 
  1) law enforcement, 
  2) education and awareness, 
  3) child protection, 
  4) cleanup, removal, and remediation, and 
  5) prevention and treatment. 
   These funds would enhance the lab response staff capacity, increase law enforcement staff, purchase and maintain necessary equipment, provide for medical surveillance, fund BCA education and awareness materials, and fund the Minnesota Department of Health's local staff training and public awareness program. 
   * $750,000 for the National Child Protection Training Center at Winona State University
  The American Prosecutors Research Institute (APRI) has entered into a relationship with Winona State University to create the National Child Protection Training Center (NCPTC). The purpose of the NCPTC is to develop a model curriculum to prepare future child protection workers, law enforcement officers, and other child-serving professionals for the very serious and complex challenges they will face in their work. APRI is developing a program to provide ongoing training, technical assistance and publications to child protection attorneys and workers who are already in the field. NCPTC will focus on the civil issues of child protection. 
   * $950,000 for the co-location of the City of Saint Paul and Ramsey County police forces 
   The City of Saint Paul and Ramsey County are co-locating police headquarters to maximize efficiency. This move increases communication between the two police agencies at a time when the demand for expanded law enforcement services is high and when communication among law enforcement officers is vital to homeland defense. The funding will also increase economic efficiency at a time when the City of Saint Paul is facing budget shortfalls. 
   * $900,000 for the Northeastern Minnesota Enforcement and Safety 
   Information System Regional Criminal Justice System (NEMESIS) 
  NEMESIS is a shared subscriber criminal justice information system for five Minnesota counties. Since NEMESIS was implemented, programs for attorney case management, law enforcement records, and jail/offender management have been created. This funding will complete the final piece needed for the system - a computer aided dispatch program that will allow all jurisdictions in the region to manage their 911 calls.
 
 