SEN. COLEMAN TO HOLD FORUM ON SOUTHEAST MINNESOTA ROADS IN STEWARTVILLE, WINONA
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that on Thursday, August 16, 2005, he will take part in two forums in the southeastern Minnesota cities of Stewartville and Winona to discuss the future of transportation infrastructure in the region. Recently, the President signed into law the new federal highway bill that will bring $3 billion in funding over the next five years for Minnesota's transportation needs, including $3 million secured by Coleman to replace the highway-railroad crossings adjacent to Winona State University. As a whole, Minnesota is slated for an increase of 46 percent over the last highway bill, due in large part to a change Coleman championed last year in the funding formula that previously penalized ethanol-producing states. This overall funding increase will help build roads throughout the state, and will help complete initiatives like the Oronoco interchange project, which Coleman helped secure money for last year. Coleman will join several local officials and civic leaders to learn about and bring attention to these and other issues surrounding Greater Minnesota transportation.  
   "I am excited to meet with folks in southeast Minnesota to discuss issues regarding important roadway projects to the region," said Coleman. "The recent passage of the highway bill means that key transportation projects will receive funding, and in turn, more jobs will be created and crucial safety issues addressed. In Greater Minnesota, people are often separated by large, wide open spaces and consequently transportation is a critical part of economic development. The highway bill is good first step in helping improve highway safety and economic development in Minnesota, but we need to do more. I am looking forward to hearing ideas from the people who drive in these regions, on a daily basis." 
   Today, thirty-four percent of major roads in the United States are in poor or mediocre condition; twenty-seven percent of bridges nationwide are structurally deficient or functionally obsolete; and thirty-six percent of the nation's urban rail vehicles and maintenance facilities are in substandard or poor condition. 
   During Thursday's forums, Sen. Coleman will meet with a number of local officials and civic leaders. Panelists for the events include: 
   Stewartville: 
   Nelrae Succio, MnDot District 6 Engineer 
   Chuck Murphy, Mayor of Stewartville 
   Tim Geisler, Mayo Clinic 
   Mike Sheehan, Olmsted County Engineer 
   Doug Coen, Rochester Cartage Inc., 
   Daryl Jensen, Fillmore County Sheriff 
   Winona: 
   Jerry Miller, Mayor of Winona 
   Nelrae Succio, MnDot District 6 Engineer 
   Judy Bodway, Winona Economic Development Director 
   Dana Johnson, Fastenal Company 
   David Rholl, Winona County Engineer 
   Rodney Bartsh, Sheriff of Wabasha County 
   Dave Brand, Sheriff of Winona County 
   The events are open to the general public and media availability will follow each event. Details on the day's schedule are as follows: 
   SCHEDULE-THURSDAY AUGUST 18, 2005 
   Time City Location 
   11:35 - 12:35pm Stewartville Stewartville City Hall 
   3:05 - 4:00pm Winona Winona City Hall
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 