SEN. COLEMAN TO VISIT GAME FAIR TO DISCUSS WILDLIFE HABITAT, OUTDOOR CONCERNS
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that on Friday, August 19, 2005, he will be visiting Game Fair, an annual outdoor recreation and sportsmen event held six miles northwest of Anoka at Armstrong Ranch, to listen to the concerns of leaders of Ducks Unlimited, Pheasants Forever, the Minnesota Deer Hunters Association, the Ruffed Grouse Society and the Minnesota Chapter of the National Wild Turkey Federation. Coleman will be joined in the discussion by John Guenther, Director of the Fish and Wildlife Division of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.  
   "In Minnesota, the outdoors play a crucial role in our superb quality of life and I am excited to meet with the people who invest a great deal of time and energy into protecting this resource," said Coleman. "Their passion and efforts are the driving force behind making sure our outdoors are sustained through the restoration of habitat that is the foundation for growing our wildlife populations. I look forward to listening to their concerns and working with them to continue our great outdoor tradition in Minnesota." 
   Game Fair 2005 is the 24th annual staging of what has become the nation's largest outdoors, pre-hunting, family participation event. Special exhibits can be found on a wide variety of outdoor products and activities. Children's activities include target shooting with sling shots, BB guns, archery and darts. 
   Representing the listed organizations will be: 
   Ryan Heiniger, Director of Conservation Programs (MN & IA) for Ducks Unlimited 
   Joe Duggan, Vice President of Marketing and Corporate Relations for Pheasants Forever 
   Dan Splittstosen, President of the Minnesota Deer Hunters Association 
   Rick Horton, Minnesota Regional Wildlife Biologist for the Ruffed Grouse Society 
   Tom Glines, Senior Regional Director for the Minnesota Chapter of the National Wild Turkey Federation 
   SCHEDULE-FRIDAY, AUGUST 19, 2005 
   Time: 10:00 - 11:000 a.m. 
  Location: Game Fair Main Seminar Tent 
  8404 161st Ave., N.W., Anoka, Minnesota 55303.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 