SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES EXTENSION OF DEADLINE FOR WESTERN HEMISPHERE TRAVEL INITIATIVE IMPLEMENTATION
  Senator Norm Coleman today praised the extension of the implementation deadline for the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) until June 1st, 2009, which was included in the fiscal year 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill before Congress this week. A longtime supporter of extending the deadline in order to minimize the negative impact on border residents, communities and businesses, Coleman has been actively working to ensure a smooth, effective transition to the new travel requirements set out in WHTI. The WHTI provision would clarify that the initiative cannot be implemented earlier than June of 2009. Additionally, the bill provides $225 million for WHTI-related infrastructure improvements and software. The Omnibus Appropriations bill is expected to be taken up in the House and Senate this week.  
   "I have been fighting since the program was first unveiled to ensure that the well-intentioned WHTI law does not have unintended, negative consequences for the thousands of Minnesotans who live, work and vacation along the border," said Coleman. "The provision in this bill will allow an additional 17 months to ensure that full WHTI implementation occurs no earlier than June of 2009. We need to use all available time to ensure the government is ready to administer the new requirement in a secure, effective manner - and to do it in a way that won't cause the same passport headaches we saw with the air travel requirement earlier this year." 
   Sen. Coleman has been a longtime proponent of extending the implementation deadline for WHTI. Along with holding listening sessions with a top State Department official in northern Minnesota to hear the concerns of residents firsthand, Coleman has hosted Congressional hearings in Washington on the initiative. The senator has also introduced legislation to delay implementation of WHTI, as well as to provide enhanced driver's licenses as an alternative to WHTI's forthcoming passport requirement. 
   Previously the Department of Homeland Security had announced that beginning January 31, 2008 travelers would be required to present a driver's license and birth certificate, but that during summer 2008 a passport, passport card or WHTI-compliant driver's license would become necessary. The extension provided by the legislation will allow additional time to make these adjustments. In any event, children will not be required to obtain passports, but rather will be able to cross the border with their parents or in school or civic groups if they have a birth certificate. 
   For more information on Sen. Coleman's work on this issue, please visit www.coleman.senate.gov.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 