SEN. COLEMAN LAUDS AQUITTAL, RELEASE BY MEXICAN AUTHORITIES OF MINNESOTA WOMAN IMPRISONED IN CHIHUAHUA, MEXICO
  Sen. Coleman announced today that Cynthia Kiecker, a Minnesota native, and her husband were found not guilty at 10:00 a.m. this morning by a Mexican court of law in Chihuahua, Mexico. Carlos de Icaza, the Mexican Ambassador to the United States, called Sen. Coleman today to inform him of the court's verdict. Kiecker has been held in jail for more than a year in connection with the investigation into the death of a 16 year old girl. She has steadfastly maintained her innocence, as has the family of the 16 year old victim.  
   While imprisoned, Ms. Kiecker and her family expressed credible assertions of torture. Other serious questions regarding evidence were also raised throughout investigation, and in light of these significant issues related to the case, Senator Coleman has applied regular pressure to the Mexican government and officials, demanding due process of law and timely review for Kiecker's case throughout her 18 months in prison. 
   "I am extremely pleased that Cynthia was released from prison today," said Coleman. "With so many questions surrounding Cynthia's case, I believe the Mexican courts have made a fair, sound, and impartial ruling. This was one of 400 murders of young women in the Chihuahua province of Mexico. My hope is that the real killer of the victim-and all of the other victims-will be found. I'm especially overcome by the timing of today's news-it will mean a lot for Cynthia and her family to have her home in time for Christmas." 
   Coleman is the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Narcotics, and Peace Corps, which has jurisdiction over issues pertaining to Mexico and other nations throughout the hemisphere. Senator Coleman discussed the Kiecker case during President Fox's visit to St. Paul in June, and subsequently sent pointed letters to the President urging the government to honor their commitment not to prosecute the jailed woman. Coleman has aggressively pursued the case with Mexican and U.S. officials, most recently expressing his expectation that this case be resolved before Christmas. 
   Kiecker and her husband are expected to return home to Minnesota tomorrow, December 18th. Due to the short-term notice for travel, Senator Coleman has offered help in case arrangements are needed to secure her arrival home.
 
 