SEN. COLEMAN CONTINUES PUSH FOR MORE LOW INCOME HOME HEATING ASSISTANCE, APPLAUDS ADDITIONAL $250 MILLION IN EMERGENCY FUNDING
  Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman today announced the fiscal year 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill contains $2.57 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), well above the President's proposed level of $1.782 billion. Of this funding, $250 million has been dedicated for emergency assistance to families keep pace with escalating heating bills this winter. To ensure this program would be fully funded, Senator Coleman joined Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) and Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) among others in sending a bipartisan letter to the Appropriations Committee requesting an additional $1 billion in emergency funding for LIHEAP. After introducing a bill with Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) to increase emergency LIHEAP funding by $1 billion this winter, Coleman and Sanders continue to push for the remainder of the emergency funding requested.  
   "For many Minnesotans, the holiday season also brings real anxiety because they know that with their current means, they aren't going to be able to pay for the rising costs of heating their homes," said Coleman. "With many low-income families at a financial breaking point, we have a responsibility to make sure that these folks are not forced to make the impossible choice of paying for the necessities of daily life and heating their homes. I am greatly encouraged that House and Senate appropriators responded to the bipartisan call for another $250 million for LIHEAP, but I will continue to work with Senator Sanders to provide more funding for folks facing the cold and desperately in need. I'm hopeful we can have a vote on this funding in the near future." 
   The National Energy Directors Association (NEADA) projects that nationwide the typical household using heating oil will pay 47 percent more than fiscal year 2006, those using propane will pay 38 percent more than fiscal year 2006, those using electricity will pay 14 percent more than fiscal year 2006, and those using natural gas will pay 38 percent more than the winters of 2000-2005. 
   Over the past four years, the number of households receiving home heating assistance increased by 26 percent. During the same period, federal support increased by only 10 percent. As a result, the average price of grants declined from $349 to $305. 
   During the winter of 2006, Senator Coleman secured $29 million in additional funding for Minnesota families struggling to heat their homes. In September of this year, Senator Coleman joined 50 of his Senate colleagues in successfully urging the President to release $131 million in LIHEAP contingency funding, including $4.2 million for low-income Minnesota families. If the Administration had not released the remaining funds by September 30, 2007, $131 million of the contingency fund's balance would have expired.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 