SEN. COLEMAN TO PRESENT, BRONZE STAR TO MINNESOTA VETERAN OF WWII
  Sen. Coleman announced today that he, along with Major General Larry Shellito of Minnesota State National Guard, will present Sergeant Alex P. Frost with the Bronze Star for his service in the Aleutian Islands during World War II at a 2:30 p.m. ceremony at the Minnesota State Capitol Friday, February 18, 2005. Sergeant Frost served in Alaska from 1942 through 1944 and in Okinawa in 1945. He was honorably discharged January 11, 1946. Sgt. Frost was cited - but never received - the medal in 1945 for his service as an engineer in the Aleutian Campaign against Japanese forces who occupied the Attu and Kiska islands, part of the Alaskan chain of islands.  
   "I'm honored and humbled to present this Bronze Star to Sergeant Frost," said Coleman. "He is a real hero and deserves the honor and recognition this medal brings for his brave service and sacrifice. Our country owes him, as well as our other veterans who fought as nobly as he did, a tremendous debt of gratitude. His honor is the essence of what makes America great." 
   The Aleutian Campaign proved to be a difficult and costly assignment for American soldiers due to entrenched enemy positions, extreme weather conditions and difficult terrain. One of the most costly battles of the war occurred at Attu, with 3,829 American casualties or roughly 25 percent of the invading force, second only in proportion to Iwo Jima. 
   Senator Coleman will present the Bronze Star to Sgt. Frost at 2:30 p.m. at the Minnesota State Capitol Hearing Room 125. Also in attendance will be Major General Larry Shellito, Congressman Mark Kennedy, Minnesota Senator Brian LeClair, as well as other members of Minnesota's Veterans Community and Sgt. Frost's family. 
   Sgt. Frost currently lives in Woodbury, Minnesota and has recently lost his wife Thelma to Parkinson's Disease. Sgt. Frost has four children and seven grandchildren. 
   Bronze Star Event-Sergeant Alex P. Frost 
  Where: Minnesota State Capitol-Hearing Room 125 
  When: Friday, February 18 
  2:30-3:00p.m. CST.
 
 