SEN. COLEMAN ASSESSES HURRICANE KATRINA RECOVERY EFFORTS IN GULF COAST
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today, along with a bipartisan group of eight U.S. Senators, held a Senate Homeland Security & Governmental Affairs Committee hearing in Mississippi to assess the devastation and recovery efforts on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, and to determine what measures need to be taken to move the process forward. To aid in the recovery process, Sen. Coleman voted in favor of the FY06 Department of Defense Appropriation Bill which provides an additional $29 billion in disaster assistance; $11.5 billion of which will be used for Community Development Block Grants for relief efforts and mitigation activities, including housing assistance, infrastructure development, and assistance to public services. To date, Congress has appropriated over $67 billion in relief finding and held ten separate congressional hearings.  
   "Hurricane Katrina had such a devastating impact on the region, and today's hearing left me with a clear sense of what is needed to revitalize the Gulf Coast," said Coleman. "We need to pick up the pieces and bring back hope to the thousands upon thousands affected by the storm, not only in Louisiana, but in Mississippi as well. Often overshadowed by the flooding in New Orleans, many fail to realize how hard Mississippi was hit by the storm. As a result of Hurricane Katrina, in Mississippi more than 200 people have lost their lives, 90 percent of the buildings along the Biloxi-Gulfport coastline have been destroyed, and almost 70,000 homes were leveled statewide. It is important that we assess the recovery efforts firsthand in order to stay on track and help restore these communities as fast as we can." 
   During the hearing, the Committee also heard testimony from Donald Powell, the Coordinator of Federal Support for the Gulf Coast's Recovery and Rebuilding. As Federal Coordinator, Mr. Powell serves as the principal point of contact to the President on the relief efforts and is responsible for developing the principles governing the federal response. His appearance before the committee will be his first testimony since being appointed by President Bush in November 2005. 
   "To date we have held ten hearings on the relief efforts, and slowly we are starting to see the first signs of progress," said Coleman. "So far, one billion dollars in FEMA payments have been distributed to families, while the Small Business Administration Disaster Assistance Program has approved over nine thousand home and business loans, totaling $747 million. However, much more remains to be done, and today I was pleased that Mr. Powell was able shed light on where we are and where we need to be." 
   Additionally, Senator Coleman participated in a round table discussion with Mayor Ray Nagin and local officials regarding the economic redevelopment of New Orleans. While in New Orleans, Senator Coleman also toured the city to view the damage it sustained during the hurricane. 
   "As former mayor, my listening session with Mayor Nagin was especially informative," Coleman added. "I, like many Americans, was disappointed by the federal government's response to this natural disaster. Mayor Nagin, however, has been directly involved on the ground from the onset, and with his input we will continue to work towards rebuilding this historic American city."
 
 