GOV. PAWLENTY, SEN. COLEMAN SEND LETTER TO SECRETARY GATES OUTLINING NECESSARY SUPPORT FOR MINNESOTA NATIONAL GUARD
  Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty and Sen. Norm Coleman today sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates outlining specific steps that should be taken to support the families and members of the Minnesota National Guard's 1st Brigade Combat Team whose current tour of duty in Iraq has been extended. Pawlenty and Coleman were joined by the entire Minnesota Congressional delegation in signing the letter. 
   "I am extremely frustrated that the Minnesota Guard's tour of duty has been extended, but now that the decision has been made we need to focus on helping our troops and their families in the coming months," said Coleman. "I believe that we need to appropriately acknowledge and compensate the Guard members' additional sacrifice by providing additional financial support during their extended tour and making available resources for their loved ones waiting for them at home."  
   Specifically, the letter requests that the Department of Defense authorize hardship pay to compensate troops for any additional time they will spend in Iraq as a result of the troop surge. Additionally, the Minnesota delegation is requesting a pay structure for the Minnesota National Guard that will compensate each soldier stationed in Iraq for longer than a year with $1,000 extra in pay per month. The letter also requests that reintegration programs in Minnesota be fully funded with an additional $3.7 million for pay for allowances, training resources and contract support. 
   The Minnesota delegation also recommends that the Department of Defense eliminate the 90 day hands-off policy that usually applies to members of the reserve returning from duty. Instead, the Department of Defense would institute a reintegration program like those available for active duty troops stationed on military bases. 
   "These extraordinary men and women have made the ultimate commitment to serve our country and defend our freedom," said Coleman. "We need to make sure that we are providing all of the resources and support our citizen-soldiers and their families need during the extension of their tour." 
   Senator Coleman last week sent his own letter to Defense Secretary Gates expressing his extreme frustration over the extension and lack of official notification to these troops. In the letter, Coleman called on Secretary Gates to immediately provide Minnesota soldiers serving in Iraq with their official orders including information on their mission and expected length of stay. Coleman also requested that the Department of Defense immediately make available to the Minnesota National Guard all of the resources they will need to provide the necessary support for the families and soldiers affected by the extension. 
   Full text of the letter can be found below: 
   January 17, 2007 
   The Honorable Robert M. Gates 
  Secretary of Defense 
  Department of Defense 
  1000 Defense Pentagon 
  Washington, DC 20301-1000 
   Dear Secretary Gates, 
   As you are aware, the Minnesota National Guard's 1st Brigade Combat Team of the 34th Infantry Division will have its tour in Iraq extended as a result of the decision to increase troop levels. The 1st BCT includes more than 2,600 Minnesota citizen-soldiers. These Guard members were scheduled to return home this March and April. We have been told the extension will last no more than 125 days, meaning some Minnesota Guard members may now be in Iraq through July. 
   While we are frustrated and disappointed at the decision to extend the tour of our Minnesota National Guard members, we understand that the decision has been made, and we are now united in ensuring our Guard members and their families are supported and appreciated during this difficult time. 
   We believe that an appropriate acknowledgement of this additional sacrifice must be made. Therefore, we request that all Guard members who have their tours extended due to increased troop levels receive hardship pay to compensate them for the extra time they will spend in Iraq. 
   Precedence for granting hardship pay has been established. We understand that soldiers in the 172nd Stryker Brigade Combat Team from Alaska who had their tours extended by four months received hardship pay. It is also our understanding that active component soldiers kept longer than one year in Iraq receive an extra $1,000 in pay per month. A similar payment structure should apply to our Minnesota National Guard members who are having their tours extended. In addition, we request that reintegration programs in Minnesota be funded their full validated amount of an additional $3.7 million for pay and allowances, training resources, and contracted support. 
   Further, this extension of service will cause great hardships on the families, employers, and home communities of the members of the Brigade; therefore, as needs are identified, we ask that the Department of Defense provide funding and resources to mitigate the effects of the extension. 
   Finally, we strongly encourage the Department of Defense to eliminate the 90-day hands-off policy as it applies to members of the reserve component returning from war. Rather, we recommend implementing a reintegration program that focuses on participatory events - specifically a program that brings together service members, their families, and service providers during this crucial 90-day period. A program such as this during the first 90 days of reintegration would mirror programs that are available to active component soldiers on military bases and promote a smooth transition from warrior to citizen. 
   Thank you for your prompt attention and consideration of this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   Tim Pawlenty 
  Governor 
   Norm Coleman 
  U.S. Senator 
   Amy Klobuchar 
  U.S. Senator 
   Tim Walz 
  U.S. Representative 
   Jim Ramstad 
  U.S. Representative 
   Betty McCollum 
  U.S. Representative 
   Keith Ellison 
  U.S. Representative 
   Collin Peterson 
  U.S. Representative 
   James Oberstar 
  U.S. Representative.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 