SEN. COLEMAN HEARING EXPOSES DANGERS OF BUYING PHARMACEUTICALS OVER INTERNET
  In the first of two hearings on the dangers of ordering pharmaceuticals over the Internet, Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN), Chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), said a six month PSI investigation reveals grave safety concerns about on-line pharmacies, many of which routinely dispensed narcotics and other controlled substances to investigators without a prescription and provided counterfeit, unsafe, or illegitimate medications. 
   "Internet Pharmacies have the potential for bringing important and in many cases life saving drugs to our homes in a way that we have never before imagined," Coleman said. "But, unless we understand the safety issues surrounding the use of the Internet and the delivery of prescription drugs, what should be about improving our lives - may very well end up costing lives."
   Coleman released the results of a report in which the General Accounting Office (GAO), at PSI's request, used the Internet to purchase numerous prescription drugs - including highly-addictive narcotics and other controlled substances.
   In a parallel effort PSI examined the influx of foreign pharmaceuticals overwhelming authorities at three of the nation's busiest ports of entry-airports in New York, Chicago, and Miami. Investigators found that John F. Kennedy Airport alone receives 40,000 drug packages daily. Given the overwhelming volume, FDA and Customs acknowledge that the vast majority of prescription drugs and controlled substances that are illegally imported into the U.S. through JFK are not screened or regulated in any manner whatsoever.
   "We know we have no shortage of access to drugs from countries all across the world," Coleman said. "What we really need, is a national strategy for separating out drugs that can heal - drugs that can kill - and, determining what our best options are for regulating Internet pharmacies."
   GAO attempted to purchase 13 drugs from Internet pharmacies and received 68 samples of 11 of these 13 drugs. Five U.S. and all 18 Canadian pharmacies required the patient to provide a prescription, whereas the remaining 24 U.S. and all 21 other foreign Internet pharmacies issued prescriptions based on their own medical questionnaires or had no prescription requirements. Thus, 45 out of 68 purchases (66 percent) did not require a prescription.
   The 68 drug samples GAO received exhibited a wide range of safety risks. These included counterfeit drugs, damaged product, lack of proper packaging, no warning information, no instructions for use, and drugs not approved for the U.S. market.
   Among those testifying were Ms. Francine Haight, who lost her son Ryan to illegal drugs purchased through domestic Internet companies and Ms. Elizabeth Carr, who lost her husband James to illegal drugs purchased through international Internet companies.
   "Never did I think you could so easily get prescription drugs on the Internet. I was in shock," Ms. Haight testified. "Being an RN, I always thought that controlled substances were under lock and key. Ryan was encouraged to obtain powerful narcotics that required nothing but filling out a simple questionnaire on the Internet."
   The dangerous drugs PSI detected in foreign shipments included the date-rape drug GHB (which had been ordered by teenagers), codeine-laced products, morphine, fake Lipitor, injectible steroids from China, boxes of unidentified drug product and counterfeit Viagra that differed considerably in strength from the labeled dosage. Some drugs that needed to be insulated and temperature-controlled were shipped without insulation and at room temperature. Other containers were shipped without labeling, instructions or warning materials. PSI also discovered packages that were damaged, which could expose the drugs to damaging light or moisture.
   The findings of the investigation have led Senator Coleman to introduce two bills (S. 2464 and S. 2465) to insure the safety of buying pharmaceuticals online and to increase accountability and enforcement of Internet pharmacies foreign and domestic. Coleman's safety provisions have also been included in the Safe IMPORT Act introduced recently by Senator Judd Gregg (R-NH).
 
 