SEN. COLEMAN'S OFFICE TO VISIT BROWNS VALLEY, UPDATE CITY ON $1 MILLION APPROPRIATION
  As part of his ongoing effort to aid the flood recovery efforts in Browns Valley, Senator Norm Coleman will be sending his Northwest Minnesota representative, Brenda Elmer, to Browns Valley on Thursday, July 19th to assess flood recovery efforts and update the community on Coleman's latest work on the issue. Last week, Coleman successfully included a $1 million appropriation for Browns Valley in the Senate's 2008 Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill, which was approved in committee last week and now awaits consideration by the full Senate.  
   "The flooding has receded in Browns Valley, but we are still working every day to pick up the pieces in the community" said Browns Valley Mayor Jeff Backer. "It is extremely encouraging that four months after the flood, Sen. Coleman and his staff are continuing to work for our community. The funding they have secured in the Senate would provide a major boost for our recovery efforts and I thank Sen. Coleman for continuing to work on our behalf." 
   "Every day, Browns Valley continues to face the serious challenges of flood recovery," Coleman said. "While the community has shown amazing resilience since the flooding in March, I know significant challenges remain. The $1 million appropriation I am working to deliver in the Senate would provide much-need financial resources to the city, and I want them to know that my staff and I remain dedicated to offering them assistance wherever possible." 
   Along with working to deliver this $1 million appropriation to Browns Valley, Sen. Coleman is working to expand a flood control study of the Minnesota River Basin to examine the specific needs of Browns Valley in the Senate's current Energy and Water Appropriations bill. The bill containing this provision is also awaiting a full Senate vote. 
   Elmer will update the community on the latest in these efforts at the Browns Valley Flood Task Force meeting, being held at Browns Valley City Hall Thursday evening. Elmer has been a regular attendee of these meetings since they began in March, keeping Sen. Coleman posted on the latest developments in the city recovery efforts.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 