SEN. COLEMAN TO SPEND THREE DAYS VISITING WESTERN MINNESOTA DURING OUTING, MARCH 21-23
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced he will spend three days visiting local citizens, officials, businesses and organizations in conjunction with three public policy events in Western Minnesota during a trip to the region from Tuesday, March 21st through Thursday, March 23rd. The visit, which will include stops in 12 counties, will focus on three major policy areas: renewable energy, rural health care, and rural economic development. Specifically, Coleman will visit the counties of McLeod, Renville, Yellow Medicine, Lyon, Lincoln, Lac Qui Parle, Chippewa, Big Stone, Stevens, Swift, Kandiyohi, and Meeker. 
   "I am anxious to get out and visit these counties in Western Minnesota, where renewable energy, rural health care and rural development are top concerns for local residents," said Coleman. "During the past three years, my staff and I have visited every corner of Minnesota and it has had a direct impact on my work in Washington from everything to my Rural Renaissance Bill to rural health initiatives. This visit will be another great chance for me to connect with local citizens and hear their concerns, and I am hopeful that as many local residents as possible can attend the policy events we have scheduled each day."
   On Tuesday, Senator Coleman will visit Starkey Labs in Glencoe and the Southern Minnesota Beet Sugar Cooperative in Renville. He will then deliver a renewable energy policy speech during a public event Tuesday afternoon at the Kilowatt Community Center in Granite Falls. He will also attend a Marshall Chamber of Commerce event and meet with executives from Schwan's Food Company in Marshall that evening.
   On Wednesday, Senator Coleman plans to tour Divine Providence Community Home in Ivanhoe and hold a Rural Health Listening Session at the Hunt on Main in Montevideo. The Senator will get together with local residents and officials in Morris, while also visiting the Madison Hospital and Lac Qui Parle Clinic in Madison.
   On Thursday, Coleman will host a public Rural Economic Development policy event at Ridgewater College in Willmar.
   Details on each day's public policy events are as follows:
   TUESDAY:
   Event: Renewable Energy Policy Speech
  Time: 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
  Location: Kilowatt Community Center
  600 Kilowatt Drive
  Granite Falls, MN
   WEDNESDAY:
   Event: Rural Health Care Listening Session
  Time: 10:45 a.m. - 11:45 p.m.
  Location: Hunt on Main (formerly the Hotel Hunt)
  207 N. 1st Street
  Montevideo, MN
   THURSDAY:
   Event: Rural Economic Development Roundtable
  Time 9:45 a.m. - 11:20 a.m.
  Location: Ridgewater College
  2101 15th Avenue NW
  Willmar, MN.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 