BIPARTISAN SENATE MAJORITY PASSES SEN. COLEMAN AMENDMENT TO SAVE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
  The United Senate today passed an amendment introduced by Sen. Norm Coleman to the Senate Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2006 that stops cuts and maintains funding for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program and keeps CDBG within the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). In its budget submitted to Congress on February 7, the Bush Administration proposed cutting funding for CDBG and shifting responsibilities for its administration to the Department of Commerce. The amendment passed with broad bipartisan support by a vote of 66 to 32.  
   "This is a victory for Minnesota's rural and urban communities," Coleman said. "As a former mayor, I know firsthand how important the CDBG program is to helping American cities prosper. CDBG is the centerpiece of the Federal government's effort to help states and localities meet the needs of low-income communities. CDBG funds vital housing rehabilitation, supportive services, public improvements and economic development projects in communities across the nation. This is an important program and one that must be fully funded." 
   CDBG serves over 3,000 rural communities. Over 95 percent of CDBG funds benefit low to moderate-income persons. In 2004, CDBG assisted 168,938 households and funded service projects that benefited over 13 million people. 
   "As mayor, CDBG grants helped fund the Main Street Program which we put in place to revitalize downtown St. Paul, creating thousands of jobs and bringing people back to the city," Coleman said. "We couldn't have done that without CDBG. St. Paul got its first CDBG grant back in 1975. It was a very conservative idea that we should not have 1,500 command and control programs run out of Washington trying to micromanage the needs of communities but instead we should help communities meet those needs and priorities through one block grant. With all the unfunded mandates coming down from on high in Washington, CDBG is one way we actually help communities across the country meet some very critical priorities. This vote is a victory for communities all across our great country." 
   "I appreciate Senator Coleman's leadership on behalf of cities across the country to restore this vital program back to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development," said Mayor Randy Kelly of St. Paul. "Community Development Block Grants fund a broad spectrum of activities, including: expanding home ownership opportunities, elimination of slums and blight, improved infrastructure, homeless facilities, employment training, transportation services, crime awareness, and business and job creation. In fact, according to HUD, more than 78,000 jobs were created by CDBG in FY04 alone." 
   While Coleman has commended President Bush's efforts to cut the deficit in half in 5 years and to bring fiscal accountability to Washington, he made it clear upon release of the Administration's budget proposal in February that there are areas where he disagrees with the details. "There are some areas where I think the President's budget got it totally wrong," Coleman said on February 7. "The cuts and changes to the community development block grant (CDBG) program - the lifeblood of community development and revitalization - are nonstarters." 
   Groups that have endorsed Coleman's amendment include: US Conference of Mayors, National League of Cities, National Community Development Association, National Association of Housing Redevelopment Officials, National Association of Counties, Local Initiatives Support Corporation and Council of State Development Agencies.
 
 