SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILL TO HELP FARMS RECOVER FROM NATURAL DISASTERS
  Sen. Norm Coleman, along with Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND), yesterday introduced legislation to protect farmers and ranchers in the event of a natural disaster. The Conrad-Coleman Emergency Agriculture Disaster Assistance Act would provide emergency funding to those who have suffered weather-related crop production shortfalls, disease, and high energy prices caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. It will also provide payments for the loss of livestock. Last year, 32 counties in Minnesota were designated disaster counties by the Secretary of Agriculture. 
   "When natural disasters or disease unexpectedly hit Minnesota and our farmlands, many of our farmers and ranchers find it extremely hard to bounce back from an overwhelming economic setback created by these natural hardships," said Coleman. "Minnesota farms play a vital role in feeding and fueling our nation, yet their farms are subject to the whims of the weather, so it is imperative that the federal government lend a helping hand when farmers need it most. This legislation I have introduced with Sen. Conrad will provide the necessary resources and protection our farmers need to recover from last year's losses caused by forces outside their control."
   The bill will also help farmers overcome losses as a result of energy prices that spiked following last year's hurricanes. Energy-related farm expenses rose by more than $6 billion last year compared to 2004. Unlike other industries, farmers and ranchers are largely unable to pass on these costs to consumers, meaning those higher energy costs directly impacts farm income.
   Co-sponsors of this bill include: Sens. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., Bill Nelson, D-Fla.., Mark Dayton, D-Minn., Kit Bond, R-Mo., Jim Talent, R-Mo., Tim Johnson, D-S.D., John Thune, R-S.D., Blanche Lincoln, D-Ark., Max Baucus, D-Mont., Conrad Burns, R-Mont., Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., and Ken Salazar, D-Col., among others.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 