SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $3 MILLION FOR ST. LUKE'S LUTHERAN CARE CENTER IN BLUE EARTH
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced St. Luke's Lutheran Care Center in Blue Earth, Minnesota has received a $3,000,000 loan from the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development program. This rural development loan will be used in the construction of an assisted living facility, and is the second $3 million dollar Rural Development loan awarded to St. Luke's Lutheran Care Center for improvements since 2004.  
   "This announcement is great news for both St. Luke's and the surrounding area," said Coleman. "Faith-based organizations such as this play an integral role in providing care across rural Minnesota, and this loan will allow St. Luke's to expand its current facilities, resulting in greater access and quality of care for local residents. USDA Rural Development continues to provide crucial funding for projects such as these, and I commend their decision to award this loan for St. Luke's." 
   "We are very excited about this direct loan from USDA Rural Development," said Gene A. Nelson, CEO/Administrator at St. Luke's Lutheran Care Center. "We will be constructing a 27-unit assisted living building on our campus with this loan. This attached unit will replace our current converted nursing home wing that we use for assisted living. In addition to increasing our assisted living from 14 to 27 units, we will be adding 5 new jobs. Minnesota's Rural Development staff has been very helpful to us in structuring this much needed low-interest loan so we can make this project a reality." 
   St. Luke's Lutheran Care Center is located in Blue Earth, Minnesota and cares for 137 residents in skilled care, 14 residents in assisted living, 12 in adult day care, and 48 in market rate and subsidized housing. In addition, there are 45 children in an attached day care. St. Luke's currently has more than 225 employees. 
   Since 2001, USDA Rural Development has invested over $2.5 billion throughout Minnesota for a variety of rural economic development projects.
 
 