SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL ENVOY FOR SOMALIA
  In a move that will help strengthen U.S. diplomacy aimed at bringing peace and stability to Somalia, Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded the appointment of Ambassador John Yates as the Special Envoy for Somalia by Secretary Rice. In this position, Ambassador Yates will work with representatives of Somalia's Transitional Federal Government and other key stakeholders in pursuing national reconciliation and political dialogue. The U.S. has not had an Ambassador to Somalia since the American Embassy was evacuated in 1991. Since 2005, Sen. Coleman has been pressing the State Department to create this position so that the U.S. can conduct more robust diplomacy in Somalia that will better contribute to political reconciliation among the country's numerous groups.  
   "Though we have a great deal of work ahead, the appointment of Special Envoy to Somalia is a necessary step towards the establishment of a comprehensive U.S. policy for Somalia. I applaud Assistant Secretary for African Affairs, Jendayi Frazer, for her work in making this possible," said Coleman. "For over a decade, the U.S. has not had any full-time, senior level diplomat assigned to Somalia. It has been my view that a senior diplomat is absolutely essential to ensure robust U.S. engagement in the political dialogue that we are trying to support in Somalia. I have long been advocating for the appointment of a full-time, Ambassador-level official to lead U.S. diplomacy for Somalia until the time that our diplomatic presence can be reestablished inside Somalia. Additionally, the Special Envoy will be responsible for coordinating U.S. policy and reporting on the situation on the ground in Somalia. 
   "Senator Coleman has long been involved in Somalia policy. I value his attention to this critical issue and the way he has consistently presented to the Department the views and concerns of the tens of thousands of Somalis in his state. I appreciate especially his key advocacy for my recent trip to Baidoa. The Secretary's appointment of a Special Envoy to Somalia is another diplomatic tool to help in our Somalia policy and the Senator's support is vital to those efforts," said Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Jendayi Frazer. 
   Former Ambassador Yates is currently leading the Somalia Unit based at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya as the coordinator for Somalia policy. Ambassador Yates represented the U.S. as an observer in the Somalia Reconciliation Conference at Mbagathi, Kenya, that established the Transitional Federal Charter and the Transitional Federal Institutions in 2004, which serve as the framework for the reestablishment of governance in Somalia. 
   "Before his appointment, Ambassador Yates was serving without the seniority necessary for a diplomat in a country with such significant challenges and instability. Clearly, the situation on the ground requires someone with the authority to speak for the Secretary of State. As result, Ambassador will now report directly to Secretary Rice. We are now providing Somalia with the attention that it deserves," added Coleman. 
   In addition to Senator Coleman's efforts to create this position, he also pressed the State Department for the development of a comprehensive policy for Somalia. Last month, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Jendayi Frazer became the highest-ranking American official to set foot in Somalia in more than a decade.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 