SENATE APPROVES HIGHER EDUCATION AMENDMENT INCLUDING SEN. COLEMAN'S PROPOSAL TO BOOST MAXIMUM PELL GRANT AWARD
  In a move that could significantly increase financial support for thousands of Minnesota college students, the Senate today voted 51-49 to approve an amendment authored by Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-MA) that included a proposal by Sen. Norm Coleman to boost the maximum award for Pell Grants from $4,150 to $4,500 as part of the Senate Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2006. The amendment also restores the TRIO and GEAR UP programs and vocational education programs that were completely eliminated in the Senate budget resolution.  
   "The Pell Grant program is an investment in America's youth," said Coleman. "A skilled and educated workforce is critical to staying competitive in the world today and helping kids reach their dreams. Unfortunately, just as the importance of a college education has risen, so has the cost. Pell grants provide financial assistance to low income students who otherwise might forgo the dream of a college education. In 1975, a Pell Grant covered 80% of the costs of a four-year university while, today, a Pell Grant covers less than 40%. Pell Grants are targeted to the neediest students, with an average family income of $15,200. In Minnesota, 76,525 college students depend on Pell Grants. This was a vote that may make it possible for many deserving students to head to college." 
   MN state colleges provide vocational and technical education to more than 75,000 high school students. Vocational education programs provide the career and technical education necessary to create the highly skilled workforce needed to support the demands of the 21st century economy and to promote economic development in our nation's communities. 
   TRIO programs and GEAR UP programs serve over 15,000 low-income and first generation students statewide. These programs start in high school and provide students with tutoring services, mentors, college preparation seminars, and assistance in completing college admissions and financial aid applications. 
   "As the global economy becomes more interconnected, the more our economic well-being will depend on our ability to innovate," said Coleman. "Innovation depends on education. It is important that we invest in our children's talents and skills to enable them to compete in a knowledge-based, global economy." 
   Last year, Senator Coleman successfully added his amendment to the budget resolution to increase Pell Grant funding to $4,500 but the budget ultimately was not approved. This year, Senator Coleman led a bipartisan coalition of Senators urging that the budget include an increase in Pell Grants to $4,500. The amendment passed by the Senate today included the proposal to increase Pell Grants to $4,500.
 
 