SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILL TO IMPROVE MEDICAL SERVICES FOR RURAL COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Norm Coleman, along with Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), or yesterday introduced bipartisan legislation aimed at improving the access of technology and quality of care for Medicare beneficiaries in rural communities. The Remote Monitoring Access Act of 2005 creates a new benefit category for remote patient management services in the Medicare physician fee schedule. Under this category, Medicare would cover physician services involved with the remote management of specific medical conditions, such as congestive heart failure and diabetes. This bill also charges the Secretary of Health with the responsibility of developing standards of care and quality for the remote management services provided for each medical condition covered. The Secretary is also given the authority to develop guidelines on the frequency of billing for remote patient management services.  
   "I'm committed to making sure that access to healthcare is available to all parts of Minnesota, including our rural communities," said Coleman. "Rural residents and those in underserved areas must be given the same options in healthcare as those in metro or urban communities. By offering remote management technologies, our healthcare providers are able to reduce hassle and potentially supply patients with better information and access to treatment and offer the remedy best suited for the patient. My hope for this bill is that we improve the quality of life of residents and patients throughout Minnesota." 
   Remote monitoring technology allows physicians to monitor and treat patients without a face-to-face office visit, thereby increasing access to physicians for patients living in rural areas. Despite recent innovations, many new clinical information and remote management technologies fail to reach rural communities do to the lack of payment mechanisms. Under existing Medicare fee schedules, physicians generally receive a fixed, pre-determined amount for a given service. The cost of devices used or supplied in the service is usually included in the payment, and payments are primarily provided for face-to-face interactions between the physician and patient. The payment structure creates at least two problems for the wider adoption of patient management approaches using remote management technology: 
   * There is no mechanism or incentive to adopt technologies that both are more capable clinically and save physicians time;
  * The payments often do not pay for the clinician time involved in non-face-to-face interactions that are necessary for interpretation and response to data from remote monitoring technologies. As a result, the payment systems may not adequately reflect the value of patient management services involving remote monitoring technologies. 
   Statistics show that one in five Americans lives in rural areas but only one in ten physicians practice in rural areas. Moreover, 40 percent of the rural population lives in a medically underserved area. With access to care an average of 30 miles away, rural areas have much to gain from the ability to access healthcare information at a distance. 
   "Many rural Minnesota residents face the challenges of distance to health care and availability of physicians," said Mark Schoenbaum, Director of the Office of Rural Health and Primary Care for the Minnesota Department of Health. "This legislation will reduce costs, keep those with chronic illness out of the hospital and improve health outcomes and quality of life of our older, less mobile rural citizens."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 