SEN. COLEMAN TO HOLD MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT INFORMATION SESSIONS IN WOODBURY, ROCHESTER
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that on Monday, November 21st, he will be hosting forums in the cities of Woodbury and Rochester to discuss the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit program. The new program, which is currently open for enrollment, will go into effect on January 1st, 2006 and will allow more than 40 million seniors and people with disabilities to sign up for a new plan that will help pay for a wide array of prescription medication costs. As a whole, the program makes a significant investment to provide greater overall benefits - including not only prescription drug coverage, but better preventative care and improved access to doctors and medical care.  
   "The new Prescription Drug Benefit Program represents the most sweeping change in Medicare since the program's inception and it will be a significant resource for millions of Americans," said Coleman. "This new law puts senior citizens and other beneficiaries in the driver's seat when it comes to their Medicare coverage and I am hopeful that many Minnesotans will take advantage of this program. At the same time, I recognize that some confusion exists regarding enrollment and options within the program. I am looking forward to Monday's sessions to hopefully help shed light on the details of this new and vastly important program." 
   Currently, the average senior citizen spends about $1,460 on prescription drug costs each year. The new drug benefit, often referred to as "Medicare Part D", is aimed at covering a significant portion of prescription drug costs not currently covered under Medicare and will include a monthly premium and deductible. Enrollment in the program is entirely voluntary, with everyone currently enrolled in Medicare eligible for the new drug benefit. In Minnesota alone, there are an estimated 700,000 eligible residents for the new program. 
   Monday's sessions will consistent of a number of panelists, including representatives from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Social Security Administration, the Senior LinkAge Line and the American Association of Retired Persons, as well a local pharmacist. 
   The events are open to the public, with current and future Medicare enrollees encouraged to attend. Media availability will follow each event. 
   Details on the day's schedule are as follows: 
   SCHEDULE - FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2005 
   11:30 - 12:30 p.m. 
  Woodbury Estates 
  2825 Woodlane Drive 
  Woodbury 
   2:15 - 3:15 p.m. 
  Rochester Olmsted County Government Center 
  151 4th Street SE 
  Rochester.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 