SEN. COLEMAN EXPLORES COSTLY EFFECTS OF SARBANES-OXLEY ON SMALL BUSINESSES AT HEARING
  Sen. Norm Coleman today questioned witnesses at a Senate Committee on Small Businesses hearing about the compliance burdens of the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation on small businesses. As a result of Sarbanes-Oxley, small businesses are facing high compliance costs that are affecting their ability to grow and remain competitive. At the hearing, entitled "Sarbanes-Oxley and Small Business: Addressing Proposed Regulatory Changes and their Impact on the Capital Market," witnesses testified about the costs associated with Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and ways to ensure that small businesses are not unduly burdened. Among the witnesses were several Minnesota natives including: Christopher Cox, Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman; Mark Olson, Chairman of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; and Rich Wasielewski, CFO of Nortech Systems.  
   "There's no question that Sarbanes-Oxley has gone a long way in restoring the investing public's confidence in our capital markets, but repairing that bond has not come without a price," said Coleman. "The high costs of complying with the legislation are forcing many small businesses to go private and effectively shutting them out of U.S. capital markets. Our future economic prosperity and competitiveness depend on the ability of our small businesses to innovate and grow into industry leaders - to become the next Medtronic or the next Target. In order for small businesses to grow and develop, we need to avoid forcing them into a corner where they have to make the choice between hiring new workers or hiring teams of auditors to ensure compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley. Ultimately such a trade-off is not healthy for our increasingly global economy." 
   Witnesses talked about the impact of Sarbanes-Oxley and efforts to lessen the impact on small businesses. 
   "The major benefit of this Act is the assurance and continued confidence our investors have in our company's reporting of our financial performance and management, along with the additional governance from a stronger internal control of our financial processes," said Wasielewski. "However, these benefits come at a significant cost to Nortech from the large administrative costs and fees necessary to meet the regulations. Our company faces a competitive disadvantage against larger public companies with greater economies of scale to deal with increased compliance costs, as well as private and foreign companies that do not have to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley requirements." 
   "Today, four years after the Sarbanes-Oxley Act was signed into law, over 6,000 public companies still aren't required to provide the audited internal control reports required by section 404 [of the legislation,]" said Cox. "Our experience of the first three years told us that the way 404 was being implemented was too expensive for everyone--and imposing that system on the smallest of companies would impose unacceptably high costs from the standpoint of the companies investors, who would have to pay the bills. The reforms we're making to the SOX 404 process are intended to be of direct benefit to America's small businesses - and the millions of Americans who work for them, invest in them, and benefit from all that they provide to our economy. We're re-orienting 404 to focus on what truly matters to investors - and away from expensive and unproductive make-work procedures that waste investors' money and distract attention from what's genuinely material." 
   "A priority concern that triggers our current efforts is the desire to assure that the audit standard mandated by the Act can be conducted in a manner consistent with the size and complexity of America's small publicly traded companies," said Olson. 
   Congress passed Sarbanes-Oxley in 2002 in response to corporate and accounting scandals involving such companies as Enron and WorldCom. The legislation sought to restore confidence in publicly traded companies by establishing an independent oversight accounting board, requiring auditor independence and increasing corporate responsibility. The hearing also included additional witnesses, including: Thomas Venables, President and CEO of Benjamin Franklin Bank and Joseph Piche, CEO and Founder of Eikos, Inc.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 