SEN. COLEMAN ATTENDS MEXICAN CONSULATE CEREMONY IN ST. PAUL
  Today, Sen. Norm Coleman joined St. Paul Mayor Randy Kelly and Executive Director for Chicanos Latinos Unidos En Servicio (CLUES), Jesse Bethke Gomez, in an official lease signing ceremony between CLUES and the Government of Mexico to establish the 46th Consulate of Mexico in the U.S. The Consulate, located in St. Paul, will foster international opportunities in economic development, trade, and cultural and artistic endeavors. The documents will now be sent to Mexico City for official signature by the Government of Mexico.  
   "This consulate is a structure we have created in cooperation with the Mexican government," said Coleman. "It will be the conduit for all kinds of relationships and projects between Mexico and Minnesota that are just waiting to happen. Minnesota is proud that in the last decade our Latino Chicano population has tripled. They have come because they share our values: family, hard work, community." 
   In February, the Mexican government appointed Nathan Wolf, former diplomatic adviser to Mexican President Vicente Fox, as the St. Paul consul. He will be moving to St. Paul on April 25th and there will be an official office opening in June, 2005. 
   As Chair of the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps, and Narcotics Affairs, Sen. Coleman held discussions with Mexican President Vincente Fox on establishing a Mexican consulate here during his visit to St. Paul in June of 2004. 
   "Establishing a Consulate in Minnesota was the key issue in my meeting with President Fox," added Coleman. "I was pleased when he announced that he, in fact, did plan to open one here. It is clear that creating future opportunities for Minnesota and the United States lie in building a strong relationship with Mexico." 
   Mexico has the eighth largest economy in the world and is the number two trading partner of the United States. Currently, Mexico ranks eighth as a trading partner with Minnesota. According to State Office of Trade, Minnesota annually exports about $350,000,000 to $400,000,000 in goods and services to Mexico.
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 