SEN. COLEMAN SECURES FUNDING FOR BROWNS VALLEY IN OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Continuing his efforts to deliver needed federal assistance to Browns Valley following massive flooding earlier this year, Senator Norm Coleman has successfully secured a $735,000 appropriation, along with a $98,000 flood control study, for the town in the fiscal year 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill currently before Congress. Sen. Coleman requested both appropriations for Browns Valley and has consistently worked to secure their inclusion during the appropriations process this year.  
   "Browns Valley is a small community with limited resources, but the devastation they faced this past spring was anything but small or limited," Coleman said. "Following the floods, I pledged to do all I could to secure needed federal assistance to help this community rebuild and to prevent a similar disaster from happening in the future. The appropriations I secured in the omnibus bill this week will help do both, and I am thrilled my colleagues have recognized the importance of these projects for Browns Valley." 
   Specifically, Sen. Coleman secured a $735,000 appropriation that will be granted directly to the community for use in rebuilding, clean-up and other development efforts. Coleman had previously secured this funding in the Senate Transportation Appropriations bill earlier this year. 
   To help prevent future flooding, Coleman successfully secured $98,000 for an extension of the Minnesota River Basin Study to include the study of a flood control project for Browns Valley. Coleman had originally secured this funding as part of the Senate's Energy and Water Appropriations bill. 
   Coleman traveled to Browns Valley to meet with Mayor Jeff Backer and other community leaders to discuss the community's flood recovery efforts and future mitigation plans in August. During the meeting, Coleman committed to continue working to secure federal assistance for the community.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 