SEN. COLEMAN CALLS ON RUSSIAN PRESIDENT REQUESTING RUSSIA RIGHTFULLY RETURN JEWISH RELIGIOUS TEXTS; GETS UNANIMOUS SENATE ENDORSEMENT
  A letter authored by Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) was sent today to Russian President Vladimir Putin urging him to release Jewish religious texts known as the Schneerson collection into the custody of its rightful owners, Agudas Chasidei Chabad of the United States. Every single one of Coleman's Senate colleagues joined him in signing the letter.  
   In its unanimous message to the Russian President, the Senator Coleman and his colleagues said, "We urge you to return these sacred texts, archives, and manuscripts to Chabad, which would be a significant example of your government's commitment to justice, human rights, and religious freedom." 
   The Schneerson collection consists of rare books, archives and manuscripts concerning Chabad philosophy and Jewish religious law and tradition. Communist authorities seized the bulk of the books during the Bolshevik Revolution. More than 12,000 texts are being held at the Russian State Library. Another part of the collection was captured by the Soviet Army during World War II and is currently stored at the Russian State Military Archive. 
   "It is our hope that President Bush will personally deliver to President Putin the Senate's letter requesting the return of the Schneerson collection" during their meeting later this month, Senator Coleman stated. 
   The letter received a rare display of complete bipartisanship from the 109th Senate. However, it is not the first such letter. In 1992 the Senate sent a unanimous letter to then President Boris Yeltsin asking him to honor his own commitment to return the Schneerson collection. 
   "To have every single Senator sign on to a letter like this is very rare. To have it happen twice on the same issue is virtually unheard of," Coleman said. "It's not often a cause gains enduring support across the political spectrum, but we all agree that Russia's withholding of these sacred texts represents a clear injustice."
 
 