SENS. COLEMAN, BURNS, BAUCUS HOST NATIONAL TOWN HALL TO CRACK DOWN ON METH
  To address the increasing dangers Methamphetamines exact on our nation's communities and families, Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN), Conrad Burns (R-MT), and Max Baucus (D-MT) today announced that they will host a National Town Hall on Methamphetamine Awareness and Prevention Monday, January 23, 2006. Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez and Drug Czar John Walters of the Office of National Drug Control Policy will make opening remarks and during the three rounds of the town hall, the senators will be joined by state and national panelists, including drug enforcement officials, rehabilitative services personnel, and former users of meth who have experienced the devastating and tragic effects of the synthetically-made drug. The event has been assembled as a national forum in which to understand the use and widespread impact of the drug, as well as seek ways to inform the public, deter use, and examine possible legislative initiatives to further combat the meth epidemic.  
   The Meth Town Hall will be broadcast live from Washington via satellite to a number of Minnesota locations across the state. In addition, the event will be webcast live via Senator Coleman's official website at www.coleman.senate.gov. During the event, the senators and panelists will be able to receive audience questions via e-mail, which they will answer during the Question and Answer period of each panel. 
   Details on the satellite broadcast locations will be forthcoming, with local residents and media encouraged to attend. 
   Questions can be emailed in advance of the town hall, as well as throughout the live broadcast. Questions can be emailed to methtownhall@coleman.senate.gov. 
   WHO: Senators Coleman, Burns and Baucus - along with local panelists 
   WHAT: National Meth Town Hall 
   WHEN: 12:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. CST, Monday, January 23rd, 2006 
   WHERE: Live Satellite Broadcast to local venues during event in Washington, D.C. 
  Also available on www.coleman.senate.gov 
   CONTACT: Luke Friedrich 
  MN Press Secretary 
  Senator Norm Coleman 
  651-645-0323
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 