SEN. COLEMAN ENCOURAGES MINNESOTA NATIONAL GUARD FAMILIES AFFECTED BY TOUR EXTENSION TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF SENATE OFFICE RESOURCES
  In light of the recent tour extensions for Minnesota National Guard members serving in Iraq, Sen. Norm Coleman today urged any families with concerns, questions or needs to contact his Senate office for assistance.  
   "With the abrupt and poorly relayed message that the tour of Minnesota's brave citizen soldiers fighting in Iraq will be extended, I am concerned for the many affected National Guard families," said Coleman. "When I spoke to Minnesota's troops in Iraq a few weeks ago, they were extremely excited about returning to their loved ones in March. I have full-time staff devoted to military affairs, and I am committed to providing affected families with any and all available resources to help address any concerns that stem from the extended tours of our courageous Minnesota soldiers." 
   "The extension of the 1st Brigade Combat Team has had a tremendous impact on the soldiers and the families of that team," said Col. Eric Ahlness with the Minnesota National Guard. "The Minnesota National Guard appreciates the support and ongoing efforts of our Governor and the Minnesota Congressional Delegation, working in conjunction with the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Army Staff, and the Chief of the National Guard Bureau in ensuring the delivery of resources to the state to help. The ongoing reconsideration of policies and processes is heartening and promotes stronger systems for the future." 
   Following news of the Minnesota National Guard extension last week, Senator Coleman sent a stern letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates expressing his extreme frustration over the extension and lack of official notification to these troops. In the letter, Coleman called on Secretary Gates to immediately provide Minnesota soldiers serving in Iraq with their official orders including information on their mission and expected length of stay Additionally, Sen. Coleman joined with Governor Pawlenty yesterday in sending a letter to Secretary Gates requesting additional pay and fully-funded reintegration programs for members of the Minnesota National Guard's 1st Brigade Combat Team whose current tour of duty in Iraq has been extended. The letter also requests elimination of the 90-day hands-off policy, and instead encourages implementation of a reintegration program that brings together service members and their families during their first 90 days at home. 
   "The President's decision to implement a troop surge in Baghdad will have a major impact on the Minnesota National Guard and it's imperative that the Defense Department do all they can to help both soldiers and their families with both pay and reintegration," Coleman added. "Minnesota's soldiers have made the ultimate commitment to serve our country, and I am committed to offering assistance wherever and whenever I can." 
   Coleman has designated the following military affairs staff members to handle any questions, needs or concerns from Minnesota National Guard families affected by the tour extension: 
   Greg Gorham, St. Paul, Minnesota Office: 651-645-0323 
   Jordan Talge, Washington, D.C., Office: 202-224-5641 
   Additionally, Coleman and his staff will be traveling to readiness centers across Minnesota to offer support in the upcoming weeks and months. Further information and resources can be found by visiting Senator Coleman's website at www.coleman.senate.gov.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 