SENATE PASSES SEN. COLEMAN INDEPENDENT COMMISSION FOR LONG-TERM REVIEW OF ETHICS REFORMS
  In a continuing effort to hold the U.S. Congress to higher ethical standards, Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded Senate final passage of the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act of 2007 (S.1), which contains his bipartisan amendment to create the Commission to Strengthen Confidence in Congress, which will provide an independent long-term review of the enacted reforms and recommend any additional reforms necessary to help restore public confidence in the legislative process. The bipartisan commission will create a roadmap for the Congress by evaluating ethical issues such as disclosure, earmarks and travel. The bill passed by a vote of 96 to 2. The measure will now head to a House-Senate Conference Committee.  
   "The American people have clearly showed that they want meaningful, long-term reform efforts to restore the credibility of our political institutions," said Coleman. "With passage of this bill, we are going above and beyond previous guidelines in order to win back public confidence - with a focus on transparency and accountability. My Commission is a common sense solution to make sure the efforts we undertake are having the intended effect. We need to make sure our reforms are appropriate and fully address public concern, rather than change for change's sake." 
   The legislation also includes an amendment by Senator Coleman that requires the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives to establish by January 1, 2008 a publicly available website to record information on all officially related Congressional travel. Senator Coleman is the first member of Congress to post on his Senate website a complete listing of all his official Congressional travel for public view. Coleman's amendment will create one centralized website where all member travel will similarly be recorded. The amendment was cosponsored by Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD). 
   "I have always believed that sunlight is the best disinfectant, which is why I was the first in the Senate to post my complete Senate travel records on my website," said Coleman. "This is a standard that every member of Congress should be held to in order to create a solid foundation of public confidence. My website has served as an easy way for every Minnesotan to stay informed of my travels as a Senator. I wanted to bring this Minnesota standard to the national stage and give all Americans a simple way to learn about the travel itineraries of their own elected officials."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 