PRESIDENT'S TAX RELIEF WORKS: SOLID JOB GROWTH CONTINUES IN MINNESOTA
  Earlier today, the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development (MDEED) reported that another 7,200 jobs were added last month in Minnesota. Over the past two months, 19,200 jobs have been created in Minnesota. This is the highest two-month gain in the last five years. 
   "These numbers confirm that the impressive jobs gains experienced in April was not a one-time event. As the Minnepolis Star Tribune reported earlier this month: the economic recovery is here to stay," Coleman said. "The President's tax relief has played a vital and important role in the present job growth. This is what happens when you give people control of more of their own paychecks."
   The construction and manufacturing sectors in Minnesota continue to improve. Construction employment grew by 2,200 in May; this follows 2,800 new jobs in April. In addition, 1,600 new manufacturing jobs were created in May and 7,400 jobs have been created in the last 10 months.
   MDEED also reported that the unemployment rate for Minnesota inched up from 4.2% to 4.3%, which is more than a full percentage below the national average of 5.6%. This follows the record-breaking drop in April from 4.8% to 4.2%. Analysts conclude the tenth of a point rise in the unemployment rate took place because more individuals are taking advantage of the improving job market and are now looking for a job.
   "While the slight up-tick in the unemployment rate concerns me, it is important to note that it went up not because Minnesota jobs were lost. Rather, it went up because more individuals are now looking for a job. This is a sign that individuals are confident they will be able to find a job in an improving job market," Coleman said.
   "Even the most persistent critics of the President's economic program must now concede. The economic engine of America, especially Minnesota, is humming. Economic growth is now steady. Nonetheless, we need to have a forward-looking legislative agenda and overcome Democratic obstructionism and pass an Energy Bill, a highway bill and important legal reforms that alone would create 3.5 million new, and good paying jobs."
 
 