SEN. COLEMAN JOINS COLLEAGUES IN INTRODUCING BILL TO ELIMINATE LATE ENROLLMENT PENALTY FOR PART D
  Still concerned over the potential economic impact on seniors who have been unable to sign up for the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug program, Sen. Norm Coleman today joined 18 Senators in introducing S. 2810, the Medicare Late Enrollment Assistance Act of 2006. This legislation would eliminate the one percent per month late enrollment penalty for seniors who missed the May 15th deadline. The bill would allow seniors and other eligible people to sign up for the prescription drug program without penalty during the next enrollment period this November. Low Income Subsidy Medicare Beneficiaries can sign up at any time during this year without penalty.  
   "My concern has always been that there was not enough time to address the questions seniors have about the program," said Coleman. "In Minnesota alone, there are nearly 200,000 seniors who are still eligible to take advantage of this comprehensive, affordable and guaranteed prescription drug coverage. Nationwide, there are over 40 million folks still eligible. This program has already resulted in tremendous savings for many seniors. Giving the remaining eligible seniors a chance to achieve similar savings - especially given some of the early confusion with the program - is simply the right thing to do." 
   The bill has been introduced and Coleman said he hopes for speedy consideration by the Senate, possibly as early as tomorrow. 
   Specifically, the bill: 
   * Eliminates the enrollment penalty for 2006. No month in 2006 shall be considered an uncovered month. 
   * Provides an additional $13 million for State Health Insurance Information Programs and an additional $5 million for Area Agencies on Aging to provide beneficiaries assistance in enrolling in Part D. Funding will be distributed based on number of rural beneficiaries and beneficiaries eligible for the low-income subsidy. 
   * Offsets the cost of these provisions by a reduction in the stabilization fund. The bill is fully offset. 
   Last week, Coleman sent a letter to Administration officials urging the extension of the enrollment date past May 15th, noting that an early computer glitch temporarily delayed reimbursement for some individuals who were eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid, and may have resulted in many seniors postponing enrolling until the program was up and running effectively. Without passage of S. 2810, beneficiaries who sign up after the deadline will have to pay a one percent increase in their premium for each month enrollment is delayed. 
   The Medicare administration estimates that the average senior citizen will save $1,100 annually thorough this program that has already attracted more than 25 million Americans. People with questions can call 1-800-Medicare to get their questions answered, or can contact the Senior LinkAge Line at 1-800-333-2433, or email them at senior.linkage@state.mn.us for more information.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 