SENS. COLEMAN, DAYTON HONOR TWO MINNESOTANS AT EAGAN FLIGHT SCHOOL FOR BRAVERY IN ALERTING FBI TO ZACARIAS MOUSSAOUI
  Sens. Norm Colman and Mark Dayton joined in honoring the two Minnesotans, Tim Nelson and Hugh Sims, program managers at Pan Am's flight school in Eagan, for their bravery and contributions that led to the detainment of terrorist Zacarias Moussaoui by the FBI. The resolution (S. Res. 144), which passed by unanimous consent, recognizes the two managers for their actions, which may have saved the lives of thousands and preempted a possible attack on the White House.  
   "Our country owes a tremendous debt of gratitude to both Tim Nelson and Hugh Sims," said Coleman. "These two men serve as heroes to all of us, but the true extent of their heroism goes far beyond words. Their courage and resolve may have saved the lives of thousands of innocent victims, and as we continue to grieve those whom we lost in the aftermath of September 11th, we realize the enormous impact and importance of their actions. We will always be grateful for their courage and vigilance." 
   "Over three years ago, two incredibly brave Minnesotans, Tim Nelson and Hugh Sims, made phone calls to the FBI which led to the capture of terrorist Zacarias Moussaoui, the only person prosecuted for conspiring to commit the atrocities of September 11th," said Dayton. "Our country owes these men a debt of gratitude for their attentiveness and courage, which may have preempted another attack and saved thousands of lives." 
   Tim Nelson and Hugh Sims each placed a call to the FBI in Minneapolis on the morning of August 15, 2001, one month prior to the attacks of September 11th. These calls set in motion the only criminal prosecution stemming from the terrorist attacks on that day. On April 22, 2005, Zacarias Moussaoui pled guilty to six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism on September 11, 2001.
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 