SENATE UNANIMOUSLY PASSES SEN. COLEMAN RESOLUTION TO MAINTAIN U.S. OVERSIGHT ROLE FOR INTERNET
  The U.S. Senate today unanimously passed a Sense of the Senate Resolution (S. Res. 323) introduced by Sen. Norm Coleman that upholds the United State's current role in overseeing the governance of the Internet and expressly opposes control of the World Wide Web by the United Nations and other international organizations.  
   The action taken by the Senate comes in response to recent proposals to have the U.N. assume a role in global Internet governance. Earlier this week at a meeting of the U.N. World Summit on the Information Society meeting in Tunisia, delegates to the conference agreed that the United States will retain oversight of the domain-name system. 
   "The Internet has flourished under the supervision and market-based policies of the United States," Coleman said. "This resolution makes clear the determination of the Senate to oppose any attempt by the United Nations or any other international group to control or politicize the Internet now or in the future. The potential risks to our economy, security, and freedom of expression are too profound to allow the World Wide Web to be governed by the U.N. or any other international entity." 
   The Internet was developed and has flourished under U.S. supervision, oversight, and private sector involvement. Coleman has consistently maintained that this growth happened not because of increased government involvement, but rather from opening the Internet to commerce and private sector innovation. 
   Coleman's Sense of the Senate Resolution supports the four governance principles articulated by the Administration on June 30, 2005. These are: 
   * Preservation of the security and stability of the Internet domain name and addressing system (DNS). 
   * Recognition of the legitimate interest of governments in managing their own country code top-level domains. 
   * Support for the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) as the appropriate technical manager of the Internet DNS. 
   * Participation in continuing dialogue on Internet governance in multiple existing fora, with continued support for market-based approaches toward, and private sector leadership of, its further evolution. 
   The Resolution calls upon the Administration to firmly oppose any proposal that would deviate from these core principles. 
   Significantly, the Senate Resolution passed today also supports greater access on the part of the developing world to the services, commerce, and free flow of information that is the bedrock of democratic self-government that the Internet provides. 
   WSIS delegates will hold a follow-up forum next year in Greece that will focus on a variety of public policy issues related to the Internet. The forum will be open to full participation of Internet stakeholders, including those in the private sector. 
   "Despite the promising developments to protect the technical and informational integrity of the Internet, we must remain vigilant," Coleman said. "The future of the world economy and democracy is inextricably tied to the future of this unprecedented communications and informational tool. We must not let down our guard." 
   Coleman previously submitted a statement into the Congressional Record denouncing proposals by a UN task force for an internationalization of the Internet on July 29, 2005.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 