SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILL TO STOP NORMALIZED TRADE WITH LAOS
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today introduced bipartisan legislation along with Wisconsin Sen. Russ Feingold to stop normalized trade relations for Laos. The legislation is in response to actions of a Senate-House conference committee to the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB) which slipped into the final version of the MTB bill a provision to grant Laos normalized trade relations with the United States despite the fact that neither the Senate nor the House had approved such a provision. Coleman's objections rise from his longstanding concerns about human rights in Laos, particularly as new allegations are raised concerning Lao soldier atrocities against young Hmong girls. 
   "Frankly, folks did by night what they could not get done in broad daylight and that's too bad," said Coleman. "There are strong bipartisan objections to granting normalized trade relations with Laos in both the House and the Senate and so there was a subversion of the process to add this provision to a very popular and maybe unstoppable bill, which even I support," Coleman added. "Apparently even those of my colleagues who support NTR for Laos realized that the human rights record of this regime could not withstand the scrutiny of an open debate."
   Neither S. 671, the Senate version of the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill, nor its House companion, H.R. 1047, contained normalized trade for Laos. Nevertheless, when the Senate and House negotiators met to iron out difference between the two bills, normalized trade relations with Laos was slipped in. Final versions of bills coming out of Senate-House conference committees are not amendable and are subject to a simple up or down vote. Thus, adding normalized trade relations to a very popular bill important to states like Minnesota would give the otherwise highly objectionable provision nearly a free-ride.
   "I've been working to try to dump the Laos trade rider from the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill, but it's been an uphill climb," said Coleman. "Since I support the underlying MTB bill, which is very important to Minnesota, I intend to support allowing an up or down vote on the measure but I do not expect to support its final passage as long as it contains the Laos trade provision. I cannot in good conscience support normalized trade with Laos so long as this regime continues to oppress the Hmong, arrest people arbitrarily, inhibit free speech and oppose religious liberty."
 
 