SEN. COLEMAN SECURES $18.3 MILLION FOR KEY MINNESOTA MILITARY PROJECTS IN SENATE FY 2006 MILITARY CONSTRUCTION APPROPRIATIONS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today praised Senate passage of the FY06 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Conference Report, which includes $18.3 million in funding for military construction for important Minnesota projects at the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport (MSP) and the Duluth International Airport (DIA). The bill passed by unanimous consent, providing $82.3 billion in funding for military construction activities, veterans medical care and benefits, and other related agencies.  
   "Minnesota military personnel play a vital role in our nation's national defense, which is why I worked hard to secure funding for these key projects," said Coleman. "I believe it is important that we continue to invest in the brave men and women who serve this country proudly. These funds will greatly contribute to our level of readiness and improve our ability to protect our communities." 
   This bill appropriates $6.5 million for the 148th Air National Guard Base at DIA for the construction of a joint FAA/Air National Guard Fire Station Facility. Construction of the Joint FAA/Air National Guard Fire Station Facility will provide the capability to conduct all fire operations at the airfield. 
   "Congress's support of our expanded fire fighting facility at the 148th Fighter Wing is great news," General Larry Shelito, Minnesota National Guard. "The project will not only benefit the Minnesota Air National Guard, but also the Duluth community since the Air Guard provides emergency service support for the Duluth International Airport." 
   Additionally, $3 million was included for a small arms range at the 934th airlift wing Air Force Reserve at MSP Airport to assist in maintaining their readiness. 
   The 133rd Airlift Wing of the Minnesota Air National Guard, also located at MSP, was allotted $8.8 million for a Composite Maintenance Complex. The 133rd Airlift Wing requires maintenance support facilities that are safe, efficient, and properly configured to support eight C-130 H3 aircraft. The proposed 33,203 sq. ft. complex would support general purpose aircraft maintenance shops, tool storage, weapons system maintenance management, storage for aircraft support equipment, and administrative space. 
   The Conference Report also provides $29.1 billion for the Veterans Health Administration, including $22.5 billion for medical services for eligible veterans and beneficiaries in VA medical centers, outpatient clinic facilities, contract hospitals, State homes, and outpatient programs. Veteran's benefits were increased by $1.9 billion over last year. 
   "Our soldiers and veterans have made countless sacrifices on behalf of our country to protect our freedoms, which is why I am pleased that funding for Veteran's medical care has increased substantially," said Coleman. "I will continue working hard to ensure our Veterans receive the best medical services available."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 