SENATE PASSES MENTAL HEALTH PARITY ACT CO-SPONSORED BY SEN. COLEMAN
  Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman today applauded the Senate for passing the Mental Health Parity Act of 2007, which was introduced by Senators Pete Domenici (R-NM) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA). The bill prohibits health insurance companies from placing discriminatory restrictions on mental health treatment that do not exist for other physical illnesses.  
   "Enacting comprehensive parity legislation is simply a matter of fairness and I am pleased the Senate passed the Mental Health Parity Act of 2007 this evening," said Coleman. "It's important that we continue to work with the House to further strengthen this bill as the process advances. We owe nothing less to the more than 50 million Americans suffering with mental illness. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleague Jim Ramstad as the House continues to debate and improve this critical legislation." 
   The legislation would provide mental health parity for about 113 million Americans who work for employers with 50 or more employees. It will ensure that health plans do not place more restrictive conditions on mental health coverage than on medical or surgical coverage. As such, it would require parity for financial requirements like deductibles, co-payments, and annual and lifetime limits; and parity for treatment limitations such as the number of covered hospital days and visits. 
   The 1996 Mental Health Parity law only provided parity for annual and lifetime limits between mental health coverage and medical surgical coverage. The new bill expands parity by including deductibles, co-payments, out-of-pocket expenses, coinsurance, covered hospital days, and covered out-patient visits. The measure includes a small business exemption for companies with fewer than 50 employees, and also includes a cost exemption for all businesses. 
   Today, about 26 percent of American adults, or nearly 58 million people, suffer from a diagnosable mental disorder each year. Six percent of these adults suffer from a serious mental illness. Mental illness is also closely linked to the more than 30,000 suicides in the United States every year. In addition, an estimated 16 percent of all inmates in state and local jails suffer from a mental illness. 
   Senator Coleman was also a cosponsor of the Senator Paul Wellstone Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act, which would provide equal coverage of mental health benefits with respect to health insurance coverage unless comparable limitations are imposed on medical and surgical benefits.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 