SEN. COLEMAN CALLS FOR SENATE HEARINGS TO UPDATE REGULATION OF ENERGY TRADING ON UNREGULATED MARKETS
  Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN) today sent a letter to Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-IA) urging him to schedule Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) reauthorization hearings to update current law to better prevent price manipulation and excessive speculation in our energy markets. Coleman, who joined Senator Carl Levin in investigating the effects of speculative trading on the natural gas prices through the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), stressed that investigation findings have revealed fundamental flaws in our current regulatory structure that require statutory changes to produce greater transparency in over-the-counter (OTC) energy markets. Coleman cautioned, however, that any reforms to these markets must not be made in a way that threatens the ability of U.S. businesses to compete in the global marketplace or drives traders to foreign markets beyond the reach of U.S. regulation. 
   Text of the letter is as follows:  
   Dear Chairman Harkin, 
   I write to ask you to schedule hearings and a markup for reauthorization of the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) in the Senate Agriculture Committee. Reauthorization of the CEA is long overdue, and reauthorization would afford Congress the opportunity to make changes to the CEA that are necessary to prevent price manipulation and excessive speculation in our energy markets. 
   In June 2007, the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs held two days of hearings regarding the impact of excessive speculation on natural gas prices. In conjunction with these hearings, the Subcommittee also released a bipartisan Staff Report entitled "Excessive Speculation in the Natural Gas Market," which details the Subcommittee's findings and recommendations based on its more than nine-month investigation of the collapse of Amaranth Advisors LLC (Amaranth). The evidence presented in the Subcommittee Staff Report, as well as the testimony heard by the Subcommittee during its hearings, raise serious concerns regarding the ability of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "Commission") to prevent price manipulation in U.S. energy markets. 
   The investigation revealed fundamental flaws in our current regulatory structure. It demonstrated that as an increasing amount of U.S. energy trading occurs on unregulated, over-the-counter electronic exchanges, the Commission's large trading reporting system becomes less accurate, trading data becomes less useful, and market surveillance becomes less comprehensive. I am concerned that incomplete information and inadequate authority make it difficult, if not impossible, for the Commission to effectively monitor and prevent excessive speculation and price manipulation in our energy markets. While the nature of trading on the OTC markets has changed a great deal in the last few years and the Senate Agriculture Committee reported a bill to reauthorize the Commodity Exchange Act on July 29, 2005, the full Senate was unable to consider such legislation and has not undertaken a reauthorization of the CEA since the enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 (CFMA). 
   Meanwhile, reforms to the CEA can have a dramatic effect on the ability of U.S. businesses to compete and survive. It is imperative that the Agriculture Committee fully consider unintended consequences that could occur as a result of CEA reform proposals, including creating incentives for traders to shift their business to far less transparent and unregulated markets. The bottom line is that I believe CEA reforms are needed that increase transparency in OTC markets sufficient to prevent market manipulation without disrupting the markets' function as a shield for American businesses against volatile energy prices. 
   Accordingly, I respectfully ask that you schedule CEA reauthorization hearings and a markup in your committee as soon as practicable. Thank you for your timely consideration of this request, and I look forward to your response. 
   Sincerely, 
   Norm Coleman.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 