SEN. COLEMAN URGES ADMINISTRATION TO WITHHOLD U.N. DUES OVER IRAN'S INCLUSION ON U.N. DISARMAMENT COMMISSION
  Responding to recent announcements that point to a lack of progress in implementing reform at the United Nations culminating in Iran's election as a Vice-Chairman of the U.N. Disarmament Commission, Sen. Coleman (R-MN) today urged the Administration to withhold U.S. dues targeted for the U.N. Disarmament Commission and redirect those funds for humanitarian efforts to other international organizations. 
   "The election of Iran as a Vice-Chair of the U.N. Disarmament Commission at the same time as Iran clandestinely pursues its own nuclear ambitions provides yet another example of the U.N.'s inability to establish credible institutions to deal with global issues," Coleman said. "Having the Iranians serve on this Commission is like asking the fox to guard the hens, and will only ensure its ineffectiveness. Clearly, the effort to implement reforms at the U.N. has not only stalled but utterly reversed course. Consequently, I urge the Administration to immediately begin withholding U.S. financial support for the U.N. Disarmament Commission to send an unmistakable signal that there will be serious consequences to the U.N.'s failure to implement real reform."  
   Coleman said in the event that human rights violators are elected to the Human Rights Council, he would fully support the Administration's decision not to work with it, and would advocate the withholding of dues for that body as well. Elections are scheduled for May 9th, with such countries as Iran, Cuba and Venezuela seeking votes. A member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Coleman also indicated that he will send a letter to U.N. member states, urging them to vote against Cuba becoming a member of the new Human Rights Council. 
   "The U.S. cannot afford to sit by and allow the U.N. to undermine its stated ideals by establishing a Council with the very worst violators of the principles they claim to promote," said Coleman. "Clearly, the U.N. is incapable of instituting the needed reforms to make it a credible institution, especially as we approach the May 9th elections and see candidates such as Iran, Cuba, and Venezuela running for key spots on the Human Rights Council. The U.N. is quickly moving in the wrong direction-away from the very ideals it is supposed to uphold, and we must hold them accountable." 
   The Minnesota senator also said he will introduce a Sense of the Senate resolution to present to his colleagues upon their return next week, calling on the body to condemn the recent developments at both the U.N. Human Rights Council and U.N. Disarmament Commission. 
   Chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, Coleman has held three hearings and released three reports containing an avalanche of evidence demonstrating that the U.N. grossly mismanaged the OFF Program, ranging from sloppy administration to outright corruption. Based on these findings, Coleman and Sen. Richard Lugar, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, introduced U.N. reform legislation. In order to enforce changes to the U.N. as outlined in the legislation, the Coleman-Lugar Bill requires the President to submit an annual report on U.N. reform to Congress, and also authorizes the President to withhold 50 percent of U.S. contributions to the U.N. if he determines that the U.N. is not making sufficient progress in implementing reforms described in the Act.
 
 