SENS. COLEMAN, SNOWE INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO ADDRESS SARBANES-OXLEY SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS
  Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee Ranking Member Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) recently introduced legislation to ensure that Sarbanes-Oxley Act regulations due in June do not disproportionately impact the nation's small businesses. The Small Business Regulatory Review Act of 2007 (S. 1153) would require the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) to take into account small businesses burdens before issuing final Sarbanes-Oxley rules.
   "The Small Business Regulatory Review Act of 2007 will help to ensure that small stock companies do not suffer from additional unintended consequences that harm their ability to compete, innovate, grow, and, most importantly, create jobs," said Senator Snowe. "Our nation's small stock companies are the cornerstone of our entrepreneurial economy, and it is essential that we carefully address the regulatory barriers that impede their growth." 
   "Despite their best efforts, it is clear that the SEC and PCAOB have struggled to achieve the difficult balance of protecting investors while not burdening businesses with crushing compliance costs," said Coleman. "I recognize the difficulty in achieving this balance and commend efforts to reach out to the small business community and develop new rules to reduce the compliance burden. In order to ensure that the SEC is moving in the right direction, I am cosponsoring Ranking Member Snowe's measured, common-sense legislation which will require the SEC to undertake the necessary impact review of its proposed new rule on small businesses.
   Ultimately, this burden is not just about the bottom-line, but American jobs and competitiveness. Our future economic prosperity and competitiveness depend on the ability of our small businesses to innovate and grow into industry leaders. At the end of the day, I hope that the regulators can map out a way for small businesses to report trusted and verifiable numbers, but in a way that enables them to do what they do best - grow jobs and the economy."
   Small stock companies are struggling with the cost of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, regardless of their industry. A Government Accountability Office study, which Senator Snowe jointly requested with Senator Enzi, found that the costs of complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act were nine times greater for smaller stock companies than for large stock companies. These significantly greater compliance costs significantly reduce small companies' ability to compete.
   On April 18, 2007, the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship held a hearing to address the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's (PCAOB) proposed regulations to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While acknowledging that Sarbanes-Oxley played a critical role in restoring investor confidence, Ranking Member Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) called on the SEC and PCAOB to ensure that final regulations, due out in June 2007, do not place an undue burden on the nation's small businesses. Following the hearing, Senator Snowe and Senator Coleman introduced the Small Business Regulatory Review Act of 2007.
   Provisions in the Small Business Regulatory Review Act of 2007 would require:
   * The SEC to conduct a small business analysis before the SEC and PCAOB publish final rules on small business internal control compliance.
   * The SEC to publish a small business compliance guide explaining the SEC's final rules in non-technical language.
   * The Government Accountability Office to assess the impact of the SEC's final rules on small public companies two years after they are published.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 