SEN. COLEMAN VOTES TO REMOVE CONTROVERSIAL PROVISION IN LOBBY REFORM BILL AIMED AT RESTRICTING OUTREACH BY GRASSROOTS GROUPS
  Concerned over restrictions on the ability of grassroots organizations, blogs and free speech advocates to relay their concerns to Congress, Sen. Norm Coleman late last night voted to remove the restrictive grassroots provision in the Legislative Transparency & Accountability Act of 2007 (S. 1). The provision passed with the support of 48 Republicans and 7 Democrats on a vote of 55-43.  
   "I voted against the inclusion of these provisions when the bill was in the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee last year and the Senate did the right thing on Thursday when we voted to remove these disturbing provisions from the bill," Coleman said. "The number of people who mobilized on this issue is a perfect example of why we need to protect those rights. I want to thank the concerned citizens who contacted my office on this issue to make their voice heard." 
   "I applaud Senator Coleman's vote to protect free speech and eliminate the restrictions on the ability of the members of the public to contact their elected officials," Minnesota Family Council President Tom Pritchard said. "I appreciate Senator Coleman's vote in favor of citizen involvement." 
   The legislation required additional disclosure (income, expenses) for grassroots organizations for their paid efforts to stimulate grassroots efforts. Had this provision remained in the bill, it would have required the reporting of 'paid efforts to stimulate grassroots lobbying,' which it defined as communications to 500 or more members of the public, with no other qualifiers. Many grassroots organizations expressed concerns about the potentially detrimental impact on their ability to communicate and advocate their views. 
   "Many of our constituents rely on grassroots organizations for important information they can use to communicate with their elected officials," Coleman said. "I am opposed to any effort that would restrict speech freedoms and the grassroots provisions originally contained in the underlying bill would have restricted the ability of constituents to contact their representatives on matters they care about deeply."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 