SEN. COLEMAN EXPLORES WAYS TO SOLVE FRAUD IN DHS PURCHASE CARD PROGRAM
  In an effort to stop the fraudulent use of Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Purchase Cards, Sen. Norm Coleman today, at a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee hearing, attempted to identify solutions to the oversight and internal control problems that led to abuse of the program. During the hearing, Coleman expressed the need to pass the Purchase Card Waste Elimination Act of 2006, which requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to issue guidelines to assist executive agencies in improving the management of the use of the government-wide commercial purchase cards. Coleman is co-author of the legislation.  
   "It is clear to me that there continues to be fraudulent use of the purchase card program which has resulted in billions of taxpayer dollars being subject to waste, and abuse, especially in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita," said Coleman. "This is simply unacceptable. We need to immediately remedy this abuse and put a stop to this fleecing of Americans. A reliable system needs to be established to ensure that the DHS is taking the appropriate steps to guarantee that their employees understand the responsibility that comes with a government purchase card." 
   DHS has spent $430 million through the use of its purchase cards issued to nearly 10,000 cardholders. After reviewing $230 million worth of transactions that occurred between June 15, 2005 and November 12, 2005, the GAO and DHS OIG found examples of questionable transactions. In one instance, a FEMA cardholder used the card to purchase a 63 inch plasma screen TV that cost almost $8,000 and remained in its original box six months after the purchase. Meanwhile the U.S. Secret Service spent over $7,000 on 12 Apple iPod Nanos and 42 iPod shuffles, while a Coast Guard official used his government charge card to buy his own beer brewing kit. 
   Today's panelists, which included Greg Kutz, Managing Director, Forensic Audits and Special Investigations, Government Accountability Office and David Norquist, Chief Financial Officer, Department of Homeland Security, discussed how these transactions were due, in part, to a lack of internal controls and oversight of the DHS purchase card program. 
   "This is about accountability, training and having the proper controls in place. It is my hope that DHS will be able to remedy these problems before further abuse and waste occurs. It is unfair to the American people that tax dollars are essentially being thrown away simply because of a lack of vigilant oversight," Coleman added. "Today, we received a strong commitment from DHS officials that they will increase their efforts to improving accountability in this program."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 