SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILL TO ENCOURAGE LOCAL OWNERSHIP OF ETHANOL PLANTS
  In an effort to ensure local ownership of bio-refineries such as ethanol and biodiesel plants, Senator Norm Coleman, along with Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI), has introduced legislation that would require any bio-refinery financed with federal funding to provide local residents an opportunity to invest in the bio-refinery. The legislation, which was also introduced as an amendment to the Senate Energy Bill several weeks ago, would help ensure that farmers in Minnesota and across the country continue to have the opportunity to benefit from the booming ethanol industry.  
   "The ethanol and biodiesel industries have been a phenomenal success story for Minnesota's farmers and rural communities, but the significance of renewable fuels to rural America is about more than just creating another market for farmers' crops," Coleman said. "The entire community benefits when local folks invest in these plants by adding value to crops locally and keeping more wealth at home." 
   Bruce Stockman of the Minnesota Corn Growers stated, "Ethanol is not just about energy independence for our country and a better environment for our kids, but about rural communities and jobs. Senator Coleman's legislation would help to ensure we maintain local ownership and investment in our ethanol facilities so we keep and grow jobs on Main Street. We're proud to endorse this important bill." 
   Specifically, this legislation seeks to preserve local ownership of bio-refineries by requiring bio-refineries that are financed with a federal loan, loan guarantee, or grant to provide local investors residing within 50 miles of the ethanol plant an opportunity to invest in the bio-refinery. Farmer-owned cooperatives financing a bio-refinery with federal funds will be considered as having met this requirement. Forty percent of the ethanol plant investment would need to be made available for a period of 60 days, and no one local investor can own more than 2.5%. 
   "Any investment in renewable fuels is a good thing, but as we see more and more money from Wall Street enter the industry, I want to ensure our local communities continue to have the chance to benefit from this growing industry," Coleman added. "I will continue to push this bill in both the energy bill and the farm bill, and I believe it's a proposal that will continue to build bipartisan support as an issue that resonates with rural communities across the nation."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 