SEN. COLEMAN CALLS DISCUSSIONS WITH PRESIDENT OF MEXICO POSITIVE ON ISSUES IMPORTANT TO MINNESOTA
  Sen. Norm Coleman, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps and Narcotics, emerged from an appearance and one-on-one meeting with President Vicente Fox of Mexico with good news on several issues of importance to Minnesota, including the announcement that a Mexican consulate will be opened soon in Minnesota and that Cynthia Kiecker, a Minnesota native who has been jailed in the Mexican state of Chihuahua for a year, will not be prosecuted by authorities. 
   "The President indicated that as of last week (June 11) the state is not prosecuting the Kiecker case," Coleman said. "Ms. Kiecker is still in jail and there are other further legal steps that still need to take place. But it is a very positive step that the state is not prosecuting."
   Earlier in the afternoon Coleman was also with President Fox at Cesar Chavez Charter School in St. Paul when he made the surprise announcement that he wanted to open a Mexican consulate in Minnesota as soon as possible.
   "In his speech he did say there would be a Mexican Consulate, 'aqui', and he was in St. Paul," Coleman said. "In my basic Spanish that translates as 'here,' so I take that to mean St. Paul. The details still need to be worked out."
   During a twenty minute meeting at the Radisson Riverfront Hotel in St. Paul, Coleman engaged the Mexican President in a wide-ranging discussion of trade, energy and the importance of a continued partnership to fight terrorism, drug trafficking and human rights violations. Challenges elsewhere in the hemisphere, including Haiti and Columbia, were on the agenda.
   Coleman also emphasized the importance of finding a resolution to sweetener discussions currently taking place between Mexico and U.S. sugar and corn growers and refiners.
   "We let the President and his economic minister know that we are pleased with the progress that is being made and we think it is in both of our interests to resolve this issue."
   Coleman praised President Fox's visionary leadership and called for further cooperation between the U.S., Mexico and neighboring countries in meeting new challenges and opportunities for growth and expanded partnerships.
 
 