SEN. COLEMAN HELPS GET SWEDISH BAND BACK ON TRACK FOR DYLAN DAYS IN HIBBING
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that Totta's Bluesband, a popular well-known Swedish band, will now be able to pay tribute to Bob Dylan during the upcoming Hibbing's Dylan Days 2005 after helping the band get B-1 visas, visas which allow international entertainers to visit and perform in the U.S. The band, lifelong Bob Dylan fans, will play at Zimmy's on Tuesday, May 24th at 4:30 pm to celebrate Bob Dylan's 63rd birthday. The following day, May 25th, Totta's will visit Hibbing High School and work with high school music students as part of a cultural exchange tour.  
   Totta's experienced near cancellation of their U.S. tour when they discovered that they had applied too late for a non-immigrant worker visa. The situation was further compounded when it was also discovered at the band's appointment with the American Embassy in Stockholm on May 16, 2005, that they did not qualify for B-1 entertainer visas due to having other, additional paid performances from audience fees on their schedule, which they had to cancel to be allowed to perform in the U.S. 
   According to the U.S. State Department, a professional entertainer may be classified B-1 if the entertainer is coming to participate in a cultural program sponsored by the sending country and will be performing before non-paying audiences. Officials in Hibbing, as well as representatives from the band, immediately contacted Senator Coleman's office to seek assistance. 
   Coleman contacted and worked with both the U.S. Embassy in Sweden, officials in the U.S. at the State Department, and the Totta's Bluesband to fulfill the qualifications for a B-1 visa. As of May 18, the U.S. Embassy in Stockholm granted Totta's a B-1 visa. The band is scheduled to leave Sweden today, May 19th, and arrive this weekend in Hibbing. 
   "I think this is a great event for Dylan Days in Hibbing, and is also a great opportunity for cultural and artistic exchange in the name of one of a Minnesota legend," said Coleman. "I love music and have been a long time fan of Dylan's. It would have been a great shame to miss out on this opportunity for Hibbing and our students because of a mix-up in bureaucratic procedures. I was pleased to help Totta's get over this short hurdle and back on the road to help us celebrate Dylan's birthday." 
   "The band has been looking forward to coming here for almost a year," said Peter Wahlqvist, Cultural Counselor for the Embassy of Sweden in Washington DC. "They are especially excited to play in Minnesota with its great heritage of Swedish immigrants. It's good for younger people, who are of Swedish decent, but who have never been to Sweden, to keep in touch with their heritage. This tour is a greeting from [Sweden] and a homage to Dylan, who is enormously loved in Sweden." 
   Totta's Bluesband's members include Johan Lindstrom, Nikke Strom, Bengt Blomgren, Thosten Naslund, Johan Hakansson, Mattias Hellberg, and Goran Blomgren. The band will be accompanied by Peter Wahlqvist, the Cultural Counselor to the Swedish Embassy in Washington D.C. Currently, Totta's Bluesband is in the process of recording Dylan songs in Swedish, translated by Swedish poet Mikael Weehe, and supports nomination of Dylan's lyrics for the Nobel Prize in Literature.
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 