SENATE PASSES SEN. COLEMAN'S RESOLUTION CONDEMNING LAOS FOR HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today introduced and then passed in the United States Senate a resolution condemning Laos for its human rights abuses. The Coleman resolution was offered by the Minnesota senator and agreed to by the full U.S. Senate in response to a Senate-House conference committee that had earlier slipped into an unrelated but popular bill a provision extending normalized trade relations to Laos, without prior approval by either the House or the Senate. Senators Feingold, Kohl, and Dayton joined as cosponsors to the Coleman resolution. 
   "In passing my resolution today, the United States Senate is on record condemning Laos for its abysmal human rights record and sending a strong message to that country to shape up and join the civilized world," said Coleman. "I will be watching Laos closely as a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, and unless there is meaningful progress on the human rights front expect the issue of trade relations to Laos to be revisited in the United States Senate."
   Coleman introduced and then passed the resolution in the U.S. Senate after he voted to stop final passage of an unrelated trade bill to which normalized trade relations to Laos had been attached by a House-Senate conference committee without the prior approval of either the House or the Senate. Neither S. 671, the Senate version of the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill, nor its House companion, H.R. 1047, contained normalized trade for Laos. Nevertheless, when the Senate and House negotiators met to iron out difference between the two bills, normalized trade relations with Laos was slipped in. Final versions of bills coming out of Senate-House conference committees are not amendable and are subject to a simple up or down vote. Thus, adding normalized trade relations to a very popular bill important to states like Minnesota would give the otherwise highly objectionable provision nearly a free-ride.
   "Frankly, folks did by night what they could not get done in broad daylight and that's too bad," said Coleman. "There are strong bipartisan objections to granting normalized trade relations with Laos in both the House and the Senate and so there was a subversion of the process to add this provision to a very popular and, frankly, unstoppable bill, which even I wanted to support," Coleman added.
 
 