SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILL TO HELP HOMEOWNERS FACING FORECLOSURE
  In an effort to provide relief to homeowners who are facing foreclosure due to difficulty with their mortgage payments, Senator Norm Coleman yesterday introduced the Home Ownership Mortgage Emergency Act (HOME Act). The HOME Act would allow homeowners who are 60 days late in their mortgage payments to withdraw penalty-free up to $100,000 from their retirement accounts through 2009 for the purpose of refinancing into an affordable mortgage or avoid foreclosure. Except for very limited cases, a 10% penalty is currently applied to early retirement distributions, although the tax code waives this penalty for distributions from Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) for first-time home purchases. The HOME Act would make withdrawals for the purpose of refinancing or avoiding foreclosure penalty-free as well, as long as they are paid back within three years. Senator Mel Martinez (R-FL), former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, is a cosponsor.  
   "As a former Mayor, I know the value of homeownership for our communities," said Coleman. "I have been troubled by the increase in the number of foreclosures to date, and the projections that the worst is still to come. While there is no one single solution to the housing crisis, my bill offers a reasonable and measured effort that can help folks stay in their homes in these difficult times. We should not penalize them for trying to keep a roof over their head and I urge my colleagues to support this measure as we seek to help out homeowners in trouble." 
   Minnesota is currently fourth in the nation in terms of the percentage of sub-prime mortgages in foreclosure. More generally, the number of foreclosures has increased 183 percent in the last year. Nationally, foreclosures have doubled in the last year, and more than 14.5 percent of subprime mortgages are past due. 
   Coleman is also an original cosponsor of Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Modernization Act of 2007, which would allow more homeowners to refinance with Federal Housing Administration-backed loans, increase penalties for fraud, and ensure pre-purchase counseling demonstrations are available for first time home buyers. Additionally, he is a cosponsor of the Mortgage Cancellation Relief Act of 2007, which will make mortgage debt forgiveness tax-free.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 