SEN. COLEMAN: AMERICA MUST CREATE PLAN TO FIX DETERIORATING NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
  Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN) announced today that the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee approved the National Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2007, legislation he joined Senator Tom Carper (D-DE) and Senator George Voinovich (R-OH) in introducing earlier this year. This legislation was created to address the deterioration of much of our nation's infrastructure including our roads, bridges, drinking water systems, dams and other public works. The bill would create a National Commission on Infrastructure of the United States to analyze our nation's infrastructure and report recommendations to Congress. This group would also be charged with aiding in the nation's economic growth and ensuring the ability of the nation's infrastructure to meet current and future demands.  
   "We can't allow America to fall behind on issues critical to global competition. Our ability to grow the economy and create good paying jobs here at home depends on a strong national infrastructure," said Coleman. "We've been long overdue for this kind of infrastructure overhaul. Modernization of these public works will lay the groundwork for us to continue to lead the world's economy." 
   This legislation is an important step in revitalizing our nation's weakening infrastructure. Serious disasters like Hurricane Katrina brought many of America's infrastructure problems to light and reiterated the serious need for the repair and improvement of our nation's aging infrastructure and waterway systems. 
   Specifically, this bill would mandate: 
   Establishment of the National Commission on the Infrastructure of the United States to ensure that the nation's infrastructure meets current and future demands and facilitates economic growth; 
   Completion of a study by February 2009 that will address all matters relating to the state of the nation's infrastructure, including capacity of infrastructure improvements to sustain current and anticipated economic development, the age, condition and capacity of public infrastructure, repair and maintenance needs, financing methods and investment requirements; 
   Development of recommendations for a federal plan outlining infrastructure priorities; and 
   Completion of a report to Congress by February 2009 that will detail infrastructure legislation deemed necessary for the next five, 15, 30 and 50 years.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 