SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF OFFSHORE DRILLING LEGISLATION
  Sen. Norm Coleman joined his Senate colleagues today in passing by a vote of 71 to 25 the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006, which will open more than 8.3 million acres on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) for oil and gas drilling. The legislation will make approximately 1.26 billion barrels of oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas available. Passage of the bill comes on the heels of Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist's (R-TN) statements to Coleman of his support for renewable fuels and energy conservation proposals to complement the drilling measure, and commitment to work with Coleman on alternative energy initiatives in the coming months.  
   "Minnesota families and businesses have been reeling from the high natural gas and oil prices that are plaguing the entire country," said Coleman. "Minnesota has been particularly hard hit by natural gas prices, which have forced farmers to pay dramatically high costs for fertilizers and caused companies that produce chemicals and fertilizer to lose business to foreign competitors whose natural gas prices are a fraction of our own. By opening up additional areas for drilling, we will increase our amount of natural resources, allowing all Americans to enjoy the associated lower prices that will come with the influx of oil and natural gas into the market." 
   The legislation will open up 2.5 million acres for drilling as soon as practical or within a year of the bill's enactment, and allow for the leasing of 5.8 million additional acres. The bill also creates a 125 square mile buffer zone from Florida and establishes new Congressional moratoria area to remain in effect until 2022. 
   "While passage of a bill to allow drilling in the Outer Continental shelf will help ease the burden on everyday Americans by expanding domestic energy resources, the bottom line is that this is only part of the comprehensive approach this nation must take to reducing our dependence on foreign energy," Coleman added. "We need to drastically expand the use of renewable fuels and look at ways to conserve energy through technology." 
   During consideration of the bill, Majority Leader Frist made it clear to Coleman that the Gulf production bill should not be the only energy legislation to be considered by the Senate this year. Moreover, Frist stated his willingness to work with Coleman and the Chairman of Energy and Natural Resources, Senator Domenici (R-NM) on Coleman's ideas, which include energy conservation and making renewable fuels and important part of our energy policy. 
   Coleman has introduced several bipartisan bills that focus on strengthening U.S. energy policy to decrease our dependence on foreign oil as well as aid in energy conservation. Coleman's Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act directs the federal government to save 2.5 million barrels of oil daily in 10 years by strengthening the E-85 infrastructure, using more fuel flex vehicles and promoting energy conservation technologies. Additionally, Coleman introduced the Transforming Energy Now (TEN) bill, which requires 10 percent of our fuel to be blended with ethanol in 10 years, and the Enhanced Energy Efficiency Act, which seeks to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil by setting specific national goals for the expansion of a renewable fuels infrastructure.
 
 