SEN. FRIST TO WORK WITH SEN. COLEMAN ON ENERGY PROPOSALS
  Continuing his push to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign energy, Sen. Norm Coleman, in a written exchange during the debate on the Gulf of Mexico Energy bill, received support from Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) for the diversification of our energy sources, including renewable fuels and energy conservation. Frist indicated he would work with Coleman on his energy ideas in the coming months. The Leader's support comes during consideration of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006, which provides for the opening of more than 8.3 million acres on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) for oil and gas drilling. The legislation will make approximately 1.26 billion barrels of oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas available. Following that exchange, Sen. Coleman joined his colleagues on Monday in voting for a procedural measure to move the bill toward final passage.  
   "It is critical we provide Minnesota families and businesses with relief from the high natural gas and oil prices, and I am pleased that this bill starts us down that path," said Coleman. "The price of natural gas has tripled in the past few years. While developing Area 181 has the potential to ease the burden on everyday Americans, we need to take a more comprehensive approach to reduce our dependence on foreign energy sources." 
   During consideration of the bill, Majority Leader Frist made it clear to Coleman that the Gulf production bill should not be the only energy legislation to be considered by the Senate this year, "I will tell my good friend from Minnesota that I do not consider the Gulf of Mexico Energy bill to be the last word on energy policy this year." Moreover, Frist stated his willingness to work with Coleman and the Chairman of Energy and Natural Resources, Senator Domenici (R-NM) on Coleman's ideas, "I am well aware of your proposals promoting renewables and energy conservation, and I look forward to working with you and Chairman Domenici on many of these important ideas in the months ahead." 
   Coleman remarked, "I believe America faces a great threat in foreign oil dependence, but more importantly, I believe in Americans' ability to accomplish the impossible. I know if Congress will put forth a vision and provide the tools to accomplish that vision, Americans can break our addition to foreign oil." 
   Further, Majority Leader Frist concurred with Coleman that ending foreign oil dependence would require additional Senate action, "There is more that we can - and must - do to break what the President called our "addiction" to oil. We must diversify our energy resources, increase the use of renewables and alternative sources such as ethanol and biodiesel, clean coal technology, and nuclear power, and we must take steps to reduce consumption by consumers. Finally, we must do more to encourage the development of the innovative new technologies that will wean us off of foreign oil in the future." 
   Coleman has introduced several bipartisan bills that focus on strengthening U.S. energy policy to decrease our dependence on foreign oil as well as aid in energy conservation. Coleman's Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act directs the federal government to save 2.5 million barrels of oil daily in 10 years by strengthening the E-85 infrastructure, using more fuel flex vehicles and promoting energy conservation technologies. Additionally, Coleman introduced the Transforming Energy Now (TEN) bill, which requires 10 percent of our fuel to be blended with ethanol in 10 years, and the Enhanced Energy Efficiency Act, which seeks to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil by setting specific national goals for the expansion of a renewable fuels infrastructure. 
   "We must use America's innovative genius and the technologies at our fingertips to reduce our consumption of fossil fuels," Coleman added. "By tackling this problem head on, we will be better positioned to ensure our nation's continued security and economic standing in the global marketplace."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 