SEN. COLEMAN HOSTS THIRD ANNUAL 'HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS' REUNION FOR FAMILIES OF INTERNATIONALLY ADOPTED CHILDREN IN MINNESOTA
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that he will hold his third annual holiday reunion, "Home for the Holidays," for Minnesota families he has helped to successfully adopt an international child, on Saturday, December 3rd, 2005. The event will take place at the Park View Ballroom on 317 Washington Street in St. Paul at 10:30 a.m.  
   For three years, Sen. Coleman has worked closely with the State Department and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to help hundreds of families connect with children from all over the world. During Saturday's celebration, these families will have the opportunity to reunite with Senator Coleman and his staff, while also having the opportunity to share their success stories and celebrate with other families who have faced both the challenges and rewards of international adoption. 
   "This reunion, which has quickly become an annual highlight for me, provides these families with an opportunity to share their joy with all of us," said Coleman. "The process of adopting a child internationally can often be challenging, but those challenges pale in comparison to the rewards of uniting loving parents with a new child. These families have opened up their hearts to these wonderful children, and I am especially excited that they have found a home here in Minnesota. I anxiously look forward to this event every year, as it is truly a privilege to share in their experience." 
   Attending this reunion will be families from all around Minnesota, including Deb and Al Ingersoll, who recently adopted their son, Patrick, from Haiti this November. While volunteering in Haiti, the Ingersolls originally met Patrick, who two years earlier lost both legs during a car accident. With his parents unable to care for him, Patrick was forced to live in an orphanage. After spending time with Patrick, the Ingersolls made the decision to adopt him, but their attempt became marred in bureaucracy. The Ingersolls then turned to Senator Coleman, who sent a letter to Haitian authorities requesting expedited processing of the case on behalf of the family. On November 3rd, Senator Coleman's office was notified that Patrick's visa was issued and he was free to travel to the Minnesota to begin his life with the Ingersoll's. 
   "Our family is so grateful for the help Senator Coleman's staff provided during Patrick's adoption," said Al Ingersoll. "Every adoption is complex but ours was especially so due to Patrick's special needs, him being a teenager and the instability of the Haitian government. Senator Coleman's office smoothed over all of these problems, allowing Patrick to enter our home in time for a very joyous Thanksgiving celebration." 
   Another Minnesota couple, Jeannette and Eduardo Romero, were in Guatemala City earlier this year, attempting to bring their adopted son Isaac home after a five-year wait - only to encounter paperwork problems that prevented the final stage of the adoption and threatened to keep Isaac in the country. 
   "We were told all the paperwork was completed and we could proceed to the U.S. Embassy for our exit interview," said Jeannette. "The Embassy then informed us that our documents were missing. Senator Coleman's office quickly interceded on our behalf and we were still able to bring Isaac home the same day. They brought a joyful beginning to our family after so many years." 
   Since taking office, Coleman's office has become a national leader in adoption assistance. The children Senator Coleman has helped place in Minnesota families have come from countries all over the world, including: Guatemala, Russia, Kenya, Poland, Ukraine, Haiti, Mexico, Liberia, China, India, Togo, Sierra Leone, Japan, South Africa, and Syria. 
   What: Home for the Holidays Reunion 
   When: Saturday, December 3, 2005 
  10:30 AM 
   Where: Park View Ballroom 
  317 Washington Street 
  St. Paul 
   Media Welcome
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 