SEN. COLEMAN URGES COAST GUARD TO EXTEND OPERATION SEASON ON LAKE SUPERIOR
Sen. Norm Coleman today urged the U.S. Coast Guard to extend their operation season at North Superior Station in Grand Marais, at a minimum, through the month of September. In a letter to the commander of the Ninth Coast Guard Station, Coleman echoed concerns of Cook County Sheriff Mark Falk that extended tourism and fishing seasons have led to a sustained level of boat traffic after the Coast Guard's Labor Day deadline, making rescue efforts during this time more difficult.  
 "With the tourism and fishing seasons now lasting into October, we are seeing more activity on the lake after the Coast Guard as left for the season," said Coleman. "With increased marine activity there is always the potential for tragedy, and Cook County does not have the resources to sustain the level of effective response capabilities that we see from our Coast Guard operation. The Coast Guard has continually provided effective, professional and timely responses to the Grand Marais area and I'm urging them to continue this effectiveness into September." 
 "I appreciate all the help from Senator Coleman's office in this matter," said Cook County Sheriff Mark Falk. 
 The Coast Guard Station North Superior is a seasonal unit currently operating from approximately Memorial Day to Labor Day each year. However, trout fishing is open until September 30 and salmon fishing is open through October. Additionally, the area has seen an increase in post-Labor Day tourism. 
 In a separate letter to the Coast Guard, Cook County Sheriff Mark Falk indicated that two times in the last four years during the month of September, there have been two significant search and rescue incidents on Lake Superior. According to Falk, he counted a combination of 46 sailboats and fishing boats either moored at a buoy or at a dock in the Grand Marais Harbor on September 12, 2006. 
 "There will always be unavoidable accidents or problems in any marine activity, but we can make certain that an effective response team is in place to prevent these accidents from turning into tragedies," said Coleman. "We have that team in place. The Coast Guard continues to provide an effective response in any situation, which is why their operation season needs to be extended to protect marine enthusiasts throughout the season."
 Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 