SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $80 MILLION FOR MINNESOTA COMMUNITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that the Midwest Minnesota Community Development Corporation (MMCDC) has received an allocation of $80 million in tax credits from the Department of Treasury's New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Program to provide low interests loan for community economic development. Specifically, MMCDC will provide capital for rural value-added agricultural projects, sustainable energy projects, the commercialization of new technologies, and smart growth development projects for office and retail space.  
   "With tough challenges and limited resources, America's communities - both urban and rural- need the type of flexible support provided by this tax credit program to revitalize and attract jobs," said Coleman. "Since my days as Mayor, I have been a strong proponent of the public and private sector working together. To that end, the Midwest Minnesota Community Development Corporation has already shown how present day challenges can be overcome in order to realize our communities' full potential." 
   "Job creation and investment in our economy are the cornerstone of President Bush's pro-growth policies. Today's announcement encourages even more jobs and progress in some of the neediest communities across the country," said Treasury Secretary John Snow. 
   The NMTC Program permits taxpayers to receive a credit against Federal income taxes for making qualified equity investments in designated Community Development Entities (CDEs). Substantially all of the qualified equity investments must in turn be used by the CDE to provide investments in low-income communities. It is anticipated that 75% of the allocation from MMCDC will be provided in rural Minnesota, where low cost capital is critical to value-added agricultural products. The NMTC allocation will allow MMCDC to provide loan capital with flexible and below market rates and terms, including: seven-year interest-only payment periods, subordinated debt, lower origination fees (less than 1%), significantly reduced interest rates, and loan to value ratios of 95% or more.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 