SEN. COLEMAN HELPS REUNITE MINNESOTA FAMILY FROM TOGO
  Nearly four years after being forced to flee the nation of Togo in the middle of the night after being tortured during imprisonment by the Togolese government, St. Paul resident and United States political asylee Matthieu D. (whose last name he prefers to be withheld due to safety concerns) and his children will be soon be reunited with his wife, Christianah, who was recently granted humanitarian parole by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) with the assistance of Sen. Norm Coleman, the Franciscan Brothers of Peace, and countless concerned citizens. Christianah, who was denied entrance to the U.S. because the Togolese government never officially recognized their marriage, will arrive at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport on Thursday, March 2nd at 7:15 p.m. 
   "I am thrilled with the decision by the Department of Homeland Security to reunite Mathieu and Christianah's family," said Coleman. "This was clearly a case of extraordinary circumstances, where the same government that persecuted Mathieu for taking part in peaceful protests refused to recognize a legitimate, church-sanctioned marriage, and that simple fact was ultimately keeping the family apart. Something had to be done."  
   "I just spoke with my wife on the telephone and she told me that she is packed and ready to come to Minnesota," Matthieu said. "Waiting one more day seems so long because she cannot wait to see her children. My family wants to thank Senator Norm Coleman and his staff for their intervention and help in reuniting my family." 
   The 39 year old tailor fled Togo in 2001 after twice being imprisoned and tortured by the Togolese government because of his peaceful support of an organization called United Forces of Change. In August of 2004, Matthieu was officially granted political asylum in the U.S. At the time, his decision meant he would have to leave behind his wife and their two children. Once in the U.S., he gained the help of the Franciscan Brothers for Peace, who provided him room and board, and he quickly applied for refugee petitions for his family. 
   However, he encountered a major problem when the U.S. Embassy in Benin approved the refugee petitions for his children, but not for his wife because their marriage was performed in a church - instead of in a civil ceremony performed by Togolese legal authorities. In late October of 2005, Matthieu contacted Senator Coleman's office to request assistance in the matter. After Coleman's staff was able to determine the reason for the denial, Mathieu and his attorney decided to file for Humanitarian Parole for Christianah through U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services (USCIS), a division of DHS. Coleman then proceeded to send a letter of support for her petition, and after his staff stayed in touch with DHS officials, they were informed Christianah was officially approved for humanitarian parole on February 9th, 2006. 
   "While I certainly recognize that approval for Humanitarian Parole is to be used only in extraordinary cases, there was no doubt in my mind that this family's plight fit that definition," Coleman added. "In this case, the family did everything right. They went through the appropriate process, they did it openly and ultimately they truly deserve to be together. I am thrilled for this family and am anxiously looking forward to Christianah's arrival this week." 
   Christianah's flight is scheduled to arrive at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport on Thursday, March 2nd at 7:15 p.m. Media will be welcome to attend the event. For more information, please contact Senator Coleman's press staff at 651-645-0323.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 