SEN. COLEMAN HOSTS RENEWABLE ENERGY FORUM IN MARSHALL
  Sen. Norm Coleman, founder and Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Senate Biofuels Caucus, announced today that he will hold a Renewable Energy Forum in Marshall on Friday, March 4, 2005 to discuss the importance of renewable energy to Minnesota's environment and economy. All of Minnesota's 2.6 billion gallons of gasoline are blended with 10 percent ethanol, creating 40,000 jobs for Minnesotans and contributing over half a billion dollars in economic activity each year. Minnesota boasts of 16 ethanol plants and 3 biodiesel plants, most of which are owned by farm families near places like Marshall with plans for more plants state-wide currently underway. Home to the largest wind turbine in North America, Minnesota also ranks second nationally in total wind production with 115 facilities.  
   "Renewable fuels provide us with cleaner air and water, lower prices at the pump, greater energy independence, and economic opportunity and jobs," said Coleman. "I'm looking forward to hearing about the impact of things we have already put in place, like the biodiesel, wind, and volumetric ethanol tax credits, as well as the things we are on the cusp of doing, like the Renewable Fuels Standard and the 20 percent Minnesota state ethanol requirement and 2% biodiesel requirement. Minnesota farmers are feeding the world and fueling a nation." 
   Senator Coleman is currently working with a bipartisan group of senators in crafting a Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) they expect to introduce later this month. The legislation would double the use of renewable fuels in this country. 
   Coleman also co-authored and worked successfully to pass several key provisions in the JOBS bill last year including the volumetric ethanol tax credit, which will substantially increase highway funding for Minnesota; the biodiesel tax credit, which will jumpstart this industry and trigger the Minnesota State two percent requirement, the first and only state to enact this biodiesel standard; an extension of the wind energy tax credit for three years; and tax credits for other renewable sources of electric energy including biomass, solar, geothermal, landfill gas and waste-to-energy facilities. 
   Coleman will meet with local and state renewable energy leaders, including Gene Hugoson, Minnesota Commissioner of Agriculture; Ron Obermoller, past President of the Minnesota Corn Growers; Bill Lee, Gen. Manager of Chippewa Valley Ethanol Company; Ed Hegland, Minnesota Corn Growers; Bob Kirchner, Chairman of Minnesota Soybean Processors, Inc.; Neal Von Ohlen, Chief Manager of Trimont Area Wind Farm; Dennis Haubenschild, MN Dairy Farmer; and Michael Rich of the Renewable Fuels Study at Southwest Minnesota State University to discuss the importance of renewable energy to Minnesota, the nation's leader in renewable fuels like ethanol, biodiesel, wind, and even energy derived from livestock waste. 
   Details of the Renewable Energy Forum 
  Friday, March 4, 2005 
   Where: Marshall Municipal Utilities Time: 2:00 - 3:00 pm 
  113 South 4th Street Media availability immediately following. 
  Marshall, MN 56258.
 
 