SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES QUALIFICATIONS OF SCHILTZ FOR FEDERAL JUDGESHIP AT SENATE CONFIRMATION HEARING
  At a confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee today, Sen. Norm Coleman introduced and recommended the speedy confirmation of Patrick J. Schiltz, a Professor of Law at the University of St. Thomas, based on his intelligence, broad legal experience and remarkable qualifications to serve as a United States District Judge for the District of Minnesota. Mr. Schiltz was nominated for the federal judgeship by President Bush on December 14, 2005, replacing retiring Judge Richard Kyle.  
   "Mr. Schiltz is a native of Duluth, Minnesota and I am sure this is proud day for the people of that city, and the College of St. Scholastica where he graduated," Coleman said. "The Duluth view from the high bluff above Lake Superior is one of the nation's most beautiful and amazing landmarks given the fact that the lake is the world's largest body of fresh water. So as Mr. Schiltz steps forward to take on this big job, he knows what big is." 
   Mr. Schiltz graduated summa cum laude from the College of St. Scholastica and magna cum laude from Harvard Law School, where he was an editor of the Harvard Law Review. After serving as a law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, Mr. Schiltz practiced law for eight years with Faegre & Benson, Minnesota's second largest law firm. In 1995 Mr. Schiltz joined the faculty of Notre Dame Law School, where he became a nationally recognized scholar in the areas of legal ethics and appellate procedure. In July 2000, Mr. Schiltz became the founding associate dean and interim dean of the University of St. Thomas School of Law in St. Paul, Minnesota, where he played a significant role in many aspects of creating the new law school. 
   "I take my Constitutional responsibility to provide advice and consent very seriously, as do all members of this committee," Coleman stated at the confirmation hearing. "I am very supportive of Mr. Schiltz's nomination and encourage the committee to do a thorough job of examining him and forward the nomination to the full Senate." 
   In his remarks, Coleman also expressed his appreciation to Mr. Schiltz for stepping forward to provide public service in this important post and to his wife, Elizabeth Rose Shiltz and their four children, for their support.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 