SEN. COLEMAN TO TAKE PART IN KOOCHICHING COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUMMIT
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that he will take part in a bipartisan Economic Development Summit in International Falls on Saturday, March 5, 2005 at Rainy River Community College to discuss a broad range of issues, including economic development and jobs creation in the region. The summit was initiated by International Falls Mayor Shawn Mason. Sen. Coleman will join fellow Senator Mark Dayton, Representative Jim Oberstar, Mayor Shawn Mason and others to listen to local leaders, officials, and the public.  
   "Making certain Northern Minnesota fully participates in the current economic recovery is a top priority," Coleman said. "We need to promote policies that help keep and grow new jobs in the area, like the Foreign Trade Zone (FTZ) I announced for International Falls in December 2003. I'm here to listen to ideas and then to go to work with the people of International Falls and Koochiching County to make those ideas a reality wherever possible. As a former mayor, I know the unique challenges and opportunities Mayor Mason sees for the area. I want to help." 
   Coleman traveled to International Falls last August when he hosted a Border Security Summit with local, state and federal law enforcement officials to discuss issues surrounding the U.S.-Canadian border and the Port of Duluth. The discussion focused on the state of readiness along the border, as well as the proposal to create a northern border security training program at the college. 
   Saturday's agenda will include such topics as the establishment of an official Homeland Security Northern Border Training Facility, trade and industry, paper and forestry, tourism at Voyageurs National Park, as well as transportation issues. 
   Details of the Economic Summit: 
   Where: Rainy River Community College Theater 
  Room H-126 
  1501 Highway 71 
  International Falls, MN 56649 
   Time: 2:30 - 4:30 pm 
  Media Availability immediately following Summit.
 
 