SEN. COLEMAN STAFF TO DISCUSS HIGH GAS PRICES, SENATOR'S NEW ENERGY LEGISLATION IN NORTHERN, CENTRAL MINNESOTA
  As part of an effort to hear how high gasoline prices are specifically impacting local residents and businesses across Minnesota, Sen. Norm Coleman today announced Carl Kuhl, regional representative for Sen. Coleman, will be traveling to northern and central Minnesota on Tuesday, May 2nd and Wednesday, May 3rd to discuss high gas prices and Coleman's recently introduced energy legislation with local officials, businesses and residents. Kuhl's trip will include stops in the following communities: Grand Rapids, Bemidji, Brainerd, Little Falls, Moorhead, Fergus Falls and Melrose.  
   "In the past few months, I have heard from a number of Minnesotans who are struggling to overcome the effect of rising prices on their pocketbooks and businesses," said Coleman. "In the face of these high prices, it is absolutely crucial for me to hear directly from folks across the state on how these prices are specifically impacting them, as well as hear any additional ideas they may have in helping combat rising prices. Additionally, I want to let Minnesotans know I am continuing to work for a national energy strategy that will boost innovative technologies, conserve energy, and promote the production and use of renewable fuels, which will not only reduce our foreign oil dependence but provide a boon to Minnesota's rural economy. I am anxious to have Carl out in the state to listen to local residents about the effects of high prices, to hear ideas from around the state, and to let Minnesota residents know about the steps I am taking to help shape a national energy strategy that is not so heavily dependent on foreign oil." 
   Today, Coleman announced he will be introducing the Energy Efficiency Act of 2006, a bipartisan bill he is introducing with Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), that will reduce foreign oil dependence by establishing specific national goals for replacing oil imports through a significant expansion of renewable fuel infrastructure, increased use of vehicle technologies such as hybrids, and increased conservation measures. As a complement to this bill, Coleman and Bingaman also plan to introduce the Enhanced Energy Security Act, which will expand incentives for the purchase and production of advanced vehicles (such as hybrids and fuel cell), along with key incentives to help save natural gas. 
   Additionally, Coleman last week introduced the Transforming Energy Now (TEN) Act, legislation that would require 10 percent of our nation's fuel to be blended with renewable fuels, such as ethanol, in the next 10 years and includes E-85 infrastructure provisions that will invest millions in fueling stations for alternative fuels. Coleman also announced he will work to ensure these renewable fuel blend requirements are not classified as boutique fuels as the U.S. Senate considers legislation to restrict the number of boutique fuel blends, in order to protect Minnesota's nation-leading 10 and soon-to-be 20 percent ethanol requirement for gasoline and its 2 percent biodiesel requirement for diesel fuel. 
   Specifically, Kuhl's trip will include stops at the following locations: 
   Tuesday, May 2nd, 2006 
   9:00 a.m. 
  Grand Rapids Area Chamber of Commerce 
  1 NW Third Street, 
  Grand Rapids, Minnesota 55744 
   11:30 a.m. 
  Bemidji City Council Chambers 
  317 4th Street NW 
  Bemidji, MN 56619 
   2:45 p.m. 
  Country Inn & Suites 
  15058 Dellwood Drive 
  Baxter, MN 56425 
   4:30 p.m. 
  Little Falls Ethanol 
  17936 Heron Road 
  Little Falls, MN 56345 
   Wednesday, May 3rd, 2006 
   11:15 a.m. 
  Moorhead City Council Chambers 
  500 Center Avenue 
  Moorhead, MN 56561-0779 
   1:30 p.m. 
  Otter Tail Power Community Room 
  215 S. Cascade 
  Fergus Falls, MN 56537 
   4:00 p.m. 
  Melrose Ethanol Plant 
  1000 East Kraft Drive 
  Melrose, MN 56352
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 