SENS. COLEMAN, KLOBUCHAR APPLAUD RELEASE OF ADDITIONAL EMERGENCY RELIEF FUNDS FOR I-35W BRIDGE REBUILDING
  The Department of Transportation today released more than $123 million in funds from the Department's Emergency Relief (ER) Fund to Minnesota for the rebuilding of the I-35W bridge, which collapsed on August 1. Construction of the new bridge began today.  
   The Department's release of funds follows on Senate action led by Senators Coleman and Klobuchar. On August 3, immediately following the bridge collapse, the Minnesota Delegation secured passage of an authorization for emergency assistance to expedite funding and waive the current cap on emergency funding dollars. Prior to this waiver, the cap on ER Fund dollars available to a single project was $100 million. 
   "With construction of the new 35W bridge starting today, this release of federal funding for the bridge is great news for Minnesota," Coleman said. "The federal government has promised to be a full partner in the reconstruction, and this development is another sign that the government is living up to that commitment. I am confident that this funding, together with the appropriations Senator Klobuchar and I are pushing through Congress, will make good on the commitment of the federal government to help." 
   "The day after our tragedy, I said that a bridge in America just shouldn't fall down - and when one does fall down, we must rebuild it," said Klobuchar. "These funds are a demonstration of our commitment to rebuild our bridge and our community. It is my hope that these funds not only help the rebuilding process, but also help ensure state dollars are available for critical transportation projects across Minnesota." 
   Today's funds are in addition to $55 million previously released to the State by the Department of Transportation to begin bridge recovery and rebuilding. Senators Klobuchar and Coleman have also secured passage of an additional $195 million for bridge rebuilding as part of the FY08 Transportation Appropriations Bill, H.R. 3074. That bill is currently in Conference with the House of Representatives.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 