SEN. COLEMAN CHAIRS FOURTH PERMANENT SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS HEARING ON CORRUPTION IN U.N. OIL-FOR-FOOD PROGRAM; URGENT U.N. REFORM TOPS AGENDA
  Sen. Norm Coleman, Chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), held a fourth hearing yesterday on the United Nations Oil-for-Food scandal and the resulting need for U.N. reform. Key briefings and testimony were provided by Independent Inquiry Committee (IIC) Chairman Paul Volcker, who has spent the last 18 months conducting a massive investigation for the United Nations into the Oil-for-Food scandal, and former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, who co-chaired the Congressionally-mandated, bipartisan Gingrich-Mitchell Task Force on U.N. Reform.  
   "For more than 18 months, our PSI investigation has exposed gross mismanagement of the Oil-for-Food program, including the extensive bribes, kickbacks and fraud that took place under U.N. supervision of the program," said Coleman. "At the hearing, we heard further evidence of this from two key leaders in the arena of U.N. reform - both of whom bring considerable expertise and the shared goal of real reform at the U.N. Both Chairman Volcker and former Speaker Gingrich reinforced the fact that action must be taken now to prevent further abuse and restore credibility at the U.N. After all is said and done, I remain optimistic that reform is possible." 
   Chairman Volcker's briefing followed closely on the heels of the IIC's final report that last week exposed more than 2,000 companies involved in the Oil-for-Food scandal. Outlining the problems associated with the U.N.'s credibility, in prepared remarks Chairman Volcker noted, "Spreading reports of maladministration, ethical lapses, and growing corruption reaching into the U.N. itself have eroded confidence in U.N. competence." Chairman Volcker identified four areas where prompt reform is essential: 
   1.Clarifying the initiating and approving phase of U.N. intervention in administratively complex areas; 
   2. The creation of the position of Chief Operating Officer with 
  authority for planning and personnel practices; 
   3. Creation of an Independent Oversight Board with the capacity to fully review budgeting and staffing of accounting and auditing functions; and 
   4. Greater coordination of between Security Council and Secretary General 
   Former House Speaker Gingrich stressed the need for countries that are major contributors to the U.N. to work in concert by focusing on funding as a tool to bring action to the process of reform. 
   In an effort to restore the U.N.'s credibility and efficacy, Senators Coleman and Lugar (R-IN) introduced the Coleman-Lugar Bill in July, which is aimed at bringing greater transparency, accountability, and oversight to the U.N. During an October hearing on U.N. reform, Ambassador John Bolton expressed the Administration's support for the Coleman-Lugar U.N. reform bill. In prepared remarks Bolton stated, "We believe the legislation introduced by Chairman Lugar and Senator Coleman is a constructive approach and we look forward to further consultations with you on this legislation." 
   The Coleman-Lugar Bill seeks the following reform measures: 
   * A Management Section that will strengthen the power of the Secretary-General to replace top officials in the U.N. Secretariat and recruit only the highest quality individuals. The Bill also creates a Management Performance Board to ensure that U.N. officials are held accountable for their actions and results. The establishment of a Chief Operating Officer is also intended to improve the efficiency of the operations of the U.N.; 
   * More stringent and independent oversight of the U.N.'s operations, including stronger whistleblower policies, greater resources for the Office of Internal Oversight Services, and the creation of an Independent Oversight Board that would provide much-needed examination of U.N. activities; and 
   * Meaningful reform of the U.N.'s peacekeeping efforts, such as the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission and a Peacebuilding Support Office, monitoring peacekeepers' conduct, and instituting an enforcement system to punish those that violate the U.N.'s ethical standards. It also accentuates the need for meaningful reform of human rights institutions, including the abolishment of the disastrous U.N. Human Rights Commission and the creation of a new Human Rights Council that would be composed of states that adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
   "I hope today's hearing will help move the U.N. towards immediate management reform," concluded Coleman. "Both Chairman Volcker and Speaker Gingrich described in detail the organizational failures of the U.N. It is clear the U.N. needs to make management reforms sooner rather than later if it is to prevent future scandals and restore its credibility. That is why, along with Senator Lugar, I have introduced legislation that will bring real reform to the United Nations. I am encouraged that Ambassador Bolton announced Administration support for our bill, and I look forward to its passage."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 