SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES $2.4 MILLION GRANT FOR ASSISTED LIVING HOUSING IN NEW HOPE
  Senator Norm Coleman today praised the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for awarding a $2,430,264 grant to Volunteers of America for assisted living facilities in New Hope, Minnesota. The grant, awarded as part of HUD's Assisted Living Conversion Program, is slated to be used to convert 20 existing elderly units to assisted-living units, in order to accommodate aging in place residents at North Park Plaza. This conversion is a second phase to the previous conversion completed in 2005.  
   "Those of us with aging parents and grandparents understand firsthand the value of assisted living facilities and the need to support the extraordinary work that they do," Coleman said. "Today's grant from HUD will allow for new assisted living units in New Hope, which will mean a better quality of life for seniors using these facilities. I am thrilled that this project was one of just eight projects selected nationwide, and I thank HUD, the Volunteers of American and North Park Plaza for their combined commitment to this important project." 
   "Volunteers of America of Minnesota and Volunteers of America National Housing Services are excited to partner, once again, with the Department of Housing and Urban Development to improve the services that we provide to our residents at North Park Plaza in New Hope," said James E. Bettendorf Director of Housing Development and Management for Volunteers of America of Minnesota. "This grant will allow us to improve the physical environment to expand the provision of health care services to more senior residents of this vital subsidized housing community, allowing residents to remain in their homes and receive the services they desire to retain an appropriate level of independence." 
   The Assisted Living Conversion Program grants help convert existing multifamily units into assisted living facilities. Assisted living facilities are designed to accommodate low-income elderly and persons with disabilities who can live independently but need assistance with activities of daily living such as assistance with eating, bathing, grooming, dressing and home management activities. These facilities often provide support services such as personal care, transportation, meals, and housekeeping. 
   Renovations of the units at North Park Plaza will include measures such as kitchen and bathroom reconfiguration, (i.e., wheelchair clearances, wall reinforcement, grab bars, elevation of counters and work surfaces), bedroom, living and dining modifications, widening of doors, upgrades to the common space, office, storage, monitoring stations, relocate emergency call devices, new electric load center, expand dining area, and add a vestibule between dining and exterior patio. 
   The grants were awarded on a competitive basis. For more information, please visit http://www.hud.gov/content/releases/pr07-158summary.cfm.
 
 