SENATE DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL INCLUDES SEN. COLEMAN PROVISIONS BOLSTERING NATIONAL GUARD HEALTH CARE AND IRAQ OVERSIGHT
  The Senate today passed the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2008, which includes amendments authored by Senator Norm Coleman to extend the mandate of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR) oversight of U.S. efforts in Iraq, give the Secretary of Defense the flexibility to increase mental health reimbursement rates for TRICARE, create a national reintegration program for National Guard and Reserve troops, protect National Guard members who are Certified Nurse Aides in the private sector, and allow the Defense Secretary to increase the authorized end strength of the Guard during times of national need. 
   "I have traveled to Iraq three times in the last nine months to listen to the concerns of our troops on the ground and to develop legislation to improve their quality of life when they return home," said Coleman. "The provisions included in this bill bring us a step closer to providing military families across Minnesota with the resources they deserve and I applaud my colleagues for honoring their sacrifice with this legislation."  
   TRICARE AMENDMENT 
   Coleman's TRICARE amendment responds to a recent decrease in TRICARE reimbursement rates for psychologists and social workers. TRICARE is the healthcare program for members of the U.S. armed forces and their families. The amendment gives the Secretary of Defense the flexibility to increase mental health reimbursement rates for TRICARE should this rate reduction affect the delivery of mental health services to our troops and their families. 
   "Providing our returning men and women in uniform with the best healthcare available is one of Congress' most important responsibilities," said Coleman. "Mental health services have become an increasingly important component of this effort as we continue to see more cases of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and other psychological difficulties confront our troops as they return from abroad. The last thing we should do right now is make it more difficult for mental health professionals to provide treatment for these troops and their families as they deal with the challenges associated with reintegration. This amendment gives the Secretary of Defense new authority to increase reimbursement rates for mental health professionals who take care of our wounded warriors." 
   NATIONAL REINTEGRATION PROGRAM AMENDMENT 
   Coleman's national reintegration amendment, which is cosponsored by his Minnesota colleague, Senator Amy Klobuchar, will create a national reintegration program for members of the National Guard and Reserve based on the highly successful program Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program of the Minnesota National Guard. This program will provide informational events and activities to assist National Guard and Reserve soldiers, families, and community members through all phases of their deployment cycle including pre and post deployment. The events and activities created by this legislation include family and marriage counseling, financial planning and education, small business planning, community outreach, and healthcare and veterans benefits education. 
   "Our brave service members often face unique challenges when reintegrating back into society - particularly after long deployment overseas," said Coleman. "In order to ensure that we are meeting their specific needs, I have met with many members of the Minnesota National Guard to gain insight about what they are going through before, during and after they return home from combat. Beyond the Yellow Ribbon has had a positive impact on the lives of Minnesota's National Guard members, and I am pleased that we are making these services available to troops throughout the country." 
   SIGIR AMENDMENT 
   Another Coleman amendment included in the final Defense Authorizations bill strengthens the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR) to audit and investigate waste, fraud, and abuse in the reconstruction of Iraq. The amendment clarifies that any money used for reconstruction in Iraq shall be considered within the purview of SIGIR. It also extends SIGIR's current authority to audit reconstruction activity in fiscal year 2006 to include reconstruction in fiscal years 2007 and 2008, and extends the term of SIGIR by tying its termination date to the expenditure of Iraq reconstruction funding. 
   "SIGIR continues to play an indispensable role in providing oversight of reconstruction efforts in Iraq, so I was pleased to work with them on ways to help them do their job more effectively," said Coleman. "When I went to Iraq earlier this month, I made it a priority to meet with representatives from SIGIR so I could receive an update on the progress they are making on the ground and also to identify their needs as we work together to rebuild Iraq. I developed this amendment directly from their feedback, and I am confident the changes it institutes will benefit not only SIGIR's efforts, but also American taxpayers and Iraqi citizens." 
   CERTIFIED NURSE AID AMENDMENT 
   Coleman's licensing and certification amendment, which he also worked with Senator Klobuchar on, allows Certified Nurse Aides who have served on active military duty an additional 24 months after returning from active duty service to perform nurse or nurse-related services before expiration of their certifications. It also requires the Secretary of Defense to report recommendations to Congress on legislative action to exempt or delay licensure and certification requirements of other Reserve Component professionals called to active duty. The amendment came about as a result of a conversation between Coleman and a Minnesota National Guard member. 
   END STRENGTH AMENDMENT 
   Coleman's end strength amendment gives the Secretary of Defense the flexibility to increase the Reserve Component by three percent of the Reserve Component's authorized end strength if it is in the national interest. The amendment does not, however, call for a larger military; it simply allows the National Guard to recruit at its maximum potential thus making sure they have enough man power and are not stretched thin in times of need and allows the Minnesota National Guard to continue their impressive recruitment efforts.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 