SEN. COLEMAN LEADS BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO MAINTAIN ETHANOL, BIODIESEL PROVISIONS IN JOBS BILL
  Sen. Norm Coleman led a bipartisan group of 18 senators in urging House and Senate negotiators to the Jumpstart our Business Strength (JOBS) bill to maintain the Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit (VEETC) included in the Senate bill. 
   In a letter to House and Senate conferees, Coleman and his colleagues stated, "VEETC as included in the Senate version of the JOBS bill would "maintain incentives for the production and use of home-grown, American-made ethanol; create a new incentive for biodiesel; eliminate ethanol's impact on the highway trust fund; extend the ethanol tax incentive through 2010; and hold harmless the small ethanol producer tax credit, the only tax incentive actually provided for ethanol producers."
   VEETC would give Minnesota an 81 percent increase in highway funding under the Senate passed Highway Bill, the biodiesel tax credit is essential to triggering the two percent state requirement and getting this industry off the ground in Minnesota, and the small ethanol producers' tax credit would be improved to make Minnesota's farmer-owned ethanol plants more competitive in meeting new demand.
   The Senate and House of Representatives have both passed versions of the JOBS bill and a conference to work out the differences between the two is currently underway.
   The legislation brings U.S. tax policy into compliance with WTO rules and restructures U.S. tax code to help American businesses compete in a global market that is not always free or fair. Besides the ethanol and biodiesel tax provisions, the JOBS bill also includes wind energy tax incentives, without which new wind energy production and nearly $2 billion in economic activity is put on hold, and provisions coauthored by Coleman that would provide tax credits for businesses in rural communities and eliminate the discriminatory triple tax on farmer-owned cooperative dividends.
   Coleman was joined by Senators Mark Pryor (D-AR), Jim Talent (R-MO), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Larry Craig (R-ID), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Dick Lugar (R-IN), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Evan Bayh (D-IN), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Peter Fitzgerald (R-IL), Mike DeWine (R-OH), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Christopher "Kit" Bond (R-MO), George Voinovich (R-OH), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Conrad Burns (R-MT), and Mark Dayton (D-MN).
 
 