SEN. COLEMAN MEETS WITH CHINESE PRESIDENT AT BLAIR HOUSE
  As the co-founder of the Senate China Working Group, Sen. Norm Coleman today was among six members of Congress invited to meet with the President of China, Hu Jintao at the Blair House. The meeting provided an opportunity to discuss ways to strengthen U.S.-China relations, while recognizing the challenges facing each country. President Hu repeated his desire to work with America as a friend and ally. The discussion began with a recognition of issues regarding intellectual property, currency valuations and human rights. Coleman made special note of Minnesota's long-term relationship with China and the dangers of foreign oil dependence. In light of China's escalating rate of oil consumption, he emphasized the benefits of renewable fuels and other environmentally friendly energy solutions such as clean coal technology, along with rural economic development.  
   "As China emerges on the world market, it is critical that we engage them on these issues which have dramatic implications on our economy, environment and national security," said Coleman. "The strain that China exerts on global energy supplies will be felt in our pocketbooks, not to mention the environmental impact their energy consumption could produce. Here at home, Minnesota is a national leader in the use and development of renewable fuels through the innovations of biotechnology, and today's meeting presented a wonderful opportunity to discuss how we can work together on the advancement of alternative and renewable fuels." 
   "President Hu and I share a passion for rural economic development," Coleman added. "China's economy has been growing at roughly ten percent a year for more than two decades, yet a great disparity remains between their rural and urban population. Generating new jobs and investment rural infrastructure is perched at the top of both of our agendas, and I believe our free-flow exchange of ideas will prove beneficial for both parties." 
   In January, Coleman announced the creation of a bipartisan Senate China Working Group, established to gain better understanding of the growing influence of China on the global stage. This group serves as a forum for discussion on the rise of China as a political, economic, and military actor in both the regional and global arenas and the implications for American interests. Additionally, it functions as a mechanism for dialogue between the U.S. and Chinese legislatures. This August, Coleman will be traveling to China to continue talks on U.S.-China relations. 
   Accompanying Coleman to today's meeting were Senators Ted Stevens (R-AK), Daniel Inouye (D-HI), and Reps. Mark Kirk (R-IL), Rick Larsen (D-WA) and Randy Forbes (R-VA).
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 