SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $4,641,000 LOAN FOR JAGUAR COMMUNICATIONS
  Sen, Norm Coleman today announced Jaguar Communications, based in Owatonna, Minnesota, has received a $4,641,000 loan from the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development program. Jaguar Communications is planning to use the loan for the construction of broadband systems that will provide high-speed voice, data, and video access to Rice, Goodhue, Waseca, Steele, Dodge, Olmstead, Freeborn, and Mower counties. Once complete, service will be provided to more than 6,000 residential and business customers.  
   "By using this loan to expand broadband access in southeastern Minnesota, Jaguar Communications is helping bridge the technological gap often experienced in our rural communities," said Coleman. "The expansion of communication infrastructure in our rural communities is a critical step in helping to revitalize our rural communities. This loan shares the goal of my Rural Renaissance bill - which would invest federal funding into rural community infrastructure - and I am pleased USDA Rural Development has awarded this loan to help serve the folks in southeastern Minnesota." 
   "Jaguar Communications has always striven to deliver leading edge telecommunications and broadband services to rural areas of our state," said Jaguar Communications CEO Donny Smith. "The new services facilitated with this loan will advance the development and enhance the opportunities of our rural communities. This is the beginning of a journey that will see the digital divide diminish and finally disappear in our area." 
   Jaguar Communications, Inc. is made up of community investors consisting of small business owners, farmers, college professors, and other local residents. It is based in Owatonna, with local offices also in Rochester and Austin. 
   The USDA Rural Development's mission is to help rural individuals, communities and businesses obtain the financial and technical assistance needed to address their diverse and unique needs. Since 2001, USDA Rural Development has invested over $2 billion throughout Minnesota for a variety of rural economic development projects.
 
 