SEN. COLEMAN VISITS MINNESOTA TROOPS IN IRAQ TO GET FIRSTHAND ACCOUNT OF SITUATION ON THE GROUND
  In an effort to assess firsthand the options for achieving victory in Iraq, Sen. Norm Coleman traveled to Iraq this week to meet with Minnesota troops and top Iraqi and U.S. officials to discuss the future of U.S. involvement in stabilizing Iraq. During his trip, Coleman traveled to the Talil air base to meet with members of the Minnesota Army National Guard and deliver messages to them from Minnesota children at Turtle Lake Elementary School. The trip, which Coleman made with Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), is Coleman's second visit to Iraq.  
   "The most rewarding part of my trip was meeting our brave Minnesota troops, who are doing a fantastic job on behalf of our nation," said Coleman. "While our troops are winning the military battles against Al-Qaeda and the insurgents, it is clear the Iraqis are not doing enough to settle political divisions and combat the sectarian violence in their own country. With our nation's sons and daughters in harm's way, our patience is not unending. I came away convinced that we need to set clear benchmarks with deadlines for the Iraqis to quell this violence and resolve their political disputes, or face a possible repositioning of American forces. I do support increasing the overall size of the U.S. military to help ease the strain on our servicemembers, particularly the Guard and reserve. However, I do not believe a U.S. troop surge in Baghdad is the answer at this time - and I made that clear to Iraqi leaders during my visit." 
   In Iraq, Senator Coleman began his trip with visits to Baghdad and Fallujah, where he met with General Richard Zilmer, who conveyed the need for more high-tech equipment that could help prevent the destruction from Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). From there, he met with troops in Taqquadum before flying to Talil to meet with the Minnesota Army National Guard troops and deliver messages from Minnesota schoolchildren. 
   "One of the most important things we can do for Minnesota troops serving overseas is to make sure they know they are not forgotten," said Coleman. "I went to bring them some holiday cheer on behalf of a grateful nation during this visit, particularly through the warm messages from the kids at Turtle Lake." 
   During his trip, Coleman also expressed his skepticism about engaging in direct dialogue with Iran and Syria. Coleman stressed that Iran is a destabilizing influence in the region and would use direct talks to leverage acceptance of their nuclear ambitions.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 