SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS USDA PROPOSED DEBARMENT OF AWB FROM U.S. GOVERNMENT PARTICIPATION
  In light of the overwhelming evidence uncovered by the Cole Commission in Australia and the United Nations' Independent Inquiry Committee establishing that AWB Limited (AWB) paid more than $224 million in kickbacks in the Oil-for-Food program, Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded USDA for the immediate suspension and proposed debarment of AWB. Under this suspension, AWB will be barred from participating and contracting with the U.S. government. This suspension comes on the heels of Sen. Coleman's calls earlier this year for Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to take strong disciplinary actions against AWB. Minnesota-based Commodity Specialists Company was also included in the suspension.  
   "Almost one year ago, as a result of the avalanche of evidence illustrating AWB's misconduct in the Oil-for-Food Program, I urged Secretary Johanns to take strong disciplinary measures against AWB. While I am pleased that the USDA has elected to move forward with an indefinite suspension, I encourage them to move swiftly with proceedings to permanently bar AWB from doing business with the U.S. government," said Coleman. "If the Commodity Specialists Company is found to have participated in corruptive practices that violated U.S. law, then they must also be held accountable." 
   More recently, Coleman has also urged Reuben Jeffrey, Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), to examine whether the Commission's registration of AWB should be revoked or suspended. Coleman cited the Commodity Exchange Act statute (7 USC 12a), which authorizes the CFTC to revoke the registration of a participant that is found to have violated certain U.S. laws. 
   "USDA's indefinite suspension of AWB underscores the need for CFTC to examine whether they should continue operating in our markets," Coleman added. "Allowing AWB to participate freely in our markets without determining whether they were in violation of U.S. laws is inexcusable, and I urge Chairman Jeffrey to examine the appropriateness of revoking or suspending AWB's registration with the Commission." 
   In addition, Coleman also recently introduced legislation to investigate whether U.S. wheat farmers may have been harmed by AWB's corrupt trade practices. Specifically, the bill directs the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to investigate whether U.S. wheat farmers have suffered economic damage due to the actions of the AWB. If economic damage is found, the legislation directs USTR to go through its trade enforcement procedures to compensate U.S. wheat farmers, either through negotiated settlement or by imposing duties on certain Australian goods. 
   As Chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee Investigation (PSI), Senator Coleman led a three-year investigation into the U.N. Oil-for-Food Program. Under Senator Coleman's leadership, the Subcommittee held numerous hearings and issued several detailed reports that exposed significant corruption associated with the U.N. Oil-for-Food Program.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 