SENS. COLEMAN, SCHUMER CALL FOR IMMEDIATE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY REFERRAL OF IRAN TO U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL
  Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Charles Schumer (D-NY) today introduced a bipartisan resolution condemning the Iranian government's nuclear program and calling for the immediate suspension of Iran's uranium enrichment activities. Citing numerous Iranian violations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Coleman-Schumer resolution also calls on the U.S. and its partners to hold an emergency meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) where Iran can be referred to the U.N. Security Council. 
   "The Iranian regime's latest nuclear provocations and continuous hate-filled rhetoric warrant decisive action by the international community," Coleman said Thursday. "Even more worrisome is the regime's track record of terror and tyranny, which indicate that its behavior will only worsen once it becomes a nuclear power. Common sense and responsibility demand that we take action now." 
   Schumer said, "Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism and is led by a religious extremist who has spoken out against relations with the United States and has called for Israel to be wiped off the map. Iran's recent actions make it clear that it will continue to resist the will of the international community unless we take direct action. A nuclear Iran would pose an untenable threat to global security and we must act now to meet this challenge." 
   After the existence of their nuclear program was discovered in 2002, Iran has repeatedly attempted to deceive the international community about the progress and intentions of their uranium-enrichment facilities. Iran's latest stunt involved removing IAEA seals from a uranium-enrichment facility and announcing the resumption of "research" on nuclear fuel. Mohamed El Baradei, the Director General of the IAEA, has publicly stated that once it perfects its ability to enrich uranium and completes a weaponization program Iran will only months away from building a nuclear bomb. 
   Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice and E.U. Foreign Policy High Representative Javier Solana stated Wednesday that there is no reason to further negotiate with Iran, as two years of attempted diplomacy have collapsed. It also appears that Russia and China, who have previously failed to display a sense of urgency with Iran, have expressed agreement with the United States, Britain, France and Germany that the Iran's recent provocations constitute a brazen affront to the international community. 
   The EU-3 (Britain, France and Germany) have called for a February 2 meeting with the IAEA Board of Governors to discuss the referral of Iran to the U.N. Security Council. 
   "I strongly support the call from our government, as well as those of Britain, France and Germany, to hold an "extraordinary" meeting of the IAEA Board of Governors," Coleman stated. "Any attempts by Iran to gather nuclear weapons must be considered both extremely serious and immediate. We can't simply wait for them to get weapons before calling them a threat." 
   "I believe America must work with its European allies, Russia, China, and others to take immediate and decisive diplomatic action to address the challenge of a nuclear Iran before its program reaches a point of no return. It is important that we begin the process of rallying the global community as quickly as possible to deal with this threat," Schumer concluded. 
   Other cosponsors include Senators Diane Feinstein (D-CA), Sam Brownback (R-KS), George Allen (R-VA), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Mike DeWine (R-OH), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Ben Nelson (D-NE), and Bill Nelson (D-FL).
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 