SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES DELAY OF PASSPORT REQUIREMENT FOR LAND TRAVEL, PUSHES FOR MINNESOTA PASSPORT OFFICE
  Sen. Norm Coleman praised the decision announced today to delay implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative land and sea rule and give citizens the option of alternatives to passport documents such as passport cards. The decision, announced this morning, will permit land travel between Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean with a driver's license and birth certificate until at least the summer of 2008, instead of the original January 2008 deadline. In addition, Coleman sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice requesting the creation of a local passport processing office in Minnesota.  
   "The rule issued today should, at least for the moment, bring some relief to Minnesotans worried about what will happen in January of next year for land border travel," Coleman said. "I am pleased that the Administration has heeded the concerns of the public and those of us in Congress that have urged them to address this problem before land implementation. At the same time, I am somewhat concerned that the proposal aims for a summer 2008 deadline and will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress who are advocating a summer 2009 deadline instead. That said, I am pleased with the Departments' indication that the ultimate timing of this phase will be determined not by an artificial timetable, but rather the availability of alternative documents, including enhanced driver's licenses and passport cards, as well as alternative documents for Canadians. " 
   The announcement came on the heels of yesterday's Foreign Relations subcommittee hearing on the passport backlog, during which Coleman continued to press top State Department officials for alternative documents and delayed implementation of the passport requirement with State Department officials. During the hearing, Coleman also urged the Department to consider opening a new passport processing office in Minnesota. He continued that effort with a formal request to Secretary Rice in a letter today. 
   "Since March, my Senate office alone has helped more than 1500 Minnesotans secure passports," Coleman added. "For Minnesotans, the closest regional passport agency is in Chicago, which is several hours drive from the Twin Cities. As an air travel hub and border state, Minnesota will continue to be greatly impacted by WHTI requirements. An office in the Twin Cities would be of tremendous assistance to my constituents." 
   Text of Coleman's letter to Secretary Rice is as follows: 
   June 20, 2007 
   The Honorable Condoleezza Rice 
  Secretary 
  Department of State 
  2201 C Street, NW 
  Washington, DC 20520 
   Dear Secretary Rice: 
   First, I write to thank the Department for the flexibility in implementing the land phase of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative and urge that you take full advantage of the time available between now and June 2009 to ensure that passports and passport alternatives are widely available to the traveling public. In this vein, I write today to respectfully request the Department open a regional passport agency in Minnesota. 
   As you know, the Department currently operates 13 regional passport agencies in cities throughout the country. Especially during this time of increased passport demand, these agencies have proven invaluable for people who need passports within two weeks. Since March, my Senate office alone has helped more than 1500 Minnesotans secure passports. For Minnesotans, the closest regional passport agency is in Chicago, which is several hours drive from the Twin Cities, and typically not part of a passenger's travel plans. 
   I urge you to consider opening a regional passport agency in Minnesota. Minneapolis-St. Paul is a major hub for Northwest Airlines. It is the origination point for over 13,000 international flights, serving over one million people each year. Moreover, the Twin Cities is a major metropolitan area, with a population of three million and many Fortune 500 companies operating in the global economy. 
   Finally, Minnesota is a border state. Two million land border crossings occur at the International Falls, MN port of entry alone. Given the forthcoming need for WHTI-compliant documents for land border crossings, a passport office in the Twin Cities would be of tremendous assistance to my constituents. 
   Thank you for your consideration of this request for a regional passport agency in Minnesota. I look forward to your response. 
   Sincerely 
   Norm Coleman 
  United States Senate
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 