RURAL AMERICA TO BENEFIT FROM INCLUSION OF SEN. COLEMAN'S RURAL RENAISSANCE IN ENERGY BILL
  Communities throughout rural America enjoyed a victory today as Sen. Norm Coleman was successful in attaching his Rural Renaissance legislation to the energy tax package that is being prepared for inclusion in the energy bill this week. Rural Renaissance provides $400 million in tax credit bonds to finance a variety of projects across the country that promote rural sustainability. Among the projects that will receive funding are water or waste treatment projects, broadband technology, distance learning or telemedicine projects, rural electric systems, rural telephone systems, and rural community facilities. Sen. Coleman originally introduced the Rural Renaissance Act in 2005 and, with the assistance of Sen. Mark Pryor (D-AK), has been working towards its passage through a number of legislative vehicles.  
   "In my fight to revitalize rural America, the inclusion of this amendment in the Senate's energy tax package is a key step forward," said Coleman. "When I took office in 2003, I made it a priority for my staff and me to visit all 853 communities across Minnesota. The main message coming out of the meetings in Greater Minnesota was the need to revitalize the aging infrastructure in our rural communities. I have worked long and hard to make Rural Renaissance a reality, and I am pleased my colleagues in the Senate have also recognized the importance of this legislation. Rural America is the foundation of our country; securing a positive future for these smaller communities translates as a larger-scale success for the entire country." 
   "Development doesn't happen without infrastructure. If we want to see economic development in rural areas infrastructure must provide the foundation on which it can occur," said Dr. Jack Geller, President Center for Rural Policy and Development in St. Peter, Minnesota. "Senator Coleman's Rural Renaissance Act will help provide funding for various types of infrastructure, whether it be telecommunications, water, sewer, transportation or other community services, infrastructure enhances economic development." 
   This year's version of the bill will expand the groups eligible to issue the bonds to include state and local governments, in addition to rural electric cooperatives and their lenders. These issuers will lend the money to rural electric cooperatives or governmental bodies to build rural infrastructure projects. Additionally, Rural Renaissance includes new criteria for the allocation of Rural Renaissance Bonds to ensure there is coordination between the Secretaries of Treasury and Agriculture throughout the selection process to ensure the projects that need assistance most will receive aid. 
   Examples of 2 Typical Greater Minnesota Communities in need of Infrastructure Assistance 
   The City of New Auburn in southern Minnesota is home to a population of around 500 people. The city put in a new water system and a new wastewater system with a total price of around $600,000. Unfortunately, the city discovered that preliminary tests show the arsenic level in the new well at about 23 ppb. To meet new federal standards the city must construct a new water treatment facility for arsenic removal and new water tower at a cost of about $1.2 million, which is greater than the city can afford. 
   The City of Goodview in southeast Minnesota is home to approximately 3,700 people. Recently, the city discovered that it was not meeting the EPA standards for radium in its drinking water. In order for the city to upgrade its plant to remove the radium, the city will have to build a $4 million plant. The federal government set the requirements for radium, but did not provide any funding mechanism for the project.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 