SEN. COLEMAN TO CHAIR HEARING TO ASSESS SAFETY, SECURITY OF PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS ABROAD
  Sen. Norm Coleman, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps and Narcotics, will hold a hearing tomorrow to assess the safety of Peace Corps volunteers and the steps that still need to be taken to ensure that participants abroad are secure. The Peace Corps has been working hard to address security concerns, Coleman noted, and the purpose of tomorrow's hearing is to find ways to assist the agency's efforts. 
   "The Peace Corps is American diplomacy at its best," Coleman said. "Now more than ever it's important that our country is working to foster international goodwill at the grassroots level. That's exactly what Peace Corps work does. We need to make sure that we maintain that mission by ensuring Peace Corps volunteers live and work in safety."
   The reported incidence rate for major physical assaults on Peace Corps volunteers nearly doubled from an average of about 9 per 1,000 volunteers in years 1991 - 1993 to an average of about 17 per 1,000 volunteers in years 1998 - 2000. Data for 2001 and 2002 show that this rate has not changed.
   "The world is a different place than it was in 1962 when President Kennedy founded the Peace Corps," Coleman said. "Unfortunately, Americans abroad face greater security risks today than they did 42 years ago. It's critical that we take every step necessary to ensure the safety of Peace Corps volunteers, and I hope this hearing will help shed light on ways to do that."
   Gaddi Vasquez, the director of the Peace Corps, will testify at tomorrow's hearing, along with Jess Ford, the director of International Affairs and Trade at the General Accounting Office. Mr. Ford will discuss updates to a 2002 GAO report detailing the security threats Peace Corps volunteers face and the steps that still need to be taken to ensure their safety.
   Also testifying tomorrow will be Minnesotan Cynthia Threlkeld, Peace Corps' country director in Guatemala. Ms. Threlkeld, a graduate of St. Thomas University and former director of the Minnesota International Center, will discuss how she has dealt with security concerns in her program and what further steps she feels need to be taken.
   The hearing will run TOMORROW from 9:30 am EST to 12:00 pm EST in the Dirksen Senate Office building room 419.
 
 