MAYO CLINIC ISSUES REPORT CITING DM&E RAILROAD SAFETY ISSUES; SEN. COLEMAN, REP. GUTKNECHT EXPRESS CONCERN
  In light of a report released today by the Mayo Clinic and Rochester Coalition outlining concerns with Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad's (DM &E) safety record, Sen. Norm Coleman and Rep. Gil Gutknecht issued their concern for the safety of Rochester. DM&E has applied for a Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) loan to finance the railroad construction project. The DM&E loan application is currently undergoing an environmental review at the FRA.  
   "I will continue to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with Rochester and the Mayo Clinic in their concerns about the negative impact the DM&E railroad project will have on the city," said Coleman. "A negotiated settlement remains in everyone's best interest, but I will not be satisfied until and unless all of Rochester's concerns are resolved - these safety issues must be addressed by DM&E." 
   "Safety is non-negotiable," said Gutknecht. "It is incumbent upon the railroad to demonstrate their commitment to the safety of the citizens of Southern Minnesota." 
   The safety report concludes there is a potential public safety threat posed by the DM&E railroad upgrade project to the Mayo Clinic as well as Rochester's citizens. Among the reports findings are figures showing that DM&E's rate of accidents at crossings was 2.3 times the national average in 2005. Additionally, the report notes that over the past 10 years, the railroad has had 107 accidents involving trains carrying hazardous materials. The Rochester Coalition and the Mayo Clinic delivered the report to the Federal Railroad Association (FRA). 
   On May 17, 2006, Senator Coleman, along with Congressman Gutnecht sent a letter to the FRA expressing concern about the financial viability of the project. 
   "I understand the expansion is critical to growing businesses, but, at this point, DM&E has still not offered a mitigation package acceptable to the Coalition," Coleman added. "I believe a negotiated settlement is best for Southern Minnesota, and I hope to see a larger commitment from DM&E in establishing a safer and more acceptable plan."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 