SEN. COLEMAN CELEBRATES AMERICAN EAGLE DAY WITH VERY SPECIAL MINNESOTA GUEST
  It has been 225 years since the Bald Eagle was named the national emblem of the United States by the Founding Fathers, and Sen. Norm Coleman today celebrated this historic day with a very special guest. Harriet, an 11-year-old Bald Eagle from the National Eagle Center in Wabasha, Minnesota, not only serves as a tribute to our nation's veterans but is also an Ambassador who travels across the country to connect Americans with their national symbol. She paid a rare visit today to Sen. Coleman's office to commemorate this special day.  
   The Senate last month passed a resolution, cosponsored by Senator Coleman, that designated June 20, 2007 as "American Eagle Day" and also celebrated the expected removal of the American Bald Eagle from the Endangered Species List this year. During Harriet's visit, Senator Coleman signed and presented her handlers with a formal copy of the Senate Resolution. 
   "It was a great honor to have a bald eagle from the National Eagle Center in Wabasha chosen to be the star of the first ever American Eagle Day in our nation's capital," said Coleman. "The recovery and restoration of the American Bald Eagle is a multi-faceted victory for our country because it serves as a symbol of the perseverance and bravery of the American people - past, present and future. It is my hope that 225 years later, the Founding Fathers would be proud of today's celebration of the American Eagle." 
   Minnesota is blessed with a large number of bald eagles, which can be found in abundance along the Upper Mississippi National Wildlife Refuge. Because of the state's large eagle population, the City of Wabasha received a federal grant to establish the National Eagle Center. The center's mission is to foster environmental stewardship and community sustainability through education about our nation's symbol, the Bald Eagle and its habitat on the Mississippi River. 
   The National Eagle Center is home to Harriet, along with two other bald eagles, Angel and Columbia. On September 29th, the National Eagle Center will open their new facility in Wabasha, and it will be the only one in the nation dedicated to the Bald Eagle.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 