SENS. COLEMAN, HAGEL TO CO-CHAIR JOINT SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING ON INTERNATIONAL METHAMPHETAMINE TRAFFICKING
  Citing the growth in international methamphetamine trafficking, Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN), along with Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE), tomorrow will co-chair a joint subcommittee hearing to examine how meth is brought into the country. According to recent figures, over 80 percent of the meth consumed in America is made not in local meth labs, but in super labs by international drug trafficking organizations. Methamphetamine is considered one of the most deadly, fiercely addictive and rapidly spreading drugs in the United States, and reports indicate that meth created in super labs may be even more toxic than homemade meth. The joint hearing will be held by the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Narcotics Affairs, and Peace Corps and Subcommittee on International Economic Policy, Export and Trade Promotion.  
   This January, Coleman held a National Town Hall on Meth to examine the rising growth of meth abuse and the effect it has had on communities across the U.S. Additionally, Coleman is coauthor of the Combat Meth Act, which was recently signed into law as part of the Patriot Act. The legislation limits access to cold medicines containing psuedoephedrine, the primary ingredient used to make methamphetamine. 
   Coleman also created the Coleman Meth Task Force comprised of Minnesota law enforcement officials, hospital administrators, school nurses and recovery professionals to address needed legislation and initiatives to help combat meth use. 
   WHAT: Foreign Relations Subcommittee Hearing on International Methamphetamine Trafficking 
   WHEN: Wednesday, June 21, 2006 
   TIME: 2:30 p.m. 
   WHERE: SD- 419 
   WITNESSES: 
   The Honorable John P. Walters, Director, Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President; 
   The Honorable Anne W. Patterson, Assistant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, Department of State; 
   The Honorable Karen P. Tandy, Administrator, Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 