SEN. COLEMAN INVESTIGATES TAX DELINQUENT MEDICARE DOCTORS
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN), Ranking Member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, joined by Subcommittee Chairman Carl Levin (D-MI) held a hearing today on Medicare physicians and related suppliers that receive substantial income from the federal government under Medicare Part B, but have failed to pay the taxes that they owe. At the hearing, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) revealed that more than 21,000 physicians and related service providers owe more than $1 billion in back-taxes. According to GAO, these figures include only the first nine months of 2005. 
   During the course of the investigation, it was determined that the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) does not participate in the Federal Payment Levy Program, which is administered by the Federal Management Service. It was estimated that, if CMS had sent its payments through FMS, $50-140 million could have been collected in just 2005 alone. In 2001, the GAO recommended that the IRS and FMS initiate discussions with CMS to bring them into the levy program. At the time, CMS stated that they were revising their payment systems and would not be in a position to join the program before several years. Today, CMS is still not participating in the levy program.  
   "At first blush, this looks like a classic case of the right hand not knowing what the left hand is doing. However, it is very disturbing that, seven years after the levy program was initiated and six years after GAO's recommendation, Medicare is still not participating in the levy program," said Coleman. "We know of no legal barrier that prevents CMS from participating in the Federal Payment Levy Program to collect unpaid taxes. We have seen in previous hearings the positive result of having FMS check for outstanding tax debts." 
   As part of this inquiry, GAO identified 40 particularly egregious cases in which physicians and related suppliers were involved in abusive, and potentially criminal, activities related to the federal tax system. For example: 
   An ambulance company that received more than $1 million in Medicare payments in the first nine months of 2005 owes nearly $11 million dollars in unpaid federal tax. The business owner has several luxury vehicles. 
   A physician was paid up to $100,000 by Medicare in nine months of 2005, and owes more than $400,000 in unpaid federal tax. He made tens of thousands of dollars of cash deposits structured to avoid mandatory IRS reporting, gambled millions of dollars while delinquent in his taxes, and purchased a luxury vehicle paid in part by a large cash transaction. Despite reporting more than $600,000 in net profits for two recent years, this individual entered into and defaulted on an installment agreement with IRS and is delinquent on child support for tens of thousands of dollars. 
   A physician whose business received more than $1 million in 2005 from Medicare owes more than $1 million in unpaid federal taxes, primarily payroll taxes. He owns a million-dollar house, a pleasure boat, and several night clubs, and recently reported his income as about $500,000. 
   This is the fourth hearing to result from the Subcommittee's three-year investigation into contractors that provide goods or services to the federal government, but fail to pay their fair share of taxes. A 2004 hearing determined that 27,000 contractors with the Department of Defense had tax debts totaling roughly $3 billion. A 2005 hearing determined that 33,000 contractors doing business with civilian federal agencies had unpaid taxes totaling $3.3 billion. In 2006, the Subcommittee examined similar misconduct by 3,800 contractors for the General Services Administration with unpaid taxes totaling $1.4 billion. As a result of the Subcommittee's efforts, government-wide tax levy collections have increased from $136.6 million in 2004 to $339.2 million in 2006.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 