SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILLS TO MAKE PURCHASING DRUGS ON-LINE SAFER
  Citing the need to provide consumers with the safest and most affordable prescription drugs through the Internet and reimportation, Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) today introduced two bills expanding federal authority to prevent controlled substances from flooding into the U.S., authorizing states to shut down illegitimate virtual pharmacies, and barring Internet drug stores from dispensing drugs to customers referred to on-line doctors for a prescription.  
   "This legislation provides a new measure of safety currently missing when consumers try to buy medications on-line through Internet pharmacies," Coleman said. "If enacted as stand-alone measures, each of these bills will make on-line drug purchasing safer from legitimate domestic Internet sites. But these safety features could also make reimportation of drugs far safer and more secure. So I am working with Senator Gregg (R-NH) to include these safety provisions in his comprehensive reimportation bill." 
   The bills follow a six month probe into the dangerous and addictive controlled substances, steroids, expired and counterfeit drugs imported and available through on-line pharmacies by the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, chaired by Senator Coleman. The findings of the PSI probe will be revealed at a hearing on June 17th. Each bill is named for a young man who died tragically as a result of obtaining dangerous drugs over the Internet. 
   The Internet Pharmacy Consumer Protection Act (The Ryan Haight Bill), a bipartisan bill co-sponsored by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), targets domestic Internet pharmacies that sell drugs over the Internet without a valid prescription by 
   * Providing new disclosure standards for Internet pharmacies; 
   * Barring Internet sites from selling or dispensing prescription drugs to consumers who are provided a prescription solely on the basis of an online questionnaire; and 
   * Allowing state attorneys general to go to federal court to shut down rogue sites nationwide, rather than just in their individual jurisdictions. 
   "The growing abuse of prescription drugs coupled with the ease of access to the Internet has led to an environment where illegitimate pharmacy websites are bypassing regulations governing the sale of prescription drugs," Senator Feinstein said. "This includes allowing consumers to obtain prescriptions drugs without the existence of a bona fide physician-patient relationship, which can pose an immediate threat to public health and safety. With simple disclosure requirements for Internet sites such as names, addresses and medical or pharmacy licensing information, patients will be better off and state medical and pharmacy boards can ensure that pharmacists and doctors are properly licensed." 
   The Act to Prevent the Illegal Importation of Controlled Substances (The Todd Rode Bill) targets the tens of thousands of dangerous and addictive controlled substances that are streaming into the U.S. daily from overseas Internet pharmacies. The Act enables Customs to immediately seize and destroy any package containing a controlled substance that is illegally imported into the U.S. without having to fill out duplicative forms and other unnecessary administrative paperwork. 
   "When I visited JFK International in March, I was stunned by the vast amounts of illegal and potentially lethal drugs ordered over the Internet that are pouring through our borders everyday," Coleman continued. "This bill cuts through the red tape, allowing U.S. Custom agents to apprehend any illegally imported drugs and destroy them on the spot. These agents are our first and last line of defense in preventing dangerous drugs from being imported by consumers who often are vulnerable or unaware of the risks."
 
 