SEN. COLEMAN MEETS WITH RELIGIOUS LEADERS TO DISCUSS CONCERNS OVER GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
  Sen. Norm Coleman today met with local religious leaders to discuss their shared concern over the effects of global climate change. The meeting, which took place in Coleman's St. Paul office, was attended by Archbishop Harry Flynn, Bishop Jon Anderson, and Rabbi Marcia Zimmerman. During the meeting, Sen. Coleman was presented with a letter from religious leaders in Minnesota outlining their specific concerns regarding global climate change.  
   "I was very pleased to sit down with these religious leaders today to discuss ways we can work together going forward to address our shared concerns over the negative effects of global climate change," said Coleman. "I have long believed that we have a responsibility to address potential future problems now, so that we do not leave our children with an unbearable burden through inaction. I thank the Archbishop, Bishop Anderson and Rabbi Zimmerman for their commitment and leadership on this issue, and for their concern over the effects of climate change on families and the environment. I look forward to continue working with them on this issue in a way that protects the environment and the economic security of working families for the long term." 
   Sen. Coleman has taken a leadership role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions through a number of measures, including co-sponsoring the Renewable Fuels Standard of 7.5 billion gallons, which passed as part of last year's Energy Bill. Coleman has also supported a Renewable Portfolio Standard, which would require large electric utilities to obtain 10 percent of their electricity from clean renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, and bioenergy by 2020. Now, Coleman has commissioned the Energy Information Administration to evaluate a draft plan that offers the potential of breaking through the political logjam on climate change legislation, aggressively reducing greenhouse gas emissions through a clean energy portfolio standard. 
   Additionally, Coleman recently supported a Sense of the Senate Resolution recognizing the problems caused by greenhouse gases and urging that mandatory steps be taken to slow or stop the growth of greenhouse gas emissions. The Resolution also states that Congress should enact a comprehensive and effective national program to curb greenhouse gas emissions in a way that does not significantly harm the U.S. economy and will encourage comparable action by other countries.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 