SENATE PASSES NATIONAL SEX OFFENDER REGISTRY LEGISLATION COAUTHORED BY SEN. COLEMAN
  Sen. Coleman joined his colleagues in the United States Senate in successfully passing the "Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Database Act of 2004" (S.2154) last night, which would create a publicly-available national database of sex offenders. Coleman is an original cosponsor of the legislation. This bill is named after Dru Sjodin of Pequot Lakes, Minnesota, who was tragically abducted last year. This legislation is now awaiting a vote in the House of Representatives. 
   "This bipartisan bill will close dangerous loopholes that have allowed sex offenders to prey on unsuspecting communities across state lines," said Coleman. "This reform is a step in the right direction in helping prevent tragedies like Dru Sjodin's abduction last year, a tragedy we will never forget."
   Under current law, each state maintains its own separate registries of sex offenders - and is limited to offenders who reside in that state. In too many cases, this has allowed sex offenders to prey on unsuspecting communities in nearby states, where their identities are not known.
   This loophole was tragically evident last November, when Dru Sjodin was abducted from the parking lot of a shopping mall in Grand Forks, North Dakota.
   The man arrested for her abduction, Alfonso Rodriguez, Jr., had served a 23-year sentence for rape in Minnesota, and had been released from prison despite being rated at "high risk" for reoffending. Rodriguez was left completely unsupervised, except for the requirement that he register as a sex offender in Minnesota. He chose to live in a Minnesota town close to the North Dakota border. But because there is no national sex offender registry, nearby North Dakota communities had no way of knowing that a dangerous sex offender was living nearby.
   "Our bipartisan bill will close that dangerous loophole," Coleman said. "It will direct the Justice Department to create a publicly accessible, national sex offender registry. Concerned citizens would be able to access the registry online and specify a search radius across state lines, thus obtaining a more meaningful report of nearby sex offenders."
   The bill would also require prisons to notify states attorneys whenever "high risk" offenders are about to be released, so that state attorney generals can consider petitioning for continued confinement of the offender. Additionally, the bill would require states to monitor "high-risk" offenders who are released after serving their full sentence, for a period of at least one year.
 
 