CONGRESS APPROVES SEN. COLEMAN'S BILL TO COMPENSATE ERIC, BRIAN SIMON OF VESELI, MINN.
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that his bill to provide $200,000 to Eric and Brian Simon of Veseli, Minnesota was included in the FY 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill. Brian (19) and Eric (18) Simon, whose father, Doug, contracted HIV/AIDS during treatment for a service-connected injury while on active duty in the National Guard during the early 1980s, will receive the compensation to help them afford a college education and meet expenses. Coleman called the boys this morning directly to pass along the great news. The boys' mother, Nancy, and sister, Candace, contracted the disease and have since tragically passed away. In order to care and support their ill father, Eric and Brian have had to shuttle their father on a regular basis from Veseli to the VA hospital in Minneapolis. These funds will provide Brian and Eric the funds necessary to attend college, a dream they both share, and meet expenses. Because their father has been ill and unable to work, the family does not have the means with which to pay tuition. 
   "Brian and Eric are remarkable young men," Coleman said. "They have lost their mother and their sister to AIDS, and they have been tireless in taking care of their sick father, who tragically contracted AIDS during his proud National Guard service. These two young men have had to grow up very, very quickly. Words can't convey how proud I am of Eric and Brian and am so proud that my bill to help these boys was approved by the Congress and will be signed by the President."
   In March, Coleman hosted Doug, Brian and Eric Simon to tell their tragic story to the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee at a hearing in March. At Coleman's request, VA Committee Chairman Arlen Specter held the hearing, where the family shed light on their tragic situation by testifying before key policy makers.
   "No one deserves to go through this," Doug Simon said in his remarks before the Committee. "My two boys, Brian and Eric have been through hell watching their mother and sister die...There was a costly mistake made so we've been paying for it with enormous amounts of pain. I want to make sure that it doesn't happen. I believe there should be compensation made for this mistake."
   "As my brother and I were getting older, we were realizing what our life was turning into," said Eric Simon, "a nightmare that we would never wake up from."
   Doug Simon has spent most of his post-military life shuttling between his home in rural Minnesota and hospitals in Minneapolis. He is now wheelchair-bound, and his sons, just 19 and 18 respectively, have become his primary caregivers.
   In July of 2003, Coleman introduced legislation - the Brian and Eric Simon Act of 2003 (S. 1509).
 
 