SEN. COLEMAN LAUDS ETHICAL STEM CELL BREAKTHROUGH
  Senator Norm Coleman today applauded scientists for developing a new method for embryonic stem cell research that does not destroy human life. The new method creates pluripotent stem cells (the equivalent of embryonic stem cells) by reprogramming the chromosomes of human skin cells. As a proponent of expanding stem cell research, Senator Coleman, in June of this year, authored and passed (70-28) the Hope Offered through Principled and Ethical Stem Cell Research (HOPE) Act (S. 30) in the Senate. His bill would authorize federal funding for the kind of stem cell research such as announced today that does not harm human embryos. The bill has yet to be taken up by the House.  
   "This new discovery is proof positive that science is moving faster than the political debate on this issue. Today's breakthrough shows us that it is possible to move stem cell research forward without harming or destroying human life. Now, more than ever, we need to provide scientists with the funding and support to develop stem cell research methods that lift us beyond the ethical debate. My bill moves us out of the political quagmire that has stymied federal funding for stem cell research," said Coleman. "The President has shown that he will veto any legislation that would harm a human embryo. By incorporating all of the most promising current and future scientific advancements in stem cell research that remain firmly within ethical guidelines, my legislation will avoid a veto and ultimately provide hope for medical breakthroughs in the near future. I urge my colleagues in the House to bring this important legislation to the floor." 
   "Today's breakthrough moves us beyond the ethical and political gridlock that has characterized stem cell research," said Dr. William B. Hurlbut, physician, member of the President's Council on Bioethics, and consulting professor in the Neuroscience Institute at Stanford University. "Senator Coleman has shown genuine leadership on this issue in seeking a way forward in the name of social consensus and scientific advancement. The American people owe him a great deal of credit for his commitment to finding a realistic legislative solution to such an important issue."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 