SEN. COLEMAN REQUESTS ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR MINNESOTA FAMILIES STRUGGLING WITH RISING ENERGY COSTS
  Continuing his fight to assist low-income Minnesotans, individuals with disabilities, and senior citizens with rising energy costs, Senator Norm Coleman alongside over 30 of his Senate colleagues sent a bipartisan letter to President Bush requesting him to release the remaining $20 million that is left in the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency fund and support at least $2.4 billion for the program for fiscal year 2008. This critical program assists low-income Minnesota families and seniors with energy costs.  
   "As energy costs continue to rise and temperatures get colder, it is imperative we work together to reduce the financial burden on low-income Minnesotans to ensure their health and safety this winter," said Coleman. "While I applaud the President for responding to our concerns in September and releasing $131 million, the additional $20 million is need for Minnesota's vulnerable families as home heating prices are projected to cost almost 80 percent higher more than during the winter of 2001-02. It is my hope the President will listen to our concerns once again and release the remainder of the LIHEAP contingency funds." 
   President Bush released an initial $50 million from the LIHEAP fund in early September; however, in a letter, Coleman and over 50 of his Senate colleagues pointed out that it would not be enough to help families and seniors meet rising arrears and shut-off notices as a result of high home energy costs. In response to this bipartisan letter, the President released $131 million in LIHEAP contingency funding, including $4.2 million for low-income Minnesota families. If the Administration had not released these funds by September 30, 2007, $131 million of the contingency fund's balance would have expired. 
   Currently, 1.2 million low-income households this year have had their electric and natural gas service terminated. This problem will become exacerbated as U.S. residential electricity prices are expected to increase by three percent this year alone. This increase is due to the expiration of energy rate caps and higher fuel costs, which are being passed on to consumers.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 