SEN. COLEMAN PLAN AIMS TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today responded to a press release issued by the Minnesota Natural Legacy Campaign that inaccurately stated his position on reducing greenhouse gas emissions.  
   "Let me be unequivocally clear, our goal is to strengthen emission standards and any assertion to the contrary is simply false," Coleman said. "That's why I have sent a discussion draft to EIA to determine the level of greenhouse gas reduction that can be achieved using a clean energy portfolio standard - this could be the fastest legislative approach to create actual greenhouse gas reductions in the near term. If it is determined any provision in this draft runs counter to the goal of quickly reducing greenhouse gasses, we will make the necessary changes, and I look forward to working with the environmental community on this." 
   A poll released today by the Minnesota Natural Legacy Campaign (MNLC) showed that over 60 percent of Minnesotans favor limits on greenhouse gas emissions. In a news release reporting the poll findings, however, the MNLC mischaracterized Coleman's draft Clean Energy Portfolio Standard proposal. 
   "I have drafted a proposal to find the quickest path to carbon dioxide reduction - that means finding a proposal that doesn't cripple the economy, that is nationally based, and that will not be trapped in the courts. The purpose of this draft is to empower the federal government to reduce greenhouse gases, not restrict its ability," said Coleman. 
   In fact, Kelly Scanlan, director of the Minnesota Natural Legacy Campaign, said she agrees with Coleman on the need for a national plan. "We may not agree on what the plan is, but we do agree that we need a national plan," Scanlan said. 
   "If we are truly serious about reducing greenhouse gases, we must put all our clean energy technologies on the table including carbon sequestration technology. Carbon dioxide produced in one state doesn't lead to greenhouse problems in just that state - clearly, we need a national standard on greenhouse gas emissions, and I'm concerned that those who simply oppose nuclear energy and clean coal technology will eliminate this opportunity altogether because of their narrow ideological agenda," Coleman said. 
   Since taking office, Senator Coleman has been exploring new ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Coleman voted in favor of a Renewable Portfolio Standard which would have required 10 percent of utility sales come from renewable energy by 2020. He also supported a Senate resolution that called on the Senate to take mandatory steps to slow or stop the growth of greenhouse gas emissions as long as such a national program does not significantly harm the U.S. economy and encourages comparable action by other countries. 
   Recognizing that the transportation sector represents almost 30 percent of greenhouse gas emissions, Coleman is also working to pass more aggressive fuel economy standard and put clean vehicles on the road through the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 