SEN. COLEMAN SECURES KEY MINNESOTA PRIORITIES IN AGRICULTURE RECONCILIATION PACKAGE
  As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Sen. Norm Coleman today praised the Committee's passage of the agriculture reconciliation package, which will reduce spending on mandatory programs by $3 billion over five years, while maintaining programs critical to Minnesota's farm community. In addition to extending the Farm Bill through 2011, the reconciliation package extends the Milk Income Loss Contract Program (MILC) through FY2007.  
   The MILC program provides a key safety net for dairy farm families across America and Minnesota. When milk prices collapse due to factors beyond their control, MILC provides a cushion for farmers until markets are able to stabilize and return to more profitable levels. 
   "I have worked hard to protect the Farm Bill program and my commitment to Minnesota farmers," said Coleman. "I've worked hard to amass bipartisan support, 28 cosponsors in all, to my bill to extend the MILC program, and I am grateful Chairman Chambliss worked with me, and other MILC supporters, to include this critical safety net for our dairy farmers in the Agriculture Reconciliation bill." 
   Originally set to expire in 2007, the Committee's reconciliation bill extends the Farm Bill through 2011. 
   "The extension of the Farm Bill through 2011 will provide peace of mind to Minnesota's farmers, sending a strong message to our trading partners that we are serious about not unilaterally disarming in the Doha Round," Coleman said. "We had tough spending decisions to make, but we were able to pass an agriculture reconciliation package that will not disrupt the integrity of the Farm Bill. I'm proud the Committee kept our commitment to our nation's farmers." 
   Initially targeted for cuts during the reconciliation process, Senator Coleman was pleased to pass a package that takes no cuts out of the Food Stamp program. 
   "The Food Stamp program is a vital and necessary program for many Minnesota families," Coleman continued. "In July alone, more than 100,000 households in Minnesota received food stamps - this important program feeds families in need and deserves to be protected." 
   "Conservation programs also contributed savings, but not at the expense of farmers' current conservation activities." Coleman added. "Enrolled producers will not lose their conservation programs, which is a real victory. Fiscal discipline should be the cornerstone of the budget, and we were able to accomplish that goal without harming our farmers."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 