SEN. COLEMAN TO VISIT CAMBRIDGE, PRINCETON, MORA, PINE CITY, WYOMING ON OCT. 23
  Sen. Norm Coleman will visit the communities of Cambridge, Princeton, Mora, Pine City and Wyoming on Monday, October 23rd to visit local leaders, facilities and businesses during a one-day visit to Isanti, Mille Lacs, Kanabec, Pine and Chisago Counties. The visit is part of Sen. Coleman's ongoing effort to visit every county in Minnesota this year.  
   "I look forward to hearing from local residents and officials in east-central Minnesota during Monday's visit," said Coleman. "My trips to counties across the state this year have already been extremely valuable to me as I continue my work to represent all of Minnesota in the Senate, and I am anxious to discuss important local concerns like rural healthcare, energy and economic development during these visits." 
   Specifically, Coleman will begin the day's visit with a discussion of local issues during a breakfast meeting with area leaders in Cambridge. He will then travel to Princeton to discuss rural healthcare and tour the Fairview Northland Medical Center. Following the hospital tour, Coleman will meet with the Lakes and Pines Community Action Council in Mora. He will then tour Pine Technical College in Pine City before wrapping up the day with a visit to the Polaris Research and Development facility in Wyoming. 
   Details on the day's schedule are as follows. Local media are welcome to attend. 
   Schedule: Monday, October 23rd 
   Breakfast with Local Leaders 
  8:00 - 9:00 a.m. 
  People's Cafe 
  118 Main Street South 
  Cambridge, MN 
   Tour Fairview Northland Medical Center 
  9:30 - 10:30 a.m. 
  911 Northland Drive. 
  Princeton, MN 
   Meeting with Lakes and Pines Community Action Council 
  11:15 a.m.- 12:00 p.m. 
  1700 Maple Avenue E 
  Mora, MN 
   Tour Pine Technical College 
  1:45 - 2:45 p.m. 
  Pine Technical College 
  900 Fourth St. S.E. 
  Pine City, MN 
   Visit to Polaris R & D Facility 
  3:30 - 4:30 p.m. Polaris - Product Development Center 
  7290 Viking Blvd East 
  Wyoming, MN
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 