SENATE PASSES SENS. COLEMAN-LEVIN AMENDMENT THAT COMBATS FEDERAL TAX CHEATS, MONITORS FEDERAL TRAVEL ABUSE
  The United States Senate today unanimously approved an amendment sponsored by Sen. Norm Coleman, Chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), and Ranking Member Carl Levin (D-MI), to the 2006 Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill that addresses two specific problems uncovered by PSI during separate hearings on governmental fraud, waste, and abuse. The amendment, also cosponsored by Sens. Daniel Akaka (D-AK), and Thomas Carper (R-DE), includes a provision that will make it easier for the government to collect unpaid taxes from federal contractors by implementing new collection procedures when payments are made with credit cards. The second provision is aimed at rooting out the abuse of first and business class travel by government officials by requiring closer congressional monitoring of federal travel.  
   "This amendment is a great victory for American taxpayers, as it brings us one step closer to helping stamp out fraud, waste, and abuse in the federal government," said Coleman. "Federal contractors who owe billions of dollars in unpaid taxes, along with the abuse of government travel, are two important problems uncovered by PSI that need to be eliminated. Sen. Levin was instrumental in bringing these issues to light throughout these hearings, and I applaud his efforts which have led to tonight's needed legislation. This amendment is a common sense, bipartisan proposal, and I am pleased to see this important provision move forward today." 
   Last year, the government paid an astonishing $10 billion to federal contractors using credit cards. Unfortunately, the government is unable to collect taxes that are owed unless the contractor is paid directly by the Treasury. When the government makes purchases with a credit card, the bank that issued the card acts a middle man between the Treasury and the contractor, leaving the contractor only known to the bank. For the government to collect unpaid taxes, it needs to know which contractors are being paid. 
   "For too long the Government has been flying blind, allowing delinquent federal contractors to avoid paying the taxes they owe," said Coleman. "This amendment will pull the wool from over our eyes so that we can recover billions of dollars owed to the American people." 
   Senator Coleman's amendment requires the General Services Administration's (GSA) annual travel report to include both first and business class airline travel and further requires that the report be furnished to the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, House Government Reform Committee, and to the Senate and House Appropriations Committees to more closely monitor federal travel for potential abuse. 
   "In 2001 and 2002, DOD spent $124 million on first and business class travel, 75 percent of which was not properly authorized or justified, resulting in a loss of millions of dollars," Coleman added. "This amendment is a huge step in the fight against wasteful spending that leaves ordinary Americans footing the bill.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 