SEN. COLEMAN KEEPS COMMITMENT ALIVE ON SENATE FLOOR TO HELP BUILD MINNESOTA COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Norm Coleman tonight continued to fight for full funding for the Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) program as the full Senate voted to pass the FY2006, Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill. As amendments to the bill were discussed on the Senate floor, Sen. Coleman led a bipartisan group of 40 senators to secure a commitment from Sens. Kit Bond (R-MO) and Patty Murray (D-WA), authors of the bill, to work in Conference together to push for more funding for CDBG, the Section 8 Voucher Program, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Public Housing Operating and Capital Funds.  
   "As a former Mayor, I have seen first hand the positive impact the CDBG program has on our cities across this nation, which is why I have worked with my colleagues to find the support and resources needed to maintain this program," said Coleman. "This vital program is a jobs creator, a smart long-term investment, and a catalyst for creating more affordable housing. Maybe one of its most important aspects, however, is that it gives hope to those who need it. Congress has turned to the CDBG program to provide relief in times of disasters, past and present. As we once again turned to CDBG to help communities house evacuees after hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we are reminded of the importance of this program. I am cautiously optimistic that as I continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate, we will be able to help restore the resources this program needs to succeed." 
   For thirty years, America's cities have relied on CDBG to create jobs, provide affordable housing, and generate new economic investment. CDBG currently provides direct community development funding to over 1,100 cities and counties. Last year, the CDBG's 38,550 projects served more than 9 million people by helping to build new or reconstruct existing public facilities, roads, and water and sewer systems, in addition to helping to create or retain over 90,000 jobs. 
   "Since its inception, CDBG has leveraged nearly $324 billion in new private investment in our nation's communities, a virtual three-to-one return on investment," continued Coleman. "In 2004 alone CDBG helped more than 11,000 households became new homeowners. This is a program that works and has affected lives in every state in the Union, which is why I have worked with my colleagues to ensure that dialogue to keep this program intact continues." 
   The Section 8 Housing Voucher program currently serves approximately two million low-income households, and allows families to secure housing in safer neighborhoods with better schools and jobs. The HUD Public Housing Operating and Capital Fund, which was created to fill the gap between what low-income families can afford to pay for rent and the cost of living in safe and decent housing. 
   "I feel strongly that these programs have a positive effect on families in both large and small communities," Coleman added. "We must maintain adequate and safe living spaces for working moms and dads to raise children, while working to lessen their reliance on public assistance."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 