SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES SENATE PASSAGE OF $15 MILLION FOR MINNESOTA PROJECTS IN SENATE FY 2005 MILITARY CONSTRUCTION APPROPRIATIONS
  Sen. Norm Coleman praised Senate passage of the Fiscal Year 2005 Military Construction Appropriations bill, which includes $15.45 million in military construction funding secured by Coleman for important Minnesota projects at the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport and the Duluth International Airport.  
   The bill, passed by the Senate last evening, provides over $10 billion for military construction activities, a $687 million increase from last year. 
   "The Minnesota military personnel play a vital role in this nation's national defense," Coleman said. "Now more than ever we rely on the brave men and women of the military to protect our homeland and freedom abroad. They deserve the most modern facilities we can provide them and this funding will provide just that." 
   $10.5 million was allocated to the Duluth International Airport for Air National Guard base and facility upgrades, including $3.5 million for road construction and $3 million for crew quarters. 
   "I'm pleased the Senate is fully funding the President's request for the operations in Duluth," Coleman continued. "This base is a key national security asset and our continued investment in it speaks to its importance." 
   Additionally, $4.95 million was provided for construction of a Joint Security Forces Operations Center at the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport's Air Force Reserve Station. When completed, this center will house security operations for all services in the area: the security forces, law enforcement, and combat arms for Minnesota's Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, Army Reserve, and Naval Reserve personnel. 
   "The services co-located at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport have made great strides in improving the way they work together." Coleman continued. "This important project will benefit all of our service men and women based there."
 
 