SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS $223,786 PERFORMANCE PLUS GRANT FOR MINNESOTA BOARD ON AGING
  Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) for recently awarding a $223,786 Performance Plus grant for the Minnesota Board on Aging's (MBA) Senior Linkage Line. The federal funding, which will be used to provide further information, counseling and assistance to Minnesotans with Medicare coverage, is granted to individual State Health Insurance Assistance Programs (SHIP) in recognition of good performance in services delivered to Medicare beneficiaries. The MBA is the federally designated SHIP in Minnesota and is one of just 13 SHIPs to qualify for the funding  
   "This grant award is a testament to the superb services the Minnesota Board on Aging provides," said Coleman. "This funding will allow the MBA to expand their assistance to people using programs like Medicare Part D, which is bringing huge savings for seniors despites some bumps along the road. Senior Linkage Line was key to helping seniors navigate the enrollment process, and we ultimately saw Minnesota Part D participation skyrocket. They clearly do spectacular work, and I am extremely pleased they are receiving the resources and recognition they deserve." 
   Sen. Coleman was part of a group of Senators who sent a letter in June to the Committee on Appropriations urging funding for the Area Agencies on Aging, Native American Aging Services and State Health Insurance Programs like the Minnesota Board on Aging. The letter proposed at least $43 million be appropriated for fiscal year 2007. This funding would equal one dollar per Medicare beneficiary to assist these programs in continuing the work they perform. The $223,786 Performance Plus grant is in addition to funding MBA is scheduled to receive this year. 
   "We are very pleased to receive this award from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services," said Jean Wood, interim director, Minnesota Board on Aging. "It is money that is not only very much needed but it is also money that we can put to good use. It will be used to provide additional services to Minnesota Medicare recipients including seniors as well as persons with disabilities as the new open enrollment season begins in October." 
   The purpose of the performance grant program is to provide incentives for SHIPs for good performance in services delivered to Medicare beneficiaries. Throughout implementation of Medicare Modernization Act, CMS has been actively engaged in assessing performance of SHIPs in delivering services to seniors and other on Medicare. 
   Other SHIP's receiving the funding are as follows: 
   Virgin Islands $16,631 
  Guam $16,299 
  Idaho $108,123 
  Maine $109,390 
  South Dakota $ 97,132 
  Nebraska $127,214 
  Iowa $214,268 
  Wyoming $72,075 
  Vermont $87,016 
  Connecticut $169,387 
  Montana $100,643 
  Kansas $158,036
 
 