SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS GROWING MINNESOTA ECONOMY
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today expressed great enthusiasm over the Minnesota economy as recent statistics released by the Department of Labor indicate another month of job growth. According to the latest release, the Minnesota added 8,000 jobs in the month of March while the state's unemployment level remained at 4.1 percent - well below the national average of 4.7 percent. Coleman views these latest Minnesota numbers as proof that current economic policies are working and that American confidence in the economy is growing.  
   "It's great news to see that Minnesota's strong economy continues to help drive a national economy that remains robust," Coleman said. "The economy has been moving in the right direction for three years now, and that growth becomes contagious as it breeds a certain level of confidence among Americans. When the economy shows the sustained strength we are currently experiencing, businesses look to expand, bringing more Minnesotans into the workforce in order to continue growing. 
   Over the past year, the state of Minnesota has added 40,600 to its economy and a record number of small businesses - nearly 54,000 - have started this past year alone. In addition, March saw a significant increase in the number of high-wage jobs offered by various businesses. 
   "I also want to emphasize that we're not just adding jobs to the economy, we're adding good jobs," Coleman said. "Those who want to cast a shadow of doubt on these soaring economic numbers will have you believe that we're only adding low-wage jobs. This simply isn't true. Businesses are building opportunities in high-wage fields, proving job gains in quantity and quality." 
   According to the most recent government figures, 211,000 jobs were created nationally in the month of March, and the economy has now added 5.1 million jobs since the President's pro-growth tax policies were implemented in May 2003.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 