SEN. COLEMAN TO VISIT MOORHEAD, ADA, MAHNOMEN, DETROIT LAKES ON AUG. 23
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced he will be visiting the Northwestern Minnesota cities of Moorhead, Ada, Mahnomen and Detroit Lakes on Wednesday, August 23rd as part of a one-day visit to the region. The visit is one of several across the state during the Senate's August recess, and is part of his ongoing effort to visit every county in Minnesota this year.  
   "I am anxious to get up to Northwest Minnesota to connect again with local folks and hear about the specific concerns they have," said Coleman. "I am especially excited to celebrate the expansion of my outreach to constituents in the area through the opening of my Moorhead Field Office, which will provide a great resource for area residents on issues ranging from constituent service to healthcare to the upcoming Farm Bill." 
   Coleman will begin the day with a grand opening of his new Moorhead Field Office, which will be staffed by local resident Brenda Elmer. The office will be Coleman's third field office located in Greater Minnesota. The grand opening event will take place at the site of the new office, in the Townsite Center on 4th Avenue South in Moorhead. 
   Coleman will then participate in a lunch meeting at the Wild Rice Dining Emporium in Ada, where he will hear from local leaders including the Mayor and members of the Chamber of Commerce about area issues and concerns. 
   Following the lunch meeting, the senator will tour the Mahnomen County Hospital and meet with hospital administrators, providers and other staff. 
   Coleman will conclude the day's visit with a public forum in Detroit Lakes, where he will host a listening session to discuss the current Farm Bill, which is set to expire next year. This forum will include time for local farmers in attendance to address panelists and provide input into the bill's future, which the Senate Agriculture Committee is expected to begin considering this fall. 
   Details on the day's schedule are as follows, with local media welcome to attend: 
   Moorhead Office Grand Opening 
  9:15 - 10:00 am 
  Townsite Center 
  810 4th Avenue South 
  Moorhead, MN 
   Lunch with Mayor & Local Leaders 
  12:10 - 1:05 pm 
  Wild Rice Dining Emporium 
  14 West Thorpe Avenue 
  Ada, MN 
   Tour of Mahnomen County Hospital 
  2:00 - 2:30 pm 
  Mahnomen County Hospital 
  414 Jefferson Avenue 
  Mahnomen, Minnesota 
   Farm Bill Listening Session 
  3:30 - 5:00 pm 
  Detroit Lakes City Hall 
  1025 Roosevelt Ave 
  Detroit Lakes, MN.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 