SENS. COLEMAN, KLOBUCHAR ISSUE STATEMENT ON EMERGENCY DECLARATION REGARDING THE 35W BRIDGE COLLAPSE
  Minnesota Senators Norm Coleman and Amy Klobuchar made the following statements today in response to President Bush's declaration of an emergency for the State of Minnesota as a result of I-35W bridge collapse:  
   "Today's emergency declaration will provide Minnesota officials with access to additional funding to aid the recovery efforts of the I-35W bridge disaster. With the emergency response costs for the collapse alone reaching over $8 million, along with the recent destruction caused by flooding in Southeast Minnesota, state resources are already being stretched to the limit. I am pleased the Administration recognizes the hardship and difficult challenges Minnesotans are facing in the wake of the bridge collapse. Going forward, I will continue working with federal, state, and local officials to cut any and all red tape to ensure the rebuilding process can progress unhindered," said Coleman. 
   "As Minnesotans, we remain focused on the collapse of the I-35W bridge and its impact, and we will always remember the victims the disaster took with it. I am pleased the Administration recognizes the work we have ahead of us and has granted this emergency declaration. Our state has endured many hardships in recent weeks, from the bridge collapse to the flooding in southeastern Minnesota. This declaration represents an important step forward with access to additional federal funds. I will continue to work with officials at every level to marshal all available resources for recovery and rebuilding," said Klobuchar. 
   The emergency declaration today authorizes the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to coordinate all disaster relief efforts which have the purpose of alleviating the hardship and suffering caused by the emergency on the local population, and to provide appropriate assistance for required emergency measures to save lives and to protect property and public health and safety in Hennepin County. 
   Specifically, FEMA is authorized to identify, mobilize, and provide at its discretion, equipment and resources necessary to alleviate the impacts of the emergency. Emergency protective measures will be provided at 75 percent Federal funding.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 