SEN. COLEMAN APPOINTS NEW PERMANENT SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS STAFF DIRECTOR
  Sen. Norm Coleman, Chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), announced today that Mark L. Greenblatt will assume the position of PSI Chief Counsel and Staff Director. Since 2003, Greenblatt has served the Subcommittee as Counsel and Deputy Chief Counsel and has played a major role in the historic investigation into allegations of abuse and misconduct related to the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program. Mr. Greenblatt has also been instrumental in the Subcommittee's numerous oversight investigations, which have identified more than $12 billion in waste, fraud, abuse and potential taxpayer savings.  
   "For the past three years, Mark Greenblatt's investigative skills were essential to unearthing billions of dollars in government waste and exposing the scope and size of the U.N. Oil-for-Food scandal. His leadership, experience, and ability to work across party lines will be vital to the Subcommittee as we move forward," said Coleman. "I have the utmost confidence in Mark and I believe he is the right person to build upon PSI's investigative and oversight successes." 
   "I am truly humbled that Senator Coleman has asked me to become Chief Counsel and Staff Director to the Minority," said Greenblatt. "Working for Senator Coleman and with the exceptional team at the Subcommittee for past three years has been the most incredible experience for me and I am eager to continue in my new capacity. I also look forward to working with Senator Levin's staff and continuing our bipartisan effort to expose waste, fraud and abuse in government operations." 
   During Mark's tenure with PSI, he testified at two Subcommittee hearings to present evidence illustrating how the Hussein regime abused the Oil-for-Food Program and expose corrupt oil deals involving several European officials. He also led a Subcommittee investigation into abuses related to tax credits for alternative fuels.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 