SEN. COLEMAN, REP. KIRK CALL ON U.N. AMBASSADOR BOLTON TO OPPOSE TWO-YEAR U.N BUDGET UNLESS SIGNIFICANT REFORMS ARE IMPLEMENTED
  In separate letters to United States Ambassador to the United Nations (U.N.) John Bolton, Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Rep. Mark Kirk (R-IL) called on Ambassador Bolton to oppose the two-year U.N. budget unless significant reforms are implemented. The letters, originated by Sen. Coleman and Rep. Kirk, and signed by 10 senators and 20 members of the House, were sent as the U.N. prepares to vote on its biennial budget in the coming days.  
   "The U.N. must undergo meaningful reform, and this letter is designed to show Congress's strong support for Ambassador Bolton's position that the U.N. must not finalize a two-year budget unless essential reforms are included," said Coleman. "Due to the fact that the U.N. has been so slow to act, meaningful reform has not kept pace with the budget process. My fear is that the UN will enact a budget that locks in the status quo for another two years, which would be disastrous. I'm pleased to work with Congressman Kirk on this issue, and I applaud his leadership in this area." 
   "Americans are the number one donors to the U.N. Without tangible reforms, the U.N. will not shake its image as an increasingly corrupt institution," Congressman Kirk said. "Congress is looking to see bribery reforms, prosecution of peacekeepers who harm refugees and a change to an agenda that appears to be anti-semitic." 
   Over the past year and a half, Senator Coleman, Chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), has led an extensive investigation that has exposed widespread mismanagement and corruption at the United Nations. As a result, and in an effort to restore the U.N.'s credibility and efficacy, Senators Coleman and Richard Lugar (R-IN) introduced the Coleman-Lugar Bill in July, which is aimed at bringing greater transparency, accountability, and oversight to the U.N, legislation that is supported by Ambassador Bolton and the Administration. 
   Earlier this month Rep. Kirk, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee that funds America's U.N. dues, received overwhelming support on a resolution he sponsored calling on the UN General Assembly to stop castigating Israel and support a more balanced approach to reaching Mideast peace. This year, Kirk spearheaded a letter-writing campaign by Members of Congress to more than a dozen member states of the United Nations, asking their UN Ambassadors to stop voting for anti-Israel and anti-American resolutions in the General Assembly. He is also drafting legislation to begin drawing down contributions to the UN Relief and Works Agency in the wake of Israel's disengagement from the Gaza Strip. 
   In the letters, Sen. Coleman and Rep. Kirk urged such reforms as the establishment of a credible Human Rights Council, fair treatment of Israel, enhanced resources and autonomy for the Office of Independent Oversight Services (OIOS), a review of duplicative or outdated UN mandates, and an independent ethics office.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 