SEN. COLEMAN TO HOLD MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT INFORMATION SESSION IN BEMIDJI
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that on Wednesday, December 28th, he will be hosting a forum in the city of Bemidji to discuss the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit program. The new program, which is currently open for enrollment, will go into effect on January 1st, 2006 and will allow more than 40 million seniors and people with disabilities to sign up for a new plan that will help pay for a wide array of prescription medication costs. As a whole, the program makes a significant investment to provide greater overall benefits - including not only prescription drug coverage, but better preventative care and improved access to doctors and medical care.  
   "The new Prescription Drug Benefit Program represents the most sweeping change in Medicare since the program's inception and it will be a significant resource for millions of Americans," said Coleman. "This new law puts senior citizens and other beneficiaries in the driver's seat when it comes to their Medicare coverage and I am hopeful that many Minnesotans will take advantage of this program. At the same time, I recognize that some confusion exists regarding enrollment and options within the program. I am looking forward to Wednesday's session to hopefully help shed light on the details of this new and critically important program." 
   Currently, the average senior citizen spends about $1,460 on prescription drug costs each year. The new drug benefit, typically referred to as "Medicare Part D", is aimed at covering a significant portion of prescription drug costs not currently covered under Medicare and will include a monthly premium and deductible. Enrollment in the program is entirely voluntary, with everyone currently enrolled in Medicare eligible for the new drug benefit. In Minnesota alone, there are an estimated 700,000 eligible residents for the new program. 
   Wednesday's session will consist of a number of panelists, including representatives from the Social Security Administration, the Senior LinkAge Line, the American Association of Retired Persons, as well as a local pharmacist. 
   The event is open to the public, with current and future Medicare enrollees encouraged to attend. Media availability will follow the event. 
   Details on the day's schedule are as follows: 
   SCHEDULE--WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 28, 2005 
   Time: 10:30 - 11:30p.m. 
   City: Bemidji 
   Location: Beltrami Electric Cooperative Inc. 
  Community Room 
  4111 Technology DR NW 
  Bemidji, MN 56601
 
 