SEN. COLEMAN VOTES IN FAVOR OF DEFICIT REDUCTION ACT OF 2005
  Sen. Norm Coleman today cast his vote in favor of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (S.1932) that will reduce government spending by nearly $40 billion over the next five years while still protecting key priorities Coleman championed for Minnesota, including the elimination of proposed reductions to sugar producers, an additional $1 billion in funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), a two-year extension of the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC), a scaling down of proposed Medicaid reductions, and protection for the federal Food Stamp Program. As a whole, the bill will cut mandatory spending by $39.7 billion over the next five years. In addition, the final version of the bill does not include a previously authorized provision that would have allowed drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), which led to Coleman's original opposition to the package. The bill passed by a close vote of 51-50, with the tie-breaking vote cast by Vice President Cheney.  
   "For me, this vote was about honoring my commitment to protect Minnesota's priorities," said Coleman. "I could not support a bill that singled-out sugar for cuts, required cuts to food stamps, or contained deeps reductions proposed by the House on certain programs, such as Medicaid. I am pleased to report that after last-minute negotiations to restore sugar, this bill keeps in tact my top considerations for Minnesota's future such as no drilling in ANWR, includes an additional $1 billion in funding for LIHEAP, no reductions for food stamps, and protects sugar producers from being singled-out for cuts. This bill, while by no means a perfect piece of legislation, is an important step to get the federal government back on a path to fiscal responsibility while safeguarding the interests of those least well-off." 
   Coleman successfully worked to ensure the deficit reduction package treats Minnesota's farmers fairly. He worked to include an extension of the MILC program, a key safety net for Minnesota dairy farmers that deserved to be extended to 2007 like other commodity programs. Coleman also fought for fair treatment of sugar when he found out that there would be no cuts to commodity programs except for sugar. Accordingly, on Saturday, Coleman also fended off $28 million worth of commodity cuts targeted solely at sugar growers by negotiating a deal with Senate Leadership and the White House to eliminate the forfeiture penalty that would have been levied on sugar producers in 2006 in an earlier agreement reached in the Senate-House Conference report. 
   Since February, Coleman has fought to maintain a number of key provisions for Minnesotans. Throughout the past several months, Coleman has led efforts to prevent the elimination of the Community Development Block Grant program (CDBG) that provides critical economic development funding for Minnesota cities, while also working to drastically reduce $60 billion in proposed cuts to Medicaid to just $4.8 billion. The final package also includes $1 billion dollar in increased funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), funding Coleman has fought for as winter heating costs increase. 
   "I am extremely proud that after months of hard-fought negotiations, I have been able to significantly reduce the disproportionate reductions aimed at Minnesota farmers and Medicaid recipients," said Coleman. "These deep reductions would have severely impacted far too many Minnesotans, and I believed all along we could maintain a fiscally responsible budget without the drastic reductions originally proposed by the Administration. I am also pleased that we have been able to provide additional funding for low-income families who would otherwise face the impossible choice of feeding their children or heating their homes."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 