SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES PASSPORT OFFICE TO OPEN IN TWIN CITIES
  Senator Norm Coleman announced today that the State Department will be opening a new walk-in passport processing office in the Twin Cities area, a direct response to his call for a regional passport center following the massive backlog of passport applications last year. The office is expected to open near the end of 2008 or beginning of 2009, and its precise location has not yet been finalized. 
   "I am thrilled that the State Department will be opening a passport office in the Twin Cities," Coleman said. "Last year, I urged Secretary Rice and the State Department to consider Minnesota for a passport office, and I am delighted that they agree on the merit of placing an office here. As we saw last year, Americans' demand for passports has increased dramatically - my office alone helped over 3000 constituents whose vacations, business trips or honeymoons were in jeopardy because they could not get passports in time. The new office will mean Minnesotans will no longer need to drive to Chicago or Denver for same-day passport services. This announcement is particularly timely as the Administration proceeds with the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative and new document requirements for travel to Canada."  
   The office, technically called a Gateway Passport Agency, will have the capability to serve up to 650 customers per day and will offer same-day, next-day and three-day passport issuance. Currently, individuals requiring same-day services have to travel hundreds of miles to Chicago or Denver. Walk-in services are available only to individuals traveling within two weeks who are in need of a passport. Individuals with travel plans further in advance must submit passport applications by mail and wait several weeks to receive them. 
   The new office will help avoid situations like the one faced last spring by Eagan resident Karen Marks, who scheduled a honeymoon trip to Ireland but was forced to drive to Chicago for an expedited passport when hers was delayed. When she got to Chicago, she was told the passport was on its way in the mail, so she turned around and drove back to Eagan. Unfortunately, there was a problem with the mailing time, so she had to fly back to Chicago, get a passport there and pay for a new flight. When they finally made it to Ireland for their honeymoon, the Marks' had spent well over $1,000 just to get her passport in time. 
   "We just need more offices to handle these cases," Karen Marks said. "We had to spend $800 alone to change my flight when my passport got delayed, and I still barely made that plane. A local office would have let us avoid all of the problems we faced. I am relieved to know we'll have a local option for anyone else who goes through this." 
   In June, 2007, Coleman sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice requesting the creation of a local passport processing office in Minnesota, citing the new requirements for passports and passport cards for border crossings under the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative. Coleman's letter also noted that an estimated 13,000 international flights serving over one million people each year originate at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. As a border state, Minnesota also has some two million land border crossings occur at the International Falls, MN port of entry alone. 
   In 2007, Coleman's office helped Minnesotans with more than 3,000 passports, due to a record backlog in processing passports in response to the new WHTI regulations for travel between the U.S. and Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 