SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES LANDMARK LEGISLATION TO REVERSE DECLINE IN FOREIGN STUDENT ACCESS TO U.S. EDUCATION
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that he has introduced The International Student and Scholar Access Act (ISSAA), a proposal aimed at reversing the decline in foreign access to the U.S. higher education system. Foreign students attending college in the United States bring in an estimated $12 billion to the U.S. economy every year. Total international applications to U.S. graduate schools fell 32 percent from fall 2003 to fall 2004, and 54 percent of all English as a Second Language (ESL) programs have reported declines in overall applications at a time where countries such as the U.K., Canada, and Australia are experiencing increases. 
   "I meet too many students who want to study at Minnesota's fine colleges and universities and have the intellectual capabilities to excel, the scholarships or other resources to finance their education, but because they simply don't have spouses or homes in their native lands, they are rejected for student visas," Coleman said. "This criteria needs to change, as I believe we do ourselves, both economically and diplomatically, a major disservice if we close off our country to qualified and legitimate foreign students. Welcoming students from foreign nations into our universities and colleges allows us the same unique and important opportunity we have with high school international student exchange programs - to share a glimpse of American culture with foreign students and get a glimpse of theirs as well."
   The International Student and Scholar Access Act changes the way visa-applications are processed, redefines criteria by which a student is accepted and improves communication and shared information between government agencies.
   The International Student and Scholar Access Act sets goals for more timeliness and certainty in the visa process, urging the U.S. State Department to use common-sense discretion on personal appearance requirements. Currently, student visa applicants are required to make personal appearances at a U.S. Embassy to obtain a visa, which poses a difficult and sometimes impossible burden for poorer students in rural areas. These visits often last for only a few minutes. It also calls for interoperable databases and computer systems between the Department of State and the FBI in order to address any potential for breakdown in communication and avoid any lapses in identifying possible security risks.
   "September 11th reminds us that we must be absolutely vigilant in making sure visitors to our country are here for legitimate and peaceful purposes," said Coleman. "I strongly defend the tougher measures that we've already implemented, such as increased scrutiny of visa applicants by checking students against a list of terrorists at the inter-agency Terrorists Screening Center and the monitoring of foreign students while they are in the U.S. These are measures mandated by the world we live in today. I think we need to sharpen our anti-terrorism tools so that we can once again open the doors for foreign students to study at our universities and colleges, simply the best in the world, while at the same time allowing us to focus more time and energy on those that pose a real risk."
   A central component of Coleman's legislation sets more realistic standards for visa evaluations by changing a problematic criterion for admittance. Consular officers would no longer have to determine an applicant's desire to return to their home country since this is often difficult to prove and evaluate for students not sufficiently well-established in their societies. Instead, if a student can demonstrate intent and sufficient financial resources to complete their program of study, they would be deemed qualified for admittance to the United States.
   The idea for Coleman's legislation was inspired in part from the difficulty Humphrey Tusimiire, a brilliant and qualified student from Uganda, had in obtaining a student visa to study at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota. Although he had been accepted to study at the University of St. Thomas, awarded a full scholarship, and had completed the necessary paperwork, he was denied a student visa twice since he could not "prove" his plans to return to his home country because he has no spouse or strong familial connections in Uganda. It took Coleman's personal intervention get Tusimiire a student visa. He is now a student at St. Thomas and the Minnesota Senator personally welcomed him to Minnesota at his St. Paul office last March.
   "The opportunity [to study in the U.S.] presented itself, and I still couldn't take it," Tusimiire said. "I had to wait. I had all of the documentation; I had my scholarship and a place to study. I had more than I needed. But I still needed the Senator to help me. It didn't make sense."
   "Bureaucracy should not be getting in the way of students like Humphrey trying to study in the United States," Coleman said. "He is a fine young man and the kind of student our universities and colleges should be welcoming with open arms. We cannot allow red tape get in the way." 
   Coleman's legislation also calls for the Departments of State, Commerce Education and Homeland Security to develop a strategic plan to attract foreign students to study in the United States, similar to the strategies of implemented by the U.K., Canada, and Australia, in bringing these students back to American colleges and universities. This might include international ad campaigns and increased innovative and centralized web-based resources, among other options.
   "In addition to serving as an invaluable diplomatic tool, foreign study in the U.S. pumps $12 billion into our economy," Coleman said. "We cannot afford to continue to watch this sector of our economy diminish and need to take proactive measures now to bring it back; this is also about jobs. And, by bringing in qualified foreign students and the investment dollars that come with them, we also help contain the cost of higher education for American students studying at home."
 
 