SEN. COLEMAN SECURES FUNDING FOR DULUTH AIR NATIONAL GUARD BASE IN FY06 MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS
  Sen. Norm Coleman praised today's passage in the Senate Appropriations Committee of the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill that provides $151.7 billion in appropriations for military construction projects and Department of Veterans Affairs programs. This bill allocates $81 billion for military construction activities, a $5.1 billion increase from last year, in order to build facilities, including medical, for those currently on Active Duty, and in the Guard and Reserves. Construction appropriations will also help address housing needs for military family housing by allocating funds for construction, improvements and maintenance costs. The bill also includes $70.7 billion to fund the entire Department of Veterans Affairs, including $23.3 billion for veterans' medical services and research, along with grants to help fund state extended care facilities for the nation's veterans. Additionally, the Senator announced that as part of today's appropriations package, $6.5 million in funding was secured for the 148th Air National Guard Base at Duluth International Airport to construct a joint FAA/Air National Guard Fire Station Facility.  
   "We need to make certain that our military men and women and our veterans receive what they need and what they have earned, and I think this legislation moves the ball forward," said Coleman. 
   The current facility for the Duluth National Guard Air Base in Duluth does not meet FAA requirements, and the FY2006 funding will be used to construct a new joint FAA/Air National Guard Fire Station Facility. When completed, this addition will include a control room, training and administrative space, and the capacity to operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The upgraded facility will not only strengthen the National Guard base, but will also benefit the civilian airport. 
   "I'm pleased the 148th will receive these funds to build a facility that will improve the overall safety of the base, as well as the safety at Duluth International Airport," Coleman continued. "This base is a key national security asset and vital to the economic stability of the region-our continued investment in it speaks to its importance."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 