SEN. COLEMAN SEEKS TO MAKE COLLEGE MORE AFFORDABLE BY REDUCING TEXTBOOK PRICES
  In an effort to curb the rising costs of a college education, Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) today joined Sen. Richard Durbin (D- IL) in introducing the College Textbook Affordability Act of 2007. The legislation aims to help students, faculty, and publishers work together to decrease the cost of college textbooks for students, while protecting the academic freedom of faculty to provide high quality course materials for students.  
   "Over the past two decades, textbooks prices have nearly tripled to an average of almost $900 a year," said Coleman. "This legislation helps students purchase more affordable textbooks by making sure they have complete information about course requirements and enabling them to purchase what they need without costly supplemental materials. It will also help educators make informed choices about less costly textbook options. A college education is the key to succeeding in today's increasingly competitive society. While I support additional efforts to address the high cost of college, this legislation will help to address one expense that students have to budget for each semester." 
   According to the Government Accountability Office, textbook costs as a percentage of tuition and fees represent 72 percent at 2-year public institutions, 26 percent at 4-year public institutions, and 8 percent at 4-year private institutions. The GAO also found the primary factors contributing to increased textbook prices are the investments publishers have made to develop and produce supplemental materials such as CDs and web-based tutorials and more frequent revisions to textbooks by the publishers. 
   "I want to thank the Minnesota State Universities Student Association and the Minnesota State Colleges Student Association for helping bring attention to this increasing financial burden," Coleman added. 
   Specifically, the legislation will: 
   Require publishers to provide professors with the price of a textbook in writing as well as the history of revisions for a textbook or supplemental material and whether the textbook or supplement are available in an alternative format. 
   Require textbooks and supplemental materials sold as a bundle also be sold separately. 
   Require colleges and universities to include the international standard book number, or ISBN number and retail price of all required and optional materials in the course schedule for the upcoming term. Also, when asked, schools must provide bookstores with access to the course schedule, ISBN number of course material, the maximum student enrollment for a course, and the current enrollment numbers.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 