SEN. COLEMAN STRIKES BIPARTISAN CLIMATE CHANGE AGREEMENT
  After securing an agreement aimed at protecting the U.S. economy from action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) announced today that he will co-sponsor the Climate Stewardship and Innovation Act (S.280). The legislation, authored by Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-CT), will reduce the nation's greenhouse gas emissions to prevent catastrophic global warming, and cap greenhouse-gas emissions of the electric power, industrial, transportation, and commercial sectors of the economy at year 2004 levels by 2012 before lowering the cap gradually to achieve 1/3 of 2004 emissions by 2050. In turn, Sen. Lieberman committed to work to ensure the Environment and Public Works Committee hears testimony on Coleman's clean energy portfolio standard proposal and will produce climate change legislation that addresses Coleman's concerns related to jobs and poverty.  
 These concerns are articulated in a Coleman-Lieberman Senate Resolution, which states that any comprehensive, mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reduction program enacted by Congress should include a mandatory Congressional review if other countries are not taking comparable climate change action. A review would also be triggered, if the unemployment and poverty rates are increasing due to a mandatory greenhouse gas reduction program. Additionally, the Resolution builds from Coleman's clean energy portfolio standard proposal, by rewarding utilities that increase the percentage of electricity they produce from clean energy sources. 
   "It is time for Congress to act on the issue of climate change - this is not a problem we can leave to our children to solve. We are a nation of innovators, and Congress must provide the strong market signals necessary to push forward the technologies needed to stabilize our atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases. At the same time, climate change legislation must not put America's workers at a competitive disadvantage with the rest of the world or send manufacturing jobs overseas. And, a greenhouse gas reduction program must not put Americans out of work or drive more hardworking families into poverty. We must carefully consider the effect any that legislation will have on those struggling to get by," said Coleman. 
   "Global warming is the defining issue of the 21st century, and I am tremendously pleased that Sen. Coleman is going to be a leader in advancing solutions. I am particularly pleased that Sen. Coleman will be a champion for the poor, and we share his goals of making sure that any climate bill is fair and protects the most vulnerable among us. The Climate Stewardship and Innovation Act is a bipartisan plan that combines the best of what scientists tell us is needed to solve global warming, with the best of what industry tells us is the most cost-effective way to get it done," said Larry J. Schweiger, President and CEO of the National Wildlife Federation 
   "I have long championed providing utilities incentives to increase the percentage of their electricity sales they generate using clean energy sources like renewables, nuclear, and clean coal with carbon capture technology. From biofuels and plug-in hybrid vehicles to nuclear energy and carbon sequestration for coal plants, these technologies are at our fingertips. Sen. Lieberman and I are working together to find realistic solutions," Coleman added. 
   Of the Coleman-Lieberman agreement, Senator Lieberman stated, "I am honored to have earned the trust and support of Senator Coleman on this crucial issue, and I will work to ensure that he is not disappointed. In particular, I will work to ensure that the bill we report from the Environment and Public Works Committee lives up to the principles set forth in the resolution that Senator Coleman has introduced today with my co-sponsorship." Lieberman continued that, "Before we vote on that legislation in the committee, we will be having additional hearings in the subcommittee that I am honored to lead with my friend, Senator John Warner. I will ensure that one of those hearings includes a witness who can educate the committee on Senator Coleman's proposal for a Clean Energy Portfolio Standard. I believe his idea is worthy of serious consideration, and I certainly am eager to explore ways to further encourage electric power producers to increase their use of advanced technologies that can provide reliable, affordable base-load electricity without injecting more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere." 
   S.280 would also implement a cap and trade program that would require each firm to turn in an emissions allowance to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for each ton of greenhouse gas it emits. Total allowances are limited to the number of tons allowed by the cap. The allowances are to be allocated by the EPA and the Commerce Department to certain firms for free, in addition to being sold by the government. These allowances can then be traded through a government provided greenhouse gas database, which would contain an inventory of emissions and a registry of reductions. The proceeds of the allowances sold would go to help those hurt by energy costs and to assist disproportionately affected workers. It would also fund large-scale technology deployment, including a construction loan program for three advanced coal power plants with carbon sequestration, three nuclear reactors, and three large scale biofuels facilities that maximize cellulosic biomass use.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 