SEN. COLEMAN HELPS NORTHSTAR CLEAR FINAL HURDLE TO OBTAIN FEDERAL FUNDING FROM FTA
  In response to a letter sent on Thursday by Sen. Norm Coleman, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) today has informed Sen. Coleman that the FTA will formally invite Minnesota's Northstar Rail Project (Northstar) to submit its official application for federal funding. In a letter, the FTA expressed its support for the Northstar project, and officially invites the project to apply for a Full Funding Grant Agreement. By clearing this major federal hurdle, the Northstar project will now move to the final stage of the Federal Transit Administration funding process.  
   "With such a brief construction season in Minnesota, it critical that we keep the Northstar project moving forward," said Coleman. "Chairman Oberstar and I have been working to secure this commitment for sometime now, and I am pleased the FTA has provided Northstar with the necessary support to begin construction this summer. This is an important project for Minnesotans that will bring more jobs, alleviate traffic congestion, save gas, contribute to cleaner air and improve the commute and quality of life for residents in this fast-growing corridor." 
   "In the 21st Century, we must refocus our attention from moving cars and trucks to moving people. The Northstar project is a key component in moving people in a way that saves time, energy, and money. I am very pleased to see this project move forward. This is a great moment for transportation in Minnesota," said Jim Oberstar, Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. 
   Last year, Senator Coleman secured language in the Department of Defense Authorization conference report to ensure that Northstar would not be penalized by a FTA rule change that altered the final standard applied to federal transit projects midway through Northstar's federal approval process. 
   Northstar represents a critical element of the region's transportation infrastructure, and it will result in significant benefits to the region's economy, citizens and businesses. The project is expected to save commuters nearly 900,000 hours annually compared to the next best option of express bus service. Moreover, developers are planning an estimated $2 to $3 billion in economic development oriented around the proposed stations. By taking an estimated 2,600 cars off the road each day, Northstar will save nearly 5,000 gallons of gas each day and over one million gallons each year. This will result in a significant reduction in air pollutant emissions annually.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 