SEN. COLEMAN TO VISIT EAST GRAND FORKS, WARREN, RED LAKE FALLS, THIEF RIVER FALLS ON NOV. 27
  Sen. Norm Coleman will visit the communities of East Grand Forks, Warren, Thief River Falls and Red Lake Falls on Monday, Nov. 27th as part of a visit to the northwestern Minnesota counties of Polk, Marshall, Pennington and Red Lake. Coleman, in the process of visiting each county in the state during 2006, will meet with local leaders to discuss issues of particular importance to their communities - specifically focusing on agricultural, renewable energy and healthcare issues. Coleman has visited 75 of Minnesota's 87 counties so far this year.  
   "I am anxious for Monday's visit in order to hear firsthand about the specific concerns and ideas of folks in this important part of the state" said Coleman. "On issues from renewable energy to rural healthcare to transportation, my visits to counties across the state this year have already proven immensely valuable to me. As we continue fighting for disaster assistance, and also look ahead to a new Farm Bill next year, this visit will allow me to continue working directly with folks in the Red River Valley on these and other issues that directly affect them." 
   Coleman will begin Friday's visit with a meeting in East Grand Forks with the Mayor and Chamber of Commerce President, followed by a tour of North Valley Health Center in Warren. From there, Coleman will travel to Red Lake Falls where he will meet with local leaders to discuss agriculture, renewable energy and other local issues, before wrapping up with a business visit to Digi-Key in Thief River Falls. 
   Details of the day's events are as follows. Local media are welcome to attend. 
   Time 
  Event 
  Location 
   8:30 - 9:00 a.m. 
  Meeting with local leaders 
  Season's Family Restaurant 
  303 3rd Ave NE 
  East Grand Forks 
   11:10 a.m.-12:10 p.m. 
  Tour: North Valley Health Center 
  109 S. Minnesota Street 
  Warren 
   1:30 - 2:30 p.m. 
  Lunch with Minnesota Barley Growers and Local Leaders 
  DiMaggio Joe's Sports Café 
  Park Place Mall 
  Highway 32 South 
  Red Lake Falls 
   3:00 - 4:00 p.m. 
  Business Visit: Digi-Key 
  701 Brooks Avenue South, 
  Thief River Falls.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 