SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES RESOLUTION URGING JAPAN TO HONOR ITS COMMITMENTS UNDER MOSS TRADE AGREEMENT
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman Friday reintroduced a resolution that calls on Japan to reject proposed policies that would unfairly inhibit U.S. medical technology imports. The resolution expresses concerns about discriminatory practices and systematic barriers which limit the U.S. medical device industry introduce new technologies into the Japanese healthcare system.  
   Japan has adopted a foreign reference pricing scheme to reduce reimbursement prices in Japan's healthcare system. This foreign reference pricing policy is an arbitrary price control mechanism that ignores the very high costs of bringing advanced technologies to the Japanese market. This policy, coupled with numerous cumbersome regulations, has had a direct negative impact on the U.S. trade balance with Japan. 
   "Japan's decision to use this type of pricing policy does not abide by the principles of free and fair trade and has real consequences for Minnesota's Medical Alley," said Coleman. "Employment by the medical devices industry in Minnesota increased 33 percent from 1991 to 2001 creating over 23,000 jobs. These are high paying jobs, with salaries that average more than $56,000 per employee. This resolution is a first step in getting Japan to comply with fair trade practices and protects a vital industry important to both countries." 
   Currently, Japan is in violation of the 1986 Market-Oriented Sector-Selective (MOSS) Agreement on Medical Equipment and Pharmaceuticals, which exempts certain products from significant cuts if the Japanese government has already reduced reimbursement for the product category by 15 percent or more over the prior two biennial pricing cycles. Advanced technologies, predominantly made by U.S. manufacturers, have already been repeatedly targeted in recent substantial cuts. 
   Minnesota is home to more than 8,000 medical-related companies, employing approximately 12 percent of the workforce, and ranks second only to California in device companies. Japan is one of the largest markets for the over 520 FDA approved medical device suppliers currently in Minnesota. In 2002, Minnesota exported nearly $2 billion in advanced medical equipment.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 