SEN. COLEMAN'S OFFICE TO DISCUSS WINTER HEATING COSTS IN SOUTHWEST MINNESOTA
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that Gerald Woodley, regional representative for Coleman's St. Paul Office, will be visiting energy distribution agencies in five southwestern Minnesota communities on October 24th and 25th, 2005 to meet with local officials and other stakeholders to discuss energy assistance programs and conservation in light of the expected rise in winter heating costs. Woodley will be joined on Monday by Dorene Larson, Casework Manger and on Tuesday by Emily Kluver, Caseworker for Coleman. During the upcoming heating season, on average, households heating primarily with natural gas are expected to spend about $350 (48 percent) more this winter in fuel expenditures. Households heating primarily with heating oil can expect to pay, on average, $378 (32 percent) more this winter.  
   "I'm very concerned about the effect of high energy costs on Minnesotans as we head into winter," said Coleman. "Home heating costs - especially in the Midwest - are expected to rise dramatically over the next few months and this will pose a great challenge to many Minnesotans. I am anxious to have Gerald in the field to let Minnesotans know what I am doing to help address these costs, inform them of available assistance programs, and, most importantly, listen to concerns and ideas to help address this problem." 
   "I am looking forward to getting out into the communities to discuss winter heating costs," said Woodley. "Senator Coleman has continuously fought for increased energy assistance through programs such as the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program and it is important to let Minnesotans know we are continuing that fight. As a fellow resident of Southwest Minnesota, I am especially eager to let them know about the energy assistance programs that are available and listen to their specific concerns. 
   "We are very appreciative that Senator Coleman continues to work hard in Washington to provide heating assistance to low income Minnesotans," said Tarryl Clark, Executive Director of Minnesota Community Action Association, a group that provides energy assistance programs in Minnesota. "Our agencies provide a valuable resource to many Minnesotans and I am pleased that Senator Coleman continues to work with us. By sending his staff around the state, he will bring increased awareness to this very important issue." 
   Over the past year, Coleman has led numerous efforts to provide emergency funding for heating costs through the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Most recently, this week Coleman joined a bipartisan coalition of Senators in offering an amendment to the Labor, HHS, Education Appropriations bill to provide $2.9 billion in emergency funding for LIHEAP in addition to the $2.2 billion in regular funding for the program in the bill. Prior to that, he joined colleagues in asking the Senate Appropriations Committee to include an additional $1.276 billion in emergency LIHEAP funds in a comprehensive supplemental appropriations bill and fought to include emergency LIHEAP funding to the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development and Defense Appropriations bills. These requests were in addition to the $3 billion in regular funds Coleman originally requested in May. 
   Coleman also recently joined colleagues in signing a letter to the Energy and Water Appropriations Conference Committee that provides additional funding for two important conservation programs, the State Energy Program (SEP), and the Weatherization Assistance Program (WAP). 
   Woodley's visit will include stops at five distribution agencies in Worthington, Marshall, Olivia, Willmar and Montevideo. 
   SCHEDULE--Monday, October 24th, 2005 
   Time & Location 
   10:00 a.m. 
  Southwestern MN Opportunity 
  1106 3rd Avenue, Worthington 
   2:00 p.m. 
  Western Community Action 
  400 West Main, Marshall 
   SCHEDULE--Tuesday, October 25th, 2005 
   Time & Location:
   * 10:00 a.m. 
  Renville County Energy Assistance Program 
  301 South 7th Street, Olivia 
   * 1:00 p.m. 
  Heartland Community Action Agency 
  409 19th Ave SW, Willmar 
   * 3:30 p.m. 
  Prairie Five Community Action Council 
  7th and Washington, Montevideo.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 