SEN. COLEMAN REPRESENTS SENATE AS DELEGATE TO 61ST U.N. GENERAL ASSEMBLY MEETING
  Sen. Norm Coleman returned last night from a three-day visit to the 61st session of the United Nations General Assembly where he served as one of two official Congressional Delegates, participating in a series of high-level meetings on issues ranging from UN reform to Darfur to the Middle East. Coleman, whose appointment will last for one year, hopes to return to the UN later in the year to continue his efforts.  
   "I was honored to serve as a Congressional Delegate to the United Nations 61st General Assembly," Coleman said. "In this post, I was able to bring the voice of Congress to the UN and convey our message on a number of important issues, in particular the need for UN reform and action on the situations in Darfur, Iran and Lebanon. I return from New York more convinced than ever of the need for the Senate to confirm John Bolton to be our Ambassador to the UN." 
   During his trip to the United Nations, Coleman attended a Security Council meeting on the crisis in Darfur and pushed for greater UN intervention, specifically calling a UN peacekeeping mission to replace the African Union troops in order to stop the genocide that has killed over 200,000 people. Recognizing the need to ensure broad international support, Coleman raised the issue of Darfur during his meeting with Chinese UN Ambassador Wang Guangya. 
   "The international community can no longer sit back and allow the Sudanese government to block the deployment of UN peacekeepers," said Coleman. "We need countries like China that have leverage with Khartoum to weigh in with President Bashir and ensure UN troops are able to deploy. Additionally, I am hopeful that this week's appointment of Andrew Natsios to be U.S. Special Envoy to Darfur will further galvanize U.S. and international pressure to stop the genocide in Darfur." 
   Senator Coleman also held bilateral meetings to urge UN members to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, and to ensure security in Lebanon and Israel. Senator Coleman met with the UN's Assistant Secretary General for Peacekeeping Operations Jane Hull Lute to discuss the challenges of UN peacekeeping in Lebanon, Darfur, and elsewhere. 
   "While the General Assembly has become little more than an anti-American debating society and the Security Council is often unable to act because of the Russian and Chinese vetoes, peacekeeping is one area in which the UN has much to contribute to global security. The U.S. cannot be the world's sole policeman, and through UN peacekeeping we are able to help stabilize countries in a multilateral and cost-effective fashion," said Coleman. "I had a good meeting with Ms. Lute, under whose impressive leadership UN peacekeepers have deployed to nine new missions in 36 months. She shared with me her assessment of the situation in Lebanon and I conveyed my concerns about the anti-Israel views of some troop contributors, insecurity along the Syria-Lebanon border, and the possible rearmament of Hezbollah." 
   Coleman also held meetings with General Assembly President Sheikha Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa, British UN Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry, Chilean Foreign Minister Alejandro Foxley, South Korean Foreign Minister Ban Ki-Moon, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Baram Saleh, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Zalmay Khalilzad, and others.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 