SEN. COLEMAN INVESTIGATION PROMPTS BANK TO RESCIND LOAN SURCHARGE, SAVING LOW-INCOME AMERICANS MILLIONS NEXT YEAR
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) has announced that hundreds of thousands of low-income Americans will save more than an estimated $5 million in surcharges related to speedy but costly tax-refund loans, as a result of a voluntary agreement reached as part of his Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI) probe into expensive costs of tax-related bank products offered by tax preparers. At a field hearing held on April 15, 2005 in St. Paul, Minnesota, the nation's second largest tax preparation firm, Jackson Hewitt and its partner bank, Santa Barbara Bank and Trust, agreed to eliminate the $10 surcharge that was added in fees above the other costs to its clients who qualified for an Earned Income Tax Credits (EITC) and obtained a Refund Anticipation Loan (RAL). In 2004, some 550,000 low-income Jackson Hewitt customers who qualified for the EITC paid out more than $5.5 million due to the surcharge fee.  
   "In recent years, consumer interest groups have voiced their concerns about the high cost of tax-related financial products, and through my investigation and hearing, I wanted to seek remedies for low income families who cannot afford to wait for their federal tax refund,' said Coleman, Chair of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. "Eliminating the $10 surcharge was a big accomplishment. But, there are still concerns about the impact that high percentage rates on RALs have on those who opt for this product. There is also a clear and definitive need for a code of ethics that encompasses all return preparers and that would deter tax preparers from selling costly and unnecessary tax refund products to their clients-something has to be done to ensure the tax preparer has an obligation to represent the interest of the client above all else. These are some of the issues that I will bring to the table when I meet with IRS Commissioner Mark Everson on April 28th." 
   "I commend Sen. Coleman for shining a spotlight on the problems associated with tax refund anticipation loans issued to working families short on cash, including excessive fees, hidden conflicts of interest, and inadequate disclosure," said Sen.Levin. "I also welcome Jackson Hewitt's decision to stop imposing a $10 surcharge on clients applying for their Earned Income Tax Credit. More can and should be done to protect American workers from unfair practices that target their tax refunds." 
   "We applaud the Chairman's efforts...to establish a Code of Ethics guided by IRS Publication 1345 applicable to the tax preparation and tax-related financial products industry," said Gary P. Weinstein, Vice President, Legal and Government Affairs, Jackson Hewitt Tax Services, Inc. 
   RALs are bank loans that are brokered through tax-preparation businesses. They are marketed to tax payers who expect to receive a federal tax refund but who want their refund immediately. More expensive than refund anticipation checks and refund transfers, banks and tax-preparation preparers both charge fees for RALs, which are deducted from the refund loan before the taxpayer gets his or her money. Preparers offering refund loans made over $200 million last year from clients who opted for RALs and other bank products. Including tax preparer and bank charges, annual percentage rates range from 28% to 700% on RALs. 
   "What concerns me is that many of these bank loans on expected tax refunds exact a substantial cost. During my PSI hearing in Minnesota, I heard testimony from a single mother who paid 129 percent APR on an RAL, money that she needed to support herself and her 8 year-old. I also heard testimony that puts Minnesota's average at 234 percent interest rate on these loans. I am concerned by these expensive promotional activities that seem to be directed at low income individuals when there are less costly alternatives that tax preparers can offer. Most clients are not thoroughly familiar with the variety of options offered by tax preparers, and I believe it is essential to ensure that tax preparers offer clients their advice on the most appropriate refund method based on each client's circumstances." 
   Coleman's hearing also studied tax filing alternatives currently available to low-income and elderly individuals from the IRS, including the availability and accessibility for clients to utilize Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) sites, IRS tax assistance centers and free online filing through www.irs.gov. While the IRS has announced plans to close roughly one-third of its tax assistance centers nationwide, Coleman stressed that it was important to retain and transfer resource savings from these closures to the VITA program to ensure that tax services to those clients who most need these services will not be eroded. 
   The hearing entitled, "Tax Refund Products Can Be Costly," was comprised of three panels of witnesses including: Julie Burbach, H&R Block Client, Pat Eckelberry, Former H&R Block Tax Preparer, Nila Grant, Former Jackson Hewitt Tax Preparer, Beth Haney, Research and Outreach Director, Children's Defense Fund, Bonnie Esposito, Executive Director, AccountAbility Minnesota, Robert A. Weinberger, Vice President of Government Relations, H&R Block, Steven Barnett, Senior Vice President & General Counsel, Jackson Hewitt Tax Service
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 