SEN. COLEMAN MEETS WITH SOMALI COMMUNITY IN ST. PAUL SENATE OFFICE
  Sen. Norm Coleman, member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and Senate Subcommittee on African Affairs, today met with representatives of Minnesota's Somali community, which has named themselves the Survivors of the Somali Civil War in Minnesota, in order to hear concerns about U.S. support for a new Somali government formed in exile.  
   In addition to meeting with representatives of the Somali community, Sen. Coleman also met with Robert Flaten, former US Ambassador to Rwanda, Thomas Hanson, former Director of NATO and European Affairs of the Atlantic Council of the USA, and Carol Byrne, President of Minnesota International Center. The meeting was in response to an earlier request by the Somali community to meet with Sen. Coleman this past March. 
   "I'm pleased that I had the opportunity to meet with representatives of the Somali community today," said Coleman. "I applaud the Minnesota Somali community for their passion and determination to bring governance and liberation to their homeland. My heart goes out to the Somali community and those, especially the children, who have grown up without access to education, healthcare, and protection from violence in their homelands. I am cautiously hopeful about the new Somali government led by President Ahmed, but I am also realistic about the challenges this new government faces. I believe the US should be actively involved in helping the people of Somalia overcome 14 years of neglect and civil strife." 
   In 1991, Somali Dictator Major General Siad Barre was swept out of power by clan militias which then plunged the country into civil war and warlord domination, and since 1991 there have been 13 failed attempts at national reconciliation. Currently, the newly formed government in exile remains in Nairobi, debating the means to return to Somalia 
   Minnesota is home to the largest concentration of Somali in North America, estimated to be more than 60,000 by the Somali community.
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 