SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF FY06 DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION CONFERENCE REPORT
  Sen. Norm Coleman today praised the Senate's passage of the FY 2006 Department of Defense Authorization conference report (S.1042). This bill authorizes $441.5 billion in funding for our nation's military departments and agencies, including the National Guard and Reserve, and resources for the War on Terror. In addition, this bill authorizes supplemental funding of $50 billion to cover the cost of current military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. This bill also contains an amendment offered by Sen. Coleman that directs the Secretary of Defense to develop incentives for our nation's Military Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) students to study a foreign language, placing a special emphasis on Arabic and Chinese, in the interest of maintaining national security.  
   The FY06 DOD Authorization bill contains numerous measures aimed at improving the quality of life of military personnel and their families. Provisions include a 3.1 percent across-the-board pay raise for all military personnel, the extension of permanent Tricare health coverage to all members of the National Guard and Reserve, and income replacement payments for reservists experiencing extended active duty and frequent mobilization. 
   "I am pleased that we passed a bill that meets the needs of the brave men and women who defend our nation at home and abroad," said Coleman. "Extending the permanent Tricare health coverage to all members of the National Guard and Reserve is a great achievement and a necessity for our Minnesota families who have made sacrifices to serve our country. Additionally, I am pleased that our country took another giant step towards strengthening our national security with the inclusion of my foreign languages amendment. Encouraging our future soldiers to learn the languages of Arabic and Chinese not only bolsters our ability to communicate, but also strengthens our homeland security by enhancing our intelligence gathering capabilities." 
   Also included in the bill is an amendment authored by Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) to ensure that the U.S. remains true to its values when dealing with detainees from the War on Terror. The McCain-Graham amendment establishes the Army Field Manual as the standard for interrogations and prohibits the use of inhumane treatment for prisoners. 
   "This amendment is proof of the Senate's commitment to ensuring the U.S. maintains and adheres to the highest standards of ethical treatment for detainees," said Coleman. "This amendment is an important part of our efforts to successfully fight the War on Terror. It strengthens human rights and reinforces the great principles upon which America was built. I am proud to have voted for an amendment that upholds those values."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 