SENS. COLEMAN, ALLEN MAKE FRIENDLY WAGER ON MUSIC CITY BOWL
  Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and George Allen (R-VA) today made a friendly wager over the upcoming Music City Bowl game between the University of Minnesota Golden Gophers (7-4) and University of Virginia Cavaliers (6-5). Allen is wagering world-famous Virginia Peanuts while Coleman offered Minnesota's own Pearson Nut goodies and Nut rolls. The prize will be delivered to the victorious Senator's office following the game which takes place on December 30th at noon in Nashville, Tennessee.  
   "As much as I would like to share some delicious Minnesota treats with Senator Allen to ring in the New Year, I look forward to snacking on some tasty peanuts from the Old Dominion at the conclusion of a great college bowl season," said Coleman. "The Cavaliers have fielded yet another tough ACC squad under Coach Groh, but I'm afraid the two-headed running back monster of Laurence Maroney and Gary Russell will prevail in the Music City Bowl. In fact, some free, homegrown Virginia peanuts sound like sweet music to my ears - and I'd like to thank George in advance for them." 
   "The Minnesota Golden Gophers have had an outstanding season led by their dangerous running back Laurence Maroney," Allen said. "But my Wahoos have some potent weapons of their own led by Marques Hagans who is one of the toughest, quickest and most resourceful quarterbacks in the nation. All the so-called experts seem to be picking Minnesota to win this bowl game. I just hope my good friend Norm isn't upset when he has to hand over the spoils after UVA's victory. The Pearson Nut Goodies and Nut Rolls will be a perfect New Years treat to enjoy in the New Year as the Cavaliers slay the Gophers. As Hank, Jr. would belt out in Nashville, Coach Groh will have the Wahoos "ready for some football!" 
   The Music City Bowl will mark the first time these two teams have met. It's the third straight bowl game for Minnesota and the sixth in seven years. The Gophers were winners over Arkansas in the 2002 Music City Bowl. For Virginia, this marks the fourth straight bowl game and their first trip to Nashville. Both of the teams enter the game looking to avenge late-season losses. 
   Allen played quarterback for the Cavaliers in the early 1970s.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 