SEN. COLEMAN SECURES PASSAGE OF TORTURE RELIEF REAUTHORIZATION IN CONGRESS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that the Torture Victims Relief Reauthorization Act of 2005 passed the Congress last night and will make its way to the President's desk. Once signed into the law, the Torture Victims Relief Act will take effect immediately. Sen. Coleman, who had authored the Senate companion bill, announced the funding will authorize $90 million over the next two years for both domestic and foreign treatment centers for victims of torture.  
   "Last night's passage of the Torture Victims Reauthorization Act bill will ensure that thousands of victims of repressive regimes will continue to receive the help and hope they need to recover from the devastating effects of torture," said Coleman. "I am committed to do all I can to help alleviate suffering for those who have gone through unthinkable acts of violence. I want to applaud the work done by Representative Chris Smith, my counterpart in the U.S. House, to make sure this important legislation saw the light of passage." 
   Included in the overall funding authorization for relief is $50 million directed to domestic programs, including the Center for Victims of Torture in Minnesota. The remaining $40 million will be allocated to assist foreign treatment centers through the U.S. Agency for International Development and the U.N. Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture. The U.N. Voluntary Fund supports projects in more than 70 countries. 
   The Center for Victims of Torture (CVT), based in Minneapolis, was the first such organization in the U.S. and third in the world. Funding authorized in the bill will help CVT continue to lead the world in developing comprehensive treatment programs that bring hope to thousands of victims globally. 
   "Minnesota has been a pioneer in treating torture victims and their families," continued Coleman. "I have enjoyed a strong relationship with CVT since my days as mayor, and the work of this organization serves as a great source of pride for Minnesota. Our collaboration has not only helped to pass the reauthorization bill, but also to secure strong levels of financial support for torture victims assistance programs throughout the world. I have found it extremely rewarding to assist them with the important work that they do." 
   "Torture is fundamentally a tool of repression used to control societies and destroy leadership, said Douglas A. Johnson, executive director of the Center for Victims of Torture. "The supporters of TVRA understand this connection and have made a strategic investment in torture rehabilitation programs to restore lives, rebuild leadership and heal the legacy of torture."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 