ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE STRIPPED FROM DOD BUDGET BILL
  After a vote to stall an up-or-down vote on Department of Defense Appropriations bill in the Senate, Sen. Coleman continued to work with his colleagues to strip drilling in ANWR from the defense budget bill. The measure to strip the ANWR provision passed in the U.S. Senate by a vote of 48-45. On the initial vote for the defense appropriations bill set forth Wednesday morning, the Senate was successful in blocking a vote to authorize billions of dollars in funding for troops, fund disaster assistance for hurricane victims, contribute to avian flu preparedness, provide $2 billion in LIHEAP funding, and authorize drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR).  
   "I'm pleased to say that money will now be on the way to our troops, and ANWR is not in the way," said Coleman. "After a long day of fighting a flawed process, we reached a successful conclusion in the Senate that puts forth a stronger defense bill that maintains our commitment to our soldiers, prevents an avian flu pandemic, and provides relief funding for Katrina-ravaged areas--all without ANWR. This evening, I once again lived up to my commitment to prohibit drilling in ANWR. By voting to strip the ANWR provision from this legislation, Senators, such as myself, Susan Collins, Olympia Snowe and Gordon Smith, who have adamantly opposed drilling in the Artic National Wildlife Refuge, are now able to vote in favor of final passage of the DOD appropriations bill." 
   Sen. Coleman has voted against ANWR three times as a stand alone vote, and again voted against ANWR in November when included in the budget vote in November. Today marks the fifth time Coleman has voted against any measure including ANWR. 
   Once ANWR was stripped from the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill for FY2006, the U.S. Senate approved the bill by a vote of 93-0. The final version includes $453 billion in funding for the Department of Defense, $29 billion for Gulf Coast states devastated by Hurricane Katrina, and almost $4 billion have been dedicated for avian flu preparedness.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 