SENS. COLEMAN, SNOWE, COLLINS FORGE SEPARATE LIHEAP AGREEMENT WITH SENATE LEADERSHIP
  Late last night, Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN), Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), and Susan Collins (R-ME) forged an agreement with the Senate Majority Bill Frist (R-TN) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) for a Senate vote on a separate, emergency supplemental bill to provide $2 billion additional funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) after Senate consideration of the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito in January.  
   "Early on yesterday, we faced a roadblock in our efforts to fund LIHEAP without breaking our commitment on ANWR drilling," said Coleman. "This simply could not stand, so I joined with Senators Snowe and Collins to demand a commitment from leadership for a Senate vote on a separate, emergency supplemental bill to provide $2 billion additional funding for LIHEAP. I am pleased to say that we have been successful in securing that commitment, and I applaud Senators Snowe and Collins on their tireless efforts and leadership in fighting for necessary heating assistance for low-income families who need it the most. At the end of a long day and drawn out process, the commitment we received by leadership on both sides of the aisle is a good win for our families and communities that need this funding." 
   "After hours of protracted negotiation, I am pleased that Senate Leadership has rightly agreed to hold a vote to increase federal assistance for the LIHEAP program at the start of the second session of the 109th Congress," said Snowe. "This winter could bring a disastrous situation for countless Mainers and Americans faced with high fuel prices and insufficient LIHEAP funding. That is why I have worked tirelessly for months with a group of committed Senators to secure additional resources for this essential program. Given the magnitude of the situation in cold weather states from Maine to Minnesota, we felt that it would be unconscionable to leave for the year without a firm commitment to address this issue as soon as possible." 
   Senator Collins said, "LIHEAP is a critical program for so many low-income families in Maine and throughout the nation in cold weather states. Without additional funding, the program will run out of money in many states, leaving many families in the cold. Congress must approve additional emergency assistance for LIHEAP. Under this agreement that we negotiated with Senate leadership, we will work to ensure that this matter is considered at the earliest opportunity possible."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 