SEN. COLEMAN URGES ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS TO TACKLE POTENTIAL 'SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES' OF BORDER PASSES
  Concerned over the impact of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) on border communities in northern Minnesota, Sen. Norm Coleman has asked Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, and Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Josh Bolten, to review the affordability, practicality, and overall cost to the economy of the proposed border crossing identity cards being phased in by 2008. The letters were sent on the heels of a meeting in Coleman's office last week with representatives of the Lake of the Woods Tourism Bureau and other northern Minnesota residents, and followed Coleman's remarks about WHTI to Secretary Rice during a Wednesday hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  
   "While I welcome the development of alternatives to a passport, it appears that the timeline for the implementation of the Pass Card may be too ambitious," Coleman wrote to Secretary Rice. Coleman also raised concerns about cost of the card, urging it have "a cost of no more than half of the cost of a normal passport - preferably lower for low income residents living near the border. A higher cost will not only hurt border communities but the tourism industry as a whole." 
   In his letter to Secretary Rice, Coleman also proposed that a pilot program to test the security and convenience of the Pass Card be conducted with residents and visitors to Angle Inlet, a border community on Lake of the Woods. Coleman stressed that the identity cards should be user-friendly in size and availability, encouraging consideration of a one-day pass with biometric and other security features that can be conveniently purchased for spontaneous travelers. 
   In his letter to OMB Director Bolten, Coleman asked Bolten to declare the WHTI a "significant regulatory action" which would require a full cost-benefit analysis. Under federal regulations, a government rule that has an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more" must undergo a cost-benefit analysis to ensure it benefits the economy before implementation. "The impact on trade and tourism in my state of Minnesota and elsewhere will be considerable," Coleman wrote. "It is impossible to truly understand the impact of WHTI without a full cost-benefit analysis." 
   The Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative will require all travelers, including U.S. citizens, to and from Canada, the Americas, and the Caribbean, to have a passport or other accepted document that establishes the bearer's identity and nationality to enter or re-enter the United States. This is a change from prior travel requirements. The goal is to strengthen border security and facilitate entry into the United States for U.S. citizens and legitimate foreign visitors. The proposed changes will go into effect by December 31, 2007. 
   As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps, and Narcotics Affairs, Coleman held a hearing on June 10, 2005 on the projected impact of the proposed WHTI travel requirement. Coleman also held listening sessions on August 6, 2005 in the border cities of Warroad, Baudette and International Falls to hear the concerns of local residents over the proposed rule.
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323.
 
 