SENS. COLEMAN, COLLINS REQUEST TIMELINE FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES FOR STEPPING UP CYBER-SECURITY
  In an effort to prevent Americans' sensitive personal information from falling into the wrong hands, Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today sent a letter to all 24 federal agencies requesting a timeline of when they will meet the recommendations put in place by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for increased cyber-security. Following the Department of Veteran's Affairs breach last year that put millions of veteran's personal information at risk, OMB directed federal agencies to implement five security protocols. Coleman, Ranking Member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, requested the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a government-wide review of current cyber-security policies and practices. GAO's report today revealed that most of the agencies examined have not employed all of OMB's recommendations.  
   "In the wake of the VA data breach, I asked GAO to conduct a government-wide review of current policies on the books to protect American's personal information held by government agencies. The findings released in this report are very troubling - indicating that agency after agency has failed to make securing citizens' personal information a high priority," said Coleman. "The clock is ticking and we need to know when the agencies are going to have the protections in place to stop the numerous data breaches we have seen over the past few years. The bottom line is the federal government has a responsibility to ensure the personal information it collects from its citizens is properly secured and protected." 
   "The federal government collects and stores large amounts of personal information that is a tempting target for identity thieves," said Collins. "Agencies cannot act quickly enough to implement policies to help protect and secure this sensitive data." 
   Specifically, the OMB directed the agencies to carry out the following cyber-security protocols: 
   Encrypt all data on mobile computers/devices that carry agency data; 
   Allow remote access only with two-factor authentication, where one factor is provided by a device separate from the computer gaining access; 
   Use a "time-out" function for remote access and mobile devices requiring user re-authentication after 30 minutes of inactivity; 
   Log all computer-readable data extracts from databases holding sensitive information and verify that each extract including sensitive data has been erased within 90 days; and 
   Use a NIST security checklist, included in the memo, that provides specific actions to be taken by agencies to protect private identifiable information that is either accessed remotely or physically transported outside an agency's secured physical perimeter.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 