SEN. COLEMAN TO INTRODUCE NEW LEGISLATION AIMED AT INCREASING MINNESOTA'S ECONOMIC COMPETETIVENESS
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced that he will hold summits in three Minnesota communities Monday, January 24, 2005 to present his legislation, known as the COMPETE Act of 2005, geared to making Minnesota and the United States more competitive in the global marketplace to create and keep jobs here at home. The COMPETE Act (also known as the Collaborative Opportunities to Mobilize and Promote Education, Technology, and Enterprise Act) is based on Senator Coleman's work as a member of a bipartisan working group of 10 Sens., which is examining ways to keep America ahead of the curve in global competition, as well his discussions with Minnesota business and educational leaders.  
   The COMPETE Act offers significant steps to improve America's competitiveness by expanding existing research, development, and educational tax credits; establishing partnerships between educational institutions and those in private industry who have expertise in math and science; and offering incentives to strengthen and improve math and science education. As part of Senator Coleman's efforts to introduce and explain the provisions included in his new legislation, Senator Coleman will meet with educators and business leaders at colleges and universities in Moorhead, Hibbing, and Rochester. 
   "While the economic recovery has erased much of the job losses from the recession, there is a lot of work to do so that America does not get left behind when it comes to global competition," said Coleman. "The JOBS bill that we passed last year took steps to help America's manufacturers get back on their feet, but we need to go beyond this if we are to get ahead of the curve. My bill focuses on putting U.S. technology on the cutting edge through promotion of research and development, making our workforce second to none through education incentives in areas like math and science." 
   The COMPETE Act of 2005 will: 
   Improve the ability of American companies to stay on the forefront of the technological revolution by expanding the R&D tax credit and improving the patent and trademark process; 
   Establish partnerships between institutions of higher education and those in the private sector that have expertise in math, science and technology. These partnerships will provide training, technical assistance, professional development opportunities, and disseminate math and science education materials to teachers and students in the surrounding region; 
   Provide a tax credit to help businesses and individuals upgrade their information technology and communication skills; 
   Create a $3,500 tax credit for graduate students who study engineering, science, or mathematics, which will help to ensure that America continues to produce the best engineers and scientists in the world; 
   Establish a bonus grant of $500,000 to the top five elementary and secondary schools in each state who improve the most in their math and science state assessment test scores. 
   The format of the summit will include introductory remarks by Senator Coleman to provide a brief overview of the COMPTETE Act. The panelists will include local business leaders and educators who will discuss the bill, and a brief question and answer period among panelists and the public will follow. There will be media availability immediately following each event.
   NEW SCHEDULE FOR MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2005 
   MOORHEAD 7:45 a.m.-9:30 a.m. 
  Location: Minnesota State University, Moorhead 
  Comstock Memorial Union, Ballroom 200A 
  Moorhead 
  Site contact number: 218-477-2090 
   HIBBING 11:00 a.m. -12:45 p.m. 
  Location: Hibbing Community College 
  Building C Dining Room 
  1515 East 25th Street 
  Hibbing 
  Site contact number: 218-254-7977 
   ROCHESTER 2:30 p.m.- 4:15 p.m. 
  Location: Rochester University Center 
  Coffman Center Room CF206 
  851 30th Avenue SE 
  Rochester 
  Site contact number: 507-285-7210
 
 