SEN. COLEMAN ATTENDS 33RD ANNUAL MARCH FOR LIFE RALLY IN ST. PAUL
  Sen. Norm Coleman today attended the 33rd annual March for Life rally on the grounds of the Minnesota State Capitol, where he joined thousands of other Minnesotans in celebrating the commitment to support policies of protection and support for the unborn, their mothers, and the overall right to life. The rally, organized by Minnesota Citizens Concerned for Life (MCCL), is held annually on the anniversary of the original Roe v. Wade decision and attracts thousands of pro-life Minnesotans each year.  
   "On the grounds of the State Capitol today, we witnessed an unwavering commitment to a value that transcends government, transcends politics and transcends all others: the value of life," said Coleman. "At a time when public support for protecting the unborn continues to grow - despite significant challenges from the courts and others - it is truly inspiring to celebrate with so many different Minnesotans that share the commitment to the sanctity of all human life. I believe the commitment shown today will allow us to keep marching toward the day when our state and our nation returns to that high ethical hill where every human has an equal right to life." 
   Sen. Coleman has been an ardent supporter of pro-life policies since taking office, including voting in favor of the original ban on partial birth abortion that was signed into law by President Bush in 2003. During his three years in the Senate, Coleman has maintained a 100% pro-life voting record, while continuing his long-standing support for further protections for the unborn, their mothers, and the vulnerable. 
   "Since before my time as Mayor of St. Paul, I have committed to upholding the right to life, and I am proud to continue that commitment as a U.S. Senator," added Coleman. "There is no greater value than that of human life, and I am hopeful that as we continue to gain greater support for the right to life, we will return to a time when upholding fundamental human values are the rule, rather than the exception. Rest assured I will continue to offer my full support for this fight in Washington." 
   The MCCL March for life rally started on the first anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision, and has been held on that day - January 22nd - every year since. This is the 33rd annual March for Life, as the decision came down in 1973. MCCL was founded in 1968 by a small group of citizens who banded together to resist the legalization of abortion in Minnesota. MCCL is Minnesota's oldest and largest pro-life organization and is the Minnesota affiliate of the National Right to Life Committee.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 