SEN. COLEMAN SECURES CRITICAL SENATE APPROVAL TO KEEP NORTHSTAR RAIL ON TRACK
  Sen. Norm Coleman today successfully attached an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization Bill, clearing the path for Minnesota's Northstar Rail Project (Northstar) to receive federal funding. The amendment ensures Northstar will not be penalized by a Federal Transit Administration (FTA) rule change that altered the final standard applied to federal transit projects midway through Northstar's federal approval process. Without Coleman's amendment, the granting of federal funding for this project would be in jeopardy. The amendment was unanimously added to the Defense Authorization bill that will now head to a House-Senate conference. Northstar is expected to enter final design this summer.  
   "I don't think the rules should be changed in the middle of the game, which is why I fought tooth and nail to ensure this project can move forward. Without this amendment, over $37 million in federal funding secured for the project could not be used, putting the brakes on the entire project," said Coleman. "Northstar will bring Minnesota more jobs, less traffic, cleaner air and a better commute. In the face of high gas prices and our nation's dependence on foreign oil, this project represents an efficient transportation alternative, and I will not rest until this provision is sent to the President's desk." 
   "I'm grateful to have joined the outstanding leadership of Senator Coleman today," said Congressman Mark Kennedy (R-MN). "Together, we have worked to make sure that the federal government stands behind, not in the way, of this important priority for the state of Minnesota. This is an important step forward for the project, which was faced with a mid-game rules change proposed by the Administration last May." 
   "The Northstar Corridor Development Authority is extremely pleased with the assistance Senator Coleman has provided - this is a milestone for an important project to the state of Minnesota," said Dwayne Grandy, Chairman of the Northstar Corridor Development Authority. 
   Northstar represents a critical element of the region's transportation infrastructure, and it will result in significant benefits to the region's economy, citizens and businesses. The project is expected to save commuters nearly 900,000 hours annually compared to the next best option of express bus service. Moreover, developers are planning an estimated $2 to $3 billion in economic development oriented around the proposed stations. By taking 2,600 cars off the road each day, Northstar will save nearly 5,000 gallons of gas each day and over one million gallons each year. This will result in a significant reduction in air pollutants emissions annually. 
   Coleman also commended Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty for supporting this amendment and keeping the 40 mile long commuter rail line moving ahead.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 