SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS AG DISASTER ASSISTANCE IN FISCAL 2007 AGRICULTURE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded the addition of $4 billion in agricultural disaster assistance for farmers in the Fiscal Year 2007 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, which was unanimously approved by the Agriculture Appropriations Committee and will now head to the Senate floor for full consideration. This sorely needed funding for farmers devastated by natural disasters and high energy costs in 2005 was left out of the recently passed Emergency Supplemental Appropriation bill. 
   "This is an issue about equity for all regions suffering as a result of natural disasters, and I commend my colleagues for recognizing the critical needs of Minnesota farmers - needs I've been fighting for over the last several months," Coleman said. "The livelihoods of hundreds of Minnesota families have been jeopardized by storms and tornados, some of whom are in danger of losing their farms due to last year's disastrous weather. I've visited farmers and seen the situation first-hand - for these folks, this assistance is literally about making ends meet. I know how critical this funding is for their way of life. I vowed to continue fighting for this funding and am pleased this measure has been included in the Agriculture Appropriations Bill."  
   The bill also contains a Sense of the Senate Resolution, based on legislation coauthored by Senator Coleman, recommending economic sanctions against Japan should they fail to open their market to U.S. beef by August 31, 2006. The provision also urges President Bush to address the issue of Japan's ban on U.S. beef in his meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi next week. On June 21, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the government of Japan announced a framework for the resumption of U.S. beef exports into the Japanese market, contingent on Japan's inspection of U.S. meat packing plants. 
   "This week's announcement is a promising step to resuming the beef trade with Japan, but I'm not going to declare victory until U.S. beef is unloaded in Japanese ports," said Coleman. "This is an issue of fair trade, and I stand by cattlemen in urging the Japanese to move promptly in resuming U.S. beef imports." 
   Coleman was also able to secure $10 million in funding to combat Johne's disease, an affliction in cattle that has negatively impacted Minnesota's dairy farm families. He led a bipartisan Senate effort to restore funding for this initiative which had been drastically reduced in the Administration's budget. Moreover, the bill includes nearly $14 million for efforts to combat Low Pathogen Avian Influenza, with $12 million in additional funding available for the current fiscal year. Minnesota leads the nation in turkey production, and Minnesota producers will benefit from the peace of mind provided by this contingency funding. 
   "The funding included in today's agriculture appropriations report is crucial for Minnesota's communities, rural economy, and farm families," said Coleman. "Minnesota farmers feed our world, and this bill will provide the resources required for producers to continue to deliver the safest, most abundant, most affordable food supply in the world." 
   The bill also provides $108 million for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) which provides food each month to income-eligible pregnant and post-partum women, children up to the age of six, and to seniors 60 years and older. Coleman advocated for increased funding for this program during consideration of the Senate budget in March after the President proposed to eliminate the program in his budget request. 
   Coleman was also able to secure several projects and programs critical to Minnesota agriculture: 
   $324,740 for the Minnesota Wild Rice Breeding and Germplasm Program to increase yields and effectively combat plant diseases. Wild Rice is the only cereal grain native to North America, and this program is important to production on and near the Red Lake Band of Ojibwe Indian Reservation and for the area's economy. 
   $3,000,000 for an educational program at the University of Minnesota to provide technical assistance to farmers negatively impacted by imports. As a Senate Co-chair of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Coalition, Senator Coleman has been a staunch advocate for worker training programs for those who are adversely affected by changes in international trade and investment. 
   $250,000 for oat genomics research at the University of Minnesota, St. Paul. The research conducted with this funding will benefit producers, processors, and consumers of oats and oat products. 
   $310,971 for the Cereal Disease Lab at the U of M, to control diseases in wheat, barley, and oats, important to producers of these crops principally in the Red River Valley but also in other areas of the state, including southeastern Minnesota. 
   $1,065,188 for National Wheat & Barley Scab Initiative, important to combating scab (or fusarium head blight) that devastated the wheat and barley crop in the Red River Valley particularly during the 1990s, adversely affecting both yield and quality. 
   $300,000 for Red River Valley Agriculture Research on oats, wheat, and barley. 
   $400,000 for research at the University of Minnesota on pathogens and diseases that have crippled crops across Minnesota. 
   $300,000 to enhance soybean rust resistance at the University of Minnesota in St. Paul. Soybean rust has posed a serious yield risk to domestic soybean producers since the disease was first discovered in the United States in 2004. 
   $295,000 for the Uniform Farm Management Program to create a national source of farm cost of production figures at the University of Minnesota to further refine farm management skills and abilities. 
   $750,000 to implement the National Veterinary Medical Services Act. This funding will provide veterinary school loan repayment assistance to veterinarians practicing in veterinary shortage locations. 
   $25,000,000 for renewable energy programs and research including a directive to fund projects conducted at the Agriculture Utilization Research Institute (AURI) in Crookston and across Minnesota.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 