SEN. COLEMAN KEEPS MUSIC ALIVE FOR ROCK BAND HOPING FOR BIG BREAK IN U.S.
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that the music will go on after all for the rock band Glass Tiger, thanks to the persistence of a caseworker who cut through the red tape to help the Canadian band obtain their visas so they could perform on the NBC network show "Hit Me Baby One More Time" this Thursday night.  
   The rock band Glass Tiger was originally scheduled to appear on the NBC show on Thursday June 30 and was on track to obtain the necessary visas. But then NBC unexpectedly moved up the band's performance one week, which made it far more difficult for the musicians to acquire the necessary official travel documents, jeopardizing the band's ability to take advantage of its biggest break in years. Then a caseworker in Senator Coleman's St. Paul office got involved and helped move their process along. 
   Two of the members of the band, Samuel Reid and Wayne Parker, both Canadian citizens, needed the approval notice from United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) in order to fly out of Toronto. Another band member, Alan Frew, a UK citizen, also needed the approval notice and an interview with U.S. immigration officials in Canada. Coleman's office was able to secure an interview at the US Consulate in Calgary for Mr. Frew and confirmed that all of the band members had approval notices in hand for their flight. 
   "I am thrilled to have helped Glass Tiger obtain their visas," Coleman said. "Everyone needs a chance to have their big break and I hope that this opportunity is it for the band. It would have been a tragedy for the band to have not been able to appear because their performance was moved up a week. Music plays an important role in our culture and this is just one way that I am able to support the arts." 
   "Words cannot express my gratitude for your assistance yesterday," said Rod Knight the band's manager. "Being on the TV show is the biggest break the guys have had in over 10 years. Unfortunately, the opportunity came with a big catch. We only had days available to get our paperwork processed. Just when it looked like the opportunity was to pass us by, you came to our assistance and helped to make it possible." 
   If the rock band wins this Thursday night, a donation of $20,000 will be made to the Coalition to Salute American Heroes, a non-partisan organization that offers assistance and support programs to service men/women wounded in the war on terror. 
   Senator Coleman has also assisted two other music bands that have had difficulty obtaining their visas to come to the United States. They were The Guess Who and Totta's Bluesband, which was able to play at Hibbing Dylan Days this past year. 
   Glass Tiger became popular in the United States with such hits as "Don't Forget Me (When I'm Gone)", which climbed as high as #2 on the Billboard Music Charts, "Someday" and "My Town", a duet that featured Rod Stewart. Further information on the band can be found online at www.glasstiger.ca or through the band's manager, Rod Knight, who can be reached at 416-738-9664.
 
 