SEN. COLEMAN ASKED TO TESTIFY ON BILL TO REDUCE U.S. DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL AT SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE HEARING
  Called on to testify about how to move America towards energy independence, Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) today urged the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to adopt the Enhanced Energy Security Act of 2006 (S. 2747), legislation aimed at enhancing energy efficiency and conserving oil and natural gas. 
   As an original cosponsor of the bipartisan measure, Coleman explained how implementing an aggressive national energy plan will allow the United States to reduce its dependence on fossil fuels. Among the most important provisions of the bill is the emphasis placed on an expanded plan for economy-wide oil savings. This plan includes cutting domestic oil use exponentially, from to 2.5 million barrels of oil per day by the year 2016 to 7 million barrels of oil per day by the year 2026 and to 10 million barrels of oil per day by the year 2031.  
   The Senator's testimony remarks, as prepared, are posted below: 
   Senator Norm Coleman 
  Testimony (Remarks as Prepared) 
  Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee 
  Hearing on S. 2747 to enhance energy efficiency and conserve oil and natural gas 
  June 22, 2006 
   "First of all, I want to thank you, Chairman Domenici, for holding this hearing, and I want to recognize Senator Bingaman's efforts on this bipartisan legislation. The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security from which this legislative effort stems has 26 cosponsors and speaks to bipartisan interest in taking an aggressive approach to energy independence. 
   There are few topics Congress could address right now that are more important to the future well-being of the nation than our energy security. Freeing our nation from dependence on foreign energy is truly a matter of national defense - defense of our national security, defense of our economy, defense of our way of life. But, what some folks forget is that this challenge presents a powerful opportunity for economic stimulus and growth. 
   The Enhanced Energy Security Act sets an ambitious plan for saving 2.5 million barrels of oil per day in 10 years, roughly the amount of oil we currently import from the Middle East. Many would dismiss such an ambitious goal, but recalling the moon was also once out of reach, we all know the power of America's innovative, relentless spirit when called to an objective, no matter how formative. 
   The threat to national and economic security is real and growing. It does not take much imagination to consider the foreign policy implications of having oil imports rest on the whims of Hugo Chavez in Venezuela or the political stability of Nigeria. Countries that aren't free produce more than two-thirds of the world's oil and have nearly 80 percent of the proven reserves. 
   Looking to our economy, just consider the recent comments of Alan Greenspan, who has pointed out that world oil markets are now subject to a degree of strain not experienced in a generation and that the lack of excess capacity means there isn't enough of a buffer between supply and demand to absorb shutdowns of even a small part of the world's production. If a terrorist attack on one of our major oil suppliers succeeds, our economy will pay a heavy price. 
   The imperative is clear: America must free itself from its oil dependence, and I believe the solution is also clear: renewable energy and energy conservation. The Enhanced Energy Security Act and its parent bill, the Vehicle Fuel Choices for American Security Act, include important initiatives that will promote E85 fueling infrastructure and speed the development of cellulosic ethanol, while investing in the development of efficient vehicle technologies and assisting auto manufacturers' transition to fuel-efficient vehicle production. 
   These initiatives will help make America a leader in renewable fuel and energy conservation technology that U.S. businesses can then export to countries like China and India where there is a projected 125% increase in the demand for oil from 2003 to 2025. 
   I believe much of the reduction in petroleum demand will rest with our ability to accelerate technology for electric hybrids and infrastructure for renewable fuels. This year, Brazil will have the liberty of not having to import a drop of foreign oil. I have been to Brazil, and witnessed their success firsthand. I've sat down with their leaders and talked renewables, and what I've learned is that Brazil's success was the result of a determined, concerted effort over 30 years to reach oil independence. 
   In the '70s, the Brazilian leadership realized its 85 percent dependence on foreign oil was unacceptable and they did something about it. Brazil made a commitment to investing in ethanol production, mandated an aggressive percentage of gasoline be blended with ethanol, and ultimately ensured flex fuel vehicles were widely available. 
   A similar commitment by the United States could also reap significant rewards. In fact, a recent Alliance Bernstein study found that cellulosic ethanol could eventually replace a large fraction, around 40 percent, of gasoline demand. 
   Mr. Chairman, renewables are a real option. But almost half of the E85 pumps in the nation are in one state, Minnesota! (246 out of about 600 pumps). We can change that. Notably, the alternative fueling infrastructure incentives in this bill would make an estimated $20 million a year available for these pumps. 
   I think it's obvious our current foreign oil dependence is untenable, that our economy and very national security is in peril if we don't do something about it, but thankfully, that's not the end of the story. 
   I truly believe we can gain a great deal of energy independence through existing and emerging energy saving and renewable energy technologies that will protect and grow American jobs. 
   The Enhanced Energy Security Act moves us towards independence and continued prosperity, and I commend the Committee for considering this proposal."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 