SEN. COLEMAN SECURES CRITICAL FUNDING FOR RETURNING TROOPS, MINNESOTA HEALTH PRIORITIES IN LABOR, HHS APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Norm Coleman today commended the Senate Appropriations Committee for including several of his requests in the fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill. Coleman played an integral role in securing funding for several Minnesota projects including funds for the reintegration of Minnesota troops, medical research and rural healthcare. The bill now awaits consideration by the full Senate. 
   Specifically, the bill allocates $1 million for Minnesota State Colleges and Universities, for rapid reemployment and education services for returning veterans. The project will help returning troops secure civilian reemployment, with special attention given to younger veterans and those who are medically discharged or disabled. The project will involve Minnesota State Colleges and Universities, Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development, and Veterans Affairs representatives and counselors to coordinate closely and serve veterans interested in pursuing education, including programs customized for veterans' needs.  
   "With over 2,600 Minnesota National Guard troops returning home in the next couple of weeks from honorably serving in Iraq, we must do everything in our power to help these brave men and women acclimate smoothly into civilian life," said Coleman. "This funding will provide them with the necessary resources to pursue an education and enter the workforce. We all must support our troops before, during, and after their deployments to do our respective part to bring these troops all the way home." 
   Coleman also secured $300,000 for the College of St. Scholastica in Duluth. These funds will implement a rural health and technology demonstration project. This project will improve healthcare quality and reduce costs by working to facilitate the transition to health information technologies within rural hospitals and other healthcare organizations. Additionally, the College of St. Scholastica will provide on-site process consultation; develop demonstration capabilities for staff orientation and training; offer workshops promoting leadership and multidisciplinary collaboration; and provide technical assistance in planning, designing, and implementing Electronic Health Records and Personal Health Records that meet the needs of the population. 
   "The U.S. depends on the livelihood of our rural communities, which is why we must ensure they have access to healthcare that meets the needs of their population," said Coleman. "Rural hospitals often need a helping hand in finding ways to keep pace with technology and other advancements. We've seen how advances in health care technologies improve the quality of health care delivered and the productivity of the health care system overall. To that end, I will continue seeking ways to assist them in providing the best possible care to the folks they serve." 
   "The Center for Healthcare Innovation is delighted to be included in the Labor-HHS appropriations bill. We are very appreciative of Senator Coleman's efforts to enable the Center to assist rural communities. This demonstration project will support selected rural facilities in the transition to the use of health information technologies. This project is important because these technologies will reduce costs and improve the quality of healthcare. Rural facilities are great places to implement change because rural healthcare providers are good communicators and work well in teams. However, rural facilities often do not have the resources to purchase these technologies and to plan the implementation. This support is critical to the economic and healthcare vitality in rural communities. We are grateful to the support from Senator Coleman and we will watch the progress of this bill with great interest," said Marty Witrak, Ph.D., R.N., Executive Director, Center for Healthcare Innovation, St. Scholastica. 
   Senator Coleman worked hard to secure $300,000 for Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota to provide pediatric palliative care education and consultation services to clinicians and providers. Palliative care is compassionate care for individuals with life limiting terminal illnesses, focusing on lessening the physical, psychosocial, and emotional suffering. Recognized as the nation's leader in palliative care education, Children's Institute for Palliative Care develops and leads training seminars using recognized curriculum for pediatric palliative care, provides hospital-based consultation to children who are in need of hospice or palliative care while they are hospitalized, offers an around-the-clock telephone consultation program, and serves as a resource center for pediatric palliative care. 
   "Children's of Minnesota is a national leader in pediatric palliative care education. We are thrilled at this opportunity to expand our ability to provide state of the art pediatric palliative care education and consultation to clinicians, providers, and families throughout the nation. We thank Senator Coleman for his leadership in improving the care of children with life-limiting conditions and their families," said Mary Braddock, MD, Director of Child Health Policy for Children's Hospitals. 
   Coleman was also successful in securing $350,000 for the Duchenne's Muscular Dystrophy Center at the University of Minnesota to construct laboratory facilities for expanded research space for muscular dystrophy research on the Twin Cities campus. 
   "The University of Minnesota investment in the fight against Duchene's Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) includes recruitment of top faculty, support of program resources, and capital construction and equipment," said Frank B. Cerra, M.D., University of Minnesota Senior Vice President for Health Sciences. "Senator Coleman's efforts to secure $350,000 allow the university to leverage these investments and optimize the programmatic interactions of faculty in DMD dedicated laboratory space in our new biomedical science building."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 