SEN. COLEMAN WARNS INTERNATIONAL DRUG RINGS THREATEN PROGRESS IN WAR AGAINST METH
  Concerned that meth smuggled in from abroad threatens to undermine the significant recent gains in limiting the domestic production and distribution of the dangerous drug, Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN), along with Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE), yesterday co-chaired a joint subcommittee hearing to examine the options available to impede its flow into communities throughout the country. During the hearing, Coleman expressed the need to focus America's efforts and resources on the Mexican border, as a majority of the meth entering the U.S. - close to 90 percent of the total amount consumed by Americans - comes from Mexican international drug trafficking organizations, made in superlabs along our southern border. The joint hearing was held by the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Narcotics Affairs, and Peace Corps and Subcommittee on International Economic Policy, Export and Trade Promotion.  
   "We are making progress on addressing the meth being produced domestically, but we're seeing meth labs move south where it is smuggled into the country," said Coleman. "Clearly, this is very much an international problem with devastating local repercussions. However, the good news is that I heard from the witnesses a strong commitment from Mexico to address this issue. Mexico has begun to limit its imports of meth precursors and cooperate with our law enforcement personnel at unprecedented rates." 
   Methamphetamine is considered one of the most deadly, fiercely addictive and rapidly spreading drugs in the United States, and reports indicate that meth created in super labs may be even more toxic than homemade meth. To combat the spread of meth, Coleman coauthored the Combat Meth Act, which was recently signed into law as part of the Patriot Act. The legislation limits access to cold medicines containing psuedoephedrine, the primary ingredient used to make methamphetamine. In Minnesota, restrictions on the chemicals used to make meth came into effect in June 2005, and led to a 66 percent decline in meth lab seizures when compared with the previous year. 
   "During the hearing, I also raised some concerns I have heard in Minnesota regarding grants used to fight meth being cut," Coleman added. "Today, it is especially important to devote our resources to keep meth from ravishing our urban and rural communities. We have made some progress, but it is essential that we focus on the international, as well as the domestic component of meth, and today's hearing was a good step in that direction." 
   This January, Coleman held a National Town Hall on Meth to examine the rising growth of meth abuse and the effect it has had on communities across the U.S. Moreover, Coleman also created the Coleman Meth Task Force comprised of Minnesota law enforcement officials, hospital administrators, school nurses and recovery professionals to address needed legislation and initiatives to help combat meth use. 
   Panelists at the hearing included: 
   * John Waters, Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy; 
   * Karen Tandy, Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration; 
   * Anne Patterson, Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 