SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $480,000 FOR GARDONVILLE COOPERATIVE TELEPHONE ASSOCIATION
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that Gardonville Cooperative Telephone Association will receive a $480,000 loan from the Rural Economic Development Loan program. Gardonville Cooperative Telephone Association will use this funding to finance the construction of a new facility in Brandon, Minnesota for Wagner Freeway Properties, a growing transportation firm that provides flatbed and specialized hauling in the 48 contiguous States and Canada.  
   "I am excited to announce the Gardonville Cooperative Telephone Association will receive this important funding," said Coleman. "Wagner Freeway Properties will help generate new jobs and investment to West Central Minnesota. As a U.S. Senator, funding infrastructure projects in rural communities will continue to be a focus of mine, and I am pleased that the Administration saw fit to issue this loan to help bring growth to rural Minnesota areas." 
   "We are pleased to be receiving this loan for the construction of office and shop space for Wagner Freeway Properties," said Dave Wolf, General Manger of Gardonville Cooperative Telephone Association. "Wagner Freeway Properties will not only create new employment opportunities, but also add to the local tax and economic base of Brandon and its surrounding communities. We fully appreciate Senator Coleman's efforts to help us secure this funding, and his continued commitment to rural economic development." 
   Gardonville Cooperative Telephone Association is a private, cooperative owned by the members it serves. They provide service for the towns of Brandon, Erdahl, Evansville, Garfield, Leaf Valley, Melby and Millerville. 
   The USDA Rural Development's mission is to help rural individuals, communities and businesses obtain the financial and technical assistance needed to address their diverse and unique needs. Rural Development works to make sure that rural citizens can participate fully in the global economy and has an $86 billion dollar portfolio of loans. Rural Development will administer nearly $16 billion in program loans, loan guarantees, and grants through their various programs. 
   Since 2001, USDA Rural Development has invested over $2 billion throughout Minnesota for a variety of rural economic development projects.
 
 