SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES AMENDMENT TO FULLY FUND FOREST MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
  As part of his ongoing effort to protect and sustain Minnesota's forest and timber industry, Sen. Norm Coleman today introduced an amendment that will enable full funding for the forest management plans for the Lakes States region through the President's fiscal year 2008 budget request. Currently, the forest management plans for Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan are funded at just 50 percent of what is authorized. Coleman's amendment would provide $50 million dollars for forest management plans in these states in fiscal year 2008, without raising the overall budget.  
   "Minnesota's forests are an integral part of our state's economy and way of life, and it is critical that we have the necessary funding to maintain and manage them," said Coleman. "Currently, Minnesota is being forced to try and sustain its forests with only half the amount of money that has been allocated. This is simply unacceptable. In order to prevent further layoffs in the timber industry and keep the cost of raw materials competitive, we need to provide the U.S. Forest Service with the necessary funds that we have all agreed they deserve." 
   "The National Forests of the Lake States have some of the most up-to-date Forest Plans in the nation," said Tim O'Hara, Vice President of Forest Policy for Minnesota Forest Industries. "These plans were developed using the most recent data and received extensive public comment that was used to develop forest plan objectives. Complete funding of these plans is needed to meet Plan objectives of wildlife, recreation, forest health, fire prevention, and timber management. Many of these objectives are not mutually exclusive of each other. " 
   In December, Senator Coleman - along with former Senator Mark Dayton and each of the senators from Michigan and Wisconsin - sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Dick Kempthorne requesting that new forest management plans for the region be fully funded to help combat high prices and industry layoffs posing significant challenges to the region. Today's amendment is a continuation of that effort. 
   "Forest products are a $6.9 billion industry in Minnesota that supports over 55,000 jobs in the state," Coleman added. "This industry has faced extraordinary challenges recently, from subsidized foreign competition to wild fluctuations in raw material costs to depressed markets resulting in lost jobs across Minnesota's timber region. Adequately funding our forest management plans is the first step in the process of reviving, stabilizing and improving the health of our timber industry and the local jobs and economies that depend on it."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 