SENS. COLEMAN, COLLINS INTRODUCE BILL TO ADDRESS FINANCIAL BURDEN OF WESTERN HEMISPHERE TRAVEL INITIATIVE
  With the deadline for the land and sea implementation phase of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) approaching as early as January 2008, Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today introduced legislation to lessen the Initiative's burden on border residents and other Americans. The Western Hemisphere Traveler Improvement Act will create a nationwide secure driver's license program for cross border travel, and will delay WHTI implementation until a test of the Washington state driver's license pilot program has been completed. Recently, DHS entered into an agreement with the State of Washington to conduct a pilot program in order to determine whether enhanced driver's licenses could be used to satisfy the requirements of WHTI. However, this pilot will not begin until January 2008.  
   "After the fiasco we experienced with massive passport backlogs following the air rule change earlier this year, it is essential that we take every step to avoid travel disruption during the land phase, which by all predictions will be even more of a headache," said Coleman. "With the recent improvements in driver's license security, we would be foolish not to allow Americans to voluntarily enroll in a program to allow their use for driving to Canada. The Washington state pilot, something I have advocated for over a year, should be tested and applied nationwide, sooner rather than later." 
   "For many Maine residents, quick and easy border crossing is essential. They need access to vital services, travel to their jobs, attend church, and visit family and friends. It is critical that we strike a balance between the security of our nation's borders and the free flow of commerce and travel to and from the United States," said Senator Collins. "This amendment will require DHS to closely evaluate the driver's license pilot program and consider expanded use of driver's licenses, and it helps ensure that the federal government adequately prepares for implementation of Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative." 
   The legislation requires that low-cost alternatives to passports, such as passport cards, are available for travelers at the time the Initiative takes effect, and requires the Secretary of State to certify that adequate passport staff has been hired to avoid a repeat of this year's processing delays. The bill addresses the high cost of passports and passport cards by designating at least six permanent locations near the border where passport and passport card applications can be accepted without the processing fee, which is $30 for a passport and $25 for a passport card. For smaller and rural communities, it requires mobile free enrollment centers. 
   The bill codifies an earlier announcement to ensure that children under the age of 16 traveling with their parents, and children under 18 traveling in a school or other group, are able to cross the border with a birth certificate rather than a passport. The bill also addresses the unique challenges facing Minnesota's Northwest Angle by exempting direct transit to and from the Angle from the WHTI restrictions. 
   WHTI will require all travelers, including U.S. citizens, to and from Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean, to have a passport or other accepted document that establishes the bearer's identity and nationality to enter or re-enter the United States. This is a change from prior travel requirements. Since January 2007 Americans traveling by air have been required to present such a document. The second phase of WHTI will occur as early as January 2008 or as late as July 2009, due to an amendment that passed as part of the fiscal year 2007 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations conference report.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 