SEN. COLEMAN, REP. KENNEDY APPLAUD FINAL DESIGN PHASE APPROVAL FOR NORTHSTAR
  Sen. Norm Coleman and Rep. Mark Kennedy applauded news today that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) granted Final Design status for the Northstar Commuter Rail Project (Northstar).  
   "Today's news brings Minnesota one step closer to an efficient transportation alternative," said Coleman. "In addition to saving commuters hundreds of thousands of hours each year, this project will significantly benefit the region's economy. Along with my colleague Rep. Kennedy, I have worked hard to keep this project on track, and I am confident that Northstar will help to ease the pain Minnesota families feel at the pump each day." 
   "This is a significant milestone for Northstar that has been years in the waiting," said Kennedy. "I'm pleased to have worked closely with Senator Coleman, MNDOT and all the local communities along the way. Much work remains to be done though to make Northstar a reality. As the state and local government work towards a Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) with FTA, I look forward to continuing my support for this important priority for the state of Minnesota." 
   In June, Kennedy proposed an amendment to a transportation spending bill focusing on last year's FTA rule change that would have jeopardized Northstar's ability to proceed to the project's final stages. In an agreement between Kennedy and the Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, Kennedy withdrew the amendment with the promise that Northstar will remain a top priority, and that further steps will be taken toward making Northstar a reality. 
   One week later, Senator Norm Coleman successfully attached a similar amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization Bill, clearing the path for Northstar to receive federal funding. The amendment also ensured Northstar will not be penalized by the rule change. 
   Kennedy also led the effort to authorize the Northstar project in the 2005 Road Bill, securing $80 million for the project, in addition to the $25 million appropriated in previous years.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 