SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON EMERGENCY DECLARATION FOR SOUTHEASTERN MINNESOTA
  Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman today made the following statement in response to President Bush's declaration of Fillmore, Houston, and Winona Counties in Southeast Minnesota as an emergency disaster area in the wake of the recent widespread flood damage.  
   "The President's disaster declaration provides much needed hope to a region of Minnesota that has been stricken with great devastation and tragedy in the past week. Due to the widespread damage from these floods, the reality is that the cleanup process with be lengthy and costly. You simply cannot plan for a disaster like this, and today's declaration is a critical first step in delivering federal resources to help with the recovery. I thank the President for his commitment to helping these communities get their feet back on the ground so can they start to rebuild from this disaster. Going forward, we need to continue to closely examine the needs of the remaining counties and ensure they get the assistance they need." 
   "With the emergency declaration, Minnesota's farmers in the declared counties will have the opportunity to apply for emergency USDA loans for production crop loss, as well as physical livestock and real estate loss. I encourage farmers to register their farm damages with their local FSA office and to contact their insurance provider as soon as possible." 
   The declaration follows a formal request for the declaration sent by Governor Pawlenty last night. By declaring this a disaster area, affected families, businesses and farmers will be eligible for federal funding and loans to recover property and crops. FEMA Director R. David Paulison and Secretary Michael Chertoff will be traveling to the region today to further assess the damage, as well to ensure the current efforts are running efficiently. 
   For more information, families are encouraged to call the following numbers for assistance: 
   Red Cross for Southeastern Minnesota: 507-287-2200 
   Minnesota Department of Health flood cleanup hot line: 1-800-657-3903. Hours are 2 to 4:30 p.m. Thursday and Friday; noon to 4 p.m. Saturday and Sunday; and 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday and Tuesday. 
   Winona County: (507) 457-8858. Volunteers are encouraged to call (507) 457-8882. 
   Fillmore Country Flood Hotline: 507-765-2278
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 