SENS. SCHUMER, COLEMAN BILL TO DELAY DUBAI PORTS WORLD DEAL
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) announced today that he will move forward with Sen. Charles Schumer (D-NY) to introduce legislation blocking the sale of ports to Dubai Ports World until an additional 45-day review has been undertaken and Congress has been given the right to fully exercise its appropriate oversight authority. Coleman stressed that in order to correctly assess and evaluate the terms of the transaction, Congress must first be allowed a review of the process. Due to Administration officials' cooperation in briefing and providing documents to his staff on the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) process that lead to the controversial sale, Coleman announced that a previously announced early March hearing on the matter would no longer take place.  
   "We need to ensure that all holes and leaks that compromise our port security are closed off--even in this sale to Dubai Ports Word," said Coleman. "I've worked on port security for more than two years to know that it won't resolve itself--we need to take action soon. This issue has finally put the spotlight on one the greatest threats to our national security, and the Schumer-Coleman bill will allow Congress the time needed to rationally look at the sale of our terminals. This proposal will allow us to step back, gather information, and look at our options from all angles. And at the end of the 45 days, we can still pull the plug on our support if the process or outcome raises any red flags. But as we evaluate this one transaction, we must still keep in mind that our ports, as a whole, are far from secure." 
   As Chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), Coleman said that his Subcommittee will examine the CFIUS review of the recent Dubai Ports World transaction. Coleman sent letters today the Secretary Michael Chertoff of Homeland Security and Secretary John Snow of Treasury to provide information regarding the acquisition. 
   As part of a two year investigation, Chairman Coleman stressed today that the controversial sale of several U.S. port facilities to Dubai Ports World highlights the security concerns which have long been at the center of his Subcommittee's on-going investigation into cargo security. At Coleman's direction, his Subcommittee staff has opened an investigation of the Dubai sale, meeting today with key government officials involved in the decision from the Departments of State, Treasury, Defense, and Homeland Security. 
   "Let's not miss the forest for the trees," said Coleman. "While I have problems with the process that left American ports in the hands of Dubai Ports World, and I am working to address this concern with my colleagues, I think we have to take this opportunity to look at the much bigger picture of port security as a whole. As Chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, I have invested more than two years addressing port security in the U.S. and around the world and have seen first hand that we need to do much more to address the less than adequate security for ports throughout the world. This is a gravely serious issue, and it is critical that we fill in the holes where we are lacking in port security if we are to avoid catastrophic terror attacks in the future." 
   Coleman urged Congress and the Administration to use the momentum of this single transaction to address the larger failings and inadequacies in the chain of port security globally. More than 90 percent of global trade moves in ocean-going containers and more than 11 million containers enter the U.S. annually. Many experts believe that a maritime container serves as an ideal vehicle to transport a Weapon of Mass Destruction into the United States. The findings also showed that only $1.6 billion was provided for port security in 2005, an amount roughly one-third of the Government's budget for aviation security. Four and a half years after the September 11th attacks, the U.S. inspects less than 5 percent of maritime containers, and less than 40 percent of containers are screened for radiation. The program to implement security standards in the supply chain is completely voluntary. 
   "The findings from my investigation are very disturbing, and they are not going to go away until we address them and remedy the problems," said Coleman. "While I believe we need to make sure we thoroughly assess the sale of our ports to Dubai World, we must also make sure we are not selling ourselves short on many other security fronts in the port security container chain. The one issue we cannot delay is the state of our port security today and it is in desperate need of more attention." 
   As Chairman of the Subcommittee, Coleman has inspected ports in Los Angeles, California, and Hong Kong, the largest port in the world as part of the Subcommittee's investigation into container security. In May of 2005, Coleman held a hearing entitled, "The Container Security Initiative and Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism: Securing the Global Supply Chain or Trojan Horse" to investigate how the interdependent global supply chain maintains effective cargo security throughout the entire chain at the same time it maintain effective trade worldwide. 
   The March 28th and 30th hearings will address supply chain security and the U.S. Government efforts to prevent terrorists from smuggling a radiological or nuclear weapon into the United States. At these hearings, Coleman will unveil a Subcommittee report on supply chain security as well as two GAO reports commissioned by the Chairman on the domestic effort to deploy radiation equipment by the Department of Homeland Security and the international effort to deploy equipment led by the Department of Energy.
 
 