SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  STATEMENT FROM SEN. NORM COLEMAN ON THE STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS:
  The president's speech laid out a robust domestic agenda that addresses concerns on the minds of many Americans. Many of these are topics I also have been working on since the start of my term, issues like energy, healthcare and education - issues that the folks back home in Minnesota and across the country discuss at the dinner table every night.  
   Energy: 
   The President this year built upon his pledge last year to break America's addiction to foreign oil by pledging to reduce U.S. gasoline consumption by 20 percent in 10 years. The President embraced goals and real solutions that I have long been encouraging him to look at, and that are reflected in my bipartisan DRIVE Act. By laying out practical goals and bolstering production of renewable fuels, we will accelerate our movement down the path toward energy independence. 
   I also agree with the President that a successful energy policy focused on renewable fuel sources should also be coupled with measures to reduce the production of greenhouses gases. This is a problem that cannot be left to our children to solve and I have been actively exploring ways to aggressively reduce greenhouse gas emissions without crippling the economy and jeopardizing jobs. 
   Healthcare: 
   I was impressed by the president's bold and practical proposal to empower more American families to purchase private health insurance in the marketplace by leveling the playing field for them. I have worked with Senator Martinez on a piece of legislation that would similarly help the uninsured purchase insurance in the individual market. I also agree it's important to work with individual states to provide coverage for the most vulnerable among us, while also seeking new and innovative ideas to address our health care challenges. 
   Education: 
   While I agree with the president that No Child Left Behind has been an important tool in making sure every child has access to quality education, it is clear we need to provide more flexibility in the program. I will continue to work with my colleagues to build additional flexibility into the program and streamline special education requirements to ensure that unintended consequences do not handcuff school districts and states.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 