SEN. COLEMAN LEGISLATION SEEKS TO MOVE STEM CELL RESEARCH FORWARD IN ETHICAL, RESPONSIBLE MANNER
  In an effort to find a middle ground solution to the divisive issue of stem cell research, Sen. Norm Coleman today introduced legislation, the Hope Offered through Principled, Ethically-Sound Stem Cell Research (HOPE) Act, that will provide $5 billion in federal funding for stem cell research methods that do not harm or destroy human embryos. These methods include Altered Nuclear Transfer, which programs an unfertilized egg which will never develop into a human being yet still produces embryonic-like stem cells, or using cells from embryos which have died naturally. This approach will allow a significant expansion in federally-funded stem cell research, while ensuring no taxpayer dollars are used for the destruction of human embryos. Beyond these methods, this bill also provides funding to any other kind of stem cell research - embryonic or non-embryonic - which does not harm or destroy human embryos.  
   "The President's current policy does not provide enough federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. I believe we can do more - without crossing the ethical line of using taxpayer dollars for the destruction of human embryos," said Coleman. "Embryonic stem cell research offers great promise, but at the same time raises important ethical questions. As a result, my legislation will expand federal funding of embryonic stem cell research, but only through specific research methods that do not harm or destroy human embryos. This approach builds on common ground which both sides of this debate can agree on and is our best option for moving forward on this divisive issue." 
   The legislation will also create the National Stem Cell Research Review Board to oversee the research, ethical and legal guidelines for federally funded stem cell research. The Review Board will be comprised of eleven members appointed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The membership will include scientists, legal experts, community advocates and ethicists. 
   "For those of us who have family members who are struggling with a debilitating disease, we must do all we can to offer the vision for a better quality of life. However, we must do so in a way that doesn't sacrifice another human life. My legislation will infuse real dollars into this science that provides so much hope - while also making sure that good ethical standards are adhered to through a new Review Board. If any research methods, including the types listed in this legislation, is found to harm or destroy human embryos, the Review Board will halt that research immediately pending further review," Coleman added. 
   The bill will allocate $5 billion in funding over ten years, at least 90 percent of which will be allocated for stem cell research. The remaining funds will be used for: 
   * The promotion of embryo adoption from in-vitro fertilization clinics; 
   * Interventions to treat genetic medical conditions without harming human embryos or fetuses; and 
   * Research to develop protocols to better match the number of embryos created in fertility clinics with the number needed for a successful pregnancy. 
   "From the outset, I have always believed that any legislation must adhere to pro-life principles and ethical guidelines that do not allow for federal funding of the destruction of human embryos. As we explore the promise of embryonic stem cell research, we must keep in mind that life is a sacred gift from our Creator and ensure that any research is completed within solid pro-life ethical guidelines," Coleman added.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 