SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES FARM STORAGE LOAN LEGISLATION
  Senator Norm Coleman has introduced Farm Storage for America's Energy Future, new legislation that would provide a powerful tool for farmers looking to improve their farms' grain storage capacity through efforts such as building grain bins. The bill improves the Farm Storage Loan Program, which makes loans to producers to build and upgrade storage facilities, to enable the program to be fully utilized by America's farmers. The bill will improve the availability of a stable supply of high quality grain for renewable energy production and livestock.  
   "Minnesota farm families are feeding the world and fueling the nation, and as farmers' productivity is increasing to meet the new demands of the 21st Century, they need access to financial tools to build grain storage," Coleman said. "We've seen big yields in the last couple years, especially for corn, and as a result farmers have had to resort to storing grain on the ground where some of the grain can rot. That's wasted grain that could have gone to biofuels or livestock production. I have heard directly from Minnesota farmers about the challenges of maintaining crop quality with inefficient storage space - particularly with the new markets for renewable energy booming. This legislation fixes the FSA storage loan program so it can meet Minnesota's growing grain storage needs." 
   The modifications to the existing program includes extending loan payoffs from seven years to 20 years, removing the current Farm Security Association (FSA) requirement for a first mortgage by instead allowing for an egress agreement for the collateralized equipment or structure, and removing the FSA-imposed limit on the loan amount by replacing it with an average of three years annual production history production minus the applicants owned storage as a means of determining storage needs. 
   The Farm Storage Facility Loan Program, a program the FSA operates, has the potential to become a powerful tool for our farmers trying to market their grain for renewable fuels and export, but because Minnesotans have recognized problems with the program, it has not been fully utilized.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 