SENS. COLEMAN, DAYTON TESTIFY AT BRAC HEARING ON ECONOMIC, STRATEGIC IMPACT OF PROPOSED PLANS FOR DULUTH, GRAND FORKS, FARGO BASES
  Minnesota's Sens. Mark Dayton and Norm Coleman joined forces today in testifying about their concerns over the economic and strategic ramifications of the military's proposed plans for the Air National Guard missions in Duluth and Fargo, and the Grand Forks Air Force Base, at a regional Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) hearing in Grand Forks, ND. The hearing was scheduled after the Pentagon released recommendations for changes to military bases nationwide.  
   In regard to the realignment, or downsizing, of the Grand Forks Air Force Base, Dayton said at the hearing, "North Dakotans and Minnesotans are good, honest, hard working, and especially patriotic Americans. They've done everything they have been asked to do, given their best to protect their country, and have done it extremely well. They do not deserve to lose their jobs, their livelihoods, or their mission, through no fault of their own." 
   "I urge you not to be penny wise and pound foolish," Coleman said. "While you have been charged with finding certain savings, you should do so in a way that leaves us with the highest level of security when you are done. Because of the unique characteristics of this region, our geographical proximity, and the caliber of our people, I hope you will support the maximum presence of the Air Force in Grand Forks and the Air National Guard base in Fargo." 
   If the Pentagon's recommendations are not amended by the BRAC Commission, the F-16 fighter planes now located at the Duluth Air National Guard Station would be retired. The Pentagon has said that future missions for the Duluth base would be assigned in the coming months. However, Senators Coleman and Dayton argued that the BRAC process is not the place to decide the fate of F-16s at the base, and no decision in regard to these planes should be made in any case without defining a clear future mission. The Minnesota senators also emphasized that they wanted to ensure the BRAC process does not limit the flexibility of the National Guard Bureau to live up to its commitment made yesterday at a Pentagon meeting to provide a viable and relevant future mission for the Duluth base. 
   Said Dayton, "Minnesota's future is equally as important as North Dakota's, and we share their enthusiasm for the outstanding work being done by the Air National Guard. In my four and a half years as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I have seen many surprises. This is one of the most unfair, because it affects so many men and women. The proposed changes are not contained in the BRAC Commission recommendations, but in the future total force plan. Therefore, I would ask that, as Members of Congress, we be given latitude to work with the Air Force and the Army National Guard." 
   "In these difficult times, I do not think that it is wise to pull your resources out of an area which leads the country in recruiting and retention," Coleman said. "Duluth has outstanding facilities, the newest hangar in the Air Force, and a brand new consolidated maintenance complex. It has plenty of outstanding training space, even at low altitudes. In fact, Duluth has more training space than Nellis Air Force Base. And it has room to grow." 
   The BRAC Commission is scheduled to continue holding regional hearings across the country for the next month on the Pentagon's recommendations. The Commission must forward its report on the recommendations to the President by September 8, 2005, and the President will have until September 23, 2005, to accept or reject the recommendations in their entirety. If accepted, Congress will have 45 legislative days to reject the recommendations in their entirety, or they become binding on the Defense Department.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 