SEN. COLEMAN JOINS HHS SECRETARY IN AWARDING RESETTLEMENT GRANTS TO HMONG REFUGEES IN MINNESOTA
  Sen. Norm Coleman joined Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson today in awarding two grants totaling $399,855 to the Amherst H. Wilder Foundation of St. Paul and the Southeast Asian Community Council in Minneapolis. The funds will be used to support resettlement costs for Hmong in Minnesota, home to the largest Hmong population in the United States. 
   "We are thrilled that Secretary Thompson could be with us here today," said Coleman. "It marks the serious commitment we have made to helping refugees, especially at present to the Hmong who need help settling in to our Minnesota communities. These grants and Sec. Thompson's presence mark his dedication to ensuring that all Americans receive the attention and services they need and deserve. I particularly commend his commitment to addressing the health and prosperity concerns of Minnesotans and others in the Midwest."
   "Minnesota and its families have always welcomed the Hmong to ensure they feel at home in the United States," Secretary Thompson said. "Hmong refugees have stood with America and the free world for generations, and they deserve our help and compassion as they prepare for new lives in their new country. We are pleased to offer them a helping hand."
   These grants are part of the $11.4 million that HHS is sending Minnesota in fiscal year 2004 for refugee assistance. Minnesota plans to receive 5000 of the 15000 Hmong that are expected to come to the United States from Wat Tham Krabok, Thailand.
   The Amherst H. Wilder Foundation, a nonprofit health and human services program of St. Paul, will receive a grant of $199,855 to coordinate planning for a Social Adjustment Program for Hmong arrivals through the Hmong Mental Health Provider Network. Funds will be used for a number of outreach and educational programs to help the refugees adjust to life in the U.S., as well as offer medical screening and services.
   Additionally, the Southeast Asian Community Council (SEACC), a non-profit organization that works primarily with youth and families of Northeast Minneapolis, will receive a grant of $200,000 to collaborate with the Association for the Advancement of Hmong Women in Minnesota and Lao Veterans of America in Minnesota. SEACC will use its funds to help in family and child development training, as well as for connecting these families to community resources to further support them in the future.
   "While I am optimistic about what these funds will mean to the Hmong refugees moving into Minnesota and our already established communities, I am also realistic about the future resources our state will need to make sure that this resettlement is good for Minnesota and good for our national foreign policy interests. That is why I will continue to work with Sec. Thompson, Mayor Kelly, and my colleagues in Congress to secure additional resources as they are needed."
   Sen. Coleman and Sec. Thompson were accompanied by Mayor Randy Kelly of St. Paul and other representatives of the grantees of the HHS grants at Concordia University in St. Paul. Concordia University currently includes a Hmong studies program which promotes cultural awareness and exchange between its students and the Hmong Community.
 
 