SEN. COLEMAN URGES DEFENSE SECRETARY TO AMEND 60-DAY HANDS OFF POLICY FOR GUARD, RESERVE TROOPS
  In an effort to address a major concern he heard during multiple meetings with Minnesota National Guard members last week, Senator Norm Coleman recently called Secretary of Defense Robert Gates to urge him to rescind the Defense Department's 60-day "hands-off policy" for National Guard and Reserve troops returning home from combat. Under current policy, military officials cannot require returning National Guard troops to perform any mandatory activities within the first 60 days of their return from theater. In addition to their 30 days of mandatory leave they receive upon their return, this policy often results in soldiers being isolated from their unit and comrades for up to 90 days after returning home.  
   The Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program administered by the Minnesota National Guard is one of only a few programs in the country to focus on the reintegration of returning National Guard troops. However, the Minnesota National Guard cannot require returning members to attend reintegration activities because of the 60-day policy, limiting the Guard's ability to reach out to troops who often need help the most. This program focuses on support for Reserve Component soldiers and their families during each of the four phases of their deployment cycle including pre-deployment, deployment, demobilization, and post-deployment. Guard troops participate in events and activities including family and marriage counseling, financial planning and education, small business planning, community outreach, and healthcare and veterans benefits education. 
   "With each discussion I have with our National Guard troops, it becomes more apparent that the unintended consequences of the 60 day hands-off policy are hurting reintegration efforts. I personally expressed this concern to the Secretary and he assured me the Department would review this policy," said Coleman. "The policy is well intended, as none of us want our troops to return home from overseas tours and begin drilling again when they should be spending time with loved ones. However, many returning soldiers have told me that being separated from their fellow troops for up to 90 days is one of the toughest things they undergo during the entire deployment cycle, and makes their adjustment back into civilian life more difficult. Changing this policy to allow our returning soldiers to begin the reintegration process shoulder to shoulder with their comrades is crucial to bringing them all the way home." 
   The current 60-day hands-off policy was first implemented to provide soldiers returning from deployment with a chance to recuperate, free from drills and other mandatory military obligations. The policy forbids commanders from ordering mandatory activities for their troops within 60 days of redeployment, causing some soldiers to miss out on events and services aimed at helping them transition back into civilian life. Additionally, Sen. Coleman continues to work with Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) to create a national reintegration program including mandatory reintegration events to assist these troops in readjusting to civilian life.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 