SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES 'FOSTERING ADOPTION TO FURTHER STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT' ACT
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN), along with Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-LA), announced today the introduction of the bipartisan "Fostering Adoption to Further Student Achievement" Act. This legislation is aimed at encouraging teenage adoptions by not forcing a teenager to choose between a loving family and financial aid.  
   "Our bipartisan bill addresses a major problem in our current adoption system," said Coleman. "Right now, if a teenager is adopted, he or she can lose out on some or all college financial aid depending on his or her adopted parents' financial situation, but if the teen stays in the system and 'ages-out' to 18 without being adopted, he or she is probably eligible for all available loans and grants given their personal financial situation. Kids should not have to make that kind of choice." 
   Specifically, the bill would amend the definition of "independent student" as defined in current law to include foster care youth who are adopted from the foster care system after their thirteenth birthday. Consequently, when applying for financial aid, the student would not be penalized on his or her federal financial aid application because eligibility would be determined solely by the student's ability to pay. 
   Currently, it is estimated that approximately 20,000 youth "age out" of the foster care system each year. Of these, nearly 30 percent are incarcerated within the first year. Currently, there are 523,000 children in foster care, with about half of them over the age of 10. Of students who have "aged out" of foster care - as opposed to being adopted - studies have shown that within three years: 
   * Only 54% had earned their high school diploma 
   * Only 14% had graduated from a four-year college 
   * Between 25-44% had experienced homelessness. 
   Conversely, statistics consistently show that students who are adopted out of the foster system are more likely to attend college, have stable lives and have a permanent family. 
   "This takes away a significant barrier for families who are considering providing a home to older kids," said Michelle Chalmers, who coordinates the Homecoming Project - a federal-funded state program to help find adoptive parents for 13-17 year olds currently under state guardianship. "The place where families often get caught up is when they start worrying about school. If you adopt a 16-year-old, you can't possibly save in time for college. This bill would equalize the playing field for everyone." 
   "It is obvious that we need a better system than the one currently in place," Coleman concluded. "The benefits of family and education should go hand in hand, not stand in opposition to each other. This bill would ensure that foster children don't have to make an impossible choice between a family or an education. I am excited to work with my colleagues in the Senate to help move forward on this important piece of legislation."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 