SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES NEW VA COMMUNITY BASED OUTPATIENT CLINIC IN NORTHWEST MINNESOTA
  Sen. Norm Coleman today praised the Veteran's Administration (VA) for their awarding of a Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in the Bemidji area, which will expand outreach and accessibility to veterans across northern Minnesota. The decision, expected to be formally announced later this afternoon, will make this the eighth CBOC in Minnesota. The VA plans to open the clinic by the end of 2006, and is expected to have eight VA doctors serving up to 2,400 patients per year. The exact location has not yet been officially announced, but is expected to be in the Bemidji area.  
   "I am ecstatic the VA has awarded this crucial clinic to expand access and health care for veterans across northern Minnesota," said Coleman. "This clinic will increase access to doctors for our veterans, while also allowing a much more convenient and time-saving option for veterans in this part of the state. Those who have served our country in the armed forces need and deserve the best access to health care, and this clinic will give them that access. I have urged the VA to establish a clinic in this apart of the state, and want to sincerely thank the VA for awarding the clinic." 
   The new clinic will allow area residents to save both time and travel expenses by offering an outpatient VA clinic much closer to home. Currently, the closest VA services for residents in this part of the state are available at the Fargo Veteran's Hospital and the Brainerd CBOC. Currently, the mean roundtrip distance for veterans living in Beltrami, Cass, Clearwater, Hubbard, Itasca, Koochiching and Lake of the Woods Counties, can be as far as several hundred miles. 
   "In addition to this clinic, I am also excited for the creation of a CBOC just across our state border in Spirit Lake, Iowa," Coleman added. "That facility will provide additional access for veterans in southern Minnesota." 
   The new clinics are part of 25 new community-based clinics being opened in 17 states and American Somoa. The VA currently has 700 community-based clinics nationwide.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 