SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES AMENDMENT TO CLOSE SANCTUARY LOOPHOLE, ALLOW FEDERAL-LOCAL COMMUNICATION
  In an effort to strengthen national security, Sen. Norm Coleman yesterday introduced an amendment to the Immigration bill to make sure local law enforcement officials are able to communicate with federal law enforcement agencies regarding suspected immigration violations. Currently, a number of cities throughout the nation are using a loophole to get around Sec. 642 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA) of 1996 by instituting ordinances forbidding local law enforcement to even ask the question as to whether a person is in the U.S. lawfully, thereby evading their legal responsibility to report their suspicions to the federal government.  
   "In a post 9-11 world, it is simply unacceptable for communities to ignore federal laws requiring them to share this type of information with federal authorities. This is not a matter of making state and local governments enforce federal immigration laws, it is simply a matter of closing this loophole that certain cities have created," said Coleman. "This defies common sense, as the rule of law must apply to both legal and illegal residents. Moreover, we know how crucial it is to connect the dots in order to avert another terrorist attack in this country. The consequences of prohibiting information sharing are too great. To close this loophole, I have introduced an amendment that will ensure the lines of communication are open between local and federal law enforcement officials." 
   Senator Coleman's legislation will not require local law enforcement to use their own resources to enforce federal immigration laws. Moreover, it does not require local law enforcement to conduct immigration raids or act as federal agents. Senator Coleman's bill will simply give law enforcement officers the ability to inquiry about a person's immigration status during their routine investigations, and in turn report their findings to the appropriate Federal authorities though already-established channels, as they are currently required to do by law. 
   "The recent capture of the alleged terrorists who plotted to attack Fort Dix raises serious concerns about "sanctuary cites" that prohibit local law enforcement officials from asking suspects they apprehend about their immigration status, or notifying federal authorities," Coleman added. "According to reports, the suspects in this case accumulated numerous traffic violations without any questions raised about their immigration status. My legislation will ensure that the right hand knows what the left hand is doing."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 