SEN. COLEMAN HOLDS FIELD HEARING ON MINNESOTA TIES TO LATIN AMERICA AT HUMPHREY INSTITUTE
  Sen. Norm Coleman, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps and Narcotics Affairs, convened a field hearing on Monday, March 21st to discuss U.S.-Latin America relations at the Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs, University of Minnesota Twin Cities.  
   The topic of this hearing, titled "U.S.-Latin America Relations: A View from the Land of 10,000 Lakes," addressed the many areas of mutual interest between Minnesota and Latin America, including democratic security, people-to-people relations, and the growing economic developments within the Western Hemisphere. Currently, U.S. trade in the region stands at 38 percent of the total business the U.S. conducts in the world, and Canada, Mexico, and the rest of Latin America serve as important export destinations for Minnesota as our first, seventh and eleventh customers in the world. 
   During testimony panelists discussed common interests in supporting democracy, international cooperation against the threats of drug traffickers and gang members, opportunities and challenges in the realm of international trade, and the bonds between Minnesotans and Latin Americans which form as a result of the Peace Corps, international adoptions, and other programs. 
   "I was pleased to have this Subcommittee hearing here in Minnesota," said Coleman. "As Minnesota's Senator, I want to use my chairmanship of this Subcommittee to work on issues that not only matter to America's national and economic security, but also to affect lives here in Minnesota. This hearing was a good step in that direction as it helps to create and maintain and a dialogue with our neighbors on some important issues, such as human rights, economic development and trade, and the development of very personal relations through the Peace Corps and international adoptions." 
   This field hearing will begin a series of official trips to Latin America and hearings Sen. Coleman has scheduled as part of an ambitious two-year agenda as Chairman of the Subcommittee. 
   "I am pleased at the progress we made during this hearing and I intend on taking the concerns that were addressed with me on my visits to Latin America" added Coleman. "Latin America has made great strides toward democracy and free markets - progress unimaginable just a few decades ago. But at the same time, this progress is fragile and needs our support." 
   "I was also moved by the great testimony from Minnesotans representing our person-to-person efforts across the globe, and particularly in Latin America," continued Coleman. "Minnesotans are generous, whether they volunteer for the Peace Corps, or they become families to orphans from countries such as Haiti and Guatemala, or volunteer medical expertise and time. Yesterday, it hit home yesterday what a great tool our humanitarian efforts have been in order to show other countries what America is all about." 
   Panelist for this hearing included: 
   Democracy Development Panel 
   Brian Atwood, Dean of the Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs; Georges Fauriol, Senior Vice President of the International Republican; John Gise, Policy Analyst, Office of National Drug Control Policy; Ron Ryan, State Commander of the Minnesota Gang Strike Force; 
   Economic Development Panel 
   Timothy Punke, Adjunct Professor of International Trade at Georgetown University Law School; Partner, Preston Gates Ellis; Dan Garry, Director of Public Affairs, 3M.; Stephanie Miller, Vice President and Manager of Emerging Market Segments, US Bank; Gabriel Castaneda, Latino Businessman Co-owner of Castaneda Williams, Ltd.; 
   People-to-People Panel
  Kate Raftery, U.S. Peace Corps, National Office, Chief of Operations for the Inter-America and the Pacific region; Steve Spaulding; Former U.S. Peace Corps volunteer, Bolivia; Scott Guerrero, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer CW Government Travel, Inc. Carlson Wagonlit Travel; Sara Shore Reaching Arms International; Kim Valentini, Founder and Executive Director of Smile Network International.
 
 