SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS DOE FUNDING TO CONSTRUCT CLEAN COAL PLANT IN NORTHEASTERN MINNESOTA
  Sen. Norm Coleman, along with Assistant Secretary of Energy Jeffrey Jarrett, today participated in a ceremony awarding Excelsior Energy $36 million from the U.S. Department of Energy to be used in the design and construction of an advanced clean coal plant, which will be located on the Iron Range in northeastern Minnesota. The project is expected to create hundreds of local construction jobs during the three years it takes to build the plant and many permanent high-tech jobs when commercial operations commence.  
   "With rising energy prices and increasing concerns over energy security, the Mesaba Project is a key opportunity for Minnesota to increase domestic energy production, lower the demand for and cost of natural gas, and do so in an environmentally sensitive manner," said Coleman. "This revolutionary energy endeavor continues Minnesota's role as a leader in energy innovation and environmental protection. Best of all, the project will provide jobs in an area that is in sore need of more employment opportunities." 
   Assistant Secretary Jarrett noted, "This project is a prime example of our Administration's efforts to ensure our nation's energy future. Advancing the technology for clean coal is a critical element of ensuring adequate, domestic power supplies, while safeguarding the environment for future generations." 
   Julie Jorgensen, Excelsior co-president and CEO stated, "The DOE funding is a great endorsement of a project that has enjoyed strong, bi-partisan support in Minnesota and nationally, and we are indebted to the DOE for the critical role it has played in advancing the IGCC technology to commercial readiness." 
   "The support the project enjoys from our local, state and national policy makers reflects the important role the Mesaba Energy Project will play in ensuring that our energy infrastructure is sufficient to meet the current and future baseload power needs of our businesses and consumers," added Excelsior co-president and CEO Tom Micheletti. "As we begin the permitting process, we look forward to continuing our dialogue with local communities and regulators. We want to help Minnesotans understand the benefits that this advanced power generation technology offers in meeting our growing need for energy resources while protecting our natural environment." 
   Excelsior Energy Inc. is an energy development company based in Minnetonka, Minnesota. It has brought the Mesaba Project's IGCC plant through the initial phases of development, starting in 2001.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 