SENATE PASSES SEN. COLEMAN AMENDMENT TO FULLY FUND MINNESOTA FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) today was successful in attaching his amendment to protect and sustain Minnesota's forest and timber industry to the Senate FY2008 Budget Resolution. His amendment will enable the forest management plans for the Lakes States region to be fully funded through the President's fiscal year 2008 budget request. Currently, the forest management plans for Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan are funded at just 50 percent of what is authorized. Coleman's amendment would provide $50 million dollars for forest management plans in these states in fiscal year 2008, without raising the overall budget. His amendment, which is cosponsored by Sen. Amy Klobuchar, was passed by unanimous consent.  
   "We are one step closer to ensuring that Minnesota's forests receive the funding needed to fully maintain and manage them," said Coleman. "My colleagues realize the integral role that forests play in our state's economy and way of life. Forest products are a $6.9 billion industry in Minnesota that supports over 55,000 jobs in the state. The amount of money needed to protect this industry is minimal. Failing to provide this funding to the U.S. Forest Service will make it difficult to prevent further layoffs in the timber industry and keep the cost of raw materials competitive. I am also pleased that Senator Klobuchar cosponsored this amendment making it a bipartisan effort to secure this funding," said Coleman. 
   "Minnesota's national forests have been shortchanged time and time again and our timber communities have paid the price," said Klobuchar. "The legislation means our forest managers will get the resources they need to support a vital timber industry." 
   We certainly want to thank Senator Norm Coleman for taking the initiative to propose this amendment securing funding for our national forests, said Bob Anderson, public affairs manager for Boise Cascade in International Falls. This will, without a doubt, help the forest products industry here in Minnesota as we continue to struggle with the many challenges of the global marketplace." 
   "Fully funding the Superior and Chippewa National Forest Plans will improve the competitiveness and long term viability of the forest products industry in northern Minnesota as well as improve the health of the forests. Small mills and logging operations and the jobs and families that depend on a healthy timber industry will all benefit and we appreciate Senator Coleman's leadership on issues important to us," said Scott Dane, Executive Director, Associated Contract Loggers and Truckers. 
   The announcement today regarding the $50 Million in additional funding for the National Forests of Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota is great news as it will have a positive impact for industry, recreation and forest health. Senators Coleman and Klobuchar should be commended for their leadership regarding procuring this additional funding," said Bud Stone, President Grand Rapids Area Chamber of Commerce 
   In December, Senator Coleman - along with former Senator Mark Dayton and each of the senators from Michigan and Wisconsin - sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Dick Kempthorne requesting that new forest management plans for the region be fully funded to help combat high prices and industry layoffs posing significant challenges to the region. 
   "Minnesota's forestry industry has faced extraordinary challenges recently, from subsidized foreign competition to wild fluctuations in raw material costs to depressed markets resulting in lost jobs across Minnesota's timber region," Coleman added. Adequately funding our forest management plans is the first step in the process of reviving, stabilizing and improving the health of our timber industry and the local jobs and economies that depend on it.
 
 