SEN. COLEMAN HELPS CANADIAN BAND ROCK ON IN U.S.
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that The Guess Who, a Canadian rock band from Winnipeg, will be able to stay on schedule and begin their year-long American tour commencing this Wednesday, November 24th, in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan. 
   The Guess Who, famous for songs such as, "American Woman" and "These Eyes" experienced a set-back in their tour today when the band discovered its application for P2 visas, a requirement for the band to work and re-enter the U.S. throughout the tour, had not been processed by U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services. The American Federation of Musicians sponsored the band's visas and paid an additional fee to expedite the application, all received by U.S. officials on November 12, 2004.
   Processing of the visas normally take four to eight days, but the band was notified earlier today that they would not be receiving the visas until November 27, 2004, a delay that would have potentially hurt the band's tour schedule and contract. The band's agent, who has an entertainment company in Chanhassen, immediately contacted Senator Coleman's office to seek assistance.
   "I was thrilled to be able to help the band get back on schedule," said Coleman. "I love music and have even worked in band myself when I was younger. I know the importance and excitement of starting a new tour, and I did not want to see bureaucratic red-tape get in the way. The Guess Who are professionals who are going on the road in order to entertain many of their fans. I was pleased to help them get over this short hurdle."
   "I am truly impressed at the quick response and attention that I received from [Senator Coleman's] office," said The Guess Who agent, Randy Erwin. "They cut through the bureaucracy and saved us from having to cancel the first concert of the tour."
   The Guess Who, the band that became Canada's first international rock music superstars, began in 1962 in Winnipeg as Chad Allen & the Reflections. The Guess Who is scheduled to stop in Minnesota this summer to play at the Taste of Minnesota.
 
 