SEN. COLEMAN INCLUDES KEY FUNDING FOR RETURNING TROOPS, HEALTH SERVICES IN LABOR-HHS-EDUCATION APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Senator Norm Coleman today commended the Senate for passing the fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill, which contains funding he secured for several Minnesota programs, including a reemployment program for Minnesota troops and a number of critical health programs.  
   Specifically, the bill allocates $1 million for Minnesota State Colleges and Universities, for rapid reemployment and education services for returning veterans. The project will help returning troops secure civilian reemployment, with special attention given to younger veterans and those who are medically discharged or disabled. The project will involve Minnesota State Colleges and Universities, Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development, and Veterans Affairs representatives and counselors to coordinate closely and serve veterans interested in pursuing education, including programs customized for veterans' needs. 
   "After serving the longest tour of any unit deployed in Iraq, it is absolutely critical we provide the utmost support for the Minnesota National Guard and other returning reserve and active duty troops," said Coleman. "Many of these brave men and women have put their education on hold to serve our nation. The funding included in this bill will provide the necessary support for these heroes to resume their studies and enter the workforce. We must do all we can to support our troops before, during, and after their deployments and I commend the Senate for including this important provision." 
   Coleman also secured $300,000 for the College of St. Scholastica in Duluth. These funds will be used to implement a demonstration project to improve healthcare quality and reduce costs by working to facilitate the transition to health information technologies within rural hospitals and other healthcare organizations. Additionally, the College of St. Scholastica will provide on-site process consultation; develop demonstration capabilities for staff orientation and training; offer workshops promoting leadership and multidisciplinary collaboration; and provide technical assistance in planning, designing, and implementing Electronic Health Records and Personal Health Records that meet the needs of the population. 
   "Minnesota's economy, infrastructure and overall way of life depend on the well-being of our rural communities," said Coleman. "I have always said that the quality of your healthcare shouldn't depend on your zip code, and by providing our rural areas with the latest technologies and practices, we have a great opportunity to address the unique health-related challenges of many Minnesotans." 
   Senator Coleman worked hard to secure $300,000 for Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota to provide pediatric palliative care education and consultation services to clinicians and providers. Palliative care is compassionate care for individuals with life limiting terminal illnesses, focusing on lessening the physical, psychosocial, and emotional suffering often endured in terminal cases. Recognized as the nation's leader in palliative care education, Children's Institute for Palliative Care develops and leads training seminars using recognized curriculum for pediatric palliative care, provides hospital-based consultation to children who are in need of hospice or palliative care while they are hospitalized, offers an around-the-clock telephone consultation program, and serves as a resource center for pediatric palliative care. 
   Coleman was also successful in securing $350,000 for the University of Minnesota to construct laboratory facilities for expanded facilities for muscular dystrophy research on the Twin Cities campus.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 