SEN. COLEMAN SECURES SAFE RETURN HOME OF MINNESOTA GIRL WRONGLY HELD IN AFRICA
  After being detained for over a week by Kenyan Immigration Authorities who questioned her status as a United States citizen and threatened to deport her to Somalia, five-year-old Fartuun Sheikh will be coming home to her family in St. Paul following the intervention of Sen. Norm Coleman's office.  
   Fartuun, a U.S. citizen born in Buffalo, New York who originally traveled to Kenya to visit relatives with her grandmother in February, was detained at the Kenyan airport last Thursday, September 15th when the pair attempted to return to Minnesota. Kenyan immigration authorities questioned her status as a U.S. citizen based solely on a passport photo taken when she was three years old. After being held for several days at a detention center in the airport, she was moved to a prison in Nairobi. 
   In the meantime, Fartuun's parents, Naimo Salah and Hussein Sheikh, contacted Fartuun's school, which alerted Senator Coleman's casework staff to the situation on Friday, September 16th. Coleman's staff immediately got involved in the case, meeting with family, sending several letters to the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, making numerous phone calls on behalf of the family and providing further documents to help verify the identity of the child in custody. Following these actions, Senator Coleman personally intervened to speed up the investigation through a phone call to the Embassy and was informed today that Fartuun was released from prison today and will be allowed to return home. 
   "After so many days of uncertainty and fear for Fartuun's safety, it is wonderful news that she will be returning to her family," said Senator Coleman. "Fartuun and her family have been through an extremely trying ordeal over the past week and I am thankful to have played a role in helping them put this frightening ordeal behind them and getting Fartuun home." 
   \"I am very glad to hear about the release of my daughter and my mother," said Naimo Salah, Fartuun's mother. "My worry is over. I want to thank Senator Coleman and his staff. Fartuun would not be released without the help of the Senator.\" 
   Officials at the Embassy plan to meet with Fartuun on Monday. Exact details regarding when Fartuun will return to Minnesota have not been finalized.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 