SEN. COLEMAN COSPONSORS BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION TO ENCOURAGE U.S. BUSINESS INNOVATION
  Sen. Norm Coleman today co-sponsored bipartisan legislation to permanently extend, enhance and simplify research and development (R&D) tax credits to fuel job creation, competitiveness and growth, and enable U.S. companies to bring more products and services to market. The Investment in America Act of 2005 (S.627) would make the R&D tax credit permanent, which is set to expire at the end of this year, and establishes a new simplified credit that addresses changes in business models and economic circumstances that can prevent some businesses from using it.  
   "Minnesota is home to more than 1,000 businesses who rely on the R&D tax credit to spur innovation," said Coleman. "The world is moving faster than ever before, so we must look at ways to improve the ability of American companies to stay at the forefront of the technological revolution. Expanding and making the R&D tax credit a permanent fixture in the business community will ensure our long-term competitiveness in the global market." 
   "Permanently expanding, enhancing and simplifying the R&D tax credit sends a strong message that innovation, which is the lifeblood of our technology industries, will continue to be a driving force behind Minnesota's technology-based economy." Kate Rubin, President of the Minnesota High Tech Association added. 
   Since its enactment in 1981, the R&D tax credit has become a powerful and effective incentive for firms to increase research spending and has helped the U.S. remain competitive with other countries that have more generous R&D tax incentives then the U.S. Currently, there are over 16,000 companies utilizing the R&D credit. 
   "To maximize our chances for success, we need to help businesses and individuals innovate," Coleman added. "For the past two years, the U.S. economy has grown faster than the economies of any other major industrialized nation. In fact, we've had twenty-seven consecutive months of job gains, and over the past year, the economy has created 2.2 million jobs. While our economy is robust, I feel strongly that continuing to provide these credits will help U.S. manufacturers and service companies maintain a competitive edge over lower-cost foreign competitors."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 