SEN. COLEMAN HOLDS HEARING TO EXAMINE FRAUD IN FEDERAL TRANSIT BENEFIT PROGRAM
  Sen. Norm Coleman, Ranking Member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, today conducted a Subcommittee hearing on fraud and abuse in the federal transit benefit program, which distributes $250 million in transit subsidies to federal employees. The program, which was initiated government-wide in 2000, was designed to expand commuting options for federal employees to help reduce their contribution to traffic congestion and air pollution. To that end, the federal government distributes vouchers/cards to federal employees for use in their local mass transit system. For instance, employees in the Washington DC area get Metrocheks for use on the DC Metro, buses and regional train systems. However, a recent Government Accountability Office report found that poor government oversight has led to rampant waste and fraud, resulting in the loss of tens of millions of American tax dollars every year. This hearing examined the waste and abuse inherent in the program in an effort to improve oversight and control that will prevent future fraud.  
   "Any federal program that works toward reducing air pollution, traffic congestion, and our reliance on foreign oil should be utilized. The problem is that the internal controls of the transit benefit program are grossly inadequate - with no one agency responsible for overseeing or managing the program. That is a recipe for disaster," said Coleman. "While government agencies look the other way, federal employees are fleecing the government for tens of millions of dollars every year. This is a question of good governance. The purpose for today's hearing was to examine the program's management failures and solve the problems, not to cut the program." 
   The transit program spans the federal government, providing benefits to roughly 300,000 federal government employees nationwide. During the course of the investigation, it was determined that federal employees are using internet websites, such as eBay and Craigslist, to sell their transit subsides. The rules of the program mandate that employees are forbidden from transferring or selling their transit benefits and may not receive benefits that exceed their actual monthly commuting cost. 
   "Employees should be better educated on the proper uses of the transit benefits and the penalties for violating the rules should be made clear. Inspectors General should be encouraged to conduct audits of the program to prevent waste and fraud. And, most importantly, there should be greater clarity on precisely which agency or agencies are responsible for running this operation," Coleman added. "I do not believe that government is inherently inefficient. To the contrary, I believe government can work well when we establish the proper checks and balances to ensure that American tax dollars are being used wisely."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 