SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENTIAL DISASTER DECLARATION FOR OLMSTED, STEELE, WABASHA COUNTIES
  Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman today made the following statement in response to President Bush's declaration of Olmsted, Steele, and Wabasha Counties in Southeast Minnesota as an emergency disaster area in the wake of the recent widespread flood damage.  
   "With the President's disaster declaration, the counties of Olmsted, Steele, and Wabasha will now have access to the vital resources they need to recover and rebuild. Going forward, I would encourage FEMA to open mobile recovery centers in these affected counties, similar to the ones opening in Houston, Winona, and Fillmore counties on Monday. The future quality of life for the residents of these communities depends on a quick response, and I applaud the Administration for immediately recognizing the hardship our families and farmers are facing" said Coleman. 
   Today, Senator Coleman made his second visit to areas in Southeast Minnesota affected by last weekend's flooding. Coleman, who visited the area with Governor Tim Pawlenty and FEMA Administrator David Paulison, visited local officials and residents in Winona and Rushford, while also touring flood damage in the surrounding areas. 
   Following a formal request for a disaster declaration by Governor Pawlenty, President Bush last night declared Fillmore, Houston and Winona Counties in Southeast Minnesota emergency disaster areas. By declaring these communities disaster areas, affected families, businesses and farmers will be eligible for federal assistance to recover from property, crop, and livestock losses. In addition, FEMA is setting up three mobile recovery centers in each county that will serve as the agency's command posts. These centers, which are expected to be in operation early next week, will give citizens the opportunity to meet with counselors and have their questions answered regarding recovery assistance. The locations include: 
   Winona County 
  Underdahl Toyota Building 
  2nd and Huff Street 
  Winona, MN 
   Houston County 
  Hokah Community Center 
  57 Main Street 
  Hokah, MN 
   Fillmore County 
  TRW Automotive 
  Hwy 43 North 
  Rushford, MN
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 