SEN. COLEMAN TOURS SOUTHEAST MINNESOTA WITH GOV. PAWLENTY, FEMA ADMINISTRATOR PAULISON
  During his second visit to areas in Southeast Minnesota affected by last weekend's flooding, Senator Norm Coleman today commended the federal disaster declaration and response efforts thus far, while urging a continued commitment to addressing the needs of flooding victims. Coleman, who visited the area with Governor Tim Pawlenty and FEMA Administrator David Paulison, visited local officials and residents in Winona and Rushford, while also touring flood damage in the surrounding areas.  
   "The President's disaster declaration is a significant first step in helping southeastern Minnesotans overcome the damage wrought by this flood. The people I met with in Winona and Rushford are anxious to get their questions answered and for the rebuilding to begin. I encourage residents to visit one of the three mobile FEMA recovery centers, which will be opening on Monday in Houston, Winona, and Fillmore counties. And while the emergency declaration is bringing much needed federal assistance to these areas, we mustn't forget about the affected areas that do not yet have this important classification. We must keeping working to provide them the help and resources they need," said Coleman. "The livelihood and overall quality of life of these communities directly depends on a quick response to this disaster. I will continue working with the government on every level to ensure each affected community is revitalized and rebuilt." 
   Following a formal request for a disaster declaration by Governor Pawlenty, President Bush last night declared Fillmore, Houston and Winona Counties in Southeast Minnesota emergency disaster areas. By declaring these communities disaster areas, affected families, businesses and farmers will be eligible for federal assistance to recover from property, crop, and livestock losses. In addition, FEMA is setting up three mobile recovery centers in each county that will serve as the agency's command posts. These centers, which are expected to be in operation early next week, will give citizens the opportunity to meet with counselors and have their questions answered regarding recovery assistance. The locations include: 
   Winona County 
  Underdahl Toyota Building 
  2nd and Huff Street 
  Winona, MN 
   Houston County 
  Hokah Community Center 
  57 Main Street 
  Hokah, MN 
   Fillmore County 
  TRW Automotive 
  Hwy 43 North 
  Rushford, MN
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 