SEN. COLEMAN TO TESTIFY ON PROPOSAL FOR REFORM COMMISSION AT SENATE HEARING
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that he will testify before the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs (HSGAC) on Wednesday, January 25, 2006 to introduce his bipartisan legislation drafted with Senator Ben Nelson (D-NE) to form the Commission to Strengthen Confidence in Congress (CSCC), an independent, bipartisan commission to bring greater transparency and long-term reform to Washington. The HSGAC hearing, titled "Lobby Reform: Proposals and Issues," will take place at 9:30 a.m. in Dirksen 342 and will address the recent allegations of ethical misconduct in Washington that have raised concerns on the rules governing members of Congress. In addition to being invited to testify, Coleman is a member of the Committee and will participate in the entirety of the hearing and in future action by the Committee on the issue of lobbying reform.  
   "We have an historic opportunity to position the U.S. Senate to govern more effectively and confidently," said Coleman. "Change for change's sake is not the answer. We need long-term reforms to help restore the public's confidence and trust in their leaders, and the best way to do that is through this commission. We know from our Declaration of Independence that our government derives its 'just Powers from the consent of the governed.' That's why we need to take public doubts about officials' honesty and integrity extremely seriously, and this bipartisan commission is poised to do just that." 
   "Washington needs ethics reform and we should ensure that any reforms considered by Congress are the right reforms that will begin to rebuild America's trust in its government. This bipartisan independent commission is the right approach. It will take the appropriate time to study the issues and propose thoughtful reforms. When given the choice between doing something right or doing something right away, most people will choose doing something right," said Nebraska's Senator Ben Nelson. 
   During the hearing, Coleman will outline details of the Coleman-Nelson legislation announced Monday that would create an independent bipartisan commission to examine various ethics, lobbying and transparency reforms with respect to Congress. The bipartisan Coleman-Nelson legislation requires the CSCC be independent from Congress and develop a reform agenda for Congress to act upon. 
   "The Commission is modeled after the 9/11 and Grace Commissions and is rooted in the concept that historic reforms and meaningful changes are often best proposed from outside an institution," Coleman said. "While I support the adoption of immediate measures to improve transparency, additional recommendations must come from the outside in order to ensure that reforms will serve our institutions and country long after this Commission has been formed." 
   In addition to introducing this lobby reform legislation, Coleman has been active in addressing the issues of congressional disclosure and transparency. Last week the senator posted detailed accounts of his travel records on his website in order to communicate more effectively the nature of his Senate travel. Viewing this as one of the most vital issues facing Congress today, Coleman realizes the urgency needed in addressing both ethics and reform. 
   "We have a responsibility to take the steps necessary to maintain the public's confidence in the Congress," Coleman said. "And I believe this legislation and this hearing will provide the necessary direction and leadership to do so." 
   Coleman will be joined on the first panel by Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Russell Feingold (D-WI), Rick Santorum (R-PA) and Barack Obama (D-IL). 
   WHAT: HSGAC Hearing: "Lobby Reform: Proposals and Issues" 
   WHEN: Wednesday January 25, 2006 9:30 a.m. (EST) 
   WHERE: Room 342 Dirksen Senate Office Building 
   Panel I: 
   Senator John McCain (R-AZ) 
   Senator Russell Feingold (D-WI) 
   Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN) 
   Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) 
   Panel II: 
   Dick Clark (Program Director - Aspen Institute) John Engler (President - National Association of Manufacturers) Bill Samuel (Director of Legislation - AFL-CIO) 
   Panel III: 
   Paul A. Miller (President - American League of Lobbyists) Fred Wertheimer (President - Democracy 21) 
   Note: Hearing will also be available on webcast at www.coleman.senate.gov.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 