SEN. COLEMAN: IMMINENT BORDER TRAVEL CHANGES COMING
  Since the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) was announced in April of 2005, I have been working extensively to ensure the new requirements do not have adverse, negative effects on our border residents, communities and businesses. WHTI will ultimately require all travelers between the U.S. and Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean to present a passport, passport card, or other secure document that denotes identity and citizenship when entering the U.S. While I support the national security goals that brought about this initiative, I worked hard on behalf of affected Minnesotans to lessen the unintended consequences of this proposal - which originally would have required a passport for all travelers by December 31, 2007. 
   Since 2005, I've dedicated myself to addressing the specific needs and concerns I've heard during my frequent travel and conversations with folks living, working and traveling along the border. Through listening sessions, Congressional hearings and legislation, we've conveyed our shared concerns about the impact of WHTI with the folks in charge. I'm proud to say that as a result of all of our hard work together, we've managed to delay implementation of the initiative in order to ensure the government is ready to handle the new requirements when they go into effect. We've also succeeded in providing a cheaper, more convenient alternative to a regular passport that, while admittedly not perfect, is a much better option for our border residents and occasional travelers to Canada. Children will not be required to obtain costly passports or passport cards, but will be able to travel using their birth certificates. And in some states, travelers will be able to cross the border using a secure driver's license.
   In order to provide you with the most up-to-date information about WHTI and border travel, I invite you to read below.
   Latest WHTI Developments:
   Additional Documents for Land and Sea Travel:
   The Department of Homeland Security has announced that as of January 31, 2008, U.S. citizens and residents will need to provide either a WHTI-complaint document, or a minimum combination of a driver's license and birth certificate, for all land border crossings between the United States and Canada or Mexico. Children under 16 years old, as well as children between 16-18 years old who are traveling in school, civic and church groups, will be able to travel using just a birth certificate.
   Final Implementation Deadline Extended:
   The deadline for full implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, which will require a WHTI-compliant document for all land, air and sea crossings between the U.S. and Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean, was recently extended until no earlier than June of 2009 as part of the Omnibus Appropriations bill became law at the end of December. At that time, all travelers crossing the border will be required to have a passport, passport card, WHTI-compliant driver's license, or other WHTI-compliant document.
   Requirements for Air Travel:
   On January 23, 2007, the air travel phase of WHTI took effect, requiring all persons traveling by air to Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean to have a passport. In other words, all persons, including children, traveling by air to any international destination are now required to have a passport. Passport cards will not be valid for air travel.
   Passport Cards Available:
   The State Department has announced that as of February 1st, 2008, citizens will be allowed to apply for new "passport cards", which will meet requirements for all land and sea border crossings under the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative. The cards, which will cost $45 for adults, will be accepted for land and sea crossings between the U.S. and Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean and will provide a cheaper, more convenient alternative for border residents and others who frequently cross land borders. The new passport cards will NOT be accepted for air travel; instead a traditional passport will continue to be required. Children under 16 years old, as well as children between 16-18 years old who are traveling in school, civic and church groups, will be able to make land and sea border crossings using just a birth certificate.
   The card will have the same validity period as a passport book: 10 years for an adult, five for children 15 and younger. For adults who already have a passport book, they may apply for the card as a passport renewal and pay only $20. First-time applicants will pay $45 for adult cards and $35 for children. Applying for a passport card will be the same process as applying for a passport. For more information about applying for a passport, please visit: http://travel.state.gov/passport.
   Enhanced Driver's Licenses:
   After years of advocating for an enhanced driver's license option to WHTI, I am pleased that a number of states are moving forward with this approach. Minnesota is not yet one of these states, however.
   List of WHTI-Compliant Documents:
   The following documents can be used to fulfill specific WHTI requirements as follows:
   U.S. Passport: U.S. citizens may present a valid U.S. passport when traveling via air, land or sea between the U.S. and the aforementioned Western Hemisphere countries.
   The Passport Card: U.S. citizens may begin applying in advance for this new, limited-use, wallet-size passport card beginning February 1, 2008. The State Department expects cards to be available and mailed to applicants in the spring 0f 2008. When available, it will only be valid for land and sea travel between the U.S. and Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean region, and Bermuda.
   Other Accepted Travel Documents: NEXUS, SENTRI, FAST and the U.S. Coast Guard Mariner Document will also be deemed as WHTI-compliant documents. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces on active duty traveling on orders are exempt from the passport requirement. NEXUS is a registered traveler program for the northern border, SENTRI is a registered traveler program for the southern border, and FAST cards are used for cross-border commercial purposes. For further information on these documents, please visit http://www.cbp.gov/xp/cgov/travel/trusted_traveler/.
    For further details on the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, please visit http://www.dhs.gov/xtrvlsec/crossingborders/index.shtm#3.
 
 