SEN. COLEMAN DEMANDS THAT MEXICAN AUTHORITIES HONOR THEIR COMMITMENT NOT TO PROSECUTE JAILED MINNESOTA WOMAN
  After learning that Mexican authorities have apparently decided to proceed with prosecuting jailed Minnesota native Cynthia Kiecker despite President Vicente Fox's assurances to the contrary, Sen. Norm Coleman today sent pointed and terse correspondence to the Mexican leader urging him to honor his personal commitment to drop the Kiecker case. The promise was made to Coleman during Fox's official visit last Friday to Minnesota.  
   "While you were in my home State of Minnesota, a firm commitment was made to me and the people of Minnesota that this case would not be prosecuted and it is my most sincere hope that Mexico will stand by your commitment," Coleman wrote in the letter to Fox. 
   Cynthia Kiecker, a Minnesota native, and her husband have been held in a jail for more than a year in the Mexican state of Chihauhau in connection with the investigation into the death of a 16 year old. She has maintained her innocence and her parents, from Bloomington, Minnesota, have vocally criticized the Mexican authorities' handling of the case, including allegations their daughter and her husband were tortured into confessing. The family of the 16 year old victim also believes in Kiecker's innocence. 
   Mexican officials today stated that "a mistake was made" when they communicated to Senator Coleman that Ms. Kiecker would not be prosecuted by the state. 
   "Clearly, you can appreciate the outrage of the Kiecker family and all Minnesotans, including this United States Senator," Coleman wrote. 
   In a phone call to Carlos de Icaza, Mexican Ambassador to the U.S., Coleman also reiterated his anger over today's developments and requested a prompt reply from Mexican officials on this urgent matter. 
   Coleman is the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Narcotics, and Peace Corps, which has jurisdiction over issues pertaining to Mexico and other nations throughout the hemisphere. 
   "Let me be crystal clear: I will not allow this issue to go away," Coleman commented. "My staff and I will be pursuing this case aggressively each and every day."
 
 