SEN. COLEMAN CO-CHAIRS AFRICAN AMERICAN LEADERSHIP SUMMIT
  Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN) today, along with Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson (R-TX), co-chaired the African American Leadership Summit in Washington, D.C. This summit brought hundreds of leaders from around the country to Washington to address critical issues such as education, health care and economic development. During the summit, Coleman led discussions on leadership and eliminating the healthcare disparity. In attendance was St. Paul City Council member Debbie Montgomery.  
   "The summit provided an important opportunity to hear and learn from leaders from around the country about closing the education achievement gap, reducing health care disparities and creating economic opportunities and jobs," said Coleman. "I have been truly inspired by the energy and passion these leaders have in wanting to improve their communities' well-being. From my experience as a former urban mayor, I can tell you that the rebirth of my city could not have happened unless all communities were engaged and able to contribute to the city. We must never forget that the problems affecting the African American community are America's problems. Simply put, the best way to understand the needs of the community is by listening, and I will use today's summit to continue identifying and working toward solutions." 
   Approximately 350 African American leaders from 37 states were expected to attend the Summit to discuss policy issues with members of the United States Congress and the Bush Administration. 
   Senator Coleman participated in the following forums: 
   Inspiring Leaders: Advancing a Legacy of Empowerment 
   U.S. Senator Norm Coleman 
   The Hon. Louis Sullivan, M.D., President Emeritus, Morehouse School of Medicine 
   Frederick D. McClure, Partner, Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP 
   Eliminating Disparities: Expanding Access to Affordable Health Care 
   U.S. Senator Norm Coleman 
   Admiral John O. Agwunobi, M.D., M.B.A, M.P.H, Assistant Secretary for Health, 
   U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
   Bettye Davis-Lewis, Ed.D, R.N, FAAN, President, National Black Nurses Association, Inc. and CEO, Diversified Health Care Systems
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 