SEN. COLEMAN SUBCOMMITTEE INVESTIGATION INTO TAX SHELTERS PAYS OFF WITH BILLIONS FOR TREASURY
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that the Internal Revenue Service has recovered $3.2 billion from taxpayers participating in the Son of Boss tax shelter exposed during hearings by the Senate Governmental Affairs Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI) and the Senate Finance Committee.  
   As part of the settlement, participants of Son of Boss, an abusive transaction tax shelter that ran in the late 1990s and 2000, will be required to concede 100 percent of their claimed tax losses and pay a penalty of either 10 percent or 20 percent unless they previously disclosed there transaction to the IRS. 
   "This settlement is evidence of how we are cracking down on tax fraud and abuse," Coleman said. "Because of abusive tax shelters like Son of Boss that steal billions of dollars from the U.S. Treasury, honest taxpayers are being forced to make up the difference. I am pleased that we have reached a settlement to retrieve $3.2 billion in assets being returned to the government. It means in the long run this settlement will translate to real savings for real people who play and pay by the rules." 
   To date, $3.2 billion in taxes, interest, and penalties have been collected from the 1,165 taxpayers who are participating in the settlement. According the IRS, the typical taxpayer payment was $1 million, with 18 taxpayers paying more than $20 million each. When the project is completed, IRS officials believe the total amount received from Son of Boss participants will reach $3.5 billion. 
   Based on disclosure lists from the Department of Justice, the IRS has determined that just over 1,800 people participated in Son of Boss. Those participants not part of the settlement will receive a deficiency notice from the IRS disallowing all claimed tax losses and transaction costs, and will be assessed the maximum applicable penalty of 40 percent. 
   "I have spoken IRS Commissioner Mark Everson and he has assured me that sleeping dogs will not lie on this issue," added Coleman. "We intend on working together to ensure that those who are not involved in the settlement will be brought to justice." 
   Last February, PSI released a bipartisan Subcommittee report with ten recommendations to combat abusive and illegal tax shelters. 
   "I am against regulation just for the sake of regulation, the preferable way is for professional firms to self-impose high ethical standards without requiring Congressional review to highlight their transgressions", said Coleman. "As a result of our investigation, the accounting firms examined in this report have committed to changing their ways. However, stronger penalties and the recommendations in this report to reign in accounting firms and bankers and lawyers are still needed to restore the public trust in our tax laws. This settlement is a good first step in that direction." 
   As PSI Chairman, Coleman has worked hard to curb the waste, abuse, and fraud plaguing our tax system. In November, 2003, Coleman and ranking member Senator Carl Levin (D-MI) held a two day hearing that implicated prestigious accounting, legal and financial firms in the development, marketing and implementation of abusive and illegal tax shelters to millionaire clients. Also, in January, 2004, PSI held a hearing that revealed the rampant tax avoidance and evasion by Pentagon contractors in an attempt to recoup the estimated $3 billion in back taxes owed the U.S. Treasury.
 
 