AGRICULTURE DISASTER ASSISTANCE HEADS TO PRESIDENT'S DESK
  Sen. Norm Coleman's longtime fight for agriculture disaster assistance moves closer to reality with today's Senate passage of $3 billion in emergency disaster assistance in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for 2007. Coleman has fought tirelessly for emergency funding to come to the aid of Minnesota farmers affected by flooding in 2005 and drought in 2006. Earlier, this bill was approved by U.S. House of Representatives and will now be sent to President Bush, who is expected to sign the bill into law.  
   "For well over a year, I have been fighting to deliver disaster assistance to Minnesota farmers that have been devastated by flooding and drought over the past few growing seasons," said Coleman. "Though we have passed funding in the Senate before, this is the first time we have been able to get funding passed by Congress that the President can sign. While I remain frustrated by how long it took to deliver this funding, I am relieved we were finally able to deliver money to those farm families who need it most." 
   In March, the Senate approved $4.2 billion in disaster assistance funding as part of the Senate supplemental spending bill. The latest version of the bill, which was crafted in conference committee between both the U.S. House and Senate, sets the total amount to $3 billion. Specifically, the bill will provide crop disaster assistance and livestock assistance to farmers affected by storms between 2005 and 2007. Importantly, the bill provides an extension of the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program by one month, which is critical to ensuring MILC can be included in the next farm bill. 
   "While I would have preferred we maintain the $4.2 billion in disaster aid we passed earlier in the Senate in order to aid all farmers in need, the important thing is that we have delivered significant emergency assistance to our growers and producers - some of whom have already faced the loss of the family farm due to weather beyond their control," Coleman added. "The length of this entire process only underscores the need for a permanent disaster assistance package in the upcoming Farm Bill and I will continue fighting for this to ensure our farm families are never left out in the cold." 
   Over the past two years, Senator Coleman has led numerous efforts among a bipartisan group of colleagues to deliver emergency funding to farmers in need. Along with demanding disaster assistance on the Senate floor on numerous occasions, Coleman has sent two letters to Senate Leadership demanding a Senate vote on disaster aid and helped lead the fight against previous efforts to strip disaster funding from the supplemental spending bill.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 