SEN. COLEMAN SENDS LETTER TO GAO REQUESTING GOVERNMENT-WIDE REVIEW OF PRACTICES IN LIGHT OF STOLEN VETERANS DATA
  Citing concern for the 26.5 million veterans who may be at risk of identity theft, Sen. Norm Coleman today sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting a government-wide review of the current policies and practices to ensure the protection of sensitive identity information of Americans, in order to determine the extent of vulnerabilities in information security across the federal government. Furthermore, Coleman has asked the GAO to determine whether these policies may allow for a similar type of security breach at other federal agencies. Upon conclusion of the study, Coleman has requested that GAO provide any recommendations that might prevent future security breaches. 
   "The breach of security at the VA sends a clear message that we need to look at the entire spectrum of practices in place to protect American's sensitive information," said Coleman. "Sadly, the personal information of up to 26.5 million veterans has been compromised. I am concerned this type of breach could just as easily happen to agencies like the Department of Health and Human Services, or the IRS. By requesting the GAO to take a closer look and report back with their recommendations, we will be better suited to prevent this from happening in the future."  
   On May 3rd, a laptop containing electronic data with the names, birth dates and Social Security numbers of up to 26.5 million veterans was stolen from the home of a VA employee. A full-scale investigation has been launched by law enforcement agencies, including the FBI and the VA Inspector General's office. 
   Text of the letter sent to GAO can be found below: 
   May 25, 2006 
   The Honorable David M. Walker 
  Comptroller General of the United States 
  U.S. Government Accountability Office 
  441 G Street, N.W. 
  Washington, DC 20548 
   Dear Mr. Comptroller General: 
   On May 22, 2006, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced that one of its employees had removed electronic data from the VA and that the data was later stolen from the employee's residence. The data in question contained identifying information for up to 26.5 million veterans and some of their spouses, including names, social security numbers, dates of birth, and disability ratings. I am deeply concerned about the apparent ease with which the VA employee removed this sensitive data. 
   The federal government is responsible for maintaining and protecting sensitive information that Americans are required to provide for a wide array of reasons, including paying taxes, receiving medical and disability benefits, and obtaining retirement compensation. Identity theft and fraud is a national problem that has affected more than 10 million Americans and this case raises the question of what the federal government is doing to protect this sensitive information so it does not fall into the wrong hands. 
   In order to determine the extent of the vulnerabilities in information security across the federal government, I request that you conduct a government-wide review of (i) the current policies and practices in place meant to protect the sensitive identity information of Americans, and (ii) whether these policies may allow for a similar type of security breach at other federal agencies. In addition, I request that GAO provide any recommendations that might prevent future security breaches. 
   Thank you for your consideration of my request. In the meantime, if your staff has any questions concerning this request, they may contact Alan Elias of my staff on (202) 224-4212. 
   Sincerely, 
   Norm Coleman 
  United States Senate
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 