SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES PRIME MINISTER OLMERT'S ADDRESS TO JOINT SESSION OF CONGRESS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today praised Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's appearance before a joint session of Congress, and was pleased with the warm reception he received from his colleagues.  
   "Given the long-standing friendship between our nations, I am pleased that Prime Minister Olmert was granted an opportunity to address a joint session of Congress," said Coleman. "There are many critical issues that we share in common with Israel, and it is very important that we cultivate a strong working relationship to tackle these problems. I believe that Mr. Olmert holds a strong commitment to achieving peace in the Middle East, and I believe our countries can continue working together to achieve this goal." 
   Along with other leading members of the Senate and House, Coleman escorted Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to the floor of the House to address a joint session of Congress. During his address, Olmert made reference to Israel's troubling relationship with Iran. Iran has repeatedly stated its intention of destroying Israel. As Iran continues its pursuit of a nuclear weapon, Coleman believes it is their intent to use it to harm Israel. 
   "One of the gravest threats facing our country, as well as the Middle East, today is the possibility of a nuclear-armed Iran," Coleman added. "In order to prevent this scenario, they must be stopped from possessing the ability to enrich uranium. If Iran is allowed to possess a weapon of mass destruction not only do I believe Israel will be attacked, but a complete destabilization of the region will ensue. We need China and Russia to recognize the disastrous implications of allowing them to obtain a nuclear weapon." 
   Arriving on Monday, Olmert is making his first official visit to Washington this week as Israel's prime minister. In addition to addressing the Congress, Olmert has met with President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
   The friendship of Senator Coleman and Prime Minister Olmert extends back to the days when both served as Mayors of St. Paul and Jerusalem, respectively. At that time, they both shared ideas on how to improve their cities. Now they share an even larger vision of forging stronger ties between the U.S. and Israel.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 