BUSH RELEASES FUNDING FROM RECENTLY SIGNED SEN. COLEMAN LIHEAP BILL
  Citing the concerns of families across Minnesota, Sen. Norm Coleman was pleased to announce that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will release over $29 million in energy assistance funding from the Low Income Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP) bill he coauthored which was recently signed into law by President Bush. The legislation will deliver a total of $1 billion to states for home energy assistance for low-income households in fiscal year 2006, including $500 million in additional LIHEAP formula funding and $500 million in LIHEAP contingency funds that states can use to meet immediate needs. This legislation has made it possible for Minnesota to receive an additional $29,139,232 million in funding, bringing the total fiscal year 2006 amount to $110,849,427. The low-income heating assistance fund provides crucial funding for over 140,000 Minnesotans in dire need of heating assistance this year.  
   "The President's signature marks the victory of a long fought battle to get Minnesotans the resources they need to stay warm during the frigid winter months," said Coleman. "We simply could not sit back and allow the high price of heating homes to continue to financially paralyze over 140,000 Minnesota families. With an additional $1 billion in funding now available, many families will not have to face the difficult situation of having to choose between staying warm and purchasing food or medicine. I applaud my colleagues, Senators Snowe and Collins, who fought with me on the Senate Floor for this much-needed funding." 
   Minnesota is one of the coldest states in the country, and natural gas prices have risen dramatically in the past year. Natural gas users saw double digit increases last year, and families on average are likely to experience up to a 35 percent increase this year. With over 60 percent of all LIHEAP households in Minnesota heating their homes with natural gas, families across the state are facing a tangible burden as heating bills continue to rise. These costs hit low income households and fixed income seniors the hardest, a blow LIHEAP is designed to soften. 
   Coleman has been a consistent supporter of increased funding for LIHEAP. In December, Senators Coleman, Snowe, and Collins successfully secured a commitment from Senate Leadership to move this bill forward in the Senate. 
   On March 1, 2006, Senator Coleman sent a letter to the President urging him to immediately release the remaining balance of funds in the LIHEAP contingency fund. On February 13th, Coleman held a hearing in St. Paul to address the volatility in the Natural Gas Market to assess the impact the high prices of gas has had on Minnesotan consumers, businesses, and families.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 