SEN. COLEMAN VOTES TO EXTEND TAX RELIEF VITAL TO MINNESOTA ECONOMY
  Sen. Norm Coleman last night, along with a bipartisan majority of his colleagues, voted to extend the President's historic tax relief package that was scheduled to expire at the end of the year. This legislation would extend the $1,000 child tax credit for five years, the marriage penalty relief for four and the expanded 10 percent tax bracket for six years. The House has passed similar legislation and the bill now moves onto the White House, where it is expected the President will sign this legislation soon. 
   "Last night we killed a major tax increase on Minnesota working families," Coleman said. "Our economy is on the move again and raising taxes would only slow it down. Hardworking American families deserve to keep more of their hard-earned income. This is important legislation."
   Had the Senate failed to renew the three provisions of the President's tax relief listed above, a working family of four with a taxable income of $58,100 would have ended up paying $1,611 more in taxes in 2005. That's a 26 percent tax increase.
   Families across the country, including those in Minnesota, have already benefited immensely from this tax relief. In Minnesota alone, 1.9 million taxpayers saw their taxes decline under the President's tax relief. And more than 1.2 million couples in Minnesota have benefited from the reduced marriage penalty and more than 475,000 couples and single parents have seen an increase in their child tax credit. Without today's legislative action, a tax increase of $400 per child would have taken effect.
   In addition, to these three provisions, this legislation also extends for one year current relief from the alternative minimum tax, which was intended to make sure that wealthy Americans did not escape paying taxes but is starting to ensnare more middle income taxpayers.
   "The Alternative Minimum tax had good intentions, but is badly in need of reform because it is hitting middle class families never intended to be affected," Coleman said. "I'm pleased we were able to extend relief from this tax for one more year, but this does not detract from the very real need to find a permanent solution to this issue. We have work to do still."
   Thanks to the President's tax relief passed in 2001, the economy has grown for 11 consecutive quarters, 1.7 million jobs have been created over the past year and home ownership is at a record level. The economy is on the mend.
   "I will continue to work to enact a pro-jobs, pro-growth agenda, which included maintaining the President's tax relief and keeping the faith with working moms and dads," Coleman concluded.
 
 