SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES RESOLUTION CONDEMNING IRAN'S APPOINTMENT TO U.N. DISARMAMENT COMMISSION
  Sen. Norm Coleman today introduced a Sense of the Senate Resolution expressing deep disappointment in the election of Iran as a Vice-Chair of the United Nation's Disarmament Commission, citing Iran's pursuit of nuclear weapons. The resolution calls on the Administration to withhold funding slated for the U.N. Disarmament Commission, and any commission of the U.N. where member states that violate the principles it claims to promote are included in its membership. Iran currently stands in defiance of various resolutions of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and a Presidential Statement of the Security Council in regards to its nuclear program. Iran has also made numerous public statements regarding its intention to annihilate Israel.  
   "Iran's participation on this commission is another example of how the U.N. has become a weapon of mass contradiction--placing a willful violator of disarmament principles bent on the destruction of a fellow member state in a leadership position on the Disarmament Commission," said Coleman. "I would be remiss if I didn't call attention to this travesty. The international community should not reward Iran's efforts to undermine international peace and security by giving it full participatory rights in all UN bodies. If the U.N. is to become a credible institution, it must put a stop to placing the world's worst regimes in positions of leadership." 
   Regional groups control membership selection in UN bodies, and the Asian regional group members of the Disarmament Commission put forward Iran as a Vice-Chair. As a result, Iran is already working hard to transform the Commission into a platform for anti-semitism. Last week at a working group meeting, Iran's representative to the Disarmament Commission stated that suggestions that Iran had a nuclear weapons program were "Jewish propaganda" fabricated by the "Jewish lobby" in the United States. These brazenly anti-semitic statements were objected to by our American representative, but other members, including the Chair of the working group, remained silent. 
   "It is no surprise that the Iranians have already started their campaign against Israel at the Disarmament Commission," Coleman added. "Member states have not only allowed for the continued discrimination against Israel, but also refuse to take action to prevent Iran from acquiring the means to carry out its destructive agenda. By withholding U.S. dues to the Disarmament Commission, we could spend the money on other priorities that do not harm U.S. interests."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 