SENATE PASSES SEN. COLEMAN AMENDMENT TO IMPROVE K-12 MATH, SCIENCE EDUCATION
  Recognizing the importance of keeping America competitive in the global marketplace, Sen. Norm Coleman praised the passage of the America COMPETES Act, which included Sen. Coleman's amendment aimed at providing incentive grants to elementary and secondary schools for improved achievement in math and science. Specifically, Coleman's amendment would award a bonus Math and Science Partnership grant of $50,000 to three elementary and three secondary low-income schools in each state that make the largest year-to-year improvement in the scores on their state's math and science assessment tests. The Coleman amendment is part of the larger bill, which passed by a vote of 88 to 8, that aims to increase research investment, strengthen educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics from elementary through graduate school, and develop an innovation infrastructure. Coleman is a cosponsor of the legislation.  
   "I have heard time and again from our educators that they would like to see more carrots instead of sticks," said Coleman. "This is precisely what my amendment does. By encouraging and rewarding improvements in math and science, we will better equip our teachers to help their students excel in these subject matters. If we are to remain competitive in today's global market, we need to focus on increasing the number of students entering the areas of math and science and improving their education in these areas." 
   In addition to Coleman's provision, the America COMPETES Act will: 
   Increase research investment: by providing increased funding for programs such as the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Department of Energy's Office of Science and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The bill also directs NASA to increase funding for basic research and to participate fully in interagency activities to foster competitiveness and innovation. Additionally, the legislation will require the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and other agencies to promote U.S. leadership in the fields of ocean and atmospheric research. 
   Strengthen educational opportunities: by authorizing competitive grants to states for elementary and secondary education; assisting states in expanding specialty math and science schools; and establishing training programs for math and science teachers. The bill also will expand scholarship programs, Advanced Placement (AP) and International Baccalaureate (IB) programs, NSF research grant opportunities, Math Now grants, and programs to increase the number of students who study foreign languages. 
   Develop an Innovation Infrastructure: by establishing a President's Council on Innovation and Competitiveness to develop a comprehensive agenda to promote innovation and competitiveness in the public and private sectors. The bill will also require the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study of barriers to innovation. 
   "While the challenges to our leadership in the global economy are significant, I am confident and optimistic that we will successfully address challenges by increasing our focus on education, research and innovation," said Coleman. "By passing this bill, we are making important strides toward maintaining and improving the competitiveness of our future workforce. This is a bipartisan bill that emerged from bipartisan study of this critical issue and I am proud to support it."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 