SEN. COLEMAN CALLS FOR MAINTAINING FARM BILL SAFETY NET IN COMMODITY TITLE
  Knowing that the farm bill's commodity title gives Minnesota farmers the tools they need to provide Americans with a safe and affordable food supply, and that it is the underpinning of the rural economy, Sen. Norm Coleman cautioned farm groups against paying for new farm bill items with commodity title funding at a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing today. Sen. Coleman listened to the commodity title recommendations of various farm groups and questioned whether national farm groups would be willing to pay for additional farm bill proposals out of the commodity title. During the hearing, Sen. Coleman also emphasized the need to ensure that as the ethanol and biodiesel industries grow, those living in local communities are able to continue to invest in these biofuel plants that have brought needed rural development to small Minnesota communities.  
   "Today it was reported that food safety problems in China led to the death of 13 babies in the country," stated Coleman. "In the United States, we go to the grocery store with confidence, but many Americans don't realize food doesn't come from a shelf in the store, it comes from our farms. We have the safest, most reliable food supply in the world - something our farmers can't accomplish without a strong commodity title. Congress should not take funding from commodity programs to pay for new farm bill initiatives. That's why I've been calling for farm bill funding above our current levels to pay for a larger energy title, among other things." 
   Witnesses at the hearing included: Tom Buis, National Farmers Union; Bob Stallman, American Farm Bureau; Bill Flory, American Farmland Trust; David Beckman, Bread for the World; Dusty Tallman, National Association of Wheat Growers; John Hoffman, American Soybean Association; and Ken McCauley, National Corn Growers Association. 
   "Representing the state that has led the way on renewable fuels, I am proud that today Minnesota farmers are helping to fuel a nation," said Coleman. "Renewable fuels have also helped keep more of the value of Minnesota's crops in our rural communities through local ownership, and we need to make sure these small communities continue to have this opportunity. Additionally, we need to figure out a permanent agriculture disaster assistance policy in the farm bill. For almost two years now, we have been fighting hard to secure disaster assistance for Minnesotans for the floods of 2005 and the drought of 2006. The current ad hoc process to get aid for our disaster-stricken farmers is cumbersome and inefficient."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 