SEN. COLEMAN TRAVELS TO ISRAEL; PRAISES COMMITMENT OF ISRAELI LEADERSHIP TO NATIONAL, ECONOMIC SECURITY
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) recently returned from a three-day journey to Israel. It was Coleman's fourth trip to Israel, the first since he took office as a United States Senator. During his trip, Coleman toured Israeli security operations, including the security perimeter between Israel and the West Bank, and met with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, along with former Prime Ministers Benjamin Netanyahu, Ehud Barak, and Shimon Peres. The Minnesota Senator left more certain than ever that the steps Israel is taking to secure its civilian population against terrorist attacks are both necessary and justified. 
   "My visit has reaffirmed my conviction that the security measures Prime Minister Sharon is taking are both just and necessary," Coleman said. "The persistent threat of terrorism has forced Israel to erect this temporary security barrier. It's that simple. Israelis did not ask for this fence, but merciless, ceaseless attacks have made this safeguard absolutely necessary to protect the Israeli population."
   Since Israel erected the security fence, terrorist attacks have fallen 70% or more. Coleman also reaffirmed his support for the Arrow missile system, which defends civilians in a way the fence cannot: protect Israeli sovereign soil from aerial missile attack.
   Coleman also praised Prime Minister Sharon's decision to withdraw from Gaza, reducing the number of targets vulnerable to terrorist attack.
   "That decision will make Israeli families more secure, and that's why it was the right thing to do," Coleman continued.
   Coleman returned to the United States with a renewed concern about Iranian efforts to develop nuclear technology and the regime's continued support of international terrorism.
   "The United Nations Security Council needs to address this issue. Iran must not be permitted to obtain a nuclear weapon," Coleman said. "Iran is still the number one state sponsor of terror and we cannot afford to see Hezbollah's sponsor gain nuclear weapons."
   Coleman applauded the Israeli government's handling of that nation's economy under the direction of Finance Minister and former Prime Minister Netanyahu. The Israel economy has recovered from the slump it experienced due to the Intifada beginning in September 2000. Economists anticipate that Israel's economy will grow by 3.8% this year and next.
   "Israel's economy is strong despite tremendous stress," Coleman said. "Prime Minister Sharon and Finance Minister Netanyahu deserve a great deal of credit. They are doing a great job preserving and expanding Israel's prosperity."
   At separate meetings, Coleman met with Prime Minister Sharon and former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of the Likud party, as well as former Prime Minister Peres of the Labour party. All three emphasized what a steadfast friend President George W. Bush and the United States has been to Israel.
   "The Israeli leadership from both parties agree that Israel has no more loyal friend than President George W. Bush and the United States," Coleman concluded. "Pakistan is out of the terror business. Libya is no longer seeking nuclear weapons. The Saudi government is cracking down on terrorism. And, Saddam Hussein is no longer in power. They understand that the neighborhood around them is a better, safer place. This President and this nation's commitment to Israel's national and economic security is unmatched."
 
 