REP. KENNEDY, SEN. COLEMAN CALL FOR ACTION ON BANKING REGULATIONS EFFECT ON SOMALI COMMUNITY
  Citing increasing difficulties experienced by Minnesota's Somali community in sending funds to their families in Somalia as a consequence of new banking regulations, Rep. Mark Kennedy (R-MN) and Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) today urged the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FINCEN) division to consider proposing appropriate regulatory and guidance changes and conduct enhanced outreach efforts with the Minnesota banking and Somali communities. Kennedy and Coleman also requested the House Financial Services Committee and Senate Banking Committee to hold a field hearing in Minnesota to hear first hand accounts of the importance of maintaining remittances between the U.S. and Somalia. 
   "I am confident that we can strike a balance that allows for remittances and still prevents money laundering, terrorist financing and other criminal activities," said Coleman. "Minnesota is home to the largest Somalia community in America, and they are understandably nervous about being unable to send money to their families in need. I believe that by holding a Congressional hearing in Minnesota we can shine a greater amount of light on this situation. I will continue working with Congressman Kennedy and the Treasury Department to find a solution."  
   "Given the long standing hardships the people of Somalia have faced, it is critical that we find a way to ensure that Somalis living in Minnesota can continue to support their families back home. Humanitarian remittances are a fact of life for many impoverished Somalis, so we need a fair regulatory system that allows for the lawful transfer of funds so that money isn't driven out of the banking system and under the radar, where we can't prevent it from ending up in the hands of terrorists and other criminals," said Kennedy. "I am pleased to join with Senator Coleman in asking the Banking Committee and Financial Services Committee, on which I serve, to hold hearings on the matter in Minnesota, so that Congress can hear firsthand from the largest Somali population in the United States." 
   The Somali community remits an estimated $800 million to $1 billion a year, according to the World Bank. This amounts to approximately $100 per capita for a country with an annual per capita income of $600. 
   In April 2005, Treasury's FINCEN and the Federal Banking Agencies issued Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) related compliance guidance to the banking community as well as money services businesses (MSBs), which oftentimes is the only practical financial services option for the Somali community. The new guidance has led some banks to end or reduce their relationships with MSBs, which in turn has had an adverse impact on the Somali community. The BSA requires banks to conduct due diligence activities designed to uncover terrorist financing, money laundering and other criminal activities. 
   Text of the letters are as follows: 
   August 25, 2006 
   The Honorable Richard Shelby The Honorable Michael Oxley 
  Chairman, Committee on Banking, Chairman 
  Housing and Urban Affairs Committee on Financial Services 
  United States Senate United States House of Representatives 
  Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20515 
   Dear Chairman Shelby and Chairman Oxley: 
   We write this letter to request a hearing in our home state of Minnesota so that you might hear firsthand about the importance of maintaining vital remittances between our country and the homelands of our immigrant communities. 
   Our home state of Minnesota has been one of the most welcoming to those seeking refuge from violence, persecution, and want. Thousands of immigrants from many parts of the world have found a better life for themselves and their children in Minnesota, and have become valuable members of our community. At the same time, they have not forgotten their families, friends and communities back in their native lands. 
   One way these immigrants have supported their friends and family back home is through cash remittances. For the Somali community in Minnesota, this has been an especially important means of providing support to loved ones in their troubled homeland. According to the World Bank, the total amount of these remittances is between $800 million and $1 billion a year. To put this in perspective, this is approximately $100 per capita for a country with a per capita income of only $600 per year. Clearly, the money sent to their homeland by the Somali community in Minnesota and elsewhere in the country is vital - and often the difference between life and death. 
   That is why we have been concerned to hear from the Somali community in Minnesota, and other stakeholders, that the flow of life-saving remittances has been severely threatened as a result of guidance issued in April 2005 by the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FINCEN) and the federal banking agencies. We are concerned that the guidance has failed to strike the appropriate, albeit difficult, balance among important national security, commercial, and social interests. 
   In the post-9/11 world, we fully understand and support reasonable efforts to ensure that our global financial system is not used to launder money and otherwise facilitate terrorism and criminal enterprises. According to reports, our efforts in the five years since those attacks have significantly impaired terrorist financing, and have been instrumental in counterterrorism operations such as the recent successful arrest of the terrorist plotters in London. 
   That said we believe it is possible to achieve the balance between preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, and permitting legitimate remittance flows. We believe a field hearing in Minnesota would allow Congress to hear from interested parties about the need to achieve this balance and the means with which we can do it. We look forward to working with you on this important issue. 
   Respectfully, 
   Mark Kennedy 
  Member of Congress 
   Norm Coleman 
  United States Senator 
   August 25, 2006 
   Mr. Robert W. Werner 
  Director 
  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network 
  Department of the Treasury 
  1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW 
  Washington, D.C. 20220 
   Dear Director Werner: 
   We are writing to you to express our concern relating to the impact on the Somali community in Minnesota of guidance issued by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FINCEN) and the federal banking agencies in April 2005 regarding compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) regulations by the banking industry and money services businesses (MSBs). 
   The Somali community has come to depend on MSBs to provide critical financial support in the form of remittances to loved ones, friends and former communities in their troubled homeland. The World Bank estimates that the total amount of these remittances is between $800 million and $1 billion a year. This amounts to approximately $100 per capita for a country with a per capita income of only $600 per year. As a result of the April 2005 guidance, however, it has come to our attention that some MSBs have ceased or will soon cease their remittance services among other important financial service offerings, principally as a result of their banking partners' decisions to terminate their relationship out of BSA compliance concerns. 
   In the post-9/11 world we fully appreciate and understand the difficult balance that needs to be struck among national security, law enforcement, commercial and social interests. We fully support efforts by the Treasury Department and FINCEN to target terrorist financing, money laundering and other criminal activities. We also appreciate FINCEN's acknowledged sensitivity to the difficulty in achieving this balance. That said, we are troubled that the current state of affairs does not represent the proper balance. 
   Accordingly, with the aforementioned in mind we respectfully request that FINCEN: 
   * Inform us of outreach efforts undertaken to date in Minnesota, especially with respect to the Somali community; 
   * Conduct greater outreach efforts with the Minnesota banking and Somali communities including offering guidance in the Somali language (including on FINCEN's website for MSBs); and 
   * Expeditiously review comments solicited in its recent advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) on the BSA and consider appropriate regulatory and guidance changes. 
   Although it is important that there be full compliance with the letter and spirit of the BSA, it is also just as important that BSA compliance efforts do not jeopardize the critical financial support from the Somali community to its homeland. 
   We appreciate your prompt consideration of our concern and recommendations and look forward to hearing from you. 
   Sincerely, 
   Mark Kennedy 
  Member of Congress
   Norm Coleman 
  United States Senator.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 