SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILL PAVING WAY FOR MINNESOTA HMONG STUDENT TO STAY HOME
  Sen. Norm Coleman today introduced a bill that would allow Tchisou, a Hmong immigrant, to stay in this country by adjusting his status to permanent resident. Not only would this allow him to stay in the country he has lived in since he was 5 years old, but it will make him eligible for in-state tuition at the University of Minnesota, enabling him to receive the college education he seeks but today cannot afford.  
   "My bill to help Tchisou passed the Senate last year, but the House adjourned before it could act," Coleman said. "I hope Congress will be able to act on this important legislation early this year so that Tchisou may enroll at the University of Minnesota, graduate, and continue to be a great asset to our state and his community. He is a good kid and a good student who has been working hard to support himself, but is caught in a tough situation. I'm determined to see that he gets to stay in Minnesota and is able to go back to school and get his degree." 
   Tchisou's family came to the United States 14 years ago on a visitor's visa from France after fleeing Communist rule in Laos in 1975. They moved to Minnesota in 1993 to find work and to give their children an opportunity to receive a quality education. 
   Tchisou is an all-American high school kid. He watched movies, hung out at the mall with his friends and attended prom. He was an honor roll student, active in his community, church, and school. Tchisou was going to be the first member of his family to graduate from high school, and he was getting ready to begin his freshman year on a scholarship to the University of Minnesota. 
   But in May 2003, just as Tchisou was getting ready to graduate from high school, his family met with immigration officials to request changes to their immigration status. Instead, they received a deportation order. 
   Tchisou's parents acknowledged that they had broken the law by overstaying their visas, and agreed to leave the country. But we all wanted Tchisou to have the chance to graduate with his high school class. Legislation Coleman introduced last year allowed Tchisou to stay. And thanks to the compassion of the immigration authorities, Tchisou's family was allowed to remain in the country just long enough to see their son walk in his high school graduation ceremony. Shortly thereafter, Tchisou's parents and brothers and sisters returned to France as they promised, where they live today. 
   Still focused on his educational goals and now living with his married sister in St. Paul, Tchisou enrolled at the University of Minnesota as an international student. However, he was required to pay out-of-state tuition and unfortunately had to drop out after one semester when he ran out of money. 
   Determined to finish college, Tchisou is currently driving a forklift at the loading docks of a home improvement store, with the approval of authorities, to save money for college while his immigration status is being sorted out. He was recently named employee of the month. Tchisou hopes to re-enroll at the University of Minnesota.
 
 