SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $400,000 FOR YOUTHBUILD PROGRAM SERVING BELTRAMI, CASS COUNTIES
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced the Bi-County Community Action Program (Bi-CAP) serving Beltrami and Cass Counties has received a $400,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The funding, which is administered as part of HUD's Youthbuild program, provides opportunities for young adults between the ages of 16-24 to complete academic work, develop leadership skills, and receive construction training.  
   "I'm pleased to announce the Bi-County Community Action Program will receive this grant," said Coleman. "Empowering area youth to move forward with their education, while simultaneously helping construct homes for area families, is a truly noteworthy undertaking. This funding will greatly benefit the area as a whole - as both Beltrami and Cass counties will receive these vital resources to help at-risk youth learn the skills necessary for future success. I am appreciative the Department of Housing and Urban Development understands the positive impact that both Bi-CAP and this grant have on youth in Greater Minnesota." 
   "The Youthbuild program served forty-four 'at risk' youth in the past year," reported Bi-CAP Program Director Lucille Moe. "Nine Youthbuild students received their high school diploma last May. Several of those students went on to take classes at Bemidji State University or Bemidji Technical College." 
   The Bi-CAP Youthbuild program provides an opportunity for high risk youth who have not completed high school to spend one week in academic and leadership activities, followed by an alternate week focusing on construction training. The construction component focuses on building homes to sell to low-income families. Overall participant responsibilities include working on all of the following: high school diploma, job skills building, work experience, leadership, team building, and service learning projects.  
  As part of HUD's 2005 Youthbuild programs, approximately $58 million was awarded in grants throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
 
 