SEN. COLEMAN MEETS WITH PRIME MINISTER OF TRANSITIONAL FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF SOMALIA
  Continuing his ongoing support for efforts to promote peace and stability in Somalia, Sen. Norm Coleman today met with Ali Mohamed Gedi, Prime Minister of the Transitional Federal Government of Somalia. In addition to Sen. Coleman welcoming the Prime Minister to the United States, the meeting covered a variety of topics including the upcoming National Reconciliation Congress and the transition of security responsibilities from Ethiopian troops to a possible United Nations peacekeeping force.  
   "As the representative of the largest Somali community outside of the country itself, it was an honor to welcome Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi to the United States today," said Coleman. "I have been an advocate for strong U.S. engagement with Somalia in order to help it address its security, political and economic challenges. I think that it is an especially critical time for national reconciliation, which is a necessary first for moving towards an inclusive and democratic political process. During today's meeting with the Prime Minister, I stressed the need for his continued commitment to national reconciliation and the importance on capitalizing on the opportunity offered by the upcoming National Reconciliation Congress." 
   The security situation in Somalia continues to be volatile as the Transitional Federal Government (TFG) faces challenges from clan-based and Islamist militias in Mogadishu. Since U.S. forces withdrew from Somalia in 1994, the country has endured political strife and violence, which has impeded efforts to establish a permanent democratic government. A transitional government was assembled in August 2004, and it is working to extend its base of support through national reconciliation efforts. 
   This meeting takes place during Minnesota's Somali National Week, which celebrates the anniversary of the independence of the three former Somali colonies and the creation of the unified and independent state of Somalia. 
   Last month, Senator Coleman praised the appointment of Ambassador John Yates as the Special Envoy for Somalia by Secretary Rice after his continuous advocacy. Since 2005, Senator Coleman had been pressing the State Department to create this position so that the U.S. can conduct more robust diplomacy in Somalia that will better contribute to political reconciliation among the country's numerous groups. Ambassador Yates is working with representatives of Somalia's Transitional Federal Government and other key stakeholders in pursuing national reconciliation and political dialogue. The U.S. has not had an Ambassador to Somalia since the American Embassy was evacuated in 1991.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 