SEN. COLEMAN: SENATE PASSES COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM THAT WILL LEAD TO SAFER AMERICA
  In an effort to secure our nation's borders and bring the more than 11 million illegal immigrants from out of the shadows, Sen. Norm Coleman today joined his colleagues in the Senate in voting to pass the Immigration Reform Act of 2006 by a vote of 62 to 36. By securing the border, discouraging the hiring of illegal immigrants and addressing the illegal immigrants currently living in the U.S., this bill implements a comprehensive response to solve our nation's illegal immigration woes. 
   This bill seeks to strengthen America's border security by sending National Guard members to assist U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials in surveillance, constructing hundreds of miles of additional fencing and roads along the southern border, and deploying technologies like UAVs to the border.  
   "Without question, securing the border is our most vital need in dealing with illegal immigrants, and passage of this comprehensive legislation is the most drastic leap America has taken to date," said Coleman. "Today, the Senate finally got serious about reform. From the placement of the National Guard on the southern border to enhancing our technological capabilities, we have put into place a bill with real bite. As it stands, our borders lay vulnerable to not only an influx of illegal immigrants, but also the transportation of dangerous materials. I am confident with passage of this bill we are on the road to a safer, more secure America." 
   To discourage employers from hiring illegal immigrants, this bill will impose a fine of up to $20,000 for each unauthorized worker. Moreover, employers would now have to use an automated system to verify Social Security numbers for all new hires, to deter future illegal immigration. 
   "It stands to reason that immigrants would be less likely to enter the U.S. if they knew the odds of finding employment were effectively nil," Coleman added. "Immigrants that legally apply for citizenship should know that America's workforce will welcome them. This bill will ensure that employers do their part to uphold the law." 
   This bill also addresses the more than 11 million illegal immigrants currently living in the U.S. through a three-tiered process that recognizes the contributions of immigrants who have been here the longest. Those here less than two years will have to return home immediately and apply for a regular visa through a regular channel. If they have been here between 2-5 years, they have to leave the country before returning to apply for a visa and path to citizenship. Those who have been here longer than five years can begin immediately to apply for citizenship. In addition to these terms, they would also have to undergo a background check, show proof of employment, pass an English proficiency test and pay a stiff monetary penalty. 
   "I am opposed to amnesty, which is why I am pleased that this bill takes a rigorous yet practical approach to addressing the people already living and working here," said Coleman. "I believe it would be simply unrealistic to deport 11 million people from our communities, and this bill deals with the reality on the ground by putting a process in place a rigorous path to citizenship for those who have been here the longest." 
   Senator Coleman was also successful in attaching an amendment with broad bipartisan support to expand the types, availability, and affordability of documents citizens can use as an alternative to passports to meet the requirements of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI), and a pilot program to test whether driver's licenses could be an acceptable alternative. The measure also delays implementation of WHTI until at least June 1st, 2009, by ensuring that the new restrictions are not put into place until it has been certified as ready by the Departments of State and Homeland Security that alternatives to a passport will be available and will not impede cross- border traffic. The amendment would further ensure that school groups and hockey teams traveling to Canada are not required to get government-issued ID cards. 
   "While securing America is the goal of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, my goal is to ensure that this goal can be accomplished without undue hardship on Minnesota's residents and communities," said Coleman. "Over the past year, I have worked continuously to ensure the voices of my constituents living along the border are heard in Washington, and this amendment directly addresses their concerns. By delaying implementation of the program, expanding the number of documents acceptable for travel, and requiring a pilot program to test new documents and technologies, this amendment will minimize the potential negative impact on the folks who will be affected the most by this initiative."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 