SEN. COLEMAN HEADS TO SOUTH AMERICA TO DISCUSS TRADE, ENERGY DEMOCRACY WITH TOP POLITICAL, BUSINESS LEADERS
  As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere Affairs, Sen. Norm Coleman will be traveling next week to Brazil, Venezuela, and Colombia to observe first-hand the domestic political situation in those key nations and discuss important bilateral trade issues. On the six day official trip, Coleman plans to attend a conference on intellectual property rights in Brazil, discuss regional affairs with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia, and meet with Minnesota companies doing business in South America.  
   "This is primarily a fact-finding mission," Coleman said. "Brazil, Venezuela, and Colombia are important countries in South America, as well as important trading partners and strategic partners with the United States. We need to be aware of what is going on in our backyard. I want to see where U.S. relations and economic interactions in these countries are positive, but also where there could be room for improvement. I am going to express any concerns the United States has and am ready to learn in return what concerns our friends might have of us." 
   In 2004, U.S.-Brazilian merchandise trade was around $35 billion. Of serious concern, however, is Brazil's enforcement of intellectual property rights (IPR). The U.S. has been considering whether to revoke Brazilian Generalized System of Preferences, which allows many Brazilian products to enter the US duty-free. While in Brazil, Senator Coleman will speak at an IPR conference with over 500 invited participants. 
   "There can never be any doubt that the United States places immense value in its relationship with Brazil.," Coleman said. "Brazil is America's largest trading partner in South America and is a close regional ally. However, we are concerned about Brazil's commitment to intellectual property rights. In 2003, U.S. firms lost an estimated $785 million to Brazilian piracy, ranging from piracy of U.S. music and films to genetically modified soybeans." 
   Official Venezuela-U.S. relations have been strained under the presidency of Hugo Chavez. While in Venezuela Senator Coleman will examine petroleum and other economic issues, as well as various controversial domestic issues such as land reform, media laws, and judicial sector changes. 
   "The United States gets 15 percent of its oil from Venezuela. This is an important economic relationship that I hope can lead to an improved political relationship," Coleman said. 
   The Minnesota senator's visit to Colombia will focus on U.S.-Colombian efforts under Plan Colombia to weaken Colombia's drug trafficking and guerilla organizations which have terrorized local populations. Colombia receives more than $700 million each year in aid to support aerial eradication of coca fields, the development of counterdrug battalions, alternative livelihoods for Colombians and support for internally displaced people. 
   "Colombia has been a steadfast ally in the war on terror and the war on drugs, and America is grateful for that," Coleman said. "Plan Colombia is a serious commitment of U.S. foreign assistance resources, and it is important for me to examine it as part of my oversight responsibilities as Chairman of this Subcommittee. A commitment to human rights is an essential part of Plan Colombia. I intend to raise human rights concerns, such as the tragic San Jose de Apartado peace community massacre, in my meetings with President Uribe and top Colombian military brass. " 
   This will be Senator Coleman's second trip to Brazil and Colombia respectively. In January, 2004, Coleman, who also serves on the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition & Forestry, visited Brazil as part of an official fact finding mission to explore opportunities and challenges for U.S. agriculture in the region. In May, 2003, Coleman visited Colombia to examine drug interdiction efforts and democratic reforms there.
 
 