SEN. COLEMAN: NO MEANINGFUL PROGRESS ON U.N. REFORM
  Following a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing updating the Committee on the status of reform at the United Nations (U.N.), Sen. Norm Coleman today reiterated that no meaningful reform has taken place and called for the United States to take immediate steps to bring about reform to the U.N. The hearing, which included testimony from U.N. Ambassador John Bolton, was aimed at gauging overall progress towards reform at the world body.  
   "This morning, Ambassador Bolton provided an update on UN reform - something that we have been making a major push on for a year now," said Coleman. "Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, the conclusion from the hearing is that there has been no meaningful progress made on reform at the UN. In fact, in certain respects it seems they have taken some major steps backwards - the new Human Rights Council represents a squandered opportunity for reform and our hope and expectations of enacting serious and essential reforms is in danger of fading. It's time we let member states at the U.N. know that the U.S. is serious about reform, and they cannot expect American taxpayers to keep footing the bill for an institution that is fraught with corruption and inefficiency." 
   Last month, the G-77, an informal group composed of developing countries, voted to block the modest reform agenda proposed by the U.N. Secretary General - one supported by the U.S., all members of the European Union, and other nations who together pay over 80 percent of U.N. dues. The vote of 108 to 50, which effectively ended all prospects for meaningful reform in the near term, was the clearest demonstration of the resistance faced by member states who are committed to reform. 
   Additionally, on May 9th elections for the members of the newly established UN Human Rights Council were held, and the countries of Cuba, Saudi Arabia, China and Russia obtained three-year terms. Out of the 47 states elected to the Council, 21 do not qualify as "Free" according to Freedom House's 2006 annual "Freedom in the World" report. This followed the election of Iran, which is currently in breach of its international commitments on its nuclear program, to the U.N. Disarmament Commission just weeks earlier. 
   "With each passing day, it becomes painfully clear the U.N. will impede any meaningful reform effort unless major donor states use their financial leverage," Coleman added. "At the end of the day, the power of the purse gives Congress the greatest opportunity to encourage constructive reforms. The U.S. currently pays 22 percent of the U.N. operating budget, but this not a blank check. Unless real reform begins to happen soon, it is looking more and more likely we will have to use that leverage and force the U.N. into action."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 