SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $300 MILLION IN LOANS FOR GREAT RIVER ENERGY
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that Great River Energy, based in Elk River, has been awarded two separate loans of $224,199,000 and $79,600,000 from United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development program. The 29-year loans will be used for a number of improvements to Great River Energy's transmission systems and generation facilities, while also helping finance the Cambridge Station project that will result in a new gas-fired peaking plant.  
   "During my time in office, I have consistently sought to upgrade and expand our state's infrastructure, particularly in rural Minnesota where the needs are especially critical to economic development," said Coleman. "One of my great passions has been energy, and these loans from USDA Rural Development will not only result in a cleaner plant that uses natural gas instead of oil, it will also expand Great River's capacity to meet Minnesotans' energy needs during times of peak demand, ultimately helping to ensure homeowners and businesses across Minnesota will have electricity when they need it most." 
   Specifically, the $79,600,000 loan is slated to be used to help finance the Cambridge Combustion Turbine Project, which is currently underway and will result in the construction of a 170-megawatt (MW) natural gas-fired peaking power generation facility at an existing site near Cambridge, Minnesota. The facility will provide peaking power to Great River Energy's 28 member cooperatives beginning in 2007 and will be a significant upgrade from the oil-powered plant currently in use. 
   The additional $224,199,000 USDA loan will be used to make widespread upgrades and improvements to transmission systems and generation facilities across Great River Energy's transmission and generation network. 
   Great River Energy, based in Elk River, Minnesota, is the state's second largest electric wholesale supplier, providing wholesale electric service to 28 distribution co-ops that serve approximately 600,000 members. They currently own more than 4,500 miles of transmission power lines, which service about 60 percent of Minnesota, as well as part of North Dakota and Wisconsin. 
   Since 2001, USDA Rural Development has invested a total of over $2.5 billion dollars across Minnesota for a variety of rural development projects.
 
 