SEN. COLEMAN FIGHTS FOR MINNESOTA'S RURAL COMMUNITIES IN FARM BILL
  Continuing his longstanding efforts to bolster Minnesota's rural communities and farm families, Senator Norm Coleman has worked to include a number of key provisions for rural Minnesota in the Senate version of the 2007 Farm Bill during committee markup of the legislation. In addition to including his longstanding Rural Renaissance initiative in the bill, Coleman included language to improve grain storage capacity for farmers, rehabilitate rural hospitals, encourage local ownership of ethanol plants, and protect rural drinking water. Currently, the Farm Bill is being debated by the Senate Agriculture Committee, of which Coleman is a member. Following committee markup and passage of the bill, it will be brought before the full Senate for debate. 
   RURAL DEVELOPMENT  
   Communities throughout rural Minnesota are set to benefit, as Senator Coleman was successful in attaching his Rural Renaissance legislation to the Finance Committee's portion of the Farm Bill. Rural Renaissance, a longstanding effort of Coleman's during his time in office, provides $400 million in tax credit bonds to finance rural infrastructure projects across the country in order to promote rural economic development. Among the projects that will receive funding are water and waste treatment projects, broadband technology, distance learning and telemedicine projects, rural electric systems, rural telephone systems, and rural community facilities. 
   "The inclusion of Rural Renaissance in Farm Bill is a major step forward in revitalizing the economies of rural Minnesota," said Coleman. "Since taking office, I made it a priority for my staff and me to visit all 853 communities across the state, and the main message coming out of the meetings in Greater Minnesota was the need to revitalize the aging infrastructure in our rural communities. Rural America is the foundation of our country, and I am pleased that we are close to making my Rural Renaissance legislation a reality." 
   LOCAL OWNERSHIP 
   Senator Coleman was also successful in including a provision that would encourage local ownership of bio-refineries such as ethanol and biodiesel plants. Specifically, the provision would require any commercial scale bio-refinery financed with federal funding to provide local residents with the first opportunity to invest in the bio-refinery. Conditions for ownership would be determined by the Secretary of Agriculture. 
   "The ethanol and biodiesel industries are growing by leaps and bounds, and while any investment in these industries is ultimately a good thing, it is important that our local communities have an opportunity to benefit from the industries that are often booming right in their own backyard," said Coleman. "Entire communities benefit when local folks invest in these plants by adding value to crops locally and keeping more wealth at home." 
   PROTECTING RURAL DRINKING WATER 
   Coleman also successfully included a provision to authorize $20 million annually for the Grassroots Source Water Protection Program through fiscal year 2012. Under current law, the program receives $5 million annually. The program, which is a partnership between the Farm Service Agency and the National Rural Water Association, works to keep surface and ground water pollution from affecting drinking water, primarily by assisting local stakeholders in the development and implementation of local and regional source water protection plans. 
   "We must ensure that residents in rural communities have access to clean and safe drinking water, and the Grassroots Source Water Protection Program has done a wonderful job of protecting Minnesota's source water," said Coleman. "Land-use decisions are made at the local level, which is why it is critical that we have this program in place to ensure these decisions are environmentally sound and, above all, safe." 
   GRAIN STORAGE 
   To aid farmers in improving their grain storage capacity, Coleman included language in the Farm Bill that will provide loans to producers to build and upgrade storage facilities. Coleman's provision will improve the availability of a stable supply of high quality grain for renewable energy production and livestock. 
   "As the productivity of Minnesota's farmer increase to meet demands, they need access to financial tools to build adequate grain storage," Coleman added. "We've seen big yields in the last couple years, especially for corn, and as a result farmers have had to resort to storing grain on the ground where some of the grain can rot. The result is wasted grain that could have gone to biofuels or livestock production. I have heard directly from Minnesota farmers about the challenges of maintaining crop quality with inefficient storage space - particularly with the new markets for renewable energy booming - and was excited to include this provision in the Farm Bill today." 
   RURAL HOSPITALS 
   Senator Coleman has been a longtime champion of rural healthcare, which is why he worked to include critical funding to rehabilitate and improve hospitals in rural communities across the country. This provision provides $50,000,000 to pay for the costs of loans and loan guarantees for hospitals with no more than 100 acute beds in rural areas. Each year, nearly three million Minnesotans depend on rural hospitals for their health care needs. 
   "With close to three million Minnesotans utilizing rural hospitals each year, we need to ensure these facilities are maintained and upgraded as needed. Having traveled across Minnesota, I know that our rural health system is one of the strongest in the country. The quality of your healthcare should never depend on your ZIP code, and we must provide our rural health facilities with the resources they need to serve rural residents," said Coleman.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 