SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $175,000 FOR SOUTH WASHINGTON COUNTY SCHOOL'S CHINESE LANGUAGE PROGRAM
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that South Washington County Schools have been awarded a $175,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Education under the Foreign Language Assistance Program. The grant will be used to begin a Mandarin Chinese program in the school's elementary classrooms that will provide instruction in the Mandarin Chinese language and culture. The $175,000 grant covers a period of one year, but is expected to be extended for a total of three years, with the first year serving as a planning year and the next two years as implementation years.  
   "China is a rapidly growing world power that will continue to have a major impact on issues from international security to economic growth," said Coleman. "As Chairman of the Senate China Working Group, I take great interest in the future of our relationship with China, and I believe the foundation of our relationship is a basic understanding of Chinese language and culture. I applaud the visionary plan of South Washington County Schools in implementing this program and congratulate them on receiving this grant." 
   "We are so excited to be part of the Mandarin Chinese movement in public education, as it is the future for our children," said Becky Schroeder, Director of Curriculum and Instruction for South Washington County Schools. "Our children will not only be competing with those from the United States, they will be competing with others around the world, especially China. Making sure our students not only have an awareness of the language but can communicate as well will put them in a future role of being successful." 
   Parents and school administration officials at South Washington County schools selected Mandarin Chinese as the target language for students due to the significance of the U.S.-China relationship. Specifically, the program is expected to reach over 7,000 elementary students in the South Washington County school system. Students in grades 1-6 will receive instruction in Mandarin Chinese language and culture on a weekly basis. Before-school, after-school and summer programs will be conducted this year to gauge interest within the community and to supplement and enhance language development in the years ahead.
 
 