SEN. COLEMAN RECEIVES AWARD FROM MINNESOTA COMMUNITY ACTION PARTNERSHIP
  As a show of appreciation for his support of Community Service Block Grants (CSBG), the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and other assistance programs for low income individuals, Sen. Norm Coleman will receive a legislative award from the Minnesota Community Action Partnership during their annual conference on Monday, September 25th at the Ruttger's Bay Lake Lodge in Deerwood. Carl Kuhl, regional representative for Coleman, will accept the award on behalf of the Senator, who is unable attend due to scheduled Senate votes in Washington, D.C.  
   "I am honored to receive this recognition from Minnesota Community Action Partnership," said Coleman. "Issues like community development and heating our homes are not partisan issues - they are issues that require a vision and a determination to put that vision into action. I want to thank Minnesota Community Action Partnership for their commitment to the people of Minnesota and their commitment to getting things done. As a former mayor, I share that same commitment, and regret that I will be unable to attend this year's conference." 
   "Senator Coleman has been a leader in the fight for low-income energy assistance and community development while in office," said Arnie Anderson, Executive Director of Minnesota Community Action Partnership. "His work has helped tens of thousands of Minnesotans across the state, and this award is a sign of our appreciation for that work and the support he has given us as an organization." 
   With natural gas prices skyrocketing in recent years, Senator Coleman has worked extensively to deliver LIHEAP funding to Minnesotans struggling to heat their homes, most recently by securing $1 billion for home-energy assistance, including $29 million for Minnesota. Coleman has also been a consistent supporter of CSBG funding, which is the core federal funding mechanism for Community Action Agencies in Minnesota, allowing each agency to accomplish the important work they do to strengthen communities and help low-income families and individuals become economically secure. 
   For more information on the Minnesota Community Action Partnership, please visit http://www.mncaa.org/.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 