SENATE APPROVES SEN. COLEMAN PROVISION TO PROTECT VULNERABLE MINNESOTANS' ACCESS TO VITAL MEDICAID SERVICES
  The U.S. Senate today passed the Indian Healthcare Improvement Act (S. 1200), which contains a provision authored by Senator Norm Coleman that protects vulnerable Minnesotans' access to critical health, education and social services. Co-sponsored by Senators Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), the bipartisan legislation places a moratorium on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services' (CMS) December 4th, 2007 rule on Case Management and Targeted Case Management (TCM), which goes into effect on March 3rd of this year, and would redefine and place strict limits on these services - severely limiting a state's ability to care for vulnerable populations. The new moratorium would prevent these regulations from taking effect until March of 2009, giving the government additional time to address the rules unintended consequences. The Indian Healthcare Improvement Act passed by a vote of 83-10. 
   "Targeted Case Management provides critical services to Minnesota's elderly, disabled and foster children," said Coleman. "Social-workers, county supervisors and healthcare providers have consistently told me how devastating this new regulation would be for these individuals and their families. Moreover, Minnesota has always managed its Medicaid dollars effectively, so it would be unfair to punish those Minnesotans who need help because of mismanagement in other states. With only a week left to get this legislation signed into law, I am concerned that time is running out. CMS, however, still has the authority to improve the regulations before the final regulation is put into place. The overwhelming support for this amendment should have sent a clear message to CMS that the Senate will not put up with these slash and burn tactics on the backs of our most vulnerable citizens. If, however, CMS does not get the message, we will continue to look for every possible opportunity to delay or rescind this shortsighted rule."
   Case Management and TCM services are services that assist low-income individuals and families in gaining access to needed medical, social and educational services. According to the Minnesota Department of Human Services, it is estimated that the new rule could result in cuts of at least $60.9 million for Minnesota annually, based solely on the changes to child welfare services. It is likely the total loss to the state could far exceed this number when other services are also factored in. Prior to CMS releasing this interim final rule, Senators Coleman and Klobuchar introduced another piece of legislation that would have required CMS to slow down the rule-making process, and provide relevant stakeholders greater opportunity to submit concerns.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 