INSTITUTE FOR DEFENSE ANALYSES REPORT BACKS SEN. COLEMAN'S CALL TO USE TRAVEL AGENTS
  Senator Norm Coleman, Ranking Member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), announced today that a report issued by the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA) includes his recommendation that Department of Defense travelers be allowed to use travel agents to make their travel reservations. The report, which was mandated by the Defense Authorization Act of 2007, is a study of the Defense Travel System (DTS). DTS was designed to allow DOD personnel to select their flights and hotels, as well as provide for the proper accounting for expenditures and reimbursement for travel expenses at an annual savings of $56 million. Senator Coleman led a two-year Subcommittee investigation and held two hearings that revealed the travel component of the $500 million DTS program has proven to be unreliable and ineffective.  
 The IDA report reached the same conclusion and recommended that DOD explore a service-oriented architecture approach for DTS and, in the interim, "should fund an option that allows the traveler to request the Commercial Travel Office to make reservations for the entire trip immediately after establishing the trip shell[.]" The report recommendations mirror legislation Senator Coleman introduced earlier this year which would eliminate the travel portion of DTS, while retaining the accounting component. Senator Coleman's bill, co-sponsored by Senator Coburn, would also require DOD personnel to use travel agents to book travel on an interim basis while DOD would develop a complete and effective internet-based travel system that is reliable and easy to use. 
   "I believe the Institute for Defense Analyses in a very short time-frame has done a thorough and credible job of reviewing DTS and projecting the system's best future course. Since my bill and the IDA report both advocate the interim use of travel agents while DOD fixes DTS' problems, I have decided to withhold action on the bill to afford the Secretary of Defense an opportunity to implement the report's recommendations," said Coleman. 
   The Subcommittee's investigation found that 83 percent of the travel undertaken at major DOD facilities during 2006 relied on traditional travel arrangements - and not DTS. Despite an investment of $500 million, only 17 percent of more than755,000 trips undertaken at 42 major DOD facilities used DTS. The IDA study recommends that DOD incorporate into DTS the option to allow each DOD traveler to request a travel agent to make reservations for their entire trip immediately after establishing the travel parameters in DTS.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 