SENS. COLEMAN, LANDRIEU INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN BILL TO HELP CHILDREN BORN WITH DEFORMITY TO RECEIVE LIFE-CHANGING TREATMENT, RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY
  Sen. Coleman (R-MN) and Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-LA) today introduced the bipartisan Treatment of Children's Deformities Act to help thousands of children born with deformities each year to receive life-changing treatment and reconstructive surgery. The legislation will ensure that children born with a congenital deformity, whether a cleft lip and palate or a more severe deformity, receive the reconstructive surgery they need to lead healthy and happy lives.  
   "I've seen before and after surgery photographs of children born with deformities and it is heart-wrenching, especially when they cannot afford to get the reconstructive surgery or treatment they need to lead healthy and happy lives," said Coleman. "This common sense legislation helps ensure that children and their families can afford the surgical care they need when they need it." 
   According to the March of Dimes, 150,000 newborns suffer from birth defects each year. Of those children approximately 50,000 require reconstructive surgery. Although surgeons are able to correct many of their problems, an increasing number of children are denied access to care by the labeling of the procedures as "cosmetic" or "non-functional" in nature, which precludes coverage. This bill addresses the problem by classifying this kind of reconstructive surgery to ensure coverage. 
   This legislation, authored by Senators Coleman and Landrieu, and coauthored by Senators DeWine, Snowe, Cochran, Vitter and Bayh, reflects the American Medical Associations (AMA) definition of reconstructive surgery as surgery performed on abnormal structures of the body. 
   "The American Dental Association applauds the efforts of Senators Coleman and Landrieu to ensure children in need of reconstructive surgery have access to that care," said Bob Brandjord, DDS, President-elect of the American Dental Association. "This legislation will immensely improve the quality of life for these children, ensuring they can have good oral and overall health and lead productive lives."
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 