SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES SENATE CONFIRMATIONS OF GEN. HAYDEN, GOV. KEMPTHORNE, KAVANAUGH
  Sen. Norm Coleman today praised the U.S. Senate confirmations of Air Force General Michael Hayden as new director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, and Idaho Gov. Dirk Kempthorne as Secretary of the Interior during today's morning floor session. Hayden was confirmed by a vote of 78-15, Kavanaugh was confirmed 57-36 and Kempthorne was confirmed by a voice vote.  
   "I am pleased the Senate approved these important confirmations today, particularly in advance of the Memorial Day recess," said Coleman. "It would have been irresponsible to leave the head position at the C.I.A. open for two weeks, especially with a such strong candidate like Gen. Hayden, who passed with bipartisan support. Similarly, Mr. Kavanaugh and Gov. Kempthorne are well-respected and well-deserving candidates who deserved up-or-down confirmation votes on a timely basis. The Senate has been doing some heavy lifting on key issues as of late, and I am proud we continued that momentum this morning by confirming these three important nominees." 
   Gen. Hayden, a four-star Air Force General who headed the National Security Agency from 1999 to 2005, was approved by the Senate Intelligence Committee by a vote of 12-3 earlier this week. He replaces the recently resigned Porter Goss as head of the C.I.A. 
   Brett Kavanaugh, who currently serves as Assistant to the President and Staff Secretary, has also served as Associate Counsel and Associate Counsel to the President. Prior to his service in the Administration, Mr. Kavanaugh was a partner at the law firm of Kirkland & Ellis, where his practice focused on appellate matters. 
   Kempthorne, a former senator and current Governor of Idaho, succeeds Gale Norton as the 49th Secretary of the federal department responsible for overseeing U.S. public lands. He will officially take over following his resignation as governor. 
   The Senate will now be in recess for the Memorial Day holiday, scheduled to return during the first full week of June.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 