SENS. COLEMAN, LINCOLN INTRODUCE BILL TO EXPAND VETERAN EDUCATION PROGRAM
  In an effort to ensure all veterans receive the education assistance they deserve, Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) today introduced the Veterans Upward Bound Improvement Act. The bill will correct a provision in current law which is preventing many National Guard and Reserve troops who have served in support of the Global War on Terror from qualifying for the education services provided through the Veterans Upward Bound program. By eliminating an arbitrary 180-day service requirement in the current Veterans Upward Bound program, the Veterans Upward Bound Improvement Act rightly recognizes sacrifices of National Guard and Reserve troops' contingency service regardless of their time served.  
   "Upon their return home from combat, Reserve Component troops and their families often face a myriad of challenges a quality education could help address," said Coleman. "Upward Bound is a program that has provided support and guidance to many of our veterans as they have transitioned into institutions of higher education and beyond. It is our responsibility in Congress to ensure that all our veterans - many of whom have served in contingency operations in every corner of the world - qualify for programs like Upward Bound. This bill honors the sacrifice of our returning National Guard and Reserve troops by enhancing their access to this important program and the skills and resources it provides." 
   "As the daughter of a Korean War veteran, I have tremendous respect for the sacrifices made by American soldiers and their families, and I know how important it is for us to provide them the benefits they deserve when they return home," said Lincoln. "Our nation is increasingly calling on our citizen soldiers to fight the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and it is vital that we ensure they are not being shortchanged because of flaws in the benefits system. This bill will allow more of our courageous members of the National Guard and Reserve to access Upward Bound, a valuable federal program which has expanded educational opportunities for thousands of low-income and first generation college students and helped them to reach their full academic potential." 
   "Over the past few years the U.S. has deployed thousands of Reserve and National Guard troops in support of our operations in Iraq and Afghanistan," said Julia O'Dell, President, National Association of Veterans Upward Bound Project Personnel. "It's crucial that we ensure that these troops are given the same educational opportunities as their active duty counterparts. The Veterans Upward Bound Improvement Act sponsored by Senator Coleman (R-MN) and Senator Lincoln (D-AR) provides an opportunity for these veterans to participate in TRIO Veterans Upward Bound, a valuable educational program that is specifically tailored to the needs of veterans." 
   Operating since 1972, Veterans Upward Bound is a federally funded TRIO program that provides veterans with resources to prepare for college entrance. The program offers veterans a variety of courses - free of charge - including, writing, reading, math, science, computer literacy, foreign language, and study skills. They also can receive career, personal, and financial aid counseling, tutoring, mentorship, enrollment assistance, GED training and text books free of charge. Students also can begin to draw on their Veteran's Affairs education benefits while they are enrolled in Upward Bound. 
   Senators Coleman and Lincoln have led a variety of other efforts to ensure our nation's veterans are receiving the education benefits they deserve, including introduction of the Total Force GI Bill of 2007 (S.644). This legislation would allow Reserve component troops to access their educational benefits for up to 10 years after their separation from service while also ensuring those benefits are more commensurate with their increased service. The senators also have worked to restore education benefits for the members of the Minnesota National Guard's First Brigade Combat Team of the 34th Infantry.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 