SENATE PASSES SENS. COLEMAN, KLOBUCHAR RESOLUTION HONORING MINNESOTA FLOOD VICTIMS
  The Senate today passed a resolution coauthored by Minnesota Senators Norm Coleman and Amy Klobuchar that conveys the Senate's sympathy for those who lost their lives, homes and jobs in the aftermath of the severe flooding in Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, Ohio, Oklahoma, and Illinois during August of 2007. The resolution also expresses gratitude to local, state and federal officials, along with emergency personnel including the American Red Cross, United Way, Catholic Charities and the Salvation Army, who swiftly responded to the crisis. Co-sponsors of the resolution include Senators Charles Grassley (R-IA), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Herb Kohl (D-WI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), George Voinovich (R-OH), Tom Coburn (R-OK), James Inhofe (R-OK), Richard Durbin (D-IL) and Barack Obama (D-IL). The House recently passed a similar resolution authored by Representative Tim Walz (D-MN).  
   "Minnesota saw unprecedented flooding in Southeast Minnesota this summer that threatened our communities," said Klobuchar. "On my visits to survey the damage and meet with residents, I saw the bravery of our first responders and citizens in handling the disaster, and the strength of these Minnesota communities as they recover and rebuild from incredible losses. It's vital that these communities continue to receive the help they need at every level and I will continue to work to make sure they do." 
   "The communities of Southeast Minnesota experienced devastation on an enormous scale in the wake of this summer's flooding," said Coleman. "After experiencing such tragedy and personal loss, it is extremely important for the victims of this disaster to know they have not been forgotten. If there is any upside to this terrible tragedy, it has been the strong response we have had at every level, from local first responders to the state and federal governments. Going forward, we must continue to ensure that every resource available to get these communities back on their feet, and this resolution expresses the commitment of the U.S. Senate to doing so." 
   Following the flooding in Southeast Minnesota, Sens. Coleman and Klobuchar and Rep. Walz toured every affected county. 
   Upon returning to Washington, Sen. Coleman introduced the Flood Insurance Disclosure Act of 2007. The legislation would require insurance companies to disclose non-coverage of flood insurance in homeowner's and renter's policies, as well as the resident's eligibility for flood insurance. Sen. Klobuchar is an original cosponsor. 
   In the first days of August 2007, severe thunderstorms poured 18 inches of rain Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, Ohio and Illinois, killing 14 people and injuring countless others. Governor Pawlenty declared Fillmore, Houston, Steele, Olmsted, Wabasha and Winona counties to be in a state of disaster as a result of the storm. Further, Dodge and Jackson counties received a Federal major disaster declaration. Ultimately, President Bush declared eight counties in Minnesota to be a major disaster area as a result of the storm and families, state and local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations in these areas became eligible for individual and/or public Federal disaster assistance.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 