SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES JOB TRAINING GRANT FOR DISPLACED MINNESOTA AUTO WORKERS
  Sen. Norm Coleman applauded the U.S. Labor Department's announcement today that it will provide funding for Minnesota workers affected by the current U.S. auto industry's restructuring, such as the closure of the St. Paul Ford Plant, with financial assistance for job retraining and education. Under this program, the Labor Department will match up to $1.5 million in state funding to provide displaced workers with Career Advancement Accounts (CAAs) to cover qualified education and job training expenses.  
   "While I wish the layoffs like those resulting from the closure of the St. Paul Ford plant were not happening, I am encouraged that the affected workers will be given crucial financial career assistance," said Coleman. "The CAAs will allow folks affected by the layoffs to seek education and training that will assist them in finding new jobs. This is an extremely important grant for these workers, and I applaud the state of Minnesota and the Labor Department for their willingness to provide this much-need assistance." 
   The Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development (DEED) will administer the CAA program in the state. Through the CAAs, each qualified worker will be eligible for a maximum amount of $3,000 for one year. The accounts may be renewed for one additional year, for a total two-year account amount of up to $6,000 per worker. 
   "This grant will be a valuable tool for workers in Minnesota affected by auto industry layoffs," said DEED Commissioner Ward Einess. "It is important that we provide this resource as soon as possible, so workers have adequate time to seek new employment. We need to lay the groundwork now, and this program will help us do exactly that." 
   Minnesota is one of just five states to participate in this program. Each participating state will receive up to $1.5 million for the first year and an additional $1.5 million for a second year, as long as the program's performance requirements are met. Those workers eligible to apply for CAAs include those affected by Ford Motor Company and General Motors plant closures and shift reductions, as well as supplier company workers. Interested workers can apply for an account at a One-Stop Career Center, which may be found at the following website: http://servicelocator.org/
 
 