SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $36 MILLION DOE GRANT FOR EXCELSIOR ENERGY'S MESABA ENERGY PROJECT
  Sen. Norm Coleman today joined Secretary Spencer Abraham from the U.S. Department of Energy and Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty at the Natural Resource Research Institute in Duluth to award Excelsior Energy a $36 million grant to build the initial phase of the Mesaba Energy Project. 
   "As concerns about natural gas prices and supply grow, this project is a step in the right direction," said Coleman. "By increasing efficiency and reducing emissions, this project will continue energy production without forsaking the resources that sustain us. I'm proud at the vision for future energy this project sets before Minnesota and the rest of the country as it means greater diversification of energy and reduction on our dependence on foreign sources of oil."
   Excelsior Energy's Mesaba Energy Project is one of four projects across the country selected to receive funding under the DOE's Clean Coal Power Initiative. The Mesaba Energy Project will dramatically cut emissions to make it one of the cleanest coal-fueled power plants in the world. This phase is the first of three sites to be constructed and will create more than 1,200 jobs in northern Minnesota.
   "I've made it a priority to work with all members of our state and federal governments to ensure that we receive funding for energy projects in Minnesota," said Coleman. "Even though the Energy Bill is unfortunately still stalled in the senate, I applaud the Bush administration and our own Minnesota legislators for working together to fund the Mesaba Energy Project at a time when our economy and environment will benefit from it. Today's announcement is great for northeastern Minnesota because it will stimulate economic development with the creation of more than 1,000 jobs and, at the same time, increase, expand, and improve on our sources for renewable and environmentally sound energy."
   "Senator Coleman has once again shown that he has the ability to work on a bi-partisan basis to provide needed jobs for the people of northeastern Minnesota," said former Minnesota state senator Doug Johnson. "It is very refreshing to see the leadership that he's providing for economic development in our region."
   "As chief author of this legislation in Minnesota, I'm extremely pleased with this funding from the federal government," said David Tomassoni, Minnesota state senator. "It has been a bi-partisan effort from the beginning, and I'm happy to have had Senator Coleman's help in the senate. This money will help bring this project to fruition."
   Today's grant, together with state loans, a $10 million grant from the Xcel Energy Renewable Development Fund, and private equity will allow Excelsior to fully engineer, license, permit and develop the project. With an estimated total cost of $1.2 billion, Unit 1 of the Mesaba Energy Project will be the single largest industrial project ever constructed in Minnesota.
 
 