SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $500,000 LOAN FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OF MORRISON COUNTY
  Senator Norm Coleman today announced that Community Development of Morrison County has been awarded a $500,000 loan through the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development agency. The loan was awarded through Rural Development's Intermediary Relending Program and will be used to establish a revolving loan fund with public and non-profit organizations to re-lend for community development projects.  
   "Greater Minnesota has specific needs when it comes to development, and USDA Rural Development continues to help address those needs through loans such as these," said Coleman. "This award will have a direct impact on folks living in Morrison County and I am pleased they have been selected for this funding." 
   Community Development of Morrison County has operated a revolving loan fund since 1982 with assistance from Rural Development in 1997 and 2000. It has since made loans to 49 businesses and has identified a need in the county for additional business loans. 
   The cities of Pierz, Upsala, Swanville and Royalton have pledged matching funds to this business loan pool. It is estimated 266 jobs will be saved and 11 will be created through these loans. 
   "It is the core mission of Rural Development to create jobs in rural areas," said Steve Wenzel, State Director of Rural Development in Minnesota. "This funding will assist small businesses in Morrison County and will both save jobs and create several economic development opportunities." 
   Since 2001, USDA Rural Development has invested over $4 billion throughout Minnesota for equity and technical assistance to finance and foster growth in homeownership, business development, and critical community and technology infrastructure. 
   For more information on Rural Development, call the local office in Baxter at (218) 829-5965, or in Waite Park at (320) 255-9111. Information is also available at www.rurdev.usda.gov/mn.
 
 