IN RESPONSE TO SEN. COLEMAN LETTER ADMINISTRATION RELEASES FUNDS TO REDUCE ENERGY BURDENS ON LOW-INCOME MINNESOTANS
  In response to a bipartisan letter from Senator Norm Coleman and over 50 of his Senate colleagues, President Bush today released $131 million in Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency funding, including $4.2 million for low-income Minnesota families. This critical funding will assist low-income Minnesota families and seniors with increasing energy costs due to extreme weather conditions. Earlier this month, President Bush released an initial $50 million from the LIHEAP fund at the beginning of the month, but in the letter, Coleman pointed out that it would not be enough to help families and seniors meet rising arrears and shut-off notices as a result of high home energy costs. If the Administration had not released the remaining funds by September 30, 2007, $131 million of the contingency fund's balance would have expired.  
   "Low-income households should never be put in the position of choosing between feeding their family and paying the electric bill," said Coleman. "Higher energy costs have a disproportionate impact on low and fixed income Minnesotans, and I applaud the President for recognizing this need and releasing these essential funds. The President's authorization of the $131 million will help families and seniors throughout Minnesota who are under enormous financial pressure stay on top of their increasingly expensive utility bills and ensure their electricity and natural gas are not shut off in a time of need." 
   Currently, 1.2 million low-income households this year have had their electric and natural gas service terminated. This problem will become exacerbated as U.S. residential electricity prices are expected to increase by three percent this year alone. This increase is due to the expiration of energy rate caps and higher fuel costs, which are being passed on to consumers.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 