SENATE LEADERSHIP JOIN SEN. COLEMAN'S CALL FOR IMMEDIATE REFERRAL OF IRAN TO U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL
  Based on a resolution introduced by Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Charles Schumer (D-NY) last week, Sen. Coleman today joined Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Harry Reid (D-NV) in introducing a bipartisan resolution that condemns the Iranian government's numerous violations of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and other agreements relating to its nuclear program. The resolution also calls on the members of the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to refer Iran to the Security Council at their emergency meeting scheduled for February 2nd.  
   "The enormously dangerous implications of Iran becoming a nuclear-armed power cannot be understated," said Coleman. "The current regime has a long history of tyranny and oppression, sponsorship of terrorism, and vitriolic rhetoric that includes calling for the destruction of Israel. In the interest of global security and the stability of the region, it is imperative that the international community prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. I applaud Senators Frist and Reid for articulating the need to take decisive action before it is too late." 
   After the existence of their nuclear program was discovered in 2002, Iran has repeatedly attempted to deceive the international community about the progress and intentions of their nuclear activities. Iran's latest stunt involved removing IAEA seals from a uranium-enrichment facility and announcing the resumption of "research" on nuclear fuel. Mohamed El Baradei, the Director General of the IAEA, has publicly stated that once it perfects its ability to enrich uranium and completes a weaponization program, Iran will only be months away from building a nuclear bomb. 
   Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice and E.U. Foreign Policy High Representative Javier Solana recently stated that there is no reason to further negotiate with Iran, as two years of attempted diplomacy have collapsed. An emergency meeting of the Board of Governors of the IAEA has been scheduled for February 2nd, where efforts will be made to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council. 
   "The emergency meeting of the IAEA Board of Governors will be a critical juncture as the international community works towards a resolution of this issue, and I applaud Britain, France and Germany for leading efforts to schedule it," Coleman stated. "We must take any attempts by Iran to become a nuclear power seriously. To let this issue go by the wayside would be a costly and potentially deadly mistake."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 