SEN. COLEMAN URGES USDA TO SEND ADDITIONAL AID TO FARMERS AFFECTED BY DROUGHT
  In a letter sent yesterday to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns, Sen. Norm Coleman requested additional emergency relief assistance from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to alleviate the hardships being experienced by Minnesota farmers due to the severe drought. Responding to Coleman's earlier calls for assistance, the USDA recently authorized emergency haying and grazing on CRP land for certain Minnesota counties, including: Kittson, Roseau, and Mahnomen Counties. Coleman believes that all Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) Wetland Restoration acreage needs to be made available for emergency haying immediately.  
   "The situation for Minnesota farmers is dire as drought conditions worsen everyday and continue to adversely affect grassland and livestock," said Coleman. "While I appreciate the USDA's efforts in making a portion of CRP land available, additional relief is needed for our farmers. Without further relief from the severe effects of the drought, Minnesota farmers may be forced to sell their herds, which would not only devastate their family and financial situation but also adversely affect the overall state economy." 
   Coleman requested the immediate authorization for haying of the CRP Wetland Restoration land and further consideration for grazing and haying for Filter Strips and Rare and Declining Habitat land. The USDA had previously rejected an emergency assistance request, supported by farm, conservation and commodity groups as well as pertinent state and federal agencies that would have opened additional CRP land for haying. 
   "I was disappointed to learn that previous requests for emergency assistance have been rejected by the USDA," said Coleman. "With every day that passes without additional drought relief assistance, the adverse effects of this severe drought become harder to mitigate." 
   CPR is a voluntary program that establishes long-term resource conservation on eligible land. The USDA's expansion will make hay available to livestock producers in the eligible counties.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 