SEN. COLEMAN SECURES EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS FOR SOMALIS LIVING IN U.S.
  Sen. Norm Coleman, along with Emilio T. Gonzalez, Director of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), announced today the Department of Homeland Security's decision to extend Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for certain Somali citizens living in the United States. Under this extension, those who already have TPS must re-register with USCIS to be eligible to live and work in the United States for an additional 18 months while maintaining their status.  
   "Violence and chaos have once again enveloped Somalia," said Coleman. "Dr. Gonzalez and I came to the same conclusion that with the hostility continuing to spread, it would be unreasonable to send Somalis back to a hostile region while the armed conflict continues. This extension was necessary for their safety and I am pleased we were able to put it in place today." 
   Temporary Protected Status allows certain Somalis living in the United States to remain until the protection has expired. It is not a path to citizenship, but does allow people to temporarily remain in the United States and live and work legally. Several other countries have been designated for TPS, including, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Liberia, Burundi and Sudan. 
   "We cannot stand idly by and allow the Somali populations living in Minnesota and around the country to be sent back to a region of hostility and violence. This extension is necessary to maintain our commitment to helping restore peace in the country and to foster the development of those Somalians who currently have TPS status living in inside our borders," Coleman added. 
   Coleman recently introduced a bipartisan resolution directing the United States to increase its support to the people of Somalia in their efforts to establish a peaceful and stable democracy. The resolution outlines U.S. priorities in Somalia and urges the federal government to adopt a comprehensive strategy to help Somalia overcome decades of violence, neglect and civil strife. 
   Minnesota is the home of the largest Somali community in the U.S, with about 70,000 Somali residents.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 