SEN. COLEMAN ADDS KEY PROVISIONS TO SMALL BUSINESS REAUTHORIZATION BILL
  Recognizing the importance of America's small businesses to the U.S. economy, Sen. Norm Coleman was successful today in attaching an amendment to the Small Business Administration (SBA) Reauthorization bill aimed at enhancing educational and workforce opportunities for students. Sen. Coleman also secured a provision in the bill to examine the recent decline in rural small business lending. The Small Business Administration Reauthorization bill was unanimously approved by the Senate Small Business Committee and now awaits consideration by the full Senate.  
   Coleman's amendment authorizes a $5 million workforce development grant pilot program to encourage leading innovative small businesses to provide short-term opportunities for college students who major in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math. The proposal would provide Small Business Innovation Research Program (SBIR) grantees who offer internships and other opportunities for these students with a 10% bonus grant, up to $10,000 per year. The program would be administered by the SBA. Coleman's amendment enjoyed the support of industry groups including the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) and the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO). 
   "Today, our employers need more than just raw materials. They need a highly skilled workforce that provides extra value to their product," said Coleman. "This amendment seeks to help prepare America's next generation of math, science and engineering workers - fields that are absolutely critical for keeping our country competitive." 
   The bill also contains a Coleman proposal to require the SBA to conduct a study on the impact of the elimination of the low-doc program on rural lending. Despite the fact that SBA-supported lending has increased in Minnesota, the rural share of lending has decreased significantly, from 49 percent in 2001 to just 28 percent in 2005. 
   "Small businesses are the life-blood of rural communities, and I am concerned that SBA's rural lending has decreased so dramatically," said Coleman. "Without question, we need to identify the problem so that a solution can be created. Since coming to the Senate, I have made rural development one of my top priorities. We have a responsibility to ensure rural communities are not left behind."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 