SEN. COLEMAN AMENDMENT TO CLOSE SANCTUARY CITY LOOPHOLE TO RECEIVE VOTE
  With the immigration debate moving forward in the Senate this week, Sen. Norm Coleman has reintroduced an updated version of his sanctuary cities amendment, which would ensure local law enforcement officials are able to communicate with federal law enforcement agencies regarding suspected immigration violations. In a so-called "sanctuary city" local law enforcement is barred from asking the suspects about their immigration status, in effect evading their legal responsibility to share such information with federal authorities. Coleman's revised amendment specifically lifts the gag order on law enforcement officers only, thus relieving confusion that teachers or medical practitioners could be turned into enforcement officials. The revised amendment also requires the Department of Homeland Security to issue regulations to enact this provision prior to the full implementation of the immigration benefits created in this bill. Coleman believes we must lift the gag order on local authorities before full implementation of the new visa programs.  
   "While it remains to be seen whether this immigration bill will be sufficiently strengthened in order to receive my vote, by allowing debate to move forward we have one last chance to significantly improve the border and interior enforcement measures in the bill. My amendment is a critical test of whether we are truly serious about enforcing immigration law. And while securing the border must be our first priority, we must not forget about securing America's streets," said Coleman. "Any alien who is participating in the programs contained in the immigration bill should have absolutely no reason to fear an encounter with a police officer. The only aliens who would fear contact with the police are those who have committed some other crime." 
   "Police officers on the front lines of public safety should never be handcuffed in their ability to protect the public. Prohibiting them from reporting suspected immigration violators has resulted in tragedy more than once. None of us want to look back one day and say, 'if only we had reported our suspicions right away.' Senator Coleman's amendment would return this tool to all officers. Allowing, but not requiring, officers to pursue these leads and pass along their concerns is simply common sense - and is ultimately necessary for public safety," said Lieutenant John Delmonico, President of the Police Officers Federation of Minneapolis. 
   Senator Coleman's amendment does not require local law enforcement officers to conduct immigration raids, act as federal agents, or even determine a person's immigration status. It simply lifts the gag order and restores to law enforcement officers the ability to pursue a person's immigration status as part of their daily work, and thus to report their suspicions to the appropriate Federal authorities though already-established channels, as they are already required to do by law. The bill also makes it clear that a person may not be barred from receiving medical or education services due to their immigration status.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 