SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $1,305,135 FOR ANOKA COUNTY COMMUNITY ACTION PROGRAM
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced the Anoka County Community Action Program (ACCAP) will receive a $1,305,135 grant from the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The ACCAP, located in Blaine, will use the funding for their Head Start programs that serve nearly 500 children in the area.  
   "I am excited to announce the Anoka County Community Action Program will receive this grant," said Coleman. "Head Start is a key program that helps shape our youth at an early age. I have been a longtime supporter of the program and am currently fighting for adequate funding for the program in this year's budget process. This specific grant will fund critical Head Start programs to help put area youth on the path to a brighter future. The work ACCAP does in the area has a direct impact on local children and their families, and I applaud the Department of Health and Human Services for awarding this funding in Minnesota." 
   "ACCAP is very pleased to receive this grant from the federal government," said ACCAP Executive Director Patrick McFarland. "It allows us to continue to serve 491 kids and their parents in Anoka and Washington Counties. Head Start is a proven successful, comprehensive program that provides early education, health, nutrition, social services and parent involvement that prepares low income and other disadvantaged kids to be successful. Senator Coleman worked very hard to ensure that Head Start was adequately funded and we much appreciate his hard work." 
   The Anoka County Community Action Program, Inc. is an independent nonprofit agency that began in 1965 under the Economic Opportunity Act. Every year, ACCAP serves thousands of residents living in Anoka County through a wide range of programs. 
   The main goals of the Department of Health and Human Services are to protect the health of all Americans and provide essential human services. HHS administers more grant dollars than all other federal agencies combined and works with state and local governments to efficiently provide funding for a variety of health, housing, employment, and community issues.
 
 