SEN. COLEMAN TO VISIT FARIBAULT, ST. PETER, LE SUEUR, HENDERSON ON NOV. 30
  Sen. Norm Coleman will visit Faribault, St. Peter, Le Sueur and Henderson on Thursday, November 30 during a trip to the southern Minnesota counties of Rice, Le Sueur, Nicollet and Sibley. During the trip, Coleman will be meeting with local leaders to discuss issues of concern to area residents, including healthcare, economic development and renewable energy issues. With Thursday's visits, Coleman will reach a goal of visiting every Minnesota county during 2006.  
   "I am anxious for Thursday's visit in order to hear firsthand about the specific concerns and ideas of the folks in these southern Minnesota counties," said Coleman. "I have always believed that the best ideas in Washington come from the people back home. During my visits to each of the counties across Minnesota this year, my constituents have greatly influenced the issues I have worked on in Washington such as renewable energy, agriculture and rural health care. Hearing from folks in every part of Minnesota is the only way to truly represent the entire state and I will continue to reach out to all of my constituents whenever I can." 
   Coleman will begin Thursday's visit at a lunch meeting with local leaders in Faribault. From there, he will meet with local officials and community leaders in St. Peter. Coleman will then make a business visit to Cambria in Le Sueur, before finishing the day at the Sibley County Municipalities Association semi-annual meeting in Henderson. 
   Details of the day's events are as follows. Local media are welcome to attend and media availability will follow each event. 
   12:30 - 1:30 p.m. 
  Lunch with Local Leaders - Faribault 
  Boston's The Gourmet Pizza Restaurant & Sports Bar 
  125 1st Ave NE 
  Faribault 
   2:50 - 4:00 p.m. 
  Coffee with Local Leaders - St. Peter 
  River Rock Coffee 
  301 S. Minnesota Avenue 
  St. Peter 
   5:00 - 5:45 p.m. 
  Business Visit - Cambria 
  Cambria USA Showroom 
  31496 Cambria Avenue 
  Le Sueur 
   6:20 - 7:30 p.m. 
  Sibley County Municipalities Association semi-annual meeting 
  Henderson Senior Community Center 
  600 Main Street, Henderson
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 