SEN. COLEMAN COMMENDS FINAL VOLCKER REPORT
  Sen. Norm Coleman today confirmed that the latest and final report issued by Mr. Paul Volcker's committee, the Independent Inquiry Committee (IIC), thoroughly corroborates the conclusions of the staff report of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI) issued on Tuesday, in addition to disclosing new details of further payments to the wife of George Galloway, member of the British Parliament, and to his political campaign.  
   On Tuesday, the Subcommittee presented extensive evidence that George Galloway made false or misleading statements while under oath at the Subcommittee's hearing on May 17, 2005, and disclosed evidence that (i) Galloway solicited financial assistance from the Hussein regime for his political campaign, (ii) Galloway's wife received roughly $150,000 in connection with an oil transaction under the Oil for Food Program, and (iii) Galloway's political campaign also received $446,000 as a direct result of the Oil-for-Food Program deals. The final Volcker committee report issued today at the United Nations in New York includes several findings related to Galloway. Specifically, the IIC report: 
   * Corroborated PSI's conclusions that Galloway and Galloway's political organization, the Mariam Appeal, were granted lucrative oil allocations by the Hussein regime; 
   * Found that Galloway's wife received an additional $120,000 in connection with an oil deal under the Oil for Food Program, increasing the total Oil for Food-related money received by Galloway's wife to $270,000; 
   * Confirmed PSI's conclusions that Galloway's agent received commissions for Oil for Food allocations and transferred hundreds of thousands of dollars to Galloway's political campaign, the Mariam Appeal. 
   "The evidence presented by Volcker's committee completely supports the exhaustive findings that the Subcommittee obtained," said Coleman. "The IIC relied on parallel information and documents and arrived at the same conclusions we did: Galloway solicited financial assistance from the Hussein regime, his wife received hundreds of thousands of dollars in connection with Oil for Food deals, and his political arm also received hundreds of thousands of dollars." 
   Significantly, the findings in these two separate reports parallel each other in significant ways: 
   * The IIC used some of the same documents as the Subcommittee, as well as numerous additional Oil Ministry records, to support its findings. Certain tables and documents created by the Hussein-era Ministry of Oil underlie the conclusions of both the IIC and the PSI reports. But the IIC also found numerous additional documents from the Oil Ministry that corroborate the evidence in PSI's report. 
   * The IIC also relied on interviews of senior Hussein regime officials, such as the Minister of Oil. Not only did the IIC find their testimony credible, their statements were also entirely consistent with their statements given to PSI. 
   * In addition, the transaction discovered by the IIC, in which Galloway's wife received $120,000, mirrors the same pattern as the transaction described in the PSI report - namely, an oil company would purchase Galloway's oil allocation and pay a sizeable commission to Galloway's agent; Galloway's agent would then forward a significant portion of that commission to Galloway's wife and Galloway's political organization. 
   In addition to the evidence presented by PSI that Galloway's wife received $150,000 in connection with an Oil-for-Food deal, the IIC disclosed a second transaction in which Galloway's wife received Oil-for-Food money. In short, the IIC found that Galloway's wife received $120,000 in connection with an oil transaction under the Program, increasing the total amount transferred to Galloway's wife to $270,000. The IIC also determined that Galloway's agent transferred hundreds of thousands of dollars to the Mariam Appeal, Galloway's political campaign, including massive amounts from Oil -for-Food deals. 
   "Lying to or misleading the United States Senate is a serious offense. I will ensure that the evidence obtained by PSI and the newly-uncovered evidence obtained by the IIC will be forwarded to the U.S. Department of Justice," continued Coleman. "In addition, I will ensure that the PSI and IIC reports are submitted to the proper British authorities, including the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards, the British Charity Commission and other agencies, so that they can pursue the matter as they see fit." 
   The report also included extensive corroborative evidence, such as: 
   1. Hussein-era documents from the Ministry of Oil and the Iraqi Intelligence Service, 
   2. Statements from numerous Hussein regime officials (including Deputy Prime Minster Tariq Aziz, Vice President Taha Yasin Ramadan, Minister of Oil Amer Rashid, and Ali Hasan Al-Majid), and 
   3. Statements from oil traders that discussed oil allocations with Galloway and negotiated with his agent. 
   "Despite his venom and bluster, Galloway has been completely unable to explain away the evidence," said Senator Coleman. "That evidence, revealed in Tuesday's PSI report, included the detailed banking and wire transfer records showing the transfers from the oil traders to Galloway's wife and his political campaign. PSI was able to obtain this damning evidence through the issuance of subpoenas to U.S. financial institutions." 
   That evidence showed that oil trader Taurus Petroleum bought the relevant oil and paid a commission of $740,000 to Galloway's agent on July 27, 2000. The money cleared into the agent's account on July 31, 2000. Three days later, on August 3, 2000, the agent transferred $150,000 to Galloway's wife. On that same day, he transferred $340,000 to the Mariam Appeal. 
   LINK TO IIC REPORT: http://www.iic-offp.org/story27oct05.htm.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 