SENATE PASSES SENS. COLEMAN, BINGAMAN AMENDMENT AIMED AT ATTRACTING INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS TO U.S. COLLEGES
  The United States Senate today unanimously approved a bipartisan amendment authored by Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) to the FY2006 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill to help America regain lost ground in attracting the world's best and brightest students. This amendment contains a key provision of the Coleman-Bingaman American Competitiveness Through International Openness Now (ACTION) bill by requiring the development of a strategic marketing plan to encourage international students to consider American schools though international ad campaigns and innovative web-based resources. This amendment will also require clearly defined responsibilities and better cooperation among the Departments of Education, State, Homeland Security, Commerce, and Energy in facilitating international student access.  
   Figures from the fall of 2003 through the fall of 2004 show that international applications to U.S. graduate schools fell 28 percent. During the same time period, 54 percent of all English as a Second Language (ESL) programs reported declines in overall applications, at a time where countries such as the U.K., Canada, and Australia are experiencing increases. Annually, international students contribute $13 billion to the nation's economy. 
   "This amendment is a necessary step in reversing the decline of foreign students in U.S. higher education and puts America back on track in terms of global competitiveness," said Coleman. "Countries like Canada and Great Britain have already implemented marketing plans aimed at recruiting students throughout the world. Attracting the world's top scientific scholars helps to keep our economy competitive, and exposing future world leaders to our democratic system adds to our national security. Minnesota students benefit from the presence of international scholars on our campuses, and our local economies benefit from the $13 billion industry of international education." 
   To combat the decline in the number of foreign students attending U.S. colleges, Sen. Coleman introduced the ACTION Act this past February. On February 11th, Coleman held summits with educators, college students and officials in Mankato, St. Cloud, and Minneapolis to discuss the problems associated with the decline of international students on American campuses. 
   "Reversing the perception that America is unwelcoming to foreign students is as important as fixing the glitches in the visa process," said Coleman. "The waiting time for security clearances under the Visas Mantis program has been reduced from 75 to 14 days, and those clearances are now available for four years at a time, instead of one. Chinese and American students now can get multiple entry visas to study in the other country, instead of being able to enter only once. Step by step we are addressing the crisis in international education, and this amendment will contribute to the progress made to date."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 