SEN. COLEMAN SAYS ECONOMY REMAINS IN HEALTHY SHAPE
  Sen. Norm Coleman expressed continued confidence in the state of the economy following today's release of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) report for the third quarter which shows that the economy has now expanded for 20 straight quarters with GDP growth averaging 3.0 percent during this time. According to the third quarter GDP report, consumer spending increased at a 3.1 percent annualized rate and business spending increased at 8.6 percent, while a key inflation measure declined from a 4.0 percent rate in the second quarter to a 2.0 percent rate in the third quarter.  
   "Today's report is further proof of the success of pro-growth Republican tax polices," said Coleman. "This is just the latest in a series of good economic news that includes nearly daily stock market highs, rising wages, falling gas prices and a significantly smaller than projected budget deficit for the recently concluded fiscal year. Any reversal in our tax and economic policies would reverse the gains we have made in the past three years, which would result in a higher cost of living for all Americans." 
   Current pro-growth tax polices have not only resulted in strong economic growth but have also led to the current historically low unemployment rate of 4.6 percent the creation of 6.6 million new jobs since August 2003 - more than the total combined jobs created by Japan and the European Union during this same time. 
   "Despite every sign pointing to the continued success of Republican pro-growth policies, my Democratic colleagues continue to call for a reversal of these polices that have served our nation and economy well during challenging times," Coleman said. "If our tax policies are not extended, millions of Americans - including families, small business owners, and seniors - will experience major taxes increases beginning in 2011. I will continue to work with my colleagues to keep in place the successful pro-growth tax policies in order to ensure continued economic success."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 