SEN. COLEMAN TO TESTIFY ON LATIN AMERICA \'HOT SPOTS\' BEFORE HOUSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that he will testify at the House International Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere Affairs' oversight hearing, "Keeping Democracy on Track: Hotspots in Latin America" on Wednesday September 28, in Room 2172 of the Rayburn House Office Building at 1:30 p.m. The Subcommittee's hearing will assess U.S. policies to advance and support democratic reforms and institutional capacity within Latin America and Caribbean basin nations.  
   As Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps and Narcotics Affairs, the counterpart to the House panel, Coleman has oversight responsibility for Latin America and has traveled extensively in the region. The Minnesota senator will give a progress report on the status of and threats to democracy in the region and offer policy recommendations to support institutions and economic growth, encourage fair elections, encourage private property ownership, and support positive and stable developments in the region. 
   "The United States has played a role in supporting Latin America's transition to democracy over the past two decades," said Coleman. "I applaud the President's focus on democracy around the world, particularly in the Middle East, but I believe we need to be as concerned about keeping nations in the democratic fold as we are about adding new states to it. I am honored that Chairman Burton has asked me to share my thoughts before his House panel, and look forward to our subcommittees working jointly to advance democracy in Latin America." 
   As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere Affairs, Sen. Coleman last week conducted a hearing on China's increasing involvement in Latin America, and recently traveled to Brazil, Columbia, Uruguay and Chile to discuss democracy, trade and energy issues with top political and business leaders. 
   Throughout his chairmanship, Sen. Coleman has conducted multiple visits throughout Latin America, including trips to Columbia and Cuba in 2003; Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, and Mexico in 2004, and Colombia, Brazil, Venezuela, Uruguay, and Chile in 2005.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 