SENS. COLEMAN, TALENT, LINCOLN INTRODUCE BILL TO ACCELERATE USE OF RENEWABLE FUELS AT PUMP
  Concerned over the America's long-term energy needs, Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN), Jim Talent (R-MO) and Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) announced the introduction of the Transforming Energy Now (TEN) Act (S.2680), legislation aimed at increasing the nation's use of renewable fuels and reducing its dependence on foreign oil. The TEN Act would require 10 percent of our nation's fuel to be blended with renewable fuels in 10 years, in addition to encouraging greater use of E-85 fuel and significantly increasing the number of E-85 pumps. 
   "Our nation's energy dependence is undeniably one of the greatest threats to our economic and national security," Coleman said. "While we are taking steps to help alleviate the impact of rising prices at the pump in the short term, we must also act to reduce our dependence on foreign oil in the long term. A 10/10 requirement for renewable fuels will speed up the transition to biofuels based energy. America needs a renewable fuel requirement that matches our ambition, but does not exceed our potential, and I am pleased to be working with Senators Talent and Lincoln to reach this aggressive yet attainable goal."  
   "The oil companies had kept the Renewable Fuels Standard bottled up for years and the Energy bill we passed last year broke that stranglehold," said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "Now that we've got the oil companies on the run, we are introducing a new plan to require at least 10 percent ethanol in the nation's fuel supply. Renewable fuels like ethanol and biodiesel are already moderating the price of gasoline. In Missouri, gasoline blended with 85 percent ethanol is selling for 55 cents less than regular unleaded gasoline. Our plan will help lower gas prices over the long term and reduce America's dependence on foreign oil." 
   Currently, at 4 billion gallons of ethanol production, the United States is only deriving about 4 percent of total gasoline sold from renewable fuel. At the current rate of renewable fuel production growth, the U.S. will increase its production of ethanol approximately 1 billion gallons a year, producing an estimated 14 billion gallons over in ten years. By implementing a 10 percent in 10 years requirement, America would be on a path to producing a realistic 19 billion gallons a year, equaling 10 percent of the nation's fuel. This 10 percent standard will require a growing national commitment to renewable fuels, but it will not require the U.S. depend on foreign ethanol imports to meet the requirement. 
   This bill also seeks to invest heavily in our nation's E-85 infrastructure by increasing the E-85 infrastructure tax credit, using CAFE penalties to fund E-85 infrastructure, and creating a USDA grant and loan guarantee program for E-85 infrastructure. 
   "Developing renewable fuels is only one part of the equation, we also need to have infrastructure in place that can facilitate the widespread use of this growing market," Coleman added. "We cannot afford to look back and see that we missed a golden opportunity to advance our alternative energy infrastructure. The high gas prices threatening our economic prosperity should serve as a stark reminder that we have remained overly dependent on foreign oil too long." 
   Specifically, this bill will: 
   Require that 10 percent of the Nation's motor vehicle fuel supply should be renewable by 2016, setting a goal of 19 billion gallons of biofuels by 2016 
   Increase the ethanol infrastructure tax credit in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 from 30 percent to 50 percent. 
   Use CAFE penalties to fund an alternative fueling infrastructure grant program at the Department of Energy. 
   Authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a low-interest loan and grant program to assist farmer-owned ethanol producers (including cooperatives and limited liability corporations) to develop and build infrastructure, including pump stations, for the retail delivery to consumers of any fuel that contains not less than 85 percent ethanol, by volume.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 