SEN. COLEMAN TOUTS LATEST NEWS OF STRONG ECONOMIC GROWTH
  Citing it as proof positive of the effectiveness of the pro-growth policies put in place by President Bush and the Republican Congress, Sen. Norm Coleman said the strong economic growth reported today underscores the need for Congress to ensure that the successful pro-growth polices remain in place. According to the report, the nation's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased at an annual rate of 4.8 percent in the first quarter of 2006, making it the 18th consecutive quarter of growth.  
   "Today's news that the GDP grew at nearly 5% this quarter provides irrefutable evidence that the economy is not only strong, but continuing to grow at a vigorous pace," said Coleman. "I am pleased at the economy's resiliency and strength in the face of high energy prices. Americans should feel good that throughout the past two years our economy has grown faster than any other major industrialized nation." 
   According to the most recent government figures, 211,000 jobs were created nationally in the month of March, and the economy has now added 5.2 million jobs since the President's pro-growth tax policies were implemented in May 2003. Minnesota added 8,000 jobs in the month of March while the state's unemployment level was at 4.1 percent - better than the national average of 4.7 percent. 
   In addition to the stellar GDP report, recent figures show that per capita after-tax disposable income has increased 7.7 percent since President Bush took office, as compared to a 7.4-percent growth rate during the comparable period of the previous administration. Figures also show wages for workers in private industry have increased by 20 percent between 2001 and 2005, well above the 16.5 percent increase registered during the first five years of the previous administration. Over the past 34 months, nearly three quarters of the new jobs created were in industry categories that pay an average hourly rate in excess of the overall average hourly rate in the private sector. 
   "Thanks to our pro-growth economic policies, our economy will continue to move in the right direction, as is evident by the increase in wages," Coleman added.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323. 
 
 