SEN. COLEMAN VOWS TO PROTECT MINNESOTA ETHANOL, BIODISEL FUEL BLENDS
  Concerned that steps to eliminate certain boutique fuel blends in an effort to rein in gas prices may unintentionally threaten Minnesota's nation-leading 10 and soon-to-be 20 percent ethanol requirement for gasoline and its 2 percent biodiesel requirement for diesel fuel, Sen. Norm Coleman today announced he will work to ensure renewable fuel blend requirements are not classified as boutique fuels as the U.S. Senate considers legislation to restrict the number of boutique fuel blends.  
   "While I fully support reducing the number of fuel blends in the marketplace in order to lessen the cost of supplying gasoline to consumers, Minnesota's 10, and soon-to-be 20, percent ethanol and 2 percent biodiesel requirements are a step forward in reducing the Nation's dependence on foreign oil," said Coleman. "Instability in oil-producing countries such as Iran and Nigeria are complicated by escalating oil demand by China and India. It is clear our dependence on foreign oil, now at 60 percent of our total gasoline supply, is a threat to our national and economic security. We can lower prices at the pump in the short-term by reducing the number of boutique fuels, but we need to make certain that we do not undercut our greatest tool to reduce foreign governments' influence over American gas prices - renewable fuels. Accordingly, I will work to ensure the boutique fuel proposals brought to the Senate Floor do not leave that chamber without a certainty of protection for Minnesota, as well as the Nation's renewable fuel industry." 
   The Government Accounting Office (GAO) issued a report in June 2005 that found, "the proliferation of special gasoline blends has made it more complicated to supply gasoline and has raised the costs, significantly affecting operations at refineries, pipelines and storage terminals." Meanwhile, a 2001 EPA study found that harmonization of fuel blends throughout the country could be done without major cost increases, increases in emissions or reductions in gasoline supply. The goal of the foremost boutique fuel harmonization proposal being considered before the Senate is to reduce the number of fuel blends in the marketplace to five - four gasoline blends and one diesel - by December 31st, 2008. Minnesota currently requires that all gasoline sold in the state include a 10 percent blend of ethanol, which will increase to 20 percent by 2012 as a result of legislation signed into law last year. The state also requires two-percent biodiesel to be used in all diesel fuel blends. 
   "I am continuing to push for a national commitment to renewable fuels as a way to grow energy here at home," added Coleman. "I believe Congress, as it explores legislation to simplify the number of fuel blends in the marketplace, must ensure the ethanol and biodiesel additions to Minnesota fuel are considered an additive - not a boutique fuel, which could target E-10, E-20, and B2 for elimination. In fact, if we are serious about bringing down gas prices, we should be adamantly encouraging states to adopt fuel requirements like Minnesota's, rather than potentially putting them in jeopardy." 
   In addition to protecting Minnesota's renewable fuel requirements, Senator Coleman today introduced the Transforming Energy Now (TEN) Act, which requires 10 percent of our nation's fuel to be blended with ethanol or biodiesel in 10 years, in addition to encouraging greater use of E-85 fuel and significantly increasing the number of E-85 pumps across the nation.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 