SEN. COLEMAN TO VISIT CHANHASSEN, SHAKOPEE, WOODBURY, SHOREVIEW ON JAN. 3
  Sen. Norm Coleman will visit the suburban communities of Chanhassen, Shakopee, Woodbury and Shoreview on Wednesday, January 3rd, 2007 as part of a visit to the Minnesota counties of Carver, Scott, Washington and Ramsey. Coleman, who visited all 87 Minnesota counties during 2006, will begin the New Year by meeting with local mayors, agriculture representatives, health care workers and elementary students during the day's visits.  
   "I have always believed the only way to be a truly effective senator is by listening to my constituents on a regular basis," said Coleman. "I am eager to begin my 2007 travels around the state by meeting with folks in these important communities in order hear about the unique issues they face and to identify ways to work with them on their concerns. I am especially excited to say thank you to the children at Turtle Lake Elementary School, who recently made Christmas cards and letters for Minnesota troops in Iraq that I was lucky enough to personally deliver during my recent visit to Iraq." 
   Coleman will begin his visits Wednesday morning at Millie's Deli in Chanhassen, where he will host a coffee meeting with mayors from several southwest suburban communities. 
   Coleman will then travel to a meeting with the Minnesota Corn Growers at their headquarters in Shakopee, where he will discuss the upcoming Farm Bill and renewable energy with the group's leaders, followed by media availability for local press. 
   The senator will continue his day with a tour of Woodwinds Health Center in Woodbury, before wrapping up with a stop at Turtle Lake Elementary School in Shoreview, where the Senator will personally thank elementary students who recently sent letters and Christmas cards to Minnesota troops stationed in Iraq. 
   Details on the day's events are as follows, with local media welcome to attend: 
   8:00 - 9:00 am 
  Coffee with Southwest Suburban Mayors 
  Millie's Deli 
  545 West 78th Street 
  Chanhassen, MN 
   9:30 - 10:30 a.m. 
  Meeting with MN Corn Growers 
  **Media Availability follows event** 
  738 1st Ave E 
  Shakopee, MN 
   11:20 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. 
  Tour Woodwinds Health Center 
  1925 Woodwinds Drive 
  Woodbury, MN 
   1:15 - 2:15 p.m. 
  Turtle Lake Elementary School Visit 
  1141 West County Rd I 
  Shoreview, MN.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 