SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES PASSAGE OF ENERGY BILL, A CORNERSTONE OF JOBS AGENDA
  Sen. Norm Coleman today joined a strong bipartisan majority in the United States Senate in voting 85-12 to pass comprehensive energy legislation (H.R. 6) that will create jobs, lower energy prices, lessen our dependence on foreign energy supplies, and lead to a cleaner environment. The bill aggressively develops and promotes clean, renewable energy such as ethanol, biodiesel, hydrogen, wind, solar, geothermal, and biomass through key amendments co-authored by Coleman, including an 8 billion gallon Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) that more than doubles ethanol use in America by 2012, a Renewable Energy Standard (RES) that ensures 10 percent of U.S. electricity comes from renewable sources like wind, and loan guarantee and tax incentives for a clean coal gasification power plant and economic development project for Minnesota's Iron Range. The bill also extends biodiesel and wind energy tax credits, and provides wind energy bonds to fund wind projects as proposed in Coleman's Rural Renaissance Act. The Energy Bill will now head to a House-Senate conference committee to resolve differences between the two chambers.  
   "When it comes down to it, the Energy Bill is a jobs bill," said Coleman. "It has been estimated that passage of the Energy Bill will save nearly 2 million American jobs over the next decade. High energy prices strain our economy and cost America jobs. This bill will help the factory, the farmer, and the local store down the street put more of their resources into expanding and creating jobs, instead of paying increasingly high energy costs." 
   The RFS amendment, which will more than double ethanol and biodiesel use in America by 2012, will also reduce crude oil imports over the same period by 2 billion barrels, reducing the outflow of U.S. dollars to foreign oil producers by $64 billion. Additionally, the RFS will create over 234,000 new and good paying jobs both on and off the farm. Minnesota is the first in the nation to have a 10 percent state requirement and will soon enjoy the first in the nation 20 percent requirement. Minnesota is home to 16 ethanol plants that have created over a half billion dollars in economic activity every year. 
   "I am pleased that as a result of including the Renewable Fuels Standard, not only will jobs be created directly through promotion and use of renewable energy sources, but families will also benefit by lower prices at the pump," said Coleman. "Any mom or dad knows the need for this Energy Bill when they fill up at the pump along the way to work or drop their kids off at school, or when they pay their utility bills." 
   The RES, coauthored by Senator Coleman, establishes a requirement that 10 percent of all electricity be derived from renewable resources by 2020, was also attached as an amendment to the bill. 
   The bill also includes wind energy incentives that will not only create well over 5,000 new megawatts of clean and renewable power through 2007 but will also generate over 100,000 new jobs in the United States by extending the 1.9 cents per kilowatt-hour wind energy tax credit. 
   "With Minnesota's wind energy production becoming the fastest in the nation, extending wind energy tax credits will bring us greater energy independence, environmental protection, and economic development," Coleman added. "Using wind energy bonds to help build wind energy projects as I proposed in my Rural Renaissance Act is an important component of this Energy Bill." 
   Another important tax provision in this bill is the extension of the biodiesel tax credit through 2010. Minnesota is the first state in the nation to have a 2 percent state biodiesel requirement, which will be implemented yet this summer. 
   "The biodiesel tax credit extension is a victory for Minnesota," Coleman said. "Minnesota has three biodiesel plants coming on line, creating construction and plant jobs in towns like Brewster, Minnesota which just completed a $55 million plant in that town of 502 people. At the end of the day, biodiesel means cleaner air and water, lower prices at the pump, and more jobs." 
   The Energy bill also includes incentives for clean coal technology, which has the potential to give America the cleanest burning coal plants in the world, create an estimated 62,000 jobs, and ensure a more abundant, reliable, affordable, and cleaner source of electricity as we transition towards more renewable sources. The Coleman-authored Excelsior provision authorizes loan guarantees and tax credits to Excelsior Energy's Mesaba Energy Project, which is expected to dramatically cut emissions, making it one of the cleanest coal-fueled power plants in the world. Inclusion of loan guarantees and tax credits for Excelsior in this year's Energy Bill comes on the heels of last year's announcement by Senator Coleman of $36 million for the project. 
   "I am pleased that the Excelsior Energy project will introduce clean coal technology to America and at the same time create hundreds of good paying jobs for Northeast Minnesota," Coleman continued. "This project will put Minnesotans on the forefront of cleaner energy sources and help expand the Iron Range's economy."
 
 