SEN. COLEMAN APPOINTS BILL HUEPENBECKER AS SENIOR POLICY DIRECTOR
  Sen. Coleman today announced that his Minnesota State Director, Bill Huepenbecker, will assume the position of Senior Policy Director in his Washington, D.C. office. As Senior Policy Director, Huepenbecker will help expand and build upon the Senator's current efforts on Coleman's major Minnesota policy initiatives, including expansion of renewable energy resources, access to health care in rural communities, job creation and economic growth.  
   "Bill has done a great job as my State Director. Through his leadership, my office completed visiting every single city in Minnesota, expanded its regional operations with two additional offices in Moorhead and Grand Rapids and developed a strong, and effective field staff and casework operation," said Coleman. "The opportunity to use his experience in my D.C. Office, working with my legislative staff, will allow us to be even more focused and aggressive on issues important to Minnesota. There are tremendous opportunities to expand our use of renewable energy resources, promote greater access to health care in rural communities and, through these types of efforts, strengthen job creation and economic growth. Bill will play a key role in these efforts in my office." 
   "Since taking office, Senator Coleman has undertaken an aggressive policy agenda, and I am truly honored that I will have the opportunity to help implement the Senator's vision in Washington," said Huepenbecker. 
   Born in Glencoe, MN, Huepenbecker's relationship with Senator Coleman extends back to when the Senator was Mayor of St. Paul, serving as Director of Intergovernmental Relations, Deputy Chief of Staff, and Chief of Staff. After working in the Mayor's office, Mr. Huepenbecker was the Executive Director of the St. Paul RiverCentre convention complex. Mr. Huepenbecker has occupied his current position as the Senator's State Director for two years.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 