SENS. COLEMAN-LEVIN HEARING EXPOSES DANGEROUS GAPS IN PORT, CONTAINER SECURITY AS INVESTIGATORS SMUGGLE RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL INTO U.S.
  Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Carl Levin (D-MI) held a Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI) hearing today to examine the threat of nuclear terrorism and assess programs to secure, detect, and interdict nuclear and radiological materials domestically and abroad. The hearing, titled "Neutralizing the Nuclear and Radiological Threat: Securing the Global Supply Chain," unveiled the findings of three Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports. These reports highlighted: (1) efforts to prevent the smuggling of nuclear and radiological materials; (2) the disturbing fact that less than 40 percent of maritime containers entering the U.S. are screened for radiation; and (3) the ability of undercover GAO investigators to use fraudulent documents to transport enough radioactive material across the border to construct a dirty bomb.  
   "Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, preventing nuclear and radioactive material from being smuggled into the U.S. has become a principal national security objective," said Coleman. "To that end, the Department of Homeland Security has made some progress. However, I am alarmed that undercover investigators were recently able to smuggle in enough radioactive material to detonate two dirty bombs on American soil. The reality is that it is easier to buy low grade radioactive material for a dirty bomb than it is to buy cold medicine that has been restricted due to the meth epidemic. The ability to identify radioactive source material as it crosses our borders is meaningless if those intending to harm us can acquire counterfeit documents and transport radioactive material into our country. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission must find a way to change its pre 9/11 mindset in our post 9/11 world. We cannot afford to miss a single opportunity when it comes to protecting our national borders." 
   "U.S. programs to stop the illegal transport of nuclear materials are complex, difficult to run, and critical to U.S. national security," said Levin. "The GAO reports released today provide valuable insights into our existing national security vulnerabilities and how much more needs to be done. For example, GAO's success in transporting radioactive sources across our nation's borders at two locations is an alarming wake-up call to DHS. And while GAO found significant improvements in our nonproliferation programs, a long list of actions still needs to be taken to stop the illegal transport of nuclear materials. To do all that is required to safeguard the United States, nonproliferation and border security programs at the Departments of Energy, Defense, State, and Homeland Security, need to command more dollars, more expertise, and a higher priority on the nation's agenda." 
   "This report shows that who operates our ports has a significant bearing on port security, despite what the Administration says," stated John D. Dingell, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. "Delays in installing key radiation and nuclear detection equipment at some of our seaports were due directly to the actions and decisions by certain seaport operators. DHS must be more aggressive on port security, and must make sure that port operators get the message." 
   "If terrorists were to obtain nuclear or radiological material and smuggle it into this country, the consequences could be catastrophic: a tremendous loss of life and a crippling blow to our economy. While progress has been made in deploying a global network to detect and interdict nuclear materials, we must continue working to confront these challenges. Clearly, in order to be effective, equipment deployed must be properly used, and reports of corrupt personnel at certain foreign border stations and ill-functioning equipment undermine the effectiveness of these programs," said Senator Collins. "Secretary Chertoff made nuclear detection and interdiction a priority through the creation of the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office last year, and the GAO's preliminary findings indicate that this office has made positive contributions already. Its mission is too important to fail." 
   The GAO reports released today relevant to PSI's ongoing investigation into global supply chain security cover three aspects of the effort to combat smuggling of nuclear and radiological material. 
   * "Combating Nuclear Smuggling: DHS Has Made Progress Deploying Radiation Equipment at U.S. Ports of Entry, but Concerns Remain," finds that the Department of Homeland Security's deployment of portal monitors has fallen behind schedule and that the program will likely incur a $342 million cost overrun. 
   * "Combating Nuclear Smuggling: Corruption, Maintenance and Coordination Problems Challenge U.S. Efforts to Provide Radiation Detection Equipment to Other Countries," focuses on the systematic problems facing U.S. efforts to provide, maintain and monitor nuclear detection devices at border crossings, primarily border crossings in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. In this report the GAO identifies several challenges facing the U.S. in their attempt to implement nuclear detection devices in foreign nations, including (1) the possibility that corruption and substance abuse by foreign security personnel at border crossings may compromise the detection of nuclear and radiological materials, (2) a lack of a neutron detection capability at some border sites, and (3) inadequate maintenance for the handheld radiation devices at some sites. 
   * "Border Security: Investigators Successfully Transported Radioactive Source Material Across our Nation's Borders at Selected Locations" assesses potential security weaknesses at U.S. ports of entry. Although the GAO found that radiation portal monitors properly and effectively signaled the presence of radioactive source material, investigators were still able to successfully transport radioactive source materials in an amount sufficient to manufacture a dirty bomb, across our Northern and Southern borders using counterfeit NRC licenses and bills of lading. 
   "Few would disagree with the goal of detecting and interdicting nuclear smuggling abroad--before it arrives in America," continued Coleman. "The last layer of our defense should be U.S. Ports of Entry. Yet, the Subcommittee's investigation, in conjunction with the GAO, has uncovered a number of deficiencies in U.S. efforts to combat nuclear smuggling through these programs. The U.S. government must strengthen its 'second line of defense' in foreign countries by properly maintaining radiation portal monitors. We cannot afford to miss a single opportunity when it comes to national security." 
   The hearing sets the stage for a second hearing on March 30, which will provide a detailed review on supply chain security including a discussion of the significant improvements in the Container Security Initiative (CSI), the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), and the Hong Kong screening concept. In early 2002, Customs and Border Protection launched both CSI and C-TPAT. The Subcommittee has led a 30 month bipartisan and bicameral investigation into these programs, which has included oversight examinations of 11 CSI ports. The Subcommittee held an earlier hearing on May 26, 2005 to examine potential vulnerabilities in the global supply chain system: "The Container Security Initiative and Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism: Securing the Global Supply Chain or Trojan Horse?"
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 