SEN. COLEMAN TO HOST LISTENING SESSION IN BURNSVILLE ON 'MAKING MINNESOTA COMPETITIVE'
  On Monday, June 7, Sen. Norm Coleman will be in Burnsville to host a listening session with area business and community leaders. The roundtable discussion will focus on what steps can be taken to help make Minnesota more competitive in the global marketplace and boost the state's job-creating capacity.  
   "As our economy gathers strength, we must address the fundamental challenges that add to the cost of doing business here in Minnesota and across the nation," Coleman said. "I can think of no better way to tackle these issues than to first hear from business leaders who face that challenge each day." 
   Coleman will hear a variety of business leaders discuss their challenges and suggest how federal government can assist with business-related policies and their implications. The session will touch on trade policy, tax policy, small business healthcare, legal reform, investment in human capital and infrastructure, among other issues. 
   "The city of Burnsville is home to more than 2,000 businesses," Burnsville Mayor Elizabeth Kautz said. "We have worked to be an active partner with the business community and stay ahead of the curve. Events like this prove that cooperation is the best way to get things done." 
   "I am thrilled Senator Coleman has selected Burnsville as the site for this important roundtable discussion," Burnsville Chamber of Commerce President Daron Van Helden said. "These discussions will help businesses south of the river and throughout the state of Minnesota." 
   Roundtable participants will include: Bill Morley, Vice President for Congressional Affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce; Toby Madder, Regional Economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis; Kate Rubin, President of the Minnesota High Tech Association; a representative from 3M; Elaine Bliss, Vice President of Indetix; Harold Hamilton, President of Micro Control; Louis Henry, President of Franchise Food Systems; Colleen Landkamer, Blue Earth County Commissioner, among others. The meeting is free and open to the public. 
   BURNSVILLE SITE INFORMATION: 
   WHEN: 
  Monday, June 7, 2004 
  10 a.m. - noon* 
   *Guests are invited to meet with Senator Coleman after the roundtable discussion. 
   WHERE: 
  Council Chambers 
  Burnsville City Hall 
  100 Civic Center Parkway 
  Burnsville, MN
 
 