SEN. COLEMAN TO HOLD LISTENING SESSION IN BRAINERD ON HOUSING SOLUTIONS FOR GROWING COMMUNITIES
  On Friday, June 4, Sen. Norm Coleman will be in Brainerd to listen to community leaders and regional experts discuss how they are addressing housing challenges in a time of unprecedented growth and development in the Brainerd Lakes Area.  
   Coleman will host a two-hour listening session to learn about Brainerd-area accomplishments and suggest how federal government can assist local efforts to provide a range of affordable housing for residents in growing communities. 
   "As former mayor of St. Paul, I understand how important the effort is to make safe, affordable housing available to every citizen," Coleman said. "I can think of no better way to tackle this issue than to first hear from community leaders who face the problem each day." 
   "The Brainerd Lakes Area has experienced significant growth over the past 20 years due to the region's natural amenities and centralized location to some of the state's largest cities," Doug Grout, Executive Director of the Brainerd Housing and Redevelopment Authority, said. 
   Crow Wing County is the fastest growing county in Minnesota. The population in Crow Wing County has increased 25 percent from 1990 to 2000. The State Demographer estimates that in 2003 the population was 58,000, and that number is expected to reach nearly 100,000 by 2020, according to Crow Wing County Planning and Zoning officials. 
   Cooperative partnerships have been part of the solution to addressing housing challenges in the region. Coleman will hear about the Brainerd-Baxter Housing Partnership, created in 2003 to bring together citizens and government officials, working together toward creating effective housing strategies and goals. 
   "The Brainerd-Baxter area is a model for growing communities across Minnesota," Coleman said. "I will see how what we've learned in the Brainerd Lakes Area can benefit other communities in the state of Minnesota." 
   Roundtable participants will include: James Walleen, Mayor, City of Brainerd; Lisa Paxton, President and CEO of the Brainerd Lakes Area Chamber of Commerce; Doug Grout, Executive Director of the Brainerd Housing and Redevelopment Authority; Sheila Havercamp, Executive Director of Brainerd Lakes Area Development Corporation; Elizabeth Harris, Brainerd Police Department Crime Prevention Specialist; Kevin Pelkey, Executive Director of the Lakes Area Habitat for Humanity, among others. The meeting is free and open to the public. 
   BRAINERD SITE INFORMATION: 
   WHEN: 
  Friday, June 4, 2004 
  1:30 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. 
   WHERE: 
  Area Education Center 
  311 10th Ave., NE 
  Brainerd, MN
 
 