SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES NEW RURAL DEVELOPMENT LOAN, GRANT PROGRAM
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman announced a new rural development loan and grant program aimed at helping revitalize infrastructure in rural communities. The President's plan includes funding for water and sewer facilities, health clinics, hospitals, nursing homes, fire and police equipment and renewable fuels projects vital to the Minnesota economy. 
   "The American economy is on the mend, and we need to make sure the economies in Minnesota's rural communities are rebounding as well," said Coleman. "This announcement today evidences what I've been saying for some time now: President Bush is a strong advocate for Minnesota's rural communities and farm families. We absolutely need to make a major investment in the basic infrastructure of rural America and the program the president approved today is a serious first step in that direction."
   The Bush Administration approved new regulations that will build upon the existing Rural Development Loan and Grant program. This program will make new funds available for low interest loans and grants and ensure the program's continuation. Without these new regulations, the program would run out of money and cease to exist, cutting off an important source of capital for Minnesota's rural communities.
   "To date, the Rural Development Loan and Grant program has provided nearly $33 million to help Minnesota's rural communities meet basic infrastructure needs," Coleman continued. "But had President Bush not extended this important program today, we would have lost an important tool in trying to meet the serious infrastructure needs in rural Minnesota. Today's decision is estimated to mean an additional $250 million in new grants and another $1 billion in low interest loans for rural communities throughout the country. This is good news."
   Minnesota ranks first among all states in receipt of Rural Development Loan and Grant program funds.
   "In my travels throughout the state of Minnesota, I hear from mayors, business folks, and people up and down Main Street that we need to make a serious investment in meeting the basic infrastructure needs of our rural communities," said Coleman. "That's why I introduced the Rural Renaissance Act. Today's announcement is a good start, but there is still a great deal of work to be done in revitalizing our rural communities, and I am continuing to push this important piece of legislation in Congress."
 
 