SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $2 MILLION IN NEW FUNDING FOR BORDER PRAIRIE WETLANDS, MINNESOTA HEADWATERS CONSERVATION PROJECTS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that two separate wildlife and habitat conservation projects in Minnesota - the Border Prairie Wetlands and Minnesota Headwaters projects - will each receive $1 million in federal grant funding through the North American Wetlands Conservation Act (NAWCA). The two grants will be focused on restoration and acquisition of wildlife habitat across central, and west-central Minnesota.  
   "I am thrilled for our sportsmen that these important wildlife and habitat restoration projects will receive the resources they need," said Coleman. "Across Minnesota, our hunters and conservationists face the great challenge of maintaining and improving critical lands for our ducks, geese, pheasants and other wild game. Groups like Pheasants Forever and others like it, coupled with the commitment of the Minnesota DNR, do wonders for this cause and I am pleased they are receiving the assistance they need for these specific projects." 
   Specifically, one grant has been awarded to Pheasant's Forever for the Border Prairie Wetlands project. Pheasants Forever will use the funding in partnership with other conservation groups to restore, enhance and acquire a total of 2,282 acres of wetland and associated prairie habitats in Becker, Douglas, Kandiyohi, Mahnomen, Meeker, Otter Tail, Pope, Stearns, and Todd Counties. State and federal project lands will be open for public uses that are compatible with long-term conservation. 
   The grant slated for the Minnesota Headwaters project is being awarded to the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR), who will use the funding to protect and restore over 5,000 acres of habitat in the counties of Cass, Crow Wing, Morrison, Mille Lacs, Itasca, and Aitkin. The DNR, along with other project partners, will focus on safeguarding emergent and forested wetlands, associated uplands, and shoreline habitats--all threatened by the rapidly increasing development of seasonal and permanent homes in the project area. 
   For each dollar of federal funding provided through NAWCA, two dollars in non-federal match must be provided. The NAWCA provides matching grants to organizations that have developed partnerships to carry out wetlands conservation projects in the United States, Canada, and Mexico in support of the North American Waterfowl Management Plan.
 
 