SEN. COLEMAN SAYS MILITARY TRIBUNALS NECESSARY TO WINNING WAR ON TERROR
  In an effort to strengthen America's ability to fight the War on Terror, Sen. Norm Coleman today joined his colleagues in voting to pass the Military Commissions Act. Passing by a vote of 65 to 34, this legislation will aid America's efforts in bringing terrorists to justice, while preserving intelligence programs that have been essential to thwarting terrorist plots and protecting Americans. Specifically, the bill officially establishes a statutory framework for military commissions to prosecute terrorists who are engaged in hostilities against the U.S. The robust framework has been drafted as a new chapter of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, which is the statutory mechanism for addressing war crimes.  
   "The passage of this bill is critical to winning the War on Terror," said Coleman. "During a time of war we need a system in place where suspected foreign terrorists can be brought to justice, and this bill accomplishes that goal. Importantly, it ensures that detainees receive a full and fair trial without compromising our national security in the process. Additionally, the legislation allows for the continuance of key intelligence programs that protect American lives. We must not lose sight of the fact that we are fighting a very complex war where intelligence-gathering plays an especially critical role in preventing future terrorist attacks. Our success requires that we provide our military and intelligence officials with the appropriate tools needed to protect and defend this country." 
   The bill also upholds the U.S. commitment to the humane treatment of detainees by providing for full compliance with Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. The bill provides that no statement obtained by torture shall be admissible in a military commission. Furthermore, under this legislation detainees maintain protections such as the right to examine and respond to all evidence; to be present at all sessions of the commission, and to have the assistance of counsel with certain limited exceptions. 
   Khalid Shaykh Muhammad, the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, was recently transferred to the Guantanamo detention center. He cannot be tried for his war crimes against innocent American citizens until Congress passes this important legislation.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 