SENATE PASSES SENS. COLEMAN, COLLINS AMENDMENT EXPANDING OVERSIGHT AUTHORITY FOR SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL IN IRAQ
  Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Susan Collins (R-ME) last night successfully included an amendment in the 2008 Department of Defense authorization bill that would expand and extend the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction's (SIGIR) oversight of U.S. efforts in Iraq. The amendment was introduced following Sen. Coleman's return from Iraq where he met with representatives from SIGIR to discuss their needs and priorities. SIGIR is a temporary federal agency, created by Congress, that is responsible for oversight of expenditures and revenues associated with reconstruction and rehabilitation in Iraq. It is also charged with auditing, inspecting and investigating the use and potential misuse of funds intended for Iraq reconstruction programs. With a staff of approximately 130 and an annual budget of $35 million, SIGIR has produced more than 200 reports on Iraq reconstruction, including 94 audits, 95 Project Assessments, 14 quarterly reports to Congress and 3 comprehensive "Lessons Learned" reports on all aspects of Iraq reconstruction. It has initiated over 315 investigations, resulting in the arrests of 13 individuals and five convictions of individuals defrauding the U.S. government, and identified more than $57 million in taxpayer dollars saved or recovered.  
   Specifically, the Coleman-Collins amendment clarifies that any money used for reconstruction in Iraq shall be considered within the purview of SIGIR, removing any ambiguity that would put it under the oversight of another agency inspector general. Additionally, the amendment extends SIGIR's current authority to audit reconstruction activity in fiscal year 2006 to include reconstruction in fiscal years 2007 and 2008, and extends and provides greater certainty to their authority, by changing the termination date to be 90 days after there is $250 million or less available for Iraq reconstruction. 
   "SIGIR continues to play an indispensable role in providing oversight of reconstruction efforts in Iraq, so I was pleased to work with them on ways to help them do their job more effectively," said Coleman. "When I went to Iraq earlier this month, I made it a priority to meet with representatives from SIGIR so I could receive an update on the progress they are making on the ground and also to identify their needs as we work together to rebuild Iraq. I developed this amendment directly from their feedback, and I am confident the changes it institutes will benefit not only SIGIR's efforts, but also American taxpayers and Iraqi citizens. I am pleased the Senate passed this amendment and I am eager to see the benefits it will have on our efforts in Iraq." 
   Senator Coleman has led the effort to ensure and expand Congressional oversight in Iraq. Along with voting to create the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction to ensure oversight of Iraqi reconstruction efforts, Coleman worked with Senator Russ Feingold, among other colleagues, to save the SIGIR office when it was set to be shut down at the end of 2006.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 