SEN. COLEMAN'S EFFORT SAVES COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS FROM BUDGET CUTS
  Sen. Norm Coleman's (R-MN) efforts to save the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program from budget cuts succeeded late last night when the Senate and House of Representatives passed a budget resolution that included Coleman's amendment to fully fund this and other community and economic development programs. On February 7, the Administration had proposed a budget that sharply cut and consolidated CDBG and other programs. Senator Coleman led a bipartisan coalition of Senators to prevent any changes to the program.  
   "I am pleased Congress adopted my amendment to fully fund the CDBG and other critically important economic and community development programs," said Senator Coleman. "CDBG is the lifeblood of communities across this country, offering opportunity for economic revitalization and jobs creation in rural, urban and suburban cities and towns that could otherwise very well be left behind." 
   Senator Coleman took a leading role in forming a coalition of Senators to save the CDBG program. On March 17, Senator Norm Coleman proposed an amendment to the Senate Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2006 that stopped cuts to CDBG. The amendment passed with broad bipartisan support by a vote of 66 to 32. This followed an earlier letter to the Budget Committee that Senator Coleman spearheaded that was signed by 5_ senators urging that CDBG and other programs receive full funding. 
   In March, Mayor of St. Paul Randy Kelly said of Coleman's efforts: "I appreciate Senator Coleman's leadership on behalf of cities across the country to restore this vital program back to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development." 
   CDBG serves more than 1,100 entitlement communities, urban counties and states, and over 3,000 rural communities. Over 95 percent of CDBG funds benefit low to moderate-income persons. In 2004, CDBG assisted 168,938 households and funded service projects that benefited over 13 million people. 
   Senator Coleman had stated back in February about the President's proposal on CDBG that "cuts and changes to the community development block grant (CDBG) program - the lifeblood of community development and revitalization - are nonstarters."
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 