SEN. COLEMAN MEETS WITH STATE, DHS TO VOICE CONCERN OVER PROPOSED PASSPORT REQUIREMENT TO/FROM CANADA
  Yesterday Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) met in his office with Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Maura Harty and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Border and Transportation Security Michael Neifach to discuss the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative. As the Chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee's Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Sen. Coleman expressed his reservations about a section of the initiative that would require a passport to travel to Canada, Mexico and other Western Hemisphere nations. This program is scheduled to be phased in starting at the end of this year and will take effect for all travel on January 1, 2008. A picture from the meeting of Coleman talking with Harty is attached.  
   "I had a productive meeting with Maura Harty and Michael Neifach," Coleman said. "My message was that while I believe we need to do a better job of monitoring who is coming in and out of out country, we need to make sure this program works for ordinary Americans. I think that a passport requirement has the potential to be a real burden on residents of northern Minnesota, and if this problem cannot be fixed administratively, I am prepared to introduce legislation to remedy it that way." 
   Canada is America's most important trading partner, with over $1.6 billion worth of goods crossing the border each day and 16 million Canadians visiting the United States each year and 14.2 million Americans visiting Canada annually. On April 16, Senator Coleman wrote a letter to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the State Department expressing his concerns with the new initiative. 
   President George W. Bush has also expressed reservations with the new regulation. 
   "When I first read in the newspaper about the need to have passports, particularly today's crossings that take place - about a million, for instance, in the state of Texas - I said, 'What's going on here?'" President Bush said a few weeks ago. 
   The State Department indicated to the Senator that they now have 6000 places where people can get passports, and they are prepared to double the number of passports they issue. The Department of Homeland Security will be traveling around the country to help educate people on the requirements of the new program. 
   "I am pleased that outreach will be a part of this process," Senator Coleman said. "However, I think that input from folks along the northern border is critically important in the development of this program. I can assure you that my office will be a part of this discussion."
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 