SENS. COLEMAN-LIEBERMAN RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING MAY 2005 AS 'BETTER HEARING AND SPEECH MONTH' PASSES SENATE
 A resolution introduced by Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT) recognizing the month of May 2005 as "Better Hearing & Speech Month" passed the Senate late last night. This bipartisan resolution will raise public awareness to encourage prevention and treatment of hearing impairment and commends those states that have implemented routine hearing screening for every newborn baby before the infant leaves the hospital.  
   "Around 28 million Americans suffer from hearing loss," Senator Coleman said. "In many cases doctors and parents do not realize that newborns have hearing loss until some months later. Sadly, when hearing loss is not recognized immediately, a child's speech and language development can be severely impeded. This can be easily prevented with early identification and qualified intervention, which is why it is so important for hospitals to implement routine hearing screening of newborns. 
   Every day, 33 babies are born in the United States with permanent hearing loss, making it one of the most frequently occurring birth defects in the nation. Research shows that children identified with hearing loss early, and those who receive appropriate early qualified intervention by the age of six months, have significantly higher language levels than children whose hearing loss is identified later. 
   "Hearing loss is a condition that afflicts both old and young," Senator Lieberman said. "For the elderly, recognizing hearing loss could mean the difference between dependence and independence - the ability to communicate, gather news, and be aware of one's auditory environment. For young children, it could profoundly hinder critical developmental skills, if it is not properly diagnosed. This resolution makes sure we do not take for granted our hearing health."
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 