SEN. COLEMAN: WALKER CRITICAL ACCESS HOSPITAL CLEARS IMPORTANT HURDLE
  After years of pushing for the construction of a Critical Access Hospital (CAH) in Cass County, Senator Norm Coleman today announced that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has given preliminary approval to the county to construct a hospital in the city of Walker. Previously, Cass County was unable to build a CAH in Walker because it is 31.9 miles away from the nearest CAH or hospital and; therefore, did not meet the federal 35-mile minimum distance rule. After months of appeals and negotiations by Senator Coleman, CMS released new requirements waiving the 35-mile rule in cases where there are no primary roads connecting two hospitals. This led to a January 28th letter to Minnesota's Office of Rural and Primary Care stating that Walker's proposed hospital appears to meet these new guidelines and should be exempted from the 35-mile minimum distance rule, clearing the way for a new hospital. Specifically, Walker has been granted preliminary approval because they qualify for the federal 15-mile standard, which allows the certification for a CAH when its location is only accessible via secondary roads within 15 miles to the nearest CAH. 
   "Bottom line, access to a hospital in the event of an emergency should not depend on a zip code or county line," said Coleman. "I have spoken with residents and local leaders of Cass County many times and in each conversation, they have always identified the lack of an accessible care center as their biggest concern. I know firsthand how important the construction of this hospital is to the people of Cass County and after years of hard work, I am thrilled to see CMS deem them eligible for a Critical Access Hospital."
   Previously, Coleman and fellow Minnesota Senator, Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) attached a bipartisan amendment to the 2007 Supplemental Appropriations bill that provided the county an exemption to the 35-mile requirement. Coleman has also introduced similar stand-alone legislation, which he was hoping to include in an upcoming Medicare bill. Today's announcement brings these efforts within sight of a successful conclusion for the people of Cass County.
   "During one of my trips to Walker, I met with a woman who spoke from personal experience about the urgent need for a hospital within a reasonable distance. She told me that she fears her asthmatic son might have a terrible attack and that he would be too far away from a hospital for them to help him," said Coleman. "Government red tape and regulations have stood in the way of the safety of this community for too long, and I am thrilled to see this hospital one step closer to becoming a reality for the people of Walker."
   Since 1975 Cass County has been one of only three counties in Minnesota without a hospital within its borders. Residents and visitors in north-central Cass County have to travel up to an hour or more to hospitals in Bemidji, Park Rapids, Deer River, Crosby, Staples or Brainerd to seek urgent care in emergency rooms and other hospital-based services.
 
 