SEN. COLEMAN SECURES MILLIONS FOR METRO ROADS, MINNESOTA TRANSIT, FUELING NEW JOBS THROUGH HIGHWAY BILL
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that he has secured $3 billion in funding over the next 5 years for Minnesota's transportation needs and that he personally delivered $70 million for key Minnesota highway projects, including $49.5 million for metro area roads; and more than $400 million for Minnesota transit projects that includes $9.5 million for metro transit projects in the Highway Bill poised to pass Congress this week. Overall, Minnesota will receive an increase of 46 percent, resulting in significant new road construction and thousands new jobs statewide, due in part to a change Coleman championed last year in the funding formula that previously penalized ethanol-producing states. The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU), known as H.R. 3, which provides $286.5 billion over five years to improve roadway infrastructure throughout the United States, is designed to reduce traffic congestion, make state roads safer, promote renewable fuels, and create thousands of good paying jobs in Minnesota.  
   "I am especially excited that funding for critical metro-area projects is secured in this bill," said Coleman. "Anyone who lives or works in or visits the Twin Cities knows the need for improvements to our transportation infrastructure: the average Twin City driver wastes 28 hours, 48 gallons of fuel, and $559 per year in traffic. And anyone who lives in and commutes to and from Stillwater knows that this bill will relieve major congestion headaches and make a big impact on businesses and residential expansion. The Highway Bill will help us get the results that we need to improve our roadways, address traffic congestion and safety concerns, and expand Minnesota's economy in terms of trade and job creation." 
   METRO AREA ROAD PROJECTS SECURED BY SENATOR COLEMAN 
   AMOUNT PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
   $17,000,000 Phase III construction of Trunk Highway 610-10 
   $9,000,000 Design, construct, and acquire right-of-way for St. Croix River Crossing in Stillwater 
   $5,000,000 Phalen Boulevard project to reconstruct I-35E from University Avenue to Maryland Avenue in St. Paul, 
   $750,000 Design engineering and ROW acquisition to reconstruct Trunk Highway 95 bridge in North Branch 
   $2,000,000 Construction and right-of-way acquisition for interchange at TH65 and TH242 in Blaine 
   $2,500,000 Design, construct, and expand TH 241 in the city of St. Michael 
   $5,000,000 Design and construction of Cedar Avenue Busway in Dakota County
  $3,000,000 Planning and pre-design for Twin Cities Bioscience Corridor in St. Paul 
   $2,000,000 I-494 US 169 Interchange Reconstruction, Twin Cities Metropolitan Area 
   $3,250,000 Reconstruct County Highway 42 Interchange at U.S. Highway 52 in Dakota County 
   Minnesota will receive more than $400 million for statewide transit projects over the next five years, a 66 percent increase from previous funding levels, and the Metro region will benefit from $9.5 million in funding for transit such as buses. "As a former mayor of St. Paul, I'm very pleased with today's results as I know how much this will mean to the residents of the Twin Cities and outlying areas of the metro region," said Coleman. "This federal commitment means metro-area residents will spend less time commuting and more time with their families." 
   MN TRANSIT PROJECTS SECURED BY SENATOR COLEMAN 
   The Northstar Commuter Rail Project has received authorization for $80 million in funding to connect downtown Minneapolis to St. Cloud/Rice Minnesota, and the Union Depot Project in downtown St. Paul has also received authorized in the amount of $50 million to provide for new buses and other bus-related projects. Other authorized transit projects are as follows: 
   PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
   Central Corridor. Funding would be used to connect the 11-mile Corridor that current links downtown St. Paul with the U of M to the Northwest Busway, high speed rail, Red Rock commuter rail, Rush Line busway or commuter rail, ant the Southwest Corridor transit. 
   Cedar Avenue Bus Rapid Transit. Funding will help fund new projects regarding the bus rapid transit system, consisting of busways, buses, transit stations and park and ride facilities. 
   Traffic volumes frequently exceed 100,000 vehicles per day at the Minnesota River Bridge-project will help mitigate this increasing congestion. 
   Red Rock Corridor. Funding will help fund new buses, passenger facilities and bus related park and ride facilities for this 30 mile transportation corridor that begins in Hastings and travels through St. Paul to Minneapolis through Dakota, Washington, Ramsey, and Hennepin counties. 
   Rush Line Corridor. Funding will help provide new buses, bus passenger facilities, and bus related park and ride facilities for this 80-mile corridor that begins in downtown St. Paul to Hinckley. 
   Northwest Corridor Busway. Funding will help provide new buses and other bus-related projects for this 22-mile Bus Rapid Transit corridor which extends from Minneapolis to the City of Rogers. 
   Today, thirty-four percent of major roads in the United States are in poor or mediocre condition; twenty-seven percent of bridges nationwide are structurally deficient or functionally obsolete; and thirty-six percent of the nation's urban rail vehicles and maintenance facilities are in substandard or poor condition. The average traveler who drives during peak hours is estimated to spend $1,160 a year, and rush hours have increasingly cost commuters an extra 18 minutes over a three-year period from 1997 and 2000. 
   "Making critical improvements to our infrastructure is absolutely vital if Minnesota is to remain competitive in an increasingly global economy, particularly for a state like ours that is both an interior state and exports a high volume of goods," said Coleman. "The Highway Bill addresses key projects in both the Metro region and greater Minnesota to keep our travelers and families safe and economy growing." 
   In addition to addressing roadway and transit concerns and infrastructure, the Highway Bill will create a better economic outlook for the country and communities alike. Overall, for every $1 billion invested in highways and transit, well over 47,000 jobs are created. The bill will now head back to both chambers for final approval before heading to the President's desk to be signed into law.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 