SEN. COLEMAN SECURES $3 MILLION FOR SEVEN MINNESOTA PROJECTS IN INTERIOR APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Addressing Minnesota's environmental and water quality needs, Sen. Norm Coleman today was successful in obtaining funding in the Fiscal Year 2007 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill to preserve Minnesota's forestry landscape and improve wastewater facilities. The bill was approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee today and now awaits consideration by the full Senate. 
   The bill allocates $750,000 for the Sugar Hills Forest Legacy Project to protect 1,630 acres in Itasca County through the Forest Legacy Program. Sugar Hills is home to many recreational opportunities including biking, hunting and fishing. Coleman also secured $500,000 for the Superior National Forest to maintain Long Island in Burntside Lake. Located at the edge of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, the 43-acre Long Island is the largest undeveloped island at the lake site.  
   "The forests and lakes of Minnesota are our greatest resources, and I am pleased to have secured funding for these worthy Minnesota projects in the Interior Appropriations Bill," said Coleman. "Sugar Hills and Superior National Forest provide the perfect venue for outdoor family recreational activities, and I will continue working hard to ensure that Minnesotans can access places like these for generations to come." 
   "This news is very exciting and we thank Senator Coleman for his support for conservation projects that will protect Minnesota's recreational and forest resources," said Susan Schmidt, Director of the Minnesota State Office of the Trust for Public Land. "The Trust for Public Land looks forward to working with him on these important projects as the Congressional funding process continues." 
   Coleman was also able to secure $600,000 in funding for critical wastewater treatment facilities in the cities of Willmar and Grand Rapids. Both cities have wastewater facilities that are out of date and struggling to meet quality standards. 
   "I know how important proper infrastructure is for economic development in our cities," said Coleman. "I have visited both Willmar and Grand Rapids this spring and know firsthand the impact that new wastewater facilities will have on these growing Minnesota communities." 
   "The City of Grand Rapids, its Public Utilities Commission, and Blandin Paper Company are very appreciative of the work Senator Coleman has done in securing funding for the modification of our wastewater treatment facilities," said Anthony T. Ward, General Manager of the Grand Rapids Public Utilities Commission. "This facility update is an important step in constructing the Thunderhawk Paper Machine Project, helping to secure our economic well-being in Northeast Minnesota." 
   "The City of Willmar would like to thank Senator Coleman, for all his work in securing funding for the City of Willmar's Wastewater Treatment Project, said Mel Odens, Public Works Director for the City of Willmar. "This is an important project for our community and other communities downstream on the Minnesota River. This is the type of support that makes this critical project a reality. 
   Other Minnesota projects secured by Senator Coleman include: 
   * $250,000 for Ripley Gardens for the preservation and transformation of the historic Ripley Maternity Hospital in Minneapolis. 
   * $495,000 for the Northern Tallgrass Prairie to combat the rapid loss of native prairie grassland nesting birds. The Northern Tallgrass Prairie is one of America's most endangered habitats, with less than 1 percent remaining nationally and the largest and highest quality remnants found in western Minnesota. 
   * $400,000 for the Combined Sewer Overflow project in Minneapolis to reduce sewage discharges into the Mississippi River.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 