SENS. COLEMAN, PRYOR VETERANS OUTREACH BILL CLEARS KEY COMMITTEE
  The Committee on Veterans' Affairs approved legislation today including a bipartisan bill sponsored by Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Mark Pryor (D-AR) to help ensure that all veterans get the benefits they have earned but which some are not receiving. It's estimated that nearly 600,000 veterans nationwide are not receiving the benefits they are entitled to, often due to a lack of knowledge that they are eligible. Coleman and Pryor's legislation would require the VA to prepare an annual plan to identify veterans who are not enrolled in programs they are eligible for and an action plan to enroll them.  
   "The men and women who defend our freedom are owed a debt of gratitude from us all. That gratitude begins with providing health care and other needs that must be taken care of when our veterans return home from service," Coleman said. "Sadly, over a half million veterans today are not receiving the help they need and deserve, often because they are simply unaware of the available benefits. There's no question we need to reach out to these veterans and do a better job of connecting them with the services they have earned, and this bipartisan bill requires just that." 
   "Veterans should not have to jump through hoops to learn about and receive the benefits they've earned," Pryor said. "This measure represents an opportunity to cut through bureaucracy and meet the challenges we foresee instead of waiting until benefit problems escalate for a new generation of veterans, and I look forward to working with Senator Coleman to advance it to the Senate floor." 
   Key supporters for this legislation include the Department of Veterans Affairs, the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, AMVETS and the Paralyzed Veterans of America which have all announced their support for this legislation. 
   The Committee voted unanimously in favor of the Coleman-Pryor bill as part of a larger legislative package. The bill is expected to go before the full Senate for a vote in September.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 