SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $9,584,000 FOR TRI-COUNTY ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced Tri-County Electric Cooperative will receive a $9,584,000 loan from the United State Department of Agriculture's Rural Development program. Tri-County Electric Cooperative will use this loan to finance the construction of new distribution lines and to make other system improvements in Fillmore, Houston, Mower, Olmsted, and Winona counties in Minnesota - as well as three counties in Iowa.  
   "I am excited to announce Tri-County Electric will receive this important loan," said Coleman. "This will not only help generate new jobs and investment in southern Minnesota, it will also provide fundamental infrastructure for the distribution of electricity to local residents. As the author of a Rural Renaissance bill that would stimulate investment in rural infrastructure, I fully understand the role these projects play in the economic vitality of rural communities. I am pleased USDA Rural Development recognizes this role and has issued this loan to Tri-County." 
   "On behalf of our Board of Directors and Members, Tri-County Electric Cooperative is very appreciative of the Rural Utilities Service loan that will be used primarily for system improvements, involving line conversions and replacements," said Brian Krambeer, President/CEO of Tri-County Electric. "These important loan funds will be used to carry on our cooperative mission to enhance the reliability of our electric distribution system for our membership. 
   Tri-County Electric Cooperative is a member-owned electric distribution cooperative serving the counties of Winona, Houston, Fillmore and parts of Olmsted and Mower in Minnesota, and Howard, Winneshiek and Allamakee counties in Iowa. It provides electricity to more than 12,000 services and eight communities in the area. Tri-County Electric is a Touchstone Energy Cooperative. 
   The USDA Rural Development's mission is to help rural individuals, communities and businesses obtain the financial and technical assistance needed to address their diverse and unique needs. Since 2001, USDA Rural Development has invested over $2 billion throughout Minnesota for a variety of rural economic development projects.
 
 