SENATE PASSES SEN. COLEMAN RESOLUTION CONDEMNING IRAN'S CAPTURE OF BRITISH SAILORS
  Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Diane Feinstein (D-CA) announced Senate passage today of their Senate Resolution condemning the seizure of 15 British naval personnel by the Government of Iran in Iraqi territorial waters and calling for their immediate release. The Resolution, cosponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and nearly 20 other Senators, passed unanimously.  
   "The Iranian regime needs to understand it cannot thumb its nose at the international community through provocative actions that fly in the face of international law," said Coleman. "Their recent seizure of 15 British sailors and refusal to release them is illegal and unacceptable, only fueling the tensions in the delicate environment of the Middle East. It is crucial for the United States to stand with its ally Great Britain by sending an unequivocal message to the Iranians that we condemn this action and demand the immediate, safe release of the captured sailors. Our Resolution sends this message." 
   On March 23rd, a British naval vessel was conducting routine operations in Iraqi territorial waters when it was surrounded and escorted by Iranian navy vessels into Iranian territorial waters. The Iranians took 15 British sailors into custody and have refused to release the sailors despite warnings from British Prime Minister Tony Blair that their actions would have consequences. Footage of the sailors in captivity was broadcast via Iranian television, despite criticism that such broadcasts were in violation of the Geneva Conventions. 
   "The facts prove the British naval officers were captured in Iraqi territorial waters, where they are authorized to operate under UN Security Council Resolution 1723. Iran has absolutely no legal basis for detaining these officers, and they are clearly looking to provoke a confrontation," Coleman added. "We must be wise not to fall into any trap set by the Iranians, and we must also send a strong message of condemnation so that they understand that they will not get away with their intransigence."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 