SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING SECOND PAUL VOLCKER REPORT ON U.N. OIL FOR FOOD SCANDAL
  "The Oil-for-Food scandal has now, through the U.N.'s own process of investigation, reached the highest levels of the U.N. The report of Paul Volcker's Independent Inquiry Committee has revealed what I concluded many months ago through the initial investigation of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations - Kofi Annan is responsible for the failed management that resulted in the fraud and abuse of the Oil-for-Food Program. His lack of leadership, combined with conflicts of interest and a lack of responsibility and accountability point to one, and only one, outcome: His resignation.  
   The Volcker Report will show that Kojo Annan lied. He lied to investigators. He lied to the public. And, worse, he lied to his father. While Kofi Annan may not be responsible for the acts of his son, he is responsible for failing to reveal a serious conflict of interest. Specifically, he permitted the U.N. to give massive contracts to the company that employed his son. This egregious conflict of interest is simply inexcusable and further damages the credibility of the organization he leads. 
   In addition, the revelation that the U.N. has agreed to pay the legal fees of Benon Sevan is beyond comprehension. That the U.N. would pay for his defense, and finance it through the very institution he abused, is immoral and unethical. In my opinion, there is probable cause to criminally charge Mr. Sevan for his actions. The fact that the U.N. is reimbursing Mr. Sevan with money that rightfully belongs to the Iraqi people is outrageous. 
   The U.N. is in dire need of reform. That reform, which ranges from the structure of the Security Council to the internal auditing systems, will take strong leadership to make it happen. 
   Mr. Annan is incapable of providing that leadership. His credibility has been seriously undermined by his conflicts of interests and poor management of the Oil for Food program. While Mr. Annan's reform recommendations made in the last several days are admirable, and an appropriate starting point for discussion, there is no possible way he can be the person responsible for leading the debate over the improvement and implementation of any U.N. reforms. The arrow that has been shot at the heart of his leadership did not come from the quiver of Congress, but his own U.N. investigators. 
   I firmly believe in the role of a strong and vibrant United Nations in the world. I have been hopeful that Mr. Annan would put the interests of the U.N. ahead of his personal interest. To date, he has failed to do so. My hope is that the latest findings from Paul Volker will hasten Mr. Annan's departure."
 
 