SEN. COLEMAN ENCOURAGES MINNESOTA PARTICIPATION IN NATIONAL METHAMPHETAMINE AWARENESS DAY
  Sen. Norm Coleman is encouraging Minnesota communities to take part in National Methamphetamine Awareness Day on November 30 in an effort to spread awareness of the drug's devastating effects and educate current users about programs that are available to them. As part of National Methamphetamine Awareness Day, the U.S. Department of Justice officials, along with Minnesota state and local officials and the Hazelden Foundation, will be holding a "Meth Update" discussion in Center City aimed at communicating the widespread effects of methamphetamine.  
   "Meth abuse brings devastating consequences to not only individual abusers, but also family, friends and the community," said Coleman. "I know firsthand from talking to victims and communities across our state that the spread of methamphetamine abuse needs to be stopped in its tracks in Minnesota and around the country. Educating the public on the effects of meth and options for abusers is an important piece of this puzzle as we continue to fight against the spread of this dangerous drug. That is why I am urging folks to attend events like the 'Meth Update' being held in Center City that will discuss our fight against meth abuse and the exploration of collaborative partnerships to expand the scope of our prevention efforts" 
   To combat the spread of meth, Coleman joined with several of his colleagues in introducing the Methamphetamine Trafficking Prevention Act of 2006. Coleman also coauthored the Combat Meth Act, which was signed into law earlier this year as part of the Patriot Act. The legislation limits access to cold medicines containing psuedoephedrine, the primary ingredient used to make methamphetamine. This January, Coleman held a National Town Hall on Meth to examine the rising growth of meth abuse and the effect it has had on communities across the U.S. 
   "Meth abuse is our number one drug problem, not just in Minnesota but throughout the Midwest," said Coleman. "Fighting it requires a comprehensive approach by assisting states, local law enforcement and prosecutors to crack down on the cooks and traffickers of meth, while enhancing community education and awareness and treatment options for those addicted to this dangerous drug."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 