SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS EXTENSION OF WHTI IMPLEMENTATION DEADLINE TO JUNE 2009
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that deadline to implement the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) had been extended until June 2009, through a provision in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations conference report, which passed unanimously. WHTI will require all travelers, including U.S. citizens, to and from Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean, to have a passport or other accepted document that establishes the bearer's identity and nationality to enter or re-enter the United States. This is a change from prior travel requirements. The proposed changes were originally scheduled to go into effect by December 31, 2007. 
   "The extension of this deadline is a win for Minnesotans living near the northern border due to the enormous impact WHTI will have," said Coleman. "While I share the goal of national security that was the basis for the WHTI proposal, it became evident through my hearings that the timeline for implementation was too ambitious. And despite today's victory, we still face many challenges in ensuring appropriate implementation of WHTI. It is essential that we continue working to expand the number and accessibility of documents acceptable for travel and make sure all new documents and technologies are tested for effectiveness."  
   Coleman, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps and Narcotics Affairs, has held two hearings on the implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative. He has also held sessions in northern Minnesota to explore the impact of the Initiative. Coleman had introduced a bipartisan amendment on WHTI to the Immigration Reform Act of 2006, which was passed by the Senate. 
   The Homeland Security Appropriations bill also includes legislation authored by Senator Coleman to educate the public on emergency preparedness. The Community Response System Initiative Act of 2006 authorizes funding to teach children (K-12) age appropriate basic hands-on Life Supporting First Aid, which includes training in CPR, the Heimlich maneuver, and blood borne and bio hazardous precautions. 
   "Part of any comprehensive emergency preparedness plan must include educating the public on how to prepare for and react in an emergency situation," Coleman added. "This legislation gives us the opportunity to support an initiative that can truly pay dividends down the road by giving the American people the training and tools to help other citizens in times of emergencies. 
   In addition to these measures, the DHS Appropriations conference report allocates $31.9 billion in discretionary spending for the Department of Homeland Security which is $2.7 billion more that the President requested in his 2007 budget and $1.67 billion more than 2006. 
   The bill includes: 
   1,500 new Border Patrol agents, over 2,700 new detention beds, $1.2 billion for border security fencing, infrastructure and technology and 526 new Customs and Border Protection officers for ports of entry inspections. The addition of these new beds and agents fulfills the President's request for 2,500 Border Patrol agents and 6,700 new detention beds; 
   * $3.393 billion for first responder grants and assistance; 
   * $3.9 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement; 
   * $6.4 billion for the Transportation Security Administration to better secure the nation's air and rail travel; 
   * $542.63 million for the enhancement of infrastructure protection and information security. This includes establishing critical infrastructure to identify and assess threats, map threat information against current vulnerabilities, and take preventative action; and 
   * $2.5 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for emergency preparedness and response. 
   "One of the most important investments we can make for the future of our country and for future generations is to ensure the safety of our nation's homeland," said Coleman. "This legislation today makes a significant investment to address the major vulnerabilities facing our nation as it confronts a different kind of enemy that is constantly changing. We must adapt to the threats of today, and this funding bill gives the Department of Homeland Security the tools it needs to best carry out its mission to protect American lives." 
   In addition to allocating funding for DHS programs, the conference report also includes: 
   Chemical plant security: authorizing the Secretary of Homeland Security to issue interim risk-based security regulation on high risk chemical facilities, and inspect and sanction non-compliant facilities; 
   Drug Reimportation: allowing for the importation of FDA-approved prescription drugs from Canada as long as the supply is for 90 days or fewer and brought into the country on the person; 
   FEMA Reauthorization: elevateing the FEMA's standing within the Department of Homeland Security, promoting the Administrator of FEMA to the level of Deputy Secretary, and restoring the nexus between emergency preparedness and response; and 
   Tunnel Statute: making it unlawful to construct a tunnel under the international land border of the United States.
 
 