SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS FINAL PASSAGE OF PORT SECURITY CONFERENCE REPORT
  Recognizing the importance of better securing our nation's seaports, Sen. Norm Coleman today praised the final passage of the SAFE Port Act conference report. Passing unanimously, the legislation directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary to develop a strategy for bringing integrated radiological scanning capabilities to examine all containers entering the U.S. through the busiest 22 seaports. Additionally, DHS will be required to identify and address gaps in the international cargo supply chain. Coleman served as a conferee on the House-Senate Port Security Conference Committee. 
   "My Subcommittee's three-year investigation into port and supply chain security revealed a number of weaknesses that this bill seeks to address," said Coleman. "This legislation takes immediate action to heighten the security of our nation's seaports, which could be exploited by terrorists for delivering weapons of mass destruction to the United States. Through this bill, we will be better prepared to address national security concerns that could arise in port cities. Existing programs I have been working to strengthen, like C-TPAT and CSI, will be greatly improved. I am pleased that we were able to pass this legislation that will ensure nuclear materials are detected before they could enter the country. "  
   The conference report also retains a provision authored by Coleman, and strengthened by a Coleman amendment which passed the Senate on a 95-3 vote, requiring a pilot project in three foreign seaports to test an integrated scanning system using non-intrusive inspection and radiation detection equipment. This system is designed to scan 100 percent of all the cargo containers transiting the port, strengthening port security by helping ensure nuclear materials are detected before they could enter the country. To help ensure the transition to full implementation, the Coleman amendment also instructs the Secretary of DHS to issue progress reports on the screening system every six months. 
   "I am pleased to say that this legislation develops a pilot program in three foreign seaports, each with unique features and varying levels of trade volume to test integrated scanning systems using non-intrusive inspection and radiation detection equipment," said Coleman. "It requires full-scale pilot implementation within one year after enactment and an evaluation report would be required to be submitted to Congress 120 days after full implementation of the pilot. If the pilot programs prove successful, then full scale implementation would quickly follow." 
   Other provisions in the SAFE Port Act: 
   Addresses the problem of inadequate nuclear and radiological screening, by requiring the Secretary of DHS to develop a strategy for deployment of radiation detection capabilities and mandating that, by December 2007, all containers entering the U.S. through the busiest 22 seaports shall be examined for radiation. 
   Provides Congressional authorization for the Container Security Initiative (CSI) program, empowering Customs and Border Protection to identify, examine or search maritime containers before U.S.-bound cargo is loaded in a foreign port as well as establish standards for the use of scanning and radiation detection equipment at CSI ports, and 
   Authorizes the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) and establishes certain minimum security and other requirements that applicants must meet to be eligible for C-TPAT benefits. 
   Requires DHS to develop, implement, and update a strategic plan to improve the security of the international cargo supply chain. In particular the plan will identify and address gaps, provide improvements and goals, and establish protocols for the resumption of trade after a critical incident. 
   Requires DHS to identify and request reliable and essential information about containers moving through the international supply chain. 
   Requires DHS to promulgate a rule to establish minimum standards and procedures for securing containers in transit to the U.S.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 