SEN. COLEMAN, REP. KENNEDY MOVE NORTHSTAR RAIL PROJECT PAST FINAL HURDLE
  Sen. Norm Coleman today cleared the path for Minnesota's Northstar Rail Project (Northstar) to receive federal funding with inclusion of a Northstar amendment authored by the Minnesota Republican and pushed by Coleman and Rep. Mark Kennedy (R-MN) in the Department of Defense Authorization conference report. The amendment ensures that Northstar will not be penalized by a Federal Transit Administration (FTA) rule change that altered the final standard applied to federal transit projects midway through Northstar's federal approval process. The FTA granted Northstar final design status this month. The Defense Authorization conference report is expected to be passed by the U.S. House and U.S. Senate later today.  
   "It wasn't right that Northstar's federal funding was placed in jeopardy simply because the rules had changed in the middle of the game," Coleman said. "This is an important project for Minnesotans that will bring more jobs, alleviate traffic, and contribute to cleaner air and a better commute for residents around the state. The completion of Northstar's project is especially important in today's environment of high gas prices and our nation's dependence on foreign oil. Without this amendment, over $37 million in federal funding secured for the project could not be used, putting the brakes on the entire project." 
   "I am overjoyed that the National Defense Authorization Act, which we will pass later today, includes an exemption for Northstar from the FTA's eleventh hour rule change that would have wasted six years worth of work and millions of dollars spent to make this project a reality," Kennedy said. "I want to thank Senator Coleman for working with me on getting this exemption included. Without Senator Coleman's leadership, we wouldn't have been able to make this happen." 
   Northstar represents a critical element of the region's transportation infrastructure, and it will result in significant benefits to the region's economy, citizens and businesses. The project is expected to save commuters nearly 900,000 hours annually compared to the next best option of express bus service. Moreover, developers are planning an estimated $2 to $3 billion in economic development oriented around the proposed stations. By taking 2,600 cars off the road each day, Northstar will save nearly 5,000 gallons of gas each day and over one million gallons each year. This will result in a significant reduction in air pollutant emissions annually.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 