SEN. COLEMAN BILL HOLDS INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABLE FOR NUCLEAR IRAN
 Recognizing the dangers of nuclear proliferation, Sen. Norm Coleman, along with Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fl) today introduced bipartisan legislation to penalize other nations that assist Iran in developing its nuclear weapons program. The Iran Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 2006 would prohibit the U.S. from negotiating or seeking to bring into effect an agreement for nuclear cooperation with the government of any country that is either assisting the nuclear program of Iran or providing it with advanced conventional weapons.  
   "For the sake of our national security, the U.S. must ensure that the sensitive nuclear technology that we share with partner countries does not fall into the hands of the Iranians," said Coleman. "The Iranians have demonstrated that they are deceitful, obstructionist and bent on destroying Israel and all of Western civilization. We know where this path is going to lead. Aiding Iran to become a nuclear power, even inadvertently, is unacceptable." 
   In July, the Bush Administration announced its intention to pursue negotiations on civil nuclear cooperation with Russia. Previously, the U.S. government had declined to enter into negotiations with Russia on civilian nuclear energy due to its extensive assistance to Iran's nuclear program. 
   "The Russians have been helping with Iran's nuclear aspirations for some time now, particularly through the construction of the nuclear facility at Bushehr. This causes me great concern as it will only provide this murderous regime with the tools it needs to carry out its malevolent stated intentions," Coleman added. 
   Under the legislation, nuclear cooperation agreements may be pursued with certain governments only after they have terminated assistance to Iran's nuclear program, or once Iran fulfills its obligations as a member of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and suspends its uranium enrichment capabilities. 
   "The U.S. is happy to cooperate on civilian nuclear energy with countries that are responsible stewards of the sensitive technology," Coleman said. "Our national security demands that we hold our nuclear partners to a high standard of nonproliferation, as the consequences of a nuclear Iran cannot be understated."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 