SEN. COLEMAN FIGHTS TO RAISE GLOBAL AWARENESS OF AUTISM
  In honor of World Autism Awareness Day, Senator Norm Coleman today introduced the Global Autism Assistance Act of 2008. The legislation will establish a $10 million grant program to fund projects that combat autism in developing countries over a period of three years. This funding would be used to raise awareness of autism and to support autism service providers in less developed countries, where there is a severe lack of information on the disease and capacity to deal with it. Coleman's bill also calls for a "teach the teachers" program where U.S. specialists would train education and health professionals working with children with autism in the developing world. Representative Chris Smith (R-NJ) introduced a companion bill in the House of Representatives. This bill pioneers a global approach to combating autism at the international level. 
   "The lack of awareness regarding autism in developing countries has created a situation where victims of this tragic disease are left untreated, and even ostracized and abandoned," said Coleman. "By bolstering education and providing the tools so that individuals overseas can receive the care they really need, we can help them and their families live happier, healthier lives. It is my hope that we can pass this critical legislation in the near future as a first step towards tackling this disease head-on at the global level."
   Senator Coleman has been a strong supporter of efforts to understand and treat autism. Previously, Coleman cosponsored the Combating Autism Act, which was signed into law in 2006. During the consideration of the 2009 Budget Resolution, which passed last month, Coleman supported the Dodd amendment to double funding for autism research at National Institute of Health. Following the passage of this amendment, he joined Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) in sending a letter calling for full funding for the Combating Autism Act. Coleman is also a cosponsor of the "Expanding the Promise for Individuals with Autism Act" that would improve access to comprehensive treatments, interventions, and services for individuals with autism and their families.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 