SEN. COLEMAN SEEKS TO MAKE HEALTHCARE MORE AFFORDABLE FOR MINNESOTA'S SMALL BUSINESSES
  In an effort to provide relief to small businesses struggling to meet health insurance needs for their employees, Senator Norm Coleman, a member of the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, today introduced the Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) Act with Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL), Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Blanche Lincoln (D-AR). This bipartisan legislation sets up a five-year process that ultimately allows small businesses to choose between two insurance markets. States will establish statewide purchasing pools for small businesses to purchase private health insurance. In addition, small businesses will have the option of purchasing health insurance in a national private health insurance pool that is managed by the Department of Health and Human Services. SHOP also imposes state-based and national rating restrictions in the small business health insurance market, and provides a tax credit to businesses to make insurance more affordable. There are currently 41.7 million employees working in 5.8 million small businesses in the United States today. 
   "As our nation's chief job provider, small businesses make up the backbone of our economy," said Coleman. "In these challenging times, too many of our entrepreneurs are being forced into making the impossible decision between putting money into growing their business or providing their employees with healthcare. The SHOP Act will provide small businesses with much-needed relief through targeted tax credits, an expanded risk pool, and lower and more predictable premiums for their employees."
   "We applaud Senator Coleman for his leadership and support of small business as he works to address their No. 1 concern - the ever-increasing cost of healthcare," said Dan Danner, executive vice president of the NFIB. "This small business healthcare legislation takes a new approach to reform that directly addresses the needs of small business by helping to stabilize costs and incentivizing small businesses. We commend Senator Coleman's commitment to rise above partisan bickering in order to support meaningful reform for our nation's job creators. Minnesota's entrepreneurs have a strong voice working on their behalf in Washington."
   Previously, Coleman held a Small Business Committee field hearing in St. Paul with a number of local business and government leaders to discuss the challenges small businesses currently face in providing healthcare coverage to their employees. At the hearing, entitled "Affordable Healthcare: A Big Problem for Small Businesses," Coleman heard testimony from small business owners, executives, policy experts and chamber of commerce members to identify ways to increase access to affordable health insurance for America's small businesses.
   "This bill will go a long way towards helping small business owners like Sanjay Kuba, CEO of GCI Systems in Shoreview, Minnesota. At the field hearing I held in January, Mr. Kuba testified about the growing burden of skyrocketing health insurance costs can have on entrepreneurs like him," said Coleman. "By providing better insurance options, meaningful financial support, and reduced administrative expenses, the SHOP Act will give Minnesota companies, like GCI Systems, a big boost. I am committed to Minnesota's entrepreneurs, and this legislation represents a bipartisan approach to solving small business' number one issue: the rising cost of health insurance."
   SHOP helps small business owners and employees by addressing the 3 top problems facing small businesses:
   Small businesses find it difficult to afford health insurance for their employees:
   SHOP will allow small businesses to band together in a statewide or nationwide pool to obtain lower health insurance prices by spreading their risk over a larger number of participants.
   SHOP will keep prices low by offering a range of private health plans that have to compete for business.
   SHOP will provide small business owners with an annual tax credit of up to $1,000 per employee ($2,000 for family coverage) if they pay for 60% of their employees' premiums.
   SHOP will provide small business owners with a bonus tax credit if they pay for more than 60% of the premiums.
   Small business owners pay higher prices when they have older workers and face large premium hikes when even one employee experiences a serious illness:
   SHOP would make insurance rating based on health status and claims experience illegal so that premium increases will be more stable and predictable.
   SHOP ensures that the variation in premium rates will be reduced so that small businesses will be better able to afford coverage without facing as much of a competitive disadvantage if they have older workers.
   Selecting a health insurance plan is confusing and choices are often limited:
   SHOP will provide a web site with comparative information about a variety of private health plans.
   SHOP will allow new health plans to be offered nationwide but will continue to rely on state insurance commissioners to ensure that all health plans meet state requirements for financial solvency, network adequacy, and claims and appeal procedures.
   SHOP helps the self-employed:
   Self-employed individuals face extremely high costs when trying to purchase health insurance in the individual insurance market:
   SHOP will allow the self-employed to purchase insurance in the same pool as small businesses.
   SHOP will provide self-employed individuals with a $1,800 annual tax credit ($3,600 for family coverage) to purchase health insurance.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 