SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES EMERGENCY FEDERAL FUNDING TO BATTLE BOVINE TB
  Following a letter he sent last month requesting prompt approval of emergency funding to address Minnesota's current Bovine Tuberculosis crisis, Senator Norm Coleman today praised the U.S. Department of Agriculture today for making available $16.8 million in emergency funding to combat the disease. The funding will be used to depopulate known tuberculosis-affected cattle herds in Minnesota, as well as Michigan and California, which is crucial to prevent the spread of the disease and to indemnify producers. The funding also will be used for enhanced surveillance of white-tailed deer, not only to identify affected herds but also to determine the source of infection.  
   "Bovine TB is having a real impact on Minnesota's cattle industry and, without a prompt response, it could inflict severe damage to this vital industry and our state's economy," Coleman said. "Approval of emergency funding requests can often take months, which is why I called for expedited consideration of funding to eradicate this disease. I am thrilled there was quick action to make this critical funding available today." 
   Bovine TB has now turned up in four cattle herds in northwestern Minnesota since October of 2007. Bovine TB was initially discovered in a northwestern Minnesota beef cattle herd in July 2005, but since then 11 infected herds have been found. USDA regulations prescribe a downgrade in status when more than three herds are discovered within a 12-month period, and these most recent discoveries will lead to a downgrade of Minnesota's Bovine TB status from "Modified Accredited Advanced" to "Modified Accredited." 
   Bovine tuberculosis is a contagious and infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium bovis. It affects cattle, bison, deer, elk, goats and other warm-blooded species and can be fatal. The disease can be transmitted to humans through direct contact with infected animals or consumption of raw milk. It is not transmitted through consumption of pasteurized milk.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 