SEN. COLEMAN SUPPORTS LEGISLATION AIMED AT RESTORING MINNESOTA LAND AFFECTED BY WILDFIRE
  Raising concerns about wildfires currently plaguing areas of northwestern Minnesota, Sen. Norm Coleman today voiced his support for legislation aimed at accelerating land restoration after catastrophic events. The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act will enhance the ability of the U.S. Forest Service to assess damage and provide funding for restoration efforts as well as address reforestation. Coleman's comments were made during a hearing held by the Senate Agriculture Committee's Subcommittee on Forestry, Conservation, and Rural Revitalization. To underscore the need for the legislation, Coleman presented pictures of the devastating forest fires currently blazing in the Superior National Forest in northeast Minnesota.  
   "Over the past few years Minnesota has seen its fair share of forest health problems--not only with the current fires in northwestern areas of the state, but also in the form of excess wind and rain as well as insect infestation," said Coleman. "We have a duty to protect, manage and restore our state's and nation's forests so that we can ensure that generations to come will have clean air and water and quality wildlife resources. I have been a strong supporter of environmentally sound forest management and the need for Forest Service professionals to be allowed to manage the forest. This bill is the next step in restoring our national forests after catastrophic events by employing a rapid assessment of conditions and quick action to assist in recovery." 
   Minnesota is home to two national forests - the Chippewa and the Superior that span 5.8 million acres across northeastern Minnesota. Two wildfires currently are burning within the Boundary Waters Canoe Area located in the Superior National Forest in northeast Minnesota. These fires started in mid-July and have burned nearly 34,000 acres. Coleman is co-sponsor of similar legislation introduced in the Senate, The Forests for Future Generation's Act.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 