SEN. COLEMAN CO-CHAIRS NATIONAL PRAYER BREAKFAST
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman, along with Sen. Mark Pryor (D-AK), co-chaired the 54th Annual National Prayer Breakfast today in an event attended by the President, several Members of Congress, Jordan's King Abdullah and other world leaders. The annual event, held at the Washington Hilton, also featured a keynote speech by rock star Bono, founder of the Grammy award-winning Irish band U2. Sen. Coleman, the first Jewish co-chairman of this historic event, expressed great enthusiasm about the turnout of such a diverse collection of religious backgrounds while stressing the significance of faith for leaders around the world.  
   "The power and importance of prayer is vital as we go about the hectic schedules of our daily lives," Coleman said. "It means so much to me today that people from all different backgrounds can come together to share a meal, deepen our relations, pray to God for his guidance and blessings and look for the inspiration to live our faiths more completely." 
   This event, staged without government funding, dates back to the Eisenhower administration and has been attended by every president since 1952. The purpose of the occasion is to bring together the leadership of the United States in recognition of the moral and religious values upon which the United States was founded. Coleman, also co-chair of the Senate prayer group that meets weekly, was honored by the opportunity to represent his colleagues as one of the event's chairmen. 
   "It's an unbelievable privilege to be leading this time-honored tradition as we seek divine guidance on issues such as leadership and peace," Coleman commented. "This is such a positive and inspirational experience of coming together to pray and make friends without political or religious agendas. That, alone, is a miracle in Washington." 
   Coleman was enthused by the participation of leaders from different backgrounds, faiths, and religions. 
   "The fact that we can have one shared experience of faith among so many walks of life is truly a blessing," said Coleman. "Take, for instance, the fact that King Abdullah and Bono shared the stage. I admire the leadership and perspective they were able to bring to the breakfast. Both are heavily involved in numerous humanitarian causes throughout the world and I believe that their participation will help send our message to all generations around the world." 
   The breakfast featured a series of prayers, Scripture readings, hymns and also remarks by the President and King Abdullah. 3,600 people attended the breakfast, representing all 50 states and more than 175 countries. 
   Other members of Congress participating in the event were Senators Barack Obama (D-IL), Ken Salazar (D-CO), David Vitter (R-LA), Joe Liebermann (D-CT) and Kay Bailey Hutchinson (R-TX) and Representatives Tom Osborne (R-NE) and Lincoln Davis (D-TN).
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 