SEN. COLEMAN PLEASED WITH CONTINUED JOB GROWTH, LOWER UNEMPLOYMENT
  Citing today's jobs report and the recently revised gross domestic product (GDP) report as the latest evidence of robust U.S. economic growth, Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman hailed continuing job and economic growth that has resulted from Republican pro-growth fiscal policies. According to the jobs report released by the Department of Labor, 75,000 jobs were created in the month of May, and the economy has now added more than 5.2 million jobs since the enactment of the President's pro-growth agenda in May 2003. The unemployment rate fell from 4.7 to 4.6 percent in May - the lowest rate since July 2001. The U.S. economy has now experienced 33 consecutive months of job growth. During the past 12 months, the economy has created nearly 1.9 million jobs.  
   Coleman noted specifically that Minnesota has greatly benefited from the nation's robust economic growth. According to the latest government figures, Minnesota added nearly 16,000 jobs in the month of April, while the state's unemployment level held steady at 4.1 percent. "Despite high energy prices, a slowing housing market and recent stock market weakness, the economy remains fundamentally strong. I am optimistic about the future of our economy and will continue to work hard with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure that we keep in place the pro-growth policies that have created the conditions for strong economic and job growth." 
   According to the revised GDP report, the economy grew at a brisk 5.3 percent annual rate in the first quarter, as opposed to the initial estimate of 4.8 percent. The first quarter figure is the best since the third quarter of 2003, and the economy has now expanded for 18 consecutive quarters. "What we're seeing in these numbers is the results of the pro-growth tax policies that were implemented by the president three years ago," Coleman said. "The economy just keeps on growing."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 