SEN. COLEMAN'S EFFORT TO SAVE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS BACKED BY BIPARTISAN SENATE MAJORITY
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) today announced that he along with Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT) are leading a bipartisan coalition of 54 senators in strongly urging the Senate Budget Committee to stop cuts and maintain funding for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program and to keep CDBG within the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). In its budget submitted to Congress on February 7, the Administration proposed cutting funding for CDBG and shifting responsibilities for its administration to the Department of Commerce.  
   In a letter to Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Ranking Member Kent Conrad (D-ND), Coleman and his colleagues wrote, "CDBG is the centerpiece of the Federal government's effort to help states and localities meet the needs of low-income communities. CDBG funds vital housing rehabilitation, supportive services, public improvements and economic development projects in communities across the nation." 
   CDBG serves more than 1,100 communities, urban counties and states, and over 3,000 rural communities. Over 95 percent of CDBG funds benefit low to moderate-income persons. In 2004, CDBG assisted 168,938 households and funded service projects that benefited over 13 million people. 
   In the letter, Senator Coleman also provided the example of where "in Minnesota, CDBG grants helped fund the Main Street Program which revitalized downtown St. Paul, creating thousands of jobs and bringing people back to the city." 
   "St. Paul got its first CDBG grant back in 1975," Coleman noted today about the effort. "It was a very conservative idea that we should not have 1,500 command and control programs run out of Washington trying to micromanage the needs of communities but instead we should help communities meet those needs and priorities through one block grant. With all the unfunded mandates coming down from on high in Washington, CDBG is one way we actually help communities across the country meet some very critical priorities. I feel good about the prospects for success in our efforts. We've got a good shot at winning one for communities across the country." 
   "I appreciate Senator Coleman's leadership on behalf of cities across the country to restore this vital program back to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development," said Mayor Randy Kelly of St. Paul. "Community Development Block Grants fund a broad spectrum of activities, including: expanding home ownership opportunities, elimination of slums and blight, improved infrastructure, homeless facilities, employment training, transportation services, crime awareness, and business and job creation. In fact, according to HUD, more than 78,000 jobs were created by CDBG in FY04 alone." 
   While Coleman has commended President Bush's efforts to cut the deficit in half in 5 years and to bring fiscal accountability to Washington, he made it clear upon release of the Administration's budget proposal in February that there are areas where he disagrees with the details. "There are some areas where I think the President's budget got it totally wrong," Coleman said. "The cuts and changes to the community development block grant (CDBG) program - the lifeblood of community development and revitalization - are nonstarters." 
   Groups that have endorsed Coleman's letter include: US Conference of Mayors, National League of Cities, National Community Development Association, National Association of Housing Redevelopment Officials, National Association of Counties, Local Initiatives Support Corporation and Council of State Development Agencies. 
   The list of Senators that have signed Coleman's letter is as follows: Patrick J. Leahy (D-VT), Jack Reed (D-RI), Christopher S. Bond (R-MO), Mike DeWine (R-OH), Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA), George V. Voinovich (R-OH), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Rick Santorum (R-PN), Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Carl Levin (D-MI), Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Herb Kohl (D-WI), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Christopher J. Dodd (D-CT), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Max Baucus (D-MT), Joseph I. Lieberman (D-CT), Arlen Specter (R-PA), Byron L. Dorgan (D-ND), Tom Harkin (D-IA), John F. Kerry (D-MA), Conrad R. Burns (R-MT), Mary L. Landrieu (D-LA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), David Vitter (r-LA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Patty Murray (D-WA), Russell D. Feingold (D-WI), Gordon J. Smith (R-OR), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Jim Talent (R-MO), Barack Obama (D-IL), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Ron Wyden (D-OR), John D. Rockefeller, IV (D-WV), Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI), James M. Jeffords (I-VT), Blanche L. Lincoln (D-AR), E. Benjamin Nelson (D-NE), Joseph Biden (D-DE), Thomas Carper (D-DE), and Evans Bayh, III (D-IN).
 
 