SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO FIX DOD'S TRAVEL SYSTEM AND SAVE TAXPAYER DOLLARS
  Sen. Norm Coleman, Ranking Member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), today introduced a bill aimed at fixing the Pentagon's underutilized and highly criticized Defense Travel System (DTS). After leading a three-year investigation and holding two hearings on this issue, it was revealed that the travel component of the $500 million DTS program has proven to be unreliable and ineffective. In response, Sen. Coleman's legislation would eliminate the travel portion of DTS, while retaining the accounting component. Specifically, his legislation will encourage DOD personnel to use travel agents to identify flights, hotels and rental cars and input this information into an automated travel system. During that time, DOD would be required to set up a taskforce to identify ways to streamline and simplify the travel process. The recommendations provided by the taskforce would also have to be tested and certified by the Comptroller General of the United States before implemented. Sen. Tom Coburn (R-OK) is a co-sponsor of this measure.  
   "Simply put, DTS does not work and has proven to be a waste of taxpayer dollars. This bill will right this wrong by eliminating the travel planning component," said Coleman. "I am appalled that DOD has spent half a billion dollars to develop a system that doesn't save money - as we were led to believe--and that isn't even being used by most DOD personnel. To compound matters, the DOD hasn't even kept records to determine whether it's the best system for its needs. Oddly enough, websites such as Travelocity and Expedia have found a way to provide this service. As we move forward, I will continue working with my colleague Senator Coburn to end this abuse of taxpayer dollars." 
   Originally, DTS was designed to allow DOD personnel to select their flights and hotels, as well as provide for the proper accounting for expenditures and reimbursement for travel expenses at an annual savings of $56 million. Unfortunately, DTS's travel component is ineffective. The Subcommittee's investigation found that 83 percent of the travel undertaken at major DOD facilities during 2006 relied on traditional travel arrangements - and not DTS. Despite an investment of $500 million, only 17 percent of over 755,000 trips undertaken at forty-two major DOD facilities used DTS. Moreover, due to insufficient record keeping the DOD Inspector General has been unable to conduct a cost-benefit analysis of DTS, and therefore, is unable to provide any assurance that DTS is the best travel solution for DOD's travel needs. 
   According to a September report released by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) the projected cost savings for DTS are "questionable" and cannot be justified, as $31 million of the $56 million in estimated annual savings were based on one article in a trade industry magazine and the remaining $25 million cannot be justified. The Subcommittee also discovered that travel agents who work with DTS on a daily basis uniformly agree that the system is inefficient, incomplete, and costly. 
   "The answer is not to continue throwing money at the problem," Coleman added. "Scrapping this portion of the system while we streamline the travel process is our best option. Our defense officials need and deserve the best travel system that can be provided, and DTS doesn't pass inspection."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 