SEN. COLEMAN STAFF TO DISCUSS HIGH GAS PRICES, NEW ENERGY LEGISLATION IN SOUTHWEST MINNESOTA
  As part of an ongoing effort to hear how high gasoline prices are specifically impacting local residents and businesses across Minnesota, Sen. Norm Coleman today announced Gerald Woodley, regional representative for Coleman, will be traveling to southwestern Minnesota on May 5th, 8th, and 9th to discuss high gas prices and Coleman's recently introduced energy legislation with local officials, businesses and residents. Woodley's visit will include stops in the following communities: Worthington, Windom, New Ulm, and Lake Crystal.  
   "In the face of these high gas prices, it is absolutely crucial for me to hear directly from folks across the state on how these prices are specifically affecting them, as well as garner any additional ideas they may have in helping combat rising prices," said Coleman. "Additionally, I want to let Minnesotans know I am continuing to work for a national energy strategy that will boost innovative technologies, conserve energy, and promote the production and use of renewable fuels - which will not only reduce our dependence on foreign oil but also provide a boon to Minnesota's rural economy. I am anxious to have Gerald out in the state to relay the concerns of local residents back to me." 
   Yesterday, Coleman announced he will be introducing the Energy Efficiency Act of 2006, a bipartisan bill he is introducing with Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) this week, which will reduce foreign oil dependence by establishing specific national goals for replacing oil imports through a significant expansion of renewable fuel infrastructure, increased use of vehicle technologies such as hybrids, and increased conservation measures. As a complement to this bill, Coleman and Bingaman also plan to introduce the Enhanced Energy Security Act, which will expand incentives for the purchase and production of advanced vehicles (such as hybrids and fuel cell), along with containing key incentives to help save natural gas. 
   Additionally, Coleman last week introduced the Transforming Energy Now (TEN) Act, legislation that would require 10 percent of our nation's fuel to be blended with renewable fuels, such as ethanol, in the next 10 years. The bill also includes E-85 infrastructure provisions that will invest millions in fueling stations for alternative fuels. Coleman also announced he will work to ensure renewable fuel requirements are protected as the U.S. Senate considers legislation to restrict the number of boutique fuel blends, in order to protect Minnesota's nation-leading 10 and soon-to-be 20 percent ethanol requirement for gasoline and its 2 percent biodiesel requirement for diesel fuel. 
   Woodley's visits will include stops at the following locations: 
   SCHEDULE - May 5th 
   9:00 a.m. 
  Worthington Regional Airport, Airport Road, Worthington 
   11:30 a.m. 
  Windom Community Center, 1750 Cottonwood Lake Drive, Windom 
   SCHEDULE - May 8th 
   12:30 p.m. 
  New Ulm City Council Chambers, 100 N Broadway, New Ulm 
   SCHEDULE - May 9th 
   2:00 p.m. 
  Northstar Ethanol, 19200 499th Avenue, Lake Crystal
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 