SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE TECHNOLOGY IN MINNESOTA RURAL HOSPITALS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today introduced legislation to make Minnesota's Critical Access Hospitals (CAH) more competitive for health information technology grants and modernize their health information technology systems. The Critical Access to Health Information Technology Act of 2005 would create a grant program, administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to allocate the federal funding to states based on their number of CAHs. Each state would then award its grant allocation on a competitive basis to government and private nonprofit hospitals that are designated as a CAH. 
   New health information technologies have been shown to reduce medical errors by making the system more efficient and effective. These new technologies are more adept at catching diseases sooner when they are less expensive to treat, and have reduced hospital lengths of stay and rehabilitation.
   "Currently, Minnesota ranks third in the number of critical access hospitals in the nation. Minnesota is the Medical Alley and I want to make sure those smaller communities have the opportunity to deliver the best of care possible," said Coleman. "Most rural hospitals do not have the personnel capabilities, or access, to compete with larger health systems for funding. Each year we are witnessing significant advances in health care technologies that improve the quality of health care for patients. If we have the means to help reduce medical errors, improve quality of care, and reduce rising health care costs, it is imperative that small towns and communities benefit as well."
   "The Critical Access to Health Information Technology Act of 2005 would help small, rural hospitals meet growing expectations that health care facilities of all sizes provide electronic medical records and other current technology. New medical school graduates expect these resources as well, so it is important to physician recruitment. This bill would give these hospitals some much-needed support, strengthening rural hospitals, which are such important community resources," said Ben Koppelman, member, MHA Small, Rural Hospital Committee, administrator, Albany Area Hospital and Medical Center.
   "Minnesota's rural hospitals deeply appreciate Senator Coleman's understanding of the vital role technology plays in modern medicine. By spurring prudent investments in health information technology, Senator Coleman's bill would help ensure the right information is available at the right place at the right time. The benefits are clear; this bill would improve care coordination and reduce health care costs," said Al Vogt, chair, MHA Small, Rural Hospital Committee, CEO, Cook Hospital and Convalescence and Nursing Care Unit.
   In addition, this bill includes a provision supporting the next generation of coding system (ICD-10) that will modernize and expand the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services' capacity to keep pace with changes in medical practice and technology. The ICD-10 will identify technologies used to perform new procedures. The adoption of ICD-10 will allow for far more accurate, detailed and descriptive coding, billing and payment for procedures and the underlying medical conditions, and will allow the system to adapt as future changes.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 