SEN. COLEMAN WILL AGAIN VOTE TO STOP OIL DRILLING IN ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that he will vote for the proposed Cantwell amendment that strips oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) from the Senate reconciliation bill, legislation aimed at reducing spending to achieve a final budget. A vote on the ANWR provision is expected to come before the full Senate tomorrow after having recently passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee by a vote of 13-9 on October 19, 2005. Under the budget resolution, the Committee is instructed to come up with $2.4 billion in savings over five years from programs under its jurisdiction, a figure that will be met by the anticipated receipts from oil and gas leasing in ANWR. 
   "When I ran for the Senate, I pledged to oppose drilling in ANWR," said Coleman. "I have consistently honored my campaign pledge and have repeatedly voted against developing ANWR. Tomorrow, I will again cast my vote to take ANWR out of the budget, and as we go through the reconciliation process, ANWR will remain a top concern of mine."
   Coleman noted that final passage on reconciliation is also expected to occur before the end of the week. If removing ANWR from budget reconciliation fails tomorrow, Coleman said he will continue to keep ANWR a top consideration in determining his vote on final passage.
   "There are other issues, such as the safety net for dairy farmers [the MILC program], that are of great concern to me and to Minnesota," said Coleman. "However, if ANWR remains in this reconciliation package, I am strongly leaning against sending it to conference committee."
   Coleman has previously voted against opening up the pristine Alaskan wilderness to energy development both times it has come up for a vote in the Senate since taking office in 2003. In addition to attempting to strike ANWR from the budget and reconciliation, Coleman has worked hard to reduce cuts in the budget that would have a negative effect on thousands of Minnesotans. Specifically, he authored amendments to reduce cuts of $6 billion each to the farm safety net and Medicaid. He also prevented the elimination of the $2 billion Community Development Block Grant program (CDBG) used by many Minnesota communities.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 