SEN. COLEMAN ENCOURAGES SOUTHEAST MINNESOTA RESIDENTS TO APPLY FOR FEDERAL FLOOD AID AHEAD OF OCT. 22 DEADLINE
  Following a visit to the Disaster Recovery Center in Winona over the weekend, Senator Norm Coleman today encouraged residents of Southeast Minnesota affected by the August flooding to register for available federal aid ahead of the looming October 22nd deadline. Residents in the counties of Dodge, Fillmore, Houston, Olmsted, Steele, Wabasha and Winona may be eligible for assistance from both the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). By registering with both FEMA and SBA, residents may become eligible to receive assistance for damage to their homes, personal property, business and other related damages that stemmed from the flooding.  
   "We have worked hard at the federal level to ensure that assistance is available to those affected by the devastating floods in southeastern Minnesota, and I would hate to see anyone that is eligible miss out on the assistance they need," Coleman said. "The deadline to register for federal assistance is less than three weeks away and I cannot overstate how important it is for individuals to register for both FEMA and SBA assistance now, rather than later. Folks can register online, over the phone or in person at the recovery centers - and I encourage everyone to do so as soon as possible." 
   Those affected by the August flooding can begin applying for assistance through FEMA by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or TTY 1-800-462-7585 for the speech- or hearing-impaired. Individuals can also register online at www.fema.gov. Registering with FEMA allows folks to then register for SBA assistance, which can be done by calling call 1-800-659-2955. Additionally, residents can register for assistance with both agencies by visiting one of the two Disaster Recovery Centers located in Winona and Rushford. Specific assistance with SBA Disaster Loan Applications is also available at the centers in Hokah, Rochester and St. Charles. 
   Individual assistance is available for homeowners and renters to help replace losses not fully covered by insurance. It can include rental payments for temporary housing for those whose homes are unlivable; grants to repair homes and replace essential household items to make damaged dwellings safe, sanitary and functional; and grants to meet serious disaster-related needs not covered by other programs. 
   Residents, businesses and nonprofit organizations may also be eligible for low-interest loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration to help them recover from the disaster, including loans to replace damaged property not fully covered by insurance or grants. In addition, small businesses may receive loans to help provide working capital to recover from the disaster's economic impact.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 