SEN. COLEMAN TO TESTIFY AT HEARING TO EXAMINE CARBON DIOXIDE CAPTURE, TRANSPORTATION, SEQUESTRATION
  Continuing his efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions, Senator Norm Coleman tomorrow will testify at a Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources hearing to examine carbon dioxide capture, transportation and sequestration. Of the two bills that will be discussed at the hearing, one is Coleman's Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Study Act of 2007 (S. 2144), which would direct federal agencies with expertise in this area (Department of Energy, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Commerce and Department of Interior) to prepare a report and recommendations to Congress on a number of issues vital to fostering the development of a CO2 pipeline industry. These federal agencies would then report their recommendations to Congress within 180 days, where their findings would be the basis for Congressional hearings and appropriate legislation. 
   The Report will examine a number of areas crucial to the development of a CO2 pipeline industry. These include: safety - how should issues like leakage, inspection, injection, and compression be addressed to safely transport CO2 by pipeline; financing - what incentives and legal protections do we need to provide private sector lenders/developers to CO2 pipelines to encourage their investment in this new industry; environmental - should CO2 be characterized as a commodity or a pollutant; regulatory - what is the best federal and state regulatory regime for C02 pipelines; and right-of-way/siting - is federal eminent domain authority necessary and can CO2 pipelines be placed in existing utility rights-of-way?
   "It is estimated that the United States has abundant domestic coal reserves, which could be used for 250 years," said Coleman. "These coal reserves could be used to cool and heat our homes and power our businesses and industries. Yet we are currently sending billions of dollars overseas to often hostile regimes for energy resources. We must develop ways to use our domestic energy resources in an environmentally responsible manner to meet our energy needs. The CO2 Pipeline Study Act is an important step in that direction."
   Minimizing the emission of CO2 into the atmosphere is a three step process. First, the carbon dioxide must be captured at the point it is created; for example, at a coal-fired electric generating plant. Then it must be transported from the point of creation to the point of storage. Finally, it must be sequestered and stored in an appropriate geologic formation, such as a depleted underground oil or natural gas reservoir. While considerable progress has been made on the first and third steps, Coleman's bill begins the process of determining how best to get the CO2 from the point of creation to the point of storage.
   Co-sponsors of this bipartisan legislation include, Senators Ken Salazar (D-CO), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), John Thune (R-ND), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Joseph Lieberman (I-CT), Jim Bunning (R-KY) and John Warner (R-VA).
   LIVE COVERAGE OF HEARING WILL BE AVAILABLE AT www.coleman.senate.gov
   What: Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Hearing on Carbon Capture, Transportation and Sequestration Legislation
   When: Thursday, January 31st, 2008 10 a.m. EST
   Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 366.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 