SEN. COLEMAN NAMED TO SENATE REPUBLICAN HIGH TECH TASK FORCE
 Sen. Norm Coleman today announced his selection by Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) to the Senate Republican High Tech Task Force for the 110th Congress. Coleman, who has previously served as a member of the group, is one of 14 Republican Senators to join the Task Force, which will be chaired by Sen. Gordon Smith (R-OR).  
   "As a member of the Senate Republican High Tech Task Force, I will continue to be focused on pursuing a wide variety of technology related policies in order to ensure the continued U.S. competitiveness," said Coleman. "Minnesota has a strong national reputation in industry and technology, which should continue to be cultivated and shared on the national stage. It is critical that as a country we continue to stay ahead of the technological curve by promoting cutting-edge technologies and competitive leadership that will secure our nation's position in today's global environment." 
   As part of his push to enact legislative initiatives that promote technological related policies, Coleman has introduced legislation called the COMPETE Act, which seeks to keep the U.S. on the forefront of innovation and technology by focusing and improving math and science education and helping individuals and businesses have the skills necessary to compete on a global basis. He has also supported bipartisan efforts such as the National Competitiveness Investment Act, and pushed for maximization of the Rural Utility Service (RUS) Broadband Program in an effort to refocus the program to rural areas that currently have no access to broadband services. 
   "By bolstering our education system and cultivating an environment where technology and innovation can continue to expand, we can better secure our place in the competitive global marketplace," Coleman said. "I look forward to working with my colleagues both on the Task Force and the entire Senate to grow and drive our high tech industry both back home in Minnesota and across America." 
   The Senate Republican High Tech Task Force was founded in 1999 and acts as the Republican Leadership's outreach effort to the technology community and advises the Republican Caucus on technology issues.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 