SEN. COLEMAN PASSES PROVISION ENSURING VETERANS RECEIVE PROMISED BENEFITS
  Citing concerns that veterans throughout America were failing to receive benefits due to lack of knowledge, Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Mark Pyror (D-AR) last week were successful in attaching a provision to the Veterans' Housing Opportunity and Benefits Improvement Act of 2006 (S. 1235) that calls on the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to conduct outreach activities to make sure veterans are fully aware of their eligibility for disability benefits. Passing by unanimous consent, the provision requires the VA to prepare an outreach plan for the upcoming two years, beginning October 1, 2007.  
   "Passage of this bill is wonderful news for veterans in Minnesota and across the nation," said Coleman. "It is unacceptable for veterans who have fought bravely for their country to languish without disability compensation payments, simply because they did not know they were eligible for benefits. This act, together with cooperation from the Veterans Administration and state veterans' services, will ensure veterans receive the benefits they were promised for their service." 
   It is estimated that almost 600,000 eligible veterans are not receiving their benefits, often due to a lack of information about the options available to them. Under the new legislation, the VA will also be required to report biennially on the execution of the outreach plan, beginning October 1, 2008. In preparing its outreach plans, the VA is instructed to identify veterans who are not enrolled for benefits and inform veterans and their dependents about any changes to the benefits and services that are available. 
   At the same time, Coleman pledged to continue his work on behalf of all American veterans, renewing his promise to press the Veterans' Administration to prevent security breaches such as the one this month that compromised the personal data of 26 million veterans.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 