SEN. COLEMAN CALLS FOR KOFI ANNAN TO STEP DOWN AS U.N. SECRETARY GENERAL
  In an opinion piece in tomorrow's Wall Street Journal, Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman, chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), calls for United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan to step down.  
   Coleman's Subcommittee has been conducting a seven-month long, bipartisan investigation into the United Nations' Oil for Food program (OFF). Coleman said that because of Annan's lack of oversight and necessary action while Saddam Hussein profited $21.3 billion from the OFF Program, the U.N. Secretary General has lost the confidence and credibility necessary to remain in office. 
   "While sanctions were designed to instigate the removal of Saddam Hussein from power or at least render him impotent, the OFF Program was designed to support the Iraqi people with food and other humanitarian aid under the watchful eye of the U.N.," Coleman wrote. "Our Investigative Subcommittee has gathered overwhelming evidence that Saddam Hussein turned this program on its head. Rather than eroding his grip on power and supporting the Iraqi people, Saddam manipulated the Program to line his own pockets and actually strengthen his position at the expense of the Iraqi people." 
   In a hearing on November 15, PSI revealed that it had discovered that Saddam Hussein siphoned off far more illegal revenue that previously thought by contravening the U.N. sanctions regime between 1991-2003, an estimated total of $21.3 billion. This estimate includes $6.7 billion of illicit income directly arising from abuses of the OFF Program, such as illegal kickbacks, surcharges, and substandard goods purchased under the OFF Program. An additional $13.7 billion came from a variety of oil smuggling schemes, while $800 million stemmed from sources left out of previous estimates by GAO and the Iraq Survey Group. 
   "The decision to call for Mr. Annan's resignation does not come easily, but I have arrived at this conclusion because the most extensive fraud in the history of the U.N. occurred on his watch. In addition, and perhaps more importantly, the world will never be able to learn the full extent of the bribes, kickbacks, and under-the-table payments that occurred under the U.N.'s collective nose while Annan is in charge. Mr. Annan was at the helm of the U.N. for all but a few days of the OFF Program, and therefore, he must be held accountable for the U.N.'s utter failure to detect or stop Saddam's abuses." 
   Coleman called former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, who is leading the U.N.'s own internal investigation, a "good and honest man," but continued to say that, "while I have faith in Mr. Volcker's integrity and abilities, it is clear the U.N. simply cannot root out its own corruption while Mr. Annan is in charge: To get to the bottom of the murk, it's clear that there needs to be a change at the top. In addition, a scandal of this magnitude requires a truly independent examination to ensure complete transparency, and to restore the credibility of the U.N. To that end, I reiterate our request for access to internal U.N. documents, and for access to U.N. personnel who were involved in the Oil-for-Food program." 
   "All of this adds up to one conclusion: it's time for Kofi Annan to step down," Coleman conlcuded. "The massive scope of this debacle demands nothing less."
 
 