SEN. COLEMAN MEETS WITH YEMENESE AMBASSADOR TO DISCUSS SOMALI REFUGEE CRISIS
  As ranking member of the Senate Subcommittee on Near East Affairs Senator Norm Coleman today met with the Ambassador of Yemen, Mr. Abdul Wahab Al-Hijri, to discuss the humanitarian situation of Somali refugees in Yemen. Yemen is the primary destination for Somali refugees who cross the Gulf of Aden to escape the highly volatile situation in their home country. The UN estimates that there are approximately 100,000 Somali refugees residing in Yemen, with thousands of others making the attempt to cross the Gulf of Aden, which often results in human smuggling and other dangers posed by poorly constructed and overcrowded boats.  
   "Today I met with Ambassador Al-Hijri to discuss the humanitarian situation of Somali refugees fleeing to his country," said Coleman. "This issue is a very high priority for me, as I have heard very troubling reports about the treacherous conditions faced by Somalis who cross the Gulf of Aden and the many deaths associated with these journeys. The dangers they face include becoming victims of human trafficking and enduring perilous conditions as they travel across the sea, which has led to a situation in which hundreds of deaths have occurred this year."
   "The humanitarian situation of Somalis that actually arrive in Yemen is also very difficult, as demonstrated by reports of poor conditions at the refugee camps," added Coleman. "It was important to me to raise my deep concerns for the Somalis crossing the Gulf of Aden to the Ambassador, who was very receptive to my comments. I also expressed my appreciation to the Ambassador for Yemen's compassionate policy of granting refugee status to all Somalis that arrive on its shore. This has allowed many Somalis to escape the dangers that currently plague parts of Somalia. I pledged to work with the Ambassador and his government to try to better address the issue of Somali refugees in Yemen, and am very encouraged by his openness to such cooperation."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 