SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILL TO PROTECT VITAL MEDICAID SERVICES FOR VULNERABLE MINNESOTANS
  Continuing his fight to ensure that the most vulnerable Minnesotan's have access to critical health, education and social services, Senator Norm Coleman today introduced bipartisan legislation placing a moratorium on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services' (CMS) December 4th rule on Case Management and Targeted Case Management (TCM). This moratorium would prevent these regulations from taking effect until March 2009. Case Management and TCM services are services that assist low-income individuals and families in gaining access to needed medical, social, educational or other services. New regulations issued by CMS, which will go into effect on March 3rd, would redefine and place strict limits on these services, severely limiting a state's ability to care for vulnerable populations. According to the Minnesota Department of Human Services, it is estimated that this rule could result in cuts of at least $60.9 million for Minnesota during 2008-2009, based solely on the changes to child welfare services. It is likely the total loss to the state will far exceed this number when other services are also factored in. 
   "Case management is truly the glue that holds together all other Medicaid services. Without it, the elderly, people with disabilities, the mentally ill and children in foster care are left to navigate a complex and often overwhelming Medicaid system all alone," said Coleman. "Case Management is designed to coordinate the many services these vulnerable populations need to not only live with dignity and independence, but also to survive. Moreover, this regulation could not come at a worse time. With many states struggling to overcome budget deficits, this regulation could have a devastating effect on a state's ability to assist vulnerable Medicaid beneficiaries. By delaying this rule, my legislation will provide us with more time for Congress to work with CMS, and all the relevant stakeholders, to develop a new regulation that protects our most vulnerable Medicaid beneficiaries."
   Prior to CMS releasing this interim final rule, Senators Coleman and Klobuchar introduced another piece of legislation that would have required CMS to slow down and permit more input on the rule.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 