SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  "Tonight the President clearly communicated a candid and optimistic State of the Union address that addressed the concerns and aspirations of all Minnesotans. I agree with the President: We live in historic times. We are gaining the advantage in the War on Terror, we are experiencing a healthy and robust economy, and we have continued to meet unprecedented national challenges with characteristic resiliency and strength. As a global leader, however, we cannot rest on our past accomplishments--we must remain innovative, flexible, and competitive - and that is the plan the President put forth tonight. I look forward to continuing to work with the President to reduce health care costs, expand technology, support innovation, reduce the deficit through reforms such as the line item veto, invest in math and science education, support democracy in the Middle East, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. It is a plan the American people can be confident in as it is an agenda that offers hope for tomorrow.  
   In 1969 Neil Armstrong declared that even a small step on a new frontier was a giant leap for mankind. With that walk on the moon, America positioned itself as a strong world leader. Tonight, the President pushed America in a new direction with a strong energy initiative that will move us toward drastic reductions in energy imports by tapping into our enormous potential in renewable energy. With 16 ethanol plants, 3 biodiesel plants, boundless wind energy, and a coal gasification plant on the way, Minnesota can play a key role in ending our dependency on foreign oil. We are also a leader in innovation and technology. We need high quality, good paying jobs for the 21st Century. America will not take a back seat to any nation in science, technology, and education. Minnesota can play a key role in this. I am encouraged that the President will visit Minnesota to advance this message to a state that can help lead America forward in the global arena. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress as we move forward to implement a national agenda that is good for Minnesota and great for America's future."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 