FEDERAL REPORT CONCLUDES SEN. COLEMAN ENERGY PLAN WOULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE UTILITY GREENHOUSE GASES
  Citing the pressing need to address the issue of climate change, Sen. Norm Coleman today said a report to be released by the Energy Information Administration (EIA) shows his proposed Clean Energy Portfolio Standard could significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions by requiring utilities to generate far more of their power through renewable energy sources. The report concluded that requiring energy utilities to produce a growing percentage of their electricity from clean energy sources, 10 percent in 2015 and 20 percent in 2025, would nearly double projected renewable energy generation with a minimal increase to electricity prices. Moreover, EIA calculates that carbon dioxide emissions from the electricity sector will decline by 14.7 percent from projected increases by 2030.  
   "EIA's report shows there is real promise in using a clean renewable portfolio standard to significantly reduce utility CO2 emissions without significantly harming the U.S. economy," said Coleman. "While this report demonstrates the potential of this approach to contribute to a climate change solution, I am not satisfied with these emissions numbers and believe we can go further. We need proposals that will not only slow the growth of greenhouse gas emissions, but ultimately reverse them. I will take these findings to environmental and energy stakeholders - enlisting their help in strengthening this proposal." 
   Under Senator Coleman's draft proposal energy utilities would be obligated, beginning in 2015, to submit to the Secretary of Energy clean energy credits equal to a required annual percentage of its retail electric sales according to the following schedule: 10% in 2015-2020, 15% in 2020-2025, and 20% in 2025 and thereafter. Eligible clean energy sources include nonhydropower renewable resources (such as wind), new hydroelectric or nuclear resources, fuel cells, and fossil-fired plants that capture and sequester carbon dioxide emissions. 
   "I will bring these findings to my colleagues as we work together to address the climate change problem. I believe the clean renewable energy standard can be a thoughtful complement, not a substitute, to a comprehensive climate change package. I will continue reaching out to Minnesota environmental groups and everyday Minnesotans to find smart solutions. Simply put, we need to break the political logjam that has existed on climate change legislation," Coleman added.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 