VETERANS' TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT RATES TO MORE THAN DOUBLE
  Senator Norm Coleman announced today that a long-awaited increase in mileage reimbursements for veterans who travel by car to VA medical centers will go into effect tomorrow, February 1, 2008.  
   The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs reimburses veterans for the miles they are forced to travel to get treatment at VA medical centers across the country. The Minneapolis VA Medical Center alone processed more than 62,000 travel claims from veterans last year. Unfortunately, the department's current reimbursement rate of 11 cents per mile was set in 1977, when the average price of gasoline was about 60 cents per gallon. In December, Congress passed with Coleman's support legislation appropriating $125 million to increase the reimbursement rate to 28.5 cents per mile. 
   Lee Anderson, a 100 percent disabled Vietnam veteran, drives from his southern Minnesota home in Oronoco to the Veterans Administration Hospital in Minneapolis over a dozen times a year. For this 140 mile trip, he was reimbursed about $10. With the increase in travel pay, Mr. Anderson estimates he'll receive about $25 or so. 
   "The old reimbursements were something, but they weren't close to covering my costs driving up and down to the cities," Anderson said. "Now, it'll probably get my money back for gas. I'm just happy it's changed. Actually, surprised it's changed!" 
   "Providing the best possible healthcare to our veterans - especially those in rural areas - is a top priority of mine in the U.S. Senate," said Coleman. "I have always said that the quality of your healthcare shouldn't depend on your zip code, and increasing the mileage reimbursement rate for veterans who travel long distances to receive the care they deserve is a great success in that effort." 
   Senator Coleman has supported a 67 percent increase in veterans funding since taking office in 2003. He recently passed an amendment to allow flexibility in TRICARE mental health rates and cosponsored an amendment to improve Wounded Warrior care. Both amendments were included in the National Defense Authorization Act which was signed into law on January 28, 2008.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 