SEN. COLEMAN TESTIFIES BEFORE SENATE COMMITTEE ABOUT CARBON DIOXIDE CAPTURE, TRANSPORT
  Continuing his efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions, Senator Norm Coleman today testified at a Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources hearing to examine carbon dioxide capture, transportation and sequestration. Of the two bills that were discussed at the hearing, one was Coleman's Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Study Act of 2007 (S. 2144), which will direct federal agencies with expertise in this area (Department of Energy, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Commerce and Department of Interior) to prepare a report and recommendations to Congress on a number of issues vital to fostering the development of a CO2 pipeline industry. These federal agencies would then report their recommendations to Congress within 180 days, where their findings would be the basis for Congressional hearings and appropriate legislation. Co-sponsors of Coleman's bipartisan legislation include, Senators Ken Salazar (D-CO), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), John Thune (R-ND), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Joseph Lieberman (I-CT), Jim Bunning (R-KY) and John Warner (R-VA). 
   Minimizing the emission of CO2 into the atmosphere is a three step process. First, the carbon dioxide must be captured at the point it is created; for example, at a coal-fired electric generating plant. Then it must be transported from the point of creation to the point of storage. Finally, it must be sequestered and stored in an appropriate geologic formation, such as a depleted underground oil or natural gas reservoir. While considerable progress has been made on the first and third steps, Coleman's bill begins the process of determining how best to get the CO2 from the point of creation to the point of storage.
   Below is the text of Coleman's testimony:
   First, I want to thank Chairman Bingaman and Ranking Member Domenici for holding this important hearing today and inviting me to speak on behalf of the Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Study Act.
   When I was a young person I dreamed of being a basketball player like Bob Cousy or Earl The Pearl Monroe. That all ended when a coach told me, "Coleman, you may be small, but you can't jump." It's bad when you have two reinforcing problems.
   Our nation has that. We are highly dependent on foreign sources of energy and we produce dangerous amounts of greenhouse gases. How do we solve one problem without exacerbating the other?
   This Committee, under your leadership, has boldly moved to address both. You have crafted two landmark pieces of legislation in the past several years: the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 and the Energy Policy Act of 2005. These comprehensive bills address numerous critical energy and environmental challenges facing our nation, and they establish a firm foundation on which to build our nation's energy future.
   I firmly believe that a big part of that future is going to require figuring out how to utilize America's 250 year supply of coal in an environmentally friendly manner. By taking CO2 produced in coal power plants and piping that CO2 to a location where it can be permanently stored, I believe we can greatly add to the country's economic and even national security. That's why I've introduced the CO2 Pipeline Study Act, which is another step in this Committee's efforts to address these issues in an informed and timely manner.
   I want to thank a number of Members of this Committee who are original co-sponsors of the CO2 Pipeline Study Act for their leadership: Senators Salazar, Murkowski, Landrieu, Johnson, Martinez and Bunning. Your guidance and assistance were invaluable in drafting this legislation.
   The fact is, we have an immense supply of coal available in this country - it's an energy source we do not need to import, and accordingly, we do not need to send our valuable dollars overseas to hostile regimes in order to keep the lights on.
   We simply must find a way use coal without jeopardizing the climate. Indeed, coal already supplies about half of our nation's electric power. The good news, as my colleague Senator Kerry has testified about in greater detail, is that we can take the CO2 out of the emissions of a coal power plant and we can store it underground. More research needs to be done, but the future of CO2-free coal plants looks bright. Yet one of the key components of making CO2-free coal a reality is how to transport this gas from the power plant to the ground.
   Currently, there are many uncertainties about the rules and costs that will exist for the construction and operation of CO2 pipelines. The CO2 Pipeline Study Act will answer these questions, it will provide certainty to industry and consumers.
   The CO2 Pipeline Study Act seeks the input of a number of federal agencies and departments - the Departments of Energy, Interior, and Transportation, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Each of these has expertise about a variety of issues associated with the building of pipelines.
   The agencies are required to conduct a study of any technical, siting, financing, or regulatory barriers that might prevent or impede the development of a carbon dioxide pipeline industry. They are also asked to address any safety and integrity issues associated with constructing carbon dioxide pipelines. I anticipate the recommendations in their study may serve as a basis for future Congressional action on these issues. In short, this bill will lay the groundwork for CO2-free coal plants, it will allow America to move forward quickly, but also carefully and responsibly toward piping CO2.
   The CO2 Pipeline Study Act works in tandem with and compliments the actions on the broader carbon dioxide issue taken in S. 2323, the Carbon Capture and Storage Technology Act, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 and the Energy Policy Act of 2005. These bills address carbon capture at the point of creation - for example at a coal fired power plant - and the storage of carbon dioxide at an appropriate geologic formation.
   However, unless the coal fired power plant happens to be near a suitable storage location, the carbon dioxide will have to be "piped" to an appropriate geologic formation for sequestration. This is what the CO2 Pipeline Study Act answers. It addresses the issues associated with transporting carbon dioxide from its point of capture to its point of storage or for use in enhanced oil recovery.
   We have an enormous potential domestic supply of energy. It can be used to cool and heat our homes, power our businesses and industries and create innumerable new jobs. However, our nation will only realize these benefits if it can be produce and use this energy in an environmentally sensitive manner.
   The CO2 Pipeline Study Act is an important step in our efforts to develop this energy resource in an environmentally responsible way.
   Chairman Bingaman, Ranking Member Domenici and members of this Committee - thank you for this opportunity to speak on behalf of S. 2144, the CO2 Pipeline Study Act.
   With your leadership you are turning a national dilemma - growing energy dependence and greenhouse gases production - into a "win-win" for the health of our people, our economy and ultimately our national security.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323
 
 