SENS. COLEMAN-KLOBUCHAR OFFER SOLUTION TO KEEP SPY PLANE IN MINNESOTA
  Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) today introduced legislation to transfer ownership of a 1960s A-12 Blackbird spy plane from the Air Force to the Minnesota Air National Guard Historical Foundation. The A-12 Blackbird, which until last week was housed at the 133rd Airlift Wing of the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, was recalled by the U.S. Air Force to be transferred to the CIA Headquarters as part of the agency's 60th anniversary celebration, where the plane would no longer be available for public viewing. Although the plane, which has not flown a mission since 1968, was restored by Minnesota volunteers and businesses, the U.S. Air Force still retained ownership and loaned the plane to the Minnesota Air National Guard Historical Foundation. The legislation seeks to return ownership of the A-12 Blackbird to the Foundation.  
   "Volunteers throughout Minnesota have devoted many years and extensive resources to restoring and maintaining this plane, which has become the centerpiece of the Minnesota National Guard Museum," said Coleman. "The air craft is the only A-12 being used as a hands-on educational resource with a group of highly trained instructors who provide meaningful insight for the general public into the aircraft's history and meaning. The A-12's home is here in Minnesota where it can be enjoyed not only by the volunteers who sacrificed time and resources to restore this great remnant of American history, but also by the citizens of Minnesota and around the country who have benefited greatly from this knowledge of our military history." 
   "Minnesotans literally rescued this historic plane from the scrap heap," said Klobuchar. "Hundreds of Minnesotans devoted countless volunteer hours and resources to restoring this plane. Our government should respect and encourage this kind of volunteer initiative." 
   Although the U.S. Air Force has already begun to dismantle the A-12 for transfer, the legislation will immediately transfer the plane's ownership rights to the Minnesota Air National Guard Historical Foundation, and require the U.S. Air Force to finance the plane's reassembly. 
   "Almost fifteen thousand Minnesotans contributed to the restoration of the A-12 plane and the creation of the Blackbird program. To transfer the plane away from the very people who's hard work has made the aircraft what it is today is simply unfair. It is my hope that we can retain this piece of Minnesota history, and keep the Blackbird in a place where it will always be accessible to the public," Coleman added. 
   "Minnesota has many historical connections to the A-12 aircraft because local companies such as Honeywell, Rosemount, Inc., and 3M played a critical role in developing its breakthrough technology," Klobuchar added.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 