SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $12.5 MILLION FOR RED ROCK RURAL WATER SYSTEM
  Senator Norm Coleman today announced Red Rock Rural Water System (RRRWS), based in Jeffers, Minnesota has been awarded $12.5 million in federal funding from the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development Program. The funding, which includes a loan of $8.5 million and a grant of $4 million, will be used to finance RRRWS's expansion project, a major upgrade that will result in water service for over 560 new rural users in Nobles and Jackson counties.  
   "As a former mayor, I am all too familiar with the challenges of financing costly but crucial infrastructure upgrades," Coleman said. "As such, I have been a longtime supporter of Red Rock Rural Water System's expansion project, as it will provide clean, safe drinking water to hundreds of new users. You can't have safe rural communities or expanded rural development if you can't provide the most basic services such as safe water. This funding will address that need and I am thrilled USDA Rural Development continues to support this important project." 
   "We are very pleased with the support and leadership that Senator Coleman and his congressional colleagues have shown to rural infrastructure," said Dominic Jones, Manager of Red Rock Rural Water System. "This USDA Rural Utilities Grant and Loan package will offer an opportunity for rural residents in Southwest Jackson and Southeast Nobles Counties to receive good quality drinking water. The project will also have positive social and economic impacts that would not be available without high quality water." 
   Sen. Coleman has been a longtime supporter of RRRWS's expansion project, including securing a directive to fund the project in the FY06 Agriculture Appropriations bill. 
   USDA Rural Development has invested over $4 billion in rural Minnesota for a variety of economic development and infrastructure projects since 2001. For more information, visit www.rurdev.usda.gov.
 
 