SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES SBA DECLARATION OF DISASTER FOR GUNFLINT TRAIL RESIDENTS, BUSINESSES
  After urging the Small Business Administration (SBA) to address the destruction caused by the wildfire on the Gunflint Trail, Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman praised today's SBA declaration of the Gunflint Trail as a disaster area. The decision, which both Coleman and Gov. Tim Pawlenty urged SBA to make through during communication with the agency this week, makes financial assistance available for businesses and residents affected by the recent fire damage.  
   "Today's decision is great news for the many folks affected by the serious damage caused by the recent fire along the Gunflint Trail," Coleman said. "While many challenges remain, this decision means the affected parties will have access to much-needed financial assistance as they seek to rebuild their homes, businesses and way of life. I am encouraged the SBA acted so swiftly to address the concerns outlined by myself and Governor Pawlenty, and I am anxious for them to get these resources into the hands of those families in need." 
   The SBA announced today that loans up to $200,000 are available to homeowners to repair or replace damaged or destroyed real estate. Homeowners and renters are eligible up to $40,000 to repair or replace damaged or destroyed personal property. Businesses of any size and private non-profit organizations may borrow up to $1.5 million to repair or replace damaged or destroyed real estate, machinery, equipment, inventory, and other business assets. 
   SBA's Customer Service Representatives will be on hand to issue loan applications, answer questions about SBA's disaster loan program, explain the application process and help individuals complete their application at the following Disaster Loan Outreach Center: 
   COOK COUNTY 
   Cook County Courthouse 
   411 West 2nd Street 
   Grand Marais, MN 55604 
   Opens: Monday, June 4 at 8 a.m. 
   Open: Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. - 4 p.m., until further notice 
   Saturday, June 9, 2007, 9 a.m. - 1 p.m., one Saturday only 
    The wildfire was ignited on Ham Lake south of the Gunflint Trail on May 5, 2007 and has burned over 74,000 acres in the United States and Canada. The American portion of the fire was contained on May 19 and Gunflint Trail has reopened; but not before over 130 residences, businesses and other structures valued at $3.7 million were lost.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 