SENS. COLEMAN, LANDRIEU WORK TO ENSURE NEW REQUIREMENTS DO NOT IMPAIR GUATEMALA ADOPTIONS
  In an effort to address the current Guatemalan adoption crisis, Co-Chairs of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Mary Landrieu (D-LA) today sent two separate letters - one to Guatemalan President, Oscar Berger, and one to the leadership of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). These letters encourage an interim measure for pending adoption applications in Guatemala so orphaned children do not remain outside the care of a loving family for lengthy periods of time. Specifically, these letters encourage President Berger and the Guatemalan government to allow applications filed before January 1st, 2008 to continue after that date, which marks the beginning of Guatemala's full implementation of the Hague treaty. This type of "grandfather" clause would allow for legal adoptions with United States citizens to continue uninterrupted. The U.S. has not yet completed ratification of the Hague Treaty, leading to the concerns surrounding Guatemala's implementation plans.  
   "I applaud the efforts for the Guatemalan government to implement a Hague compliant system, however, I am concerned that the suspension of intercountry adoptions with the United States could result in denying over 3,000 of the country's orphaned children the chance to be part of a loving family," said Coleman. "While well intentioned, these rules could withhold children from a permanent family--one of the basic building blocks of a child's long-term physical and emotional development. Suspending currently pending adoptions to the U.S. is clearly not in the best interest of the children and it is my hope President Berger and the Guatemalan government will heed our concerns as outlined in the letters and provide a way for adoptions to continue." 
   "Guatemala's ratification and implementation of the Hague treaty is commendable," Sen. Landrieu said, "but it should not stand in the way of finding homes for children in need of loving families. Every abandoned and orphaned child deserves a permanent, safe and loving home, and the United States continues to provide the most opportunity for children as they get older. We must not allow one positive step forward for Guatemala to be two steps back for Guatemala's orphaned children. I hope that we can work with UNICEF and President Berger to ensure Guatemala's orphans are not kept out of loving homes in the United States pending our implementation of the Hague treaty." 
   Over 190 members of Congress have signed each letter. Coleman will meet with Guatemalan Ambassador Guillermo Castillo later this week to discuss this issue. Congressman James Oberstar (D-MN) and Congresswoman Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL), Co-Chairs of the House Congressional Coalition on Adoption, are circulating identical letters on the House side. 
   Due to the implementation of the Hague Convention on Intercountry Adoption, an international agreement intended to safeguard adopted children from trafficking, significant changes are taking place in adoption law in the United States and Guatemala. The government of Guatemala has announced that their nation will require all adoption cases to meet Hague standards as of January 1, 2008, and stop all processing of adoption cases with non-Hague countries, including the United States, until such a system can be implemented. Though there is a strong need to reform the intercountry adoption process in Guatemala and there are benefits to adhering to the Hague Convention, this action may cause unnecessary harm to Guatemala's orphaned children. According to the State Department, the U.S. is expected to move towards ratification of the treaty during the coming year.
   As co-chairs of Congressional Coalition on Adoption, Senators Coleman and Landrieu have championed a number of initiatives to encourage adoption including, most recently, the passage of a provision to permit children adopted after the age of 13 to file for federal college financial aid as independent students, removing a financial disincentive for teen adoptions.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 