SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $1,738,800 FOR RED LAKE HOMELESS SHELTER
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that Red Lake Homeless Shelter in Red Lake Minnesota has been awarded $1,738,800 from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) as part of a grant program to support housing development for persons with disabilities. The grant will be used to construct 14 units for low income persons with disabilities. The grant also includes a $154,200 three-year rental subsidy to make the new units affordable for low income residents.  
   "This funding will provide low income people with disabilities access to available and affordable housing," said Coleman. "I applaud HUD and the Red Lake Homeless Shelter for their combined vision and efforts to ensure that our state's residents with disabilities are given access to the basic necessities that they deserve." 
   The Red Lake Homeless Shelter project will consist of 7 sites scattered on the Red Lake Indian Reservation in Northern Minnesota. They will be one, two and three bedroom units for the physically disabled, developmentally disabled and chronically mentally ill. This project will provide the accessibility features and supportive services that will allow them to live as independently as possible. 
   "The Red Lake Homeless Shelter and Jourdain/Perpich Extended Care Center are thrilled to be awarded this grant funding," said Carol Priest, Executive Director of Red Lake Homeless Shelter. "There is a wide gap in types of housing available on the Red Lake Reservation in the area of supportive housing for special needs households. The Supportive Housing for People with Disabilities funding will enable us to begin addressing this gap by building 14 new homes for individuals and families. These homes will be located on sites in each of the four communities of the Red Lake Nation, and will increase the quality of life and independence for adults with disabilities through accessible housing design and in-home support services."
 
 