SEN. COLEMAN HELPS LEAD FIGHT TO PASS PENSION REFORM BILL THAT INCLUDES KEY AIRLINE PROVISIONS
  In a move that will help secure the pensions of thousands of Minnesota airline employees and retirees, Sen. Norm Coleman today joined his colleagues in passing the Pension Protection Act of 2006, which is aimed at ensuring airline employees receive their promised pension benefits while strengthening the overall pension system and protecting taxpayers, by a vote of 93 to 5. Coleman has been a staunch supporter of provisions within the legislation that will protect pensions for the airline industry. Minnesota is home to 22,000 Northwest Airlines retires.  
   "We finally have a practical plan to protect and secure the pension plans of all taxpayers, especially airline employees who all have made great sacrifices over the past several years due to hardship in their industry," said Coleman. "It is important to all everyday hard working Minnesotans and Americans that we ensure the security of their pensions by giving companies ways to fully honor their retirement commitments. Passage of this bill provides Americans with the guarantee of a secure retirement and the peace of mind to know their hard work will not go unrewarded because of situations that may be out of their hands. Specifically, I wanted to make certain that the immediate needs of airline employees and retirees were met as they faced the prospect of having their pensions turned over to the PBGC. That would not have been a viable option in my book." 
   "The important thing to remember is that this is not a bail-out or a free ride for the airlines," Coleman added. "This bill simply provides an opportunity for airlines and other companies to deliver the benefits their employees have earned without shifting those obligations to the taxpayers. Once an airline chooses to freeze their plan, they cannot opt out of the required payments needed to fulfill their pension liability without severe penalties. Instead of forcing the airlines into bankruptcy, this bill will allow airline companies to fully honor the pension commitments made to employees." 
   This bill will also help to better secure workers' retirements by making retirement and savings incentives permanent, encouraging workers to fund their retirement through the direct deposit of tax refunds into IRAs, and encouraging employers to provide automatic employee enrollment in defined contribution pension plans. 
   "I worked hard to pass this legislation, and I am pleased that it will help protect the lifetime work and savings of our work force, and encourage greater retirement savings by younger workers," said Coleman.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 