SENS. COLEMAN-KENNEDY PUSH DIRECT DEPOSIT PARTICIPATION DURING FEBRUARY
  This past week, the Senate unanimously approved a resolution sponsored by Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-MA), designating February as "Go Direct Month". Go Direct is a national campaign launched by the Department of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve Bank to encourage citizens to use direct deposit for federal benefit checks such as Social Security checks. Direct deposit is a more secure, reliable and cost effective method of payment, it eliminates the risk of lost or stolen checks, and helps protect against fraud and provides citizens with more control over their money. Currently, only three out of four newly eligible Social Security recipients have signed up for direct deposit. Enrolling all beneficiaries in direct deposit would save the government approximately $120 million a year.  
   "Direct deposit not only represents a significant savings over paper checks, but it reduces the risk of fraud as well," said Coleman. "I am pleased that the month of February will be devoted to getting the word out to the people. Since taking office, I have been determined to root out waste, fraud and abuse when it comes to government spending. Encouraging seniors to sign up for direct deposit will ensure their checks are protected, as well as lighten the financial burden of the American taxpayers. 
   "Go Direct encourages Americans to use direct deposit for their federal checks, such as Social Security," said Kennedy. "Under direct deposit, the federal government transfers its payments directly to a person's bank account, eliminating the risk of lost or stolen checks. Since 1986, direct deposit has also saved the federal government $5 billion in administrative costs - $120 million a year for Social Security checks alone. Go Direct Month, promoted by the federal government and by state and local governments and the private sector as well, will inform as many citizens as possible about the advantages of direct deposit and help them adopt direct deposit for the future." 
   Annually, the Treasury issues more than 150 million benefit checks. In 2004, the Treasury issued over 70,000 checks worth approximately $61 million that were illegally signed for. Since the use of direct deposit by the federal government in 1986, the government has saved approximately $5 billion. The Go Direct campaign works with financial institutions, advocacy groups and community organizations to educate citizens about the advantages of using direct deposit and assist them in signing up for direct deposit.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 