SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BIPARTISAN DAIRY LEGISLATION
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN), joined by Sen. Herb Kohl (D-WI), today introduced bipartisan legislation to extend the Milk Income Loss Compensation (MILC) law first authorized under the 2002 Farm Bill. MILC, a key safety net for U.S. dairy farm families during the price collapse of 2002 and early 2003, is currently set to expire September 30, 2005 even while the remaining safety net for other commodities authorized under the Farm Bill remain in effect through 2007. Over a quarter of the United States Senate - Democrats and Republicans from every region of the country - is on the expanding list of co-sponsors of the Coleman MILC bill.  
   "I was pleased when President Bush endorsed extension of the Milk Income Loss Compensation law, or MILC, last year," Coleman said. "The 2002 Farm Bill provides a safety net to most farm families through 2007 and we need to ensure that MILC, which provided Minnesota dairy farmers with critical help during some record low prices in 2002 and 2003, stays in effect at least through 2007 as well. I am also very pleased to have worked across the political aisle, particularly with Senators Kohl, Leahy, and Specter to rack up over a quarter of the U.S. Senate from every region of the country to back the MILC bill - that's very unusual in dairy." 
   MILC provided critical assistance to U.S. dairy farm families when prices collapsed in 2002 and early 2003 due to factors beyond their control, while still allowing markets to readjust and return to more profitable levels later in 2003 and into 2004 just as this market-oriented safety net was carefully crafted to do. Importantly, the MILC program provides the same safety net to all producers across the United States regardless of their location. 
   "MILC is a good program because it provides a safety net that is fair and equitable to farmers from every region of the country. It is also a market-oriented program that does not fix prices but simply provides a counter-cyclical safety net when prices are depressed," Coleman said. "It seems only fair to me that my dairy farmers continue to have this safety net, just as my other farmers do." 
   During confirmation hearings in January, Senator Coleman, a member of the Agriculture, Forestry, and Nutrition Committee, indicated that he looked forward to working closely with the new Secretary of Agriculture to pass the MILC legislation. 
   Since MILC was first authorized under the 2002 Farm Bill, this safety net has provided about $2 billion in needed assistance to hard working U.S. dairy farm families who have struggled over the last two years against collapsed prices with prices in some months falling to levels not seen since 1979. Prices began to recover later in 2003, continuing with record rates in 2004 and 2005. Importantly, this legislation does not increase milk prices paid by consumers. 
   Sponsors to the Coleman-Kohl-Leahy-Specter MILC bill include, Senators Herb Kohl (D-WI), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Arlen Specter (R-PA), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), Ron Wyden (D-OR), John Thune (R-SD), David Vitter (R-LA), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Mike DeWine (R-OH), Joe Biden (D-DE), Susan Collins (R-ME), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Jim Jeffords (D-VT), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Ted Kennedy (D-MA), John Kerry (D-MA), Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Christopher Bond (R-MO).
 
 