SENS. COLEMAN, OBAMA TO LEAD NEW SENATE CHINA WORKING GROUP
  Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Barack Obama (D-IL) today announced that they will form a new Senate policy group established to gain better understanding of the growing influence of China on the global stage. The Senate China Working Group will serve as a forum for discussion on the rise of China as a political, economic, and military actor in both the regional and global arenas and the implications for American interests. The Senate China Working Group will be created within the U.S.-China Inter-Parliamentary Group co-chaired in the United States by Sens. Stevens (R-AK) and Inouye (D-HI) as a mechanism for dialogue between the U.S. and Chinese legislatures.  
   "It is important that all Americans, including United States Senators, get a better understanding of China on all fronts, which is exactly what our working group is prepared to do," said Coleman. "China is a rising economic and political power, and it is in our national security interest for our nations to work together while confronting our differences in a constructive way. I'm pleased to be joined by Sen. Obama in this effort to strengthen America's future in increasingly powerful China." 
   "In this era where American children are no longer just competing with other students in Chicago and Boston but also with their counterparts in Shanghai and Beijing, it's crucial that we begin a dialogue about the future of China's growing political and economic influence on the global economy and the United States," said Obama. "I look forward to working with Senator Coleman to start a dialogue about how to best shape future U.S. policy towards China." 
   China's economy has grown at an average of 9 percent for the past 25 years. China is now the U.S.'s second-largest source of imports. Home to 20 percent of the world's population, China's increased energy demands will be a factor in an increasingly tight global energy market. China's military buildup is also notable, with a defense budget growing by 10 percent annually, making China the third largest military spender in the world. 
   Coleman recently returned from a trip to Hong Kong where he observed China's economic engine first hand. 
   "Every day, China is gaining more and more economic momentum, adding to a growing list of reasons why we should develop a working relationship with this global power," said Coleman. "China is the fourth largest export market for agriculture in the U.S., yet it is also the country with which the U.S. runs the highest trade deficit. It is important for our economy, our businesses, and our national security to start paying closer attention now."
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 