SEN. COLEMAN FIGHTS PROPOSED REDUCTIONS IN IRAQ OVERSIGHT
  Continuing his fight to root out government waste, fraud, and abuse on behalf of the American taxpayer, Ranking Member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), Senator Norm Coleman last Friday sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice voicing concern over potential staff changes that could leave billions of dollars in U.S. spending in Iraq more vulnerable to abuse. The letter was sent in response to the State Department's decision to remove the investigators and auditors of the Office of the Inspector General for the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID-OIG) from their current location in Baghdad and redeploy these personnel to Amman, Cairo, or Frankfurt. 
   "We need a strong oversight presence on the ground in Iraq to ensure that USAID is spending taxpayer dollars efficiently," said Coleman. "USAID's mission is integral to America's success in Iraq and I support it. Indeed, USAID is at the forefront of the 'civilian surge,' the effort to improve the lives of the Iraqi people that dovetails with the military surge that has successfully reduced violence in the country. But we cannot overlook our responsibility to the American taxpayers. Removing oversight personnel from the country would not only leave Americans' tax-dollars vulnerable to abuse, but also hinder reconstruction efforts in a country that is in sincere need."
   Coleman raised his concern that this change could violate the Inspector General's Act of 1978, which requires the State Department to provide adequate on-site workspace and facilities for oversight personnel. He stressed that this could compromise USAID's ability to ensure that the estimated $6.7 billion in U.S. taxpayer dollars is being used as intended--to reconstruct war-torn areas of Iraq. Representatives of the USAID-OIG have stated that the lack of a full-time physical presence in Iraq could hinder the Office's ability to conduct adequate oversight over USAID efforts in the country, thus leaving a significant component of the reconstruction effort more vulnerable to fraud, waste, and abuse.
   There are currently nine USAID-OIG investigators overseeing operations in Iraq who have reviewed 47 cases where they have saved almost $5 million of taxpayer funds as of December 31, 2007. USAID-OIG has made five criminal referrals and 19 fraud awareness actions. Projects generally carried out by USAID include "capacity building", which includes training local and provincial governments in budgetary, administrative and human services, economic growth planning with private and public industries, and promoting reconciliation efforts - almost all of this is done at the local and provincial levels.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 