SENS. COLEMAN, LINCOLN LEAD BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO PROTECT FARM SAFETY NET, CONSERVATION, NUTRITION, RURAL DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Arkansas Sen. Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), joined by Sens. Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Max Baucus (D-MT), are leading a bipartisan coalition of 44 senators opposing the recently proposed cuts to the farm safety net and important conservation, nutrition, rural development, and agriculture research initiatives.  
   In a letter to the Senate Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Ranking Democrat Kent Conrad (D-ND), the 44 senators led by Coleman and Lincoln underscored the importance of U.S. farm policy and agriculture to the nations' overall economic health, and stressed that U.S. farm policy has already contributed over $18 billion to deficit reduction since passage of the 2002 Farm Bill. 
   "The recently proposed cuts to U.S. farm policy, when added to the more than $18 billion in...savings already achieved, bring to rest a disproportionate burden of deficit reduction on the shoulders of our nation's farm families, rural communities, environmental protection, and other important rural initiatives," the senators wrote. 
   "Besides being an economic engine for our country and helping to provide Americans with the safest, most abundant, most affordable food supply in the world, U.S. farm policy is also about U.S. global competitiveness at a time when foreign subsidies and tariffs are 5 and 6 times higher than our own. Unilaterally disarming U.S. farm policy would be especially ill-timed now as negotiations to level the global playing field continue under the Doha Round of the WTO. The importance of a strong farm economy to our nation's overall economy can be found in a December 12, 2003 Wall Street Journal article entitled, "Farm Belt Becomes Driver for Overall Economy," as well as the 1980s farm financial crisis that rocked the economic foundation of even our largest cities," the letter to the Budget Committee continued. 
   The 44 senators also noted the importance of environmental protection and food nutrition initiatives. 
   "Conservation initiatives under U.S. farm policy are also remarkably successful in rehabilitating wetlands, wildlife and wildlife habitat, curbing soil erosion, and improving air and water quality through voluntary, incentive based practices. We hope to build on this success rather than turn back." In regard to food nutrition, the letter continued, "Today, millions of low income families and school aged children in America rely on the food nutrition assistance provided by USDA. As we work to reduce hunger and improve healthy eating habits, the importance of U.S. farm policy is only enhanced." 
   "We believe these important priorities for our nation are worth defending and we hope you will consider our strong commitment to them as you craft the Budget Resolution for fiscal year 2006," the senators concluded. 
   U.S. farm policy for commodities amounts to about one half of one percent of the total federal budget, while helping sustain an economic sector representing 17 percent of the nation's GDP, 25 million jobs, and $3.5 trillion in economic activity. 
   The list of Senators that have signed Coleman's letter is as follows: Patrick J. Leahy (D-VT), Pat Roberts (R - KS), Blanche L. Lincoln (D-AR), Conrad R. Burns (R-MT), Max Baucus (D-MT), Jim Talent (R-MO), Tom Harkin (D-IA), David Vitter (R-LA), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Johnny Isakson (R - GA), Mark Pryor (D-AK), Arlen Specter (R-PA), Mary L. Landrieu (D-LA), John Thune (R - SD), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Christopher S. Bond (R-MO), Herb Kohl (D-WI), John Warner (R - VA), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Elizabeth Dole (R - NC), Patty Murray (D-WA), Larry Craig (R - ID), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), George Allen (R - VA), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Carl Levin (D-MI), Richard Shelby (R - AL), Byron L. Dorgan (D-ND), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Richard Burr (R - NC), Ron Wyden (D-OR), James Inhofe (R - OK), Benjamin Nelson (D-NE), Barack Obama (D-IL), James M. Jeffords (I-VT), Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA), Richard Durbin (D-IL), John F. Kerry (D-MA), Evans Bayh, III (D-IN), Barbara Mikulski (D - MD), and John Rockefeller (D - WV).
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 