SENS. COLEMAN, PRYOR INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN RURAL RENAISSANCE ACT TO REVITALIZE RURAL AMERICA, REBUILD MAIN STREET
  Vowing to help rebuild Main Street and revitalize the economy in rural Minnesota communities and nationwide, Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Mark Pryor (D-AR) today introduced the $50 billion Rural Renaissance Act designed to provide resources for small communities to improve infrastructure, generate jobs, and improve quality of life in rural America. Coleman and Pryor were joined by Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC).  
   "In Arkansas and throughout the country, families are leaving rural communities for cities with infrastructure already in place and a better standard of living," Pryor said. "This bill will help reverse this trend by infusing small rural communities with the resources necessary to meet basic infrastructure needs and attract new businesses." 
   "Throughout rural America today, a lack of basic infrastructure many Americans take for granted is undermining the very ability of small communities to create businesses and grow new and good paying jobs," Senator Coleman said. "The Rural Renaissance Act will empower rural communities to upgrade outdated, inadequate, or nonexistent basic infrastructure in order to attract new investments and jobs." 
   The Rural Renaissance Act would pay for this $50 billion investment in rural America by issuing federal bonds, the proceeds of which would be used to make grants and low interest loans to rural communities. Under federal bonding, a smaller federal contribution can be leveraged into a much larger investment than otherwise possible. 
   The Rural Renaissance Corporation would distribute the $50 billion in grants and loans to eligible rural projects, including water and waste facilities; high speed internet access; essential community facilities like police and fire stations, assisted living and nursing homes, and hospitals; telemedicine and distance learning; teleworks; conservation projects; housing; as well as farmer-owned value-added and renewable fuels projects. The funding would provide critically needed, flexible and supplemental funding for these priority needs, with not less than $500 million available to each state. 
   Available to communities with populations under 50,000, the 10 year cost to the U.S. government is estimated by private analysts to be about $15 billion, or the lost tax revenue resulting from federal tax credits to bond investors. 
   "This legislation is visionary in its approach to ensure that Americans in even the most rural settings can access the same broadband capabilities that businesses and citizens in urban areas potentially access today," Matthew J. Flanigan, President, Telecommunications Industry Association said. 
   "The Minnesota Rural Water Association is very excited to support the Rural Renaissance Act," according to Luther Johnson, Chairman, Minnesota Rural Water Association. "The Act will bring a much needed investment in rural America's infrastructure, economy, and the protection of our greatest resource - safe, affordable drinking water." 
   To date, the Rural Renaissance Act has been endorsed by a number of state and national rural advocacy groups including the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, the Telecommunications Industry Association, the Rural Broadband Coalition, the American Sugarbeet Growers Association, Land O' Lakes Cooperative, and the American Soybean Association.
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 