SEN. COLEMAN REINTRODUCES RURAL RENAISSANCE TO FUEL ECONOMIC GROWTH IN RURAL AMERICA
  Continuing his long-standing efforts to support infrastructure development in rural communities, Sen. Norm Coleman reintroduced his Rural Renaissance Act with Sen. Mark Pryor (D-AR), legislation that would provide $400 million of Rural Renaissance bonds to finance rural development projects. Specifically, Rural Renaissance uses tax credit bonding to leverage federal dollars for rural development investment for: water or waste treatment projects; distance learning or telemedicine projects; rural electric systems; rural telephone systems; broadband technology projects; and rural community facilities. The selection of eligible projects will be made in coordination with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to maximize the use of Rural Renaissance Bonds. Sen. Coleman originally introduced the Rural Renaissance Act in 2005 and, with the assistance of Sen. Pryor, was successful in including the proposal in the Senate version of the Tax Relief Act of 2005. Coleman will continue his bipartisan campaign to pass this proposal into law in the 110 Congress.  
   "Since taking office, my staff and I have traveled extensively across Minnesota to visit our state's rural communities and nearly all of them have discussed the challenges of aging and inadequate infrastructure," said Coleman. "Rural Renaissance goes to the heart of jobs and economic growth in Rural America. In these small towns, the work ethic is large, but the tax base is often insufficient to fund the basic infrastructure needed for revitalization to occur. Unfortunately, Rural America does not receive the share of federal dollars it deserves - non-metropolitan areas receive over $500 less per capita than metropolitan areas. I find this gap unacceptable, and I continue to work for Rural Renaissance, which will send needed resources to rural communities for critical infrastructure." 
   "America's rural communities form the backbone of this nation, and we must be sure to sustain and cultivate their development and growth," said Coleman. "Small-town kids deserve the chance to stay in their hometowns when they become adults, and Rural Renaissance will provide tools to help rural communities expand job growth and economic development."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 