REP. KENNEDY, SEN. COLEMAN SPONSOR WORKING SESSION TO ADDRESS IMPACT OF BANK SECRECY ACT ON MONEY SERVICES BUSINESSES, NEW AMERICANS' COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Rep. Mark Kennedy (R-MN) today sponsored a working session involving federal and state regulators, financial services industry representatives and new American community members as part of their on-going effort to address the impact of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) on money services business (MSBs) and new Americans' communities, in particular the Somali community. The working session facilitated a dialogue amongst the parties to provide regulators with an opportunity to hear first-hand compliance concerns. According to the World Bank, Somalis remit an estimated $800 million to $1 billion a year, approximately $100 per capita for a country with an annual per capita income of $600.  
   "I am pleased that today's dialogue will better help us arrive at a solution for our New Americans," said Coleman. "With Minnesota home to the largest Somali community in America, it is of great concern to Congressman Kennedy and me that our new Minnesotans have the opportunity to provide for their families abroad. I very much appreciate the constructive contributions made by all parties on this difficult and complicated problem. Going forward, I encourage all parties to continue with the same spirit of cooperation exhibited at the working session in addressing this problem. I believe that we can better achieve the difficult but important balance of ensuring the continued lawful flow of remittances while still preventing terrorist financing and other criminal activities. I remain committed to working on finding a solution." 
   "Today's meeting was a positive and constructive step forward in helping Minnesota's Somali community, and other new American groups, find a solution to ensure a safe and secure system of remittances to their families," said Kennedy. "I want to thank Senator Coleman for working with me on this issue and for helping bring all the important parties together today." 
   In April 2005, Treasury's FINCEN and the Federal Banking Agencies issued Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) related compliance guidance to the banking community as well as money services businesses (MSBs), which often is the only practical financial services option for the Somali community. The new guidance has led some banks to end or reduce their relationships with MSBs, which in turn has had an adverse impact on the Somali community and the family members who depend on them. The BSA requires banks to conduct due diligence activities designed to detect terrorist financing, money laundering and other criminal activities.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 