SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $366,254 GRANT FOR EAST CENTRAL MINNESOTA EDUCATIONAL CABLE COOPERATIVE
  Senator Coleman today announced the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development agency has awarded a $366,254 grant to East Central Minnesota Educational Cable Cooperative (ECMECC), based in Braham. The grant, awarded through Rural Development's Distance Learning and Telemedicine grant program, will result in funds being delivered to 12 school districts for new and updated video conferencing equipment that will allow for curriculum enhancements and virtual field trips for students in the areas. Specifically, the grant funding will go to 22 individual schools within the school districts of Braham, Cambridge, Chisago Lakes, East Central, Hinckley/Finlayson, Ogilvie, Milaca, Mora, North Branch, Pine City, Princeton and Rush City.  
   "USDA Rural Development continues to make important investments in Greater Minnesota, and these funds will provide valuable resources to school districts in east-central Minnesota for education and development," Coleman said. "Today's technology provides tremendous opportunities for students, and I thank both USDA Rural Development and the East Central Minnesota Educational Cable Cooperative for the contributions they are making for Minnesota students." 
   "We are very excited about this opportunity," said Steve Hallan, Director of ECMECC. "We will be able to put video conferencing equipment into schools that have not had it before. This will allow kids to go on virtual field trips to places all over the country - all without getting on a bus." 
   USDA's Rural Development's Distance Learning and Telemedicine grant program was created to improve access to education and medical services through the use of technology. The grant funds will be awarded to the selected recipients, contingent upon meeting the conditions of the grant agreement. 
   A complete list of grant recipients is available on the USDA Rural Development web site at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.
 
 