NOTICE REGARDING GUATEMALA ADOPTION ISSUES
  Over the years, Sen. Norm Coleman has worked with hundreds of Minnesota families on international adoptions, many from Guatemala. Currently, the country of Guatemala is undergoing changes with their adoption procedures. As a result, the U.S. Department of State has recently posted advisory announcements to parents who are at the beginning stages of an adoption process and are considering adopting from Guatemala. While the State Department is not prohibiting adoptions from Guatemala, they have posted a recent advisory due to the lack of safeguards and an increase in corruption and other problems.  
   For those cases that are currently in-process, the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department are moving forward with the adoption paperwork. The State Department has advised that with higher levels of scrutiny than in past, some cases will take more time to process. 
   "I understand how an announcement like this can cause concern among parents who have completed or already started the adoption in Guatemala," said Coleman. "As with all other adoptions, my staff is readily available to help families navigate their way through the adoption process and the concerns they may have with the State Department's recent announcement." 
   How does the adoption process work in Guatemala? 
   As a first step, adoption paperwork is submitted to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in Guatemala. After a review, a pre-approval notice is issued. With a pre-approval notice, the in-country representative will forward the case to Procuraduria General de la Nacion (PGN). After PGN approves the adoption it is submitted to DHS for an approval notice. An appointment (or pink slip) is then scheduled with the embassy. 
   How can Senator Coleman's office assist me with my adoption? 
   60 days after receiving official confirmation that your paperwork has been submitted for pre-approval notice, Senator Coleman's office can make a status inquiry to DHS in Guatemala to confirm that they have received the adoption case. However, if your case is still pending with DHS, Senator Coleman's office will not be able to obtain the specific reason(s) as to why the case is still under a review. 
   Where can I find more information? 
   Parents are also encouraged to contact the State Dept. directly regarding their case by email: askci@state.gov. 
   Additionally, parents should continue to check the following State Department website pages on Guatemalan adoptions for updates: 
   *http://www.travel.state.gov/family/adoption/convention/convention_3170.html#2 
   *http://www.travel.state.gov/family/adoption/country/country_389.html 
   For additional help, families are encouraged to call Senator Coleman's Minnesota office at (651) 645-0323
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 