SEN. COLEMAN TO HOST PRESCRIPTION DRUG DISCOUNT CARD ENROLLMENT EXPO
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that he will host the first Medicare-approved prescription drug discount card enrollment event Wednesday, August 11, 2004, at the Plymouth Creek Center in Plymouth, Minnesota. It will be the first of many similar events across the state where senior citizens are able to learn more about the new Medicare-approved cards and to enroll in a plan while in attendance.  
   "I'm pleased that the Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card Program has become a reality," said Coleman, co-chair of the Senate Discount Task Force. "It is an important first step in providing senior citizens with the assistance needed to make the cost of prescription drugs more affordable. Our seniors deserve the best health care for their dollar, and it is essential that these Medicare beneficiaries be well informed so they can choose a drug discount card that best fits their needs." 
   On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 was signed into law, and senior citizens were able to voluntarily enroll in a Medicare-approved prescription drug discount card as early as May 2004. The new card can potentially help 677,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Minnesota and at least 109,000 low-income seniors, offering savings between 10-25 percent on most medicines, and between 46-92 percent on generic drugs. 
   "I think folks should sign up for it as soon as possible and start getting some of the benefits from the discount card," Jerry Markie said. "The savings can be substantial. We've found it to be so. We're happy." 
   Jerry Markie of Maplewood says his new Medicare-approved prescription drug discount card is one of the reasons he and his wife will save about $3,000 on the 13 prescription drugs they buy this year. The Markies expect to spend a total of about $1,500 on prescription drugs this year, compared to the estimated $4,500 they spent last year, thanks in part to their new Medicare-approved prescription drug discount cards. 
   "These cards are definitely a step in the right direction," said Coleman. "They offer a prescription for better health care coverage by presenting seniors and Minnesotans with a real choice for real savings." 
   Senator Coleman will be on hand with drug-card sponsors and enrollment experts at the Plymouth Creek Center to inform Minnesota seniors how to officially enroll and take advantage of the card program. A question and answer period will follow the opening presentation, along with the opportunity to sign up for a prescription drug discount card while at the Center. The event is free and open to the public, and enrollment is encouraged by those who wish to participate in the program while experts are on-hand to assist those with questions. 
   Note: Senator Coleman will begin by making a short address, along with other experts involved in the program, followed by a short question and answer period. 
   There will be a 15 media availability with Senator Coleman and other officials after the presentation. 
   Senior citizens will then be able to visit with multiple Medicare-approved drug discount card sponsors on hand to enroll in a card program. 
   When: Wednesday, August 11, 10 am-12 pm 
  Where: Plymouth Creek Center, 14800 34th Avenue North, Plymouth, MN 55447 
   Seniors will bring: 
   * List of current medications: names and dosages 
  * Pharmacy preferences 
  * Income information (to determine maximum benefit).
 
 