SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS BUSH'S CONSERVATION ANNOUNCEMENT
  Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded President Bush's expansion and improvement of the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP). At the Katzenmeyer Farm in Le Sueur, the President, joined by Coleman and other Minnesota farm, conservation, and sportsmen leaders, announced new initiatives to the highly successful CRP program. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced that it will begin implementing his directives immediately.  
   The President called for allowing early re-enrollment and extension of CRP contracts that will expire in 2007 in order to improve the environmental benefits of existing acreage. 
   "The President's commitment to Minnesota farmers and land conservation is as clear as it is strong," Coleman said. "His directive to allow early re-enrollment and extension of CRP contracts ensures that the 16 million acres under CRP contract scheduled to expire in 2007 stay protected. This is common sense and good policy. I am glad to see the President is as committed as I am to full enrollment of CRP, which means 39.2 million acres protected." 
   The President also announced that a general sign-up of 800,000 acres under CRP. This will occur from August 30 through September 24 of this year. Farmers can sign-up at local USDA/FSA offices. 
   Finally, the President announced the Non-Floodplain Wetland Restoration Initiative that will encourage landowners to enroll 250,000 acres of large wetland complexes and playa lakes located outside the 100-year floodplain. 
   "The President's Non-Floodplain Wetland Restoration Initiative represents solid reform," Coleman said. "This will further reduce downstream flooding and expand the habitats available to wildlife." 
   Originally authorized under the 1985 Farm Bill, CRP is a voluntary program sponsored by USDA that provides incentives to landowners to remove environmentally sensitive land from agricultural production and instead establish protective vegetative cover of grass, trees, or wildlife habitat. Since its inception, this program has helped reduce soil erosion by more than 40 percent and helped restore 1.8 million acres of wetlands. Since the 2002 Farm Bill was enacted, CRP has increased enrollment by 2.6 million acres, conserving a total of 34.8 million acres of environmentally sensitive land nationwide. The 2002 Farm Bill provides more than $40 billion over ten years to restore millions of acres of wetlands, protect habitats, conserve water, and improve streams and rivers near working farms and ranches. 
   "When President Bush signed the 2002 Farm Bill into law, he provided the biggest increase and the largest investment in conservation programs in history," said Coleman. "The 1996 Farm Bill was billed as the 'greenest farm bill ever' and the 2002 Farm Bill increased funding over and above 1996 levels by 81% - $39 billion over 10 years. When it comes to conservation, President Bush's record is very strong."
 
 