SENS. COLEMAN, SANDERS INTRODUCE BILL TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL $1 BILLION FOR HEATING ASSISTANCE
  In an effort to help low-income families keep pace with escalating heating bills this winter, Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Bernard Sanders (I-VT) are leading the effort to provide emergency assistance by introducing the Keep Americans Warm Act of 2007. This legislation would provide an additional $1 billion in emergency funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This funding assistance would be in addition to the Fiscal Year 2008 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill, which currently contains $2.411 billion for the program. LIHEAP provides grants to over 5.8 million low-income families as well as senior citizens and disabled people. Currently, the following seventeen Senators have agreed to sponsor the Keep Americans Warm Act of 2007 with Coleman and Sanders: Bingaman, Brown, Cantwell, Casey, Collins, Kerry, Kennedy, Klobuchar, Leahy, Lieberman, Lugar, Menendez, Mikulski, Obama, Schumer, Snowe, and Stabenow.  
   "In 2006, I joined Senators Snowe and Collins in a successful effort to provide emergency LIHEAP funding to prevent homes from going cold as energy prices soared - low-income families and seniors again need our help, and I'm proud to stand with a bipartisan cast of colleagues to lead that fight once again. With many low-income families at a financial breaking point and energy prices at record levels, we have a responsibility to make sure that these folks are not forced to make the impossible choice of paying for the necessities of daily life and heating their homes," Coleman said. "While the cost of heating continues to increase, the amount of federal assistance will be significantly less than previous years. The Keep Americans Warm Act will provide solutions to help ensure that families are able to overcome the energy emergency." 
   The National Energy Directors Association (NEADA) projects that nationwide the typical household using heating oil will pay 50 percent more than Fiscal Year 2006, those using propane will pay 38 percent more than Fiscal Year 2006, those using electricity will pay 14 percent more than Fiscal Year 2006, and those using natural gas will pay slightly less than Fiscal Year 2006, but will pay 38 percent more than the winters of 2000-2005. 
   Over the past four years, the number of households receiving home heating assistance increased by 26 percent. During the same period, federal support increased by only 10 percent. As a result, the average price of grants declined from $349 to $305. This legislation will serve as a tool to provide decisive and prompt action to help solve the national energy emergency in America. 
   Last year, Senator Coleman secured $29 million in additional funding for Minnesota families struggling to heat their homes. In September of this year, Senator Coleman joined 50 of his Senate colleagues in successfully urging the President to release $131 million in LIHEAP contingency funding, including $4.2 million for low-income Minnesota families. If the Administration had not released the remaining funds by September 30, 2007, $131 million of the contingency fund's balance would have expired.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 