SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT'S FISCAL 2009 BUDGET REQUEST
  Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman today made the following remarks in response to the President's budget proposal for fiscal year 2009: 
   "In the face of serious economic challenges, families across Minnesota make tough choices every day to live within their budgets and they rightfully expect us to do the same. While I am encouraged by the President's overall goal of balancing the budget by 2012, the fact is the federal budget has ballooned to over $3 trillion and the deficit is slated to increase in the short-term due to the combination of difficult economic times, the price tag of the proposed stimulus package, and the on-going costs of the war. Certainly we must do more to address spending in Washington; but raising taxes is not the answer.
   Clearly we need to take a hard look at entitlement spending. I am concerned, however, that the reductions proposed by the President's budget could result in diminished quality and quantity of healthcare for our most vulnerable populations, and I don't expect the Senate to follow the President's lead on these. I have supported efforts to create a bipartisan commission to address the unsustainable growth in programs like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security so that those programs will be available for future generations. Other measures we should take to address spending include reducing the number and cost of earmarks, and providing the President with line-item veto authority.
   At the same time, we need to be mindful of the impact of cutting programs that are crucial to Minnesotans. I am concerned about the proposed reductions in programs that put food on the table for seniors in need, keep impoverished families warm during the winter months, and help urban and rural communities. I am particularly disappointed that once again the Administration is seeking to undercut the farm safety net, which ensures that we maintain the safest, most affordable food supply in the world.
   This proposal is a starting point in the overall budget discussion. In the end, it is the responsibility of the Congress to pass a budget that will reign in the deficit, address the glaring need for real entitlement reform and restore economic growth and opportunities for working Minnesota families.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 