PRESIDENT BUSH'S BUDGET INCLUDES SEN. COLEMAN PROVISION TO RECOUP MEDICARE DOCTOR TAX DEBTS
  Responding to the problem of tax-cheats in the Medicare program that was first identified through an investigation led by Senator Norm Coleman, President Bush today included a provision in his budget proposal that will authorize the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to participate in the Federal Payment Levy Program (FPLP), which levies payments from the federal government. As the Ranking Member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, Sen. Coleman led a bipartisan investigation last year that revealed that more than 21,000 doctors and related health care providers that received Medicare Part B payments in the first nine months of 2005 owed more than $1.3 billion in federal taxes. Moreover, it found that CMS does not participate in the FPLP for Medicare Parts A and B. The Subcommittee investigation found that, had CMS sent just a portion of its Part B payments through FPLP, between $50 million and $140 million in unpaid federal taxes could have been collected in the first nine months of 2005 alone. Last May, Senators Coleman and Carl Levin (D-MI) introduced legislation to allow CMS to participate in the FPLP. In December, Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D - IL) introduced a companion bill in the House. 
   "My investigation revealed that thousands of Medicare providers, who are supposed to be serving our nation's elderly and disabled, are instead cheating the American taxpayers in order to line their pockets," said Senator Coleman. "I am pleased that the Administration recognizes the importance of recovering these unpaid taxes - and while it was included in the President's budget proposal, it will still need to be enacted into law. To that end, I will continue working to pass my bill, which will ensure that CMS participates in the Federal Payment Levy Program so that Medicare payments to these practitioners can be levied. Moreover, it will reduce the number of notices the IRS must send to a delinquent taxpayer before a levy can be imposed. By shortening the time prior to collection, we can enable the government to collect this tax debt earlier - and keep the debt burden off of hardworking American taxpayers."
   In general, the FPLP levies payments to delinquent taxpayers from the federal government at 15% or more until the outstanding tax debt is recovered. CMS has been participating in FPLP for payments to Medicare Part C and D providers, but has failed to include payments to Medicare Parts A and B providers, which together represent more than $300 billion in payments each year. The Coleman-Levin bill mandates that CMS participate in the FPLP by screening 50% of their Part A and B payments within one year, and all payments by the following year.
   The final provision of the Coleman-Levin bill would implement a recommendation of the Federal Contractor Tax Compliance Task Force designed to expedite IRS's notice procedures. Currently, the IRS must undergo a lengthy notice process with delinquent taxpayers before being able to activate a tax debt for collection through the FPLP. The current system requires that four tax bills and a special notice of intent to levy be sent by the IRS before any property can be levied. To streamline the process for federal payments, the Coleman-Levin bill would authorize the IRS to begin to levy the federal payments after notice and demand have been sent, and allow the levy notice and any appeal proceedings to take place after the levy has been initiated.
   "The process of collecting these outstanding tax debts is often stymied by redundant paperwork and by those who are taking advantage of the system, pushing collection through the FPLP back by months or even years. By shortening the timeframe, this provision would enable the federal government to substantially increase the amount of tax debt to be collected," Coleman added.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 