SEN. COLEMAN MEETS WITH GENERAL MCNEILL TO DISCUSS MOBILIZATION CENTER AT CAMP RIPLEY
  Yesterday, Sen. Norm Coleman hosted a meeting in his Senate office with General Dan McNeill, commander of FORSCOM (U.S. Army Forces Command), to discuss the creation of a mobilization center at Camp Ripley. Currently, Gen. McNeill is in charge of a study to assess Camp Ripley's potential of becoming a mobilization station. This study was prompted by a provision Sen. Coleman attached to the Ronald Reagan National Defense Authorization Act of 2004 which passed last October.  
   Camp Ripley is the second largest National Guard Training Site within the United States. The creation of a mobilization center on Camp Ripley's 53,000 acres would allow them to potentially train up to 10,000 soldiers at a time. The number of soldiers, however, would be limited to 1,000 in order to ensure that the new mission does not detract from its current mission of training Minnesota's National Guard troops and Reserve units or take away the resources currently offered to non-mobilized soldiers and civilians. 
   "Currently, when our Minnesota Guard and Reserve members get called up to duty, they first have to ship out to other mobilization sites throughout the country for anywhere from a few weeks to a few months," said Coleman. "They are making more sacrifices that would not be necessary if they could mobilize here in Minnesota. I believe Gen. McNeill understands this and understands that a mobilization center in Minnesota makes sense for our troops and for our overall security. Establishing a center here can accomplish both." 
   During this meeting, Sen. Coleman also outlined the positive economic impact a mobilization center will have in the region. 
   "Gen. McNeill is very aware that this center will create more jobs and have a positive economic impact in the region," said Coleman. "In 2003 alone, the economic impact Camp Ripley had as a training center neared the $150 million mark, so as an expanded facility with increased troops, Camp Ripley should bring in even more revenue. This is a very good thing for the Little Falls and Brainerd communities." 
   Gen. McNeill acknowledged Sen. Coleman's concerns and noted that they will be taken into account as the study nears completion. It is due to be released to Congress by the end of February.
 
 