SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS STATE DEPARTMENT REVERSAL ON IRAQ OVERSIGHT DECISION
  Responding to concerns raised by Senator Norm Coleman over upcoming changes that could leave billions of dollars in U.S. spending in Iraq more vulnerable to abuse, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker has reversed the State Department's decision to reduce the number of USAID investigators and auditors in Iraq. Senator Coleman, ranking member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on February 29, 2008, voicing concern over the previous decision to remove nine full-time personnel in the Office of the Inspector General for the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID-OIG), and to replace them with two temporary staff members. According to USAID officials, Ambassador Crocker announced his decision during a meeting yesterday with USAID Inspector General Don Gambatesa.
   "Without a strong oversight presence on the ground in Iraq, American tax dollars are vulnerable to waste or abuse, which is why I am pleased Ambassador Crocker today has indicated that he will allow USAID investigators to remain on the ground in Iraq," Senator Coleman said. "USAID's work in Iraq supports numerous noble projects critical to the success of the country's reconstruction and is integral to America's success." 
   In the letter sent late last week, Coleman stated that this change could violate the Inspector General's Act of 1978, which requires the State Department to provide adequate on-site workspace and facilities for oversight personnel. He stressed that this could compromise USAID's ability to ensure that the estimated $6.7 billion in U.S. taxpayer dollars is being used as intended--to reconstruct war-torn areas of Iraq. Representatives of the USAID-OIG have stated that the lack of a full-time physical presence in Iraq could hinder the Office's ability to conduct adequate oversight over USAID efforts in the country, thus leaving a significant component of the reconstruction effort more vulnerable to fraud, waste, and abuse.
   The nine USAID-OIG investigators who are currently overseeing operations in Iraq are the personnel who would have been removed because of the State Department's announced change. They have reviewed 47 cases where they have saved almost $5 million of taxpayer funds as of December 31, 2007. USAID-OIG has made five criminal referrals and 19 fraud awareness actions. Projects generally carried out by USAID include "capacity building," such as training local and provincial governments in budgetary, administrative and human services, economic growth planning with private and public industries, and promoting reconciliation efforts - almost all of which is done at the local and provincial levels.
   Senator Coleman has played a key role in extending oversight of Iraq operations during his time in office, most notably by joining with Senator Russ Feingold and Senator Susan Collins to save the Special Inspector General for Iraqi Reconstruction office from termination at the of 2006. Currently, at least twelve government entities - including USAID-OIG - are overseeing (to varying degrees) U.S. government operations and expenditures related to Iraq, ranging from military contracting to Iraqi reconstruction, under the umbrella of the Iraq Inspectors General Council. They have completed thousands of audits and reports, uncovered hundreds of millions of dollars in abuse, and identified the perpetrators. The universally-respected Government Accountability Office alone has released more than 125 reports about the Iraq war and reconstruction effort that can be read on-line.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 