SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES PASSAGE OF EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING FOR IRAQ, KATRINA RELIEF, AGRICULTURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Norm Coleman today cast his vote in favor of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill (H.R. 4939), which passed the Senate by a vote of 78-20. The $109 billion bill includes a $4 billion farm disaster aid package co-authored by Coleman aimed at protecting those affected by a natural disaster in 2005. This package, titled the Emergency Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act, will provide emergency funding to farmers and ranchers who have suffered weather-related crop production shortfalls, disease, and high energy prices. This bill also sets money aside for the War on Terror, hurricane recovery, border security and the avian flu.  
   "We've seen over the past few years how natural disasters such as floods can devastate entire farming regions in the blink of an eye," Coleman said. "I fought hard to include this package in the supplemental bill and I believe that it will go a long way in protecting the interests and needs of Minnesota's agricultural communities. Minnesota farms are the backbone of our local economy and play a vital role in feeding and fueling our nation. This bill provides a safety net for them in the event of uncontrollable natural disasters." 
   In addition, the supplemental bill includes approximately $70.9 billion for the War on Terror, $28.9 billion for hurricane disaster relief, $2.6 billion for the avian flu, $1.9 billion for border security and $648 million for port security. 
   "With over 2,600 Minnesota National Guard members deployed in Iraq or Afghanistan, I want to make certain that our servicemen and women have all the equipment and support they need to successfully carry out the mission and come home safely," said Coleman. "I am pleased this bill not only provides our troops with the funding they need to win the War on Terror, but also addresses the redevelopment efforts in the Gulf and the importance of strengthening our border security." 
   While Coleman supports allocating money for disaster relief and funding American troops, he expressed concerns about the overall size of the supplemental spending bill. 
   "Since arriving in Washington I have sought to uphold my promise to the people of Minnesota to pursue a philosophy of fiscal responsibility," Coleman said. "I support additional funding when it's allocated towards emergency purposes such as disaster relief and supporting the brave men and women fighting the War on Terror. However, I am concerned that some of this funding is for non-emergency purposes. If we're going to cut the deficit in half by 2009, we're going to have to scale back on this additional spending as we move forward."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 