SEN. COLEMAN HONORS ABDO FAMILY AS AN ANGEL IN ADOPTION
  Senator Norm Coleman today recognized Jim and Harriet Abdo as a 2007 Angel in Adoption for their bravery as they adopted their son, Jimmy in the midst of the war in Lebanon. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI), which sponsors the Angels in Adoption program, will honor the Abdos, along with more than 180 "Angels", at an awards ceremony and gala event tonight.  
   Jim and Harriet Abdo are being honored for the actions they took during the adoption of their son Jimmy. Harriet was in the mountains of Lebanon picking up their adoptive son when war broke out in the country. Harriett and Jimmy sought safety with relatives in a village situated on a mountain north of Beirut while Coleman's office worked with Children's Services at the State Department. Once given their paperwork, they drove out of the mountains and into Beirut where Coleman's office worked with the State Department in arranging a ship to take Harriett and Jimmy to Cyprus where they were able to fly back to the United States and reunite with their husband and father, Jim, in Minnesota. 
   "The resolve and bravery the Abdos demonstrated throughout their complicated and dangerous adoption process is reflective of the heart of the adoption system as a whole," said Coleman. "Although children in the system have often lived through tragedy and trauma, it is families like the Abdos who turn can heartbreak into happiness. As recognition of those who have proven their dedication and commitment to child welfare, the Abdos are perfect candidates to win Angels in Adoption." 
   "Our goal is to raise awareness of the millions of orphans and foster children in the United States and abroad that are in need of permanent, safe and loving homes, and we congratulate the Abdos for their in helping us to achieve this goal," said Deanna Carlson Stacy, CCAI's executive director. "Thanks to Senator Coleman, the Abdos will receive the recognition they deserve for their tireless effort in the mission of helping these children realize their basic right of a family." 
   The Angels in Adoption program is CCAI's signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of the U.S. Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. 
   The program was established in 1999 as a Congressional press conference to honor outstanding individuals. Since then, the program has developed into a yearlong public awareness campaign culminating in the award Gala and celebration in Washington, D.C on October 4, 2007. 
   CCAI was created in 2001 by the active co-chairs of the bicameral, bipartisan Congressional Coalition on Adoption (CCA) to more effectively raise Congressional and public awareness about the issue of adoption. Senator Coleman serves as a Co-Chair of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption which is Congress' largest bicameral, bipartisan caucus with over 211 Members. He also serves as a Congressional Director of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 