SEN. COLEMAN'S OFFICE TO CELEBRATE 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF HEAD START FOR MINNESOTA VALLEY ACTION COUNCIL
 Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that Gerald Woodley, regional representative for Coleman's Mankato Office, will be attending a series of open houses on the Senator's behalf in honor of the 40th anniversary for Minnesota Valley Action Council's Head Start programs. The anniversary will be celebrated in conjunction with the "Week of the Young Child" that takes place from April 4-8, 2005.  
   "Head Start programs provide an invaluable service of educating our young children at an early age in order to help our students reach their full potential," said Coleman. "I congratulate the Minnesota Valley Action Council for reaching this milestone." 
   "Head Start is a great program that benefits so many young children in our communities," said Woodley. "I am honored to participate in these celebrations that commemorate forty years of Head Start. Minnesota Valley Action Council has provided our youth and our state with a remarkable service, giving our young people the resources and support they need in order to succeed. " 
   The Head Start program in this region focuses on three areas: a student-based program; a parent's based program; and a home-based program. In recognition of the service each program provides, Woodley will attend one of each program-based operations during this week long celebration. 
   On Wednesday, April 6, Woodley will visit a student program operation at Jefferson Elementary in New Ulm at 9:30 a.m. and will later visit a parent program operation at St. Peter and Paul's Church in Mankato at 5:30 p.m. 
   On Friday, April 8, Woodley will visit a home-based program operation at the Faith United Methodist Church in Sleepy Eye at 10:15 a.m. 
   The Head Start program provides low-income families with children, up to five years old, with a comprehensive education that ranges from literacy programs to health education, works to inform parents on health and nutritional services, offers home-based instruction; and provides a number of referrals to families to ensure services remain easily accessible to participants.
 
 