SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $434,578 FOR MINNESOTA ANIMAL ID PROGRAM
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced $434,578 for the Minnesota Board of Animal Health for Minnesota's NAIS Implementation Project as part of the United State Department of Agriculture's (USDA) $11.64 million to advance the national animal identification system. The funds will be used to register premises and establish necessary data transfer procedures through a standardized system, as well as conduct field trials or research in order to test and fine-tune ID technologies and collect animal movement data. 
   The announcement comes in conjunction with the Administration's focus on promoting and preserving Minnesota's farm and agricultural resources as both President Bush and Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman make visits to Minnesota. Secretary Veneman will also appear today at Farm Fest in Redwood Falls, Minnesota.
   "I want to applaud the Bush Administration and Secretary Veneman for aggressively pursuing a national animal ID program to protect our national herd," said Coleman. "We have the safest, most abundant, most affordable food supply in the world, and my work, along with the efforts by Secretary Veneman and the Administration, will continue to be aimed at maintaining that high standard the world has come to expect. My key objectives in any national ID program are three fold: don't reinvent the wheel, don't add costs and regulatory burdens to our producers, and do protect producer privacy. Minnesota will benefit from these funds and the great strides our agricultural leaders are making."
   "The first phase of funding to states and tribes takes us closer to our goal of implementing a national identification system for all U.S. livestock and poultry animals," said Secretary Veneman. "These projects represent strong collaboration among state and tribal animal health officials, academia, producers and producer organizations."
   This round of funding is part of the President's fiscal year 2005 budget calls for $33 million for the NAIS. USDA will work with those states and tribes that are interested in implementing a premises identification system to help meet necessary criteria.
   Plans for state NAIS include collected intra- and interstate animal movement records electronically; integrating data collection technologies at livestock marketing facilities and processing plants; tracking livestock imported from other countries; and electronically collecting animal movement data as livestock are loaded on and off trucks and trailers at their ship-from and ship-to locations.
 
 