SEN. COLEMAN URGES INTERIOR SECRETARY TO FULLY FUND FOREST MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
Recognizing the importance of maintaining funding levels aimed at managing Minnesota's forests, Sen. Norm Coleman today sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Dick Kempthorne requesting that new forest management plans for the Lakes States region be fully funded through the President's fiscal year 2008 budget request. Currently, forest management plans are only funded at 50 percent of what is authorized. Senate delegations representing the three states in the region, Sens. Mark Dayton (D-MN), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Carl Levin (D-MI) and Herb Kohl (D-WI), also signed the letter.  
 "Minnesota's forests are an integral part of our state's economy and way of life, making it imperative that we have the necessary funding to maintain them at appropriate levels," said Coleman. "As it stands, Minnesota is sustaining its forests with half the amount of money that has been allocated. This is simply unacceptable. In order to prevent layoffs in the timber industry and keep the cost of wood low, we need to provide the U.S. Forest Service with the necessary funds that we already had agreed they deserve." 
 Forest products are a $6.9 billion industry in Minnesota that supports over 55,000 Minnesota jobs. Even though forest growth is at a record high and current harvest levels are 15 percent of total forest growth, Minnesota has lost a sizeable portion of the industry infrastructure that once existed because harvesting levels are well below what is authorized. As a result, the cost of wood in Minnesota has risen exponentially, making it the highest in the world. Additionally, Minnesota has to compete with foreign timber industries that receive generous subsidies and little or no environmental restrictions. These market conditions were contributing factors in the September announcement that Ainsworth Lumber Co. planned to lay off 300 Minnesotans. 
 "It is crucial to our industry that our Senators are working across the region on a bi-partisan basis to ensure that the Forest Service has the resources that they need to implement their plans," said Wayne Brandt, Executive Vice President of MN Timber Producers Association. "Managing our forests and protecting timber jobs is vital to northern Minnesota and we thank Senator Coleman for leading this effort." 
 "Adequately funding our forest management plans is just the first step in the process of reviving and maintaining our timber industry," Coleman said. "We need to explore ways to lower costs of raw materials, whether on county, state, federal or private lands to avoid future layoffs."
 Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 