SEN. COLEMAN WELCOMES HOMELAND SECURITY REEVALUATION OF TERROR FUNDING, FORMULA FOR ST. PAUL
  Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded the decision of the Department of Homeland Security to reevaluate its policy to categorize St. Paul separately from Minneapolis in assessing the threat of terrorism to the metro area and the awarding of Urban Areas Security Initiatives grants, restoring the city's access to significant funding to protect against terrorism and other security threats in the current fiscal year.  
   "I'm pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has reconsidered its short-sighted decision to deny critical federal homeland security funding to St. Paul and a large part of the metro region," Coleman said. "Minneapolis and St. Paul are called the 'Twin Cities' for a reason; they sit side by side and to suggest that one city is at greater risk than the other is, frankly, nonsense." 
   Coleman said the welcome news came in a letter from Admiral James Loy, Acting Secretary of Homeland Security, who notified Mayor of St. Paul, Randy Kelly, that the entire metro area will again be considered as a single geographic entity for the purposes of evaluating and funding homeland security needs. 
   "I commend St. Paul Mayor Randy Kelly for his effective leadership in working with federal authorities to restore these urban security funds to keep the metro area safe and more secure," Coleman said. "Today's good news is in large part due to his tireless efforts." 
   Coleman said the announcement clears the way for him to support the nomination of Judge Michael Chertoff to be Secretary of Homeland Security. This week at his confirmation hearing, Coleman pressed Chertoff over the security funding cuts, which affect Dakota and Ramsey Counties, as well as the city of St. Paul. He also expressed concerns over the lack of coordination between federal agencies in dealing with the threat. 
   "I can think of no one more qualified to lead the Department of Homeland Security in these challenging times than Judge Chertoff," Coleman said. "The fact he was introduced at his confirmation hearing by two Democrat senators from New Jersey indicates the level of respect and support he enjoys on a bipartisan basis. And I enthusiastically will join my colleagues in voting to confirm him."
 
 