U.S. ANNOUNCES ITS REFUSAL TO PARTICIPATE IN DURBAN II CONFERENCE IN RESPONSE TO SEN. COLEMAN LETTER
 In response to a letter sent by Senator Norm Coleman and 26 of his Senate colleagues last week to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, the State Department today announced that the United States will not participate in the follow up to the United Nations World Conference on Racism - known as the Durban Conference - which is scheduled for 2009. Though the Conference was supposed to address racism, the United States and Israel walked out of the first Durban Conference in 2001 prior to its conclusion when the anti-Semitic and anti-Israel activities at the Conference became intolerable. One of the main outcomes of the first Durban Conference was to suggest that Palestinians are victims of Israeli racism, thereby diminishing seriously the prospects of a peaceful solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict by casting it as a racism issue. Activities for the follow up conference, Durban II, are well underway and activities thus far indicate that Israel-bashing will continue to take center stage.  
   In the letter sent to Secretary Rice, Coleman and his colleagues urged the Secretary to make a policy announcement that the U.S. will not participate in the Durban II Conference. The Senators urged for this action because, as stated in the letter, the Durban Conference is yet another example of a seemingly noble UN agenda item being hijacked by member states to spew anti-Semitism. The Senators applauded the decision of the U.S. to vote against the UN's 2008-09 budget because it contained funding for Durban II. The Senator and his colleagues also pointed out to Secretary Rice that the Government of Canada announced on January 23rd that it will not attend Durban II so that it would not be associated with a Conference that only promotes hatred. 
   "I am pleased Secretary Rice listened to our concerns, because attending Durban II would legitimize the hateful propaganda it seeks to spread," said Coleman. "The first Durban Conference was nothing more than a platform for rogue nations to make anti-Semite declarations, demonize Israel and promote anti-democratic values under the guise of 'human rights.' Durban II promises to be just as much of a sham as the first Conference. Activities are well underway with the Executive Committee of the Preparatory Committee for Durban II is chaired by Libya, and one of its Vice-Chairman is Iran. Ironically, Iran has engaged in one of the most pernicious forms of racism - Holocaust-denial." 
   Importantly, the UN Human Rights Council, to which the U.S. has refused to seek membership, serves as the planning authority for the Durban Conference. Senator Coleman passed an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill which prohibited any funding from the U.S. from being used to support the UN Human Rights Council. The amendment was in response to the Council's sole focus on demonizing Israel at the expense of reviewing urgent human rights situations throughout the world. 
   Co-signers of the letter include: 
   Joseph Lieberman (I-CT), Jon Kyl (R-AZ), Wayne Allard (R-CO), Elizabeth Dole (R-SC), John Ensign (R-NV), David Vitter (R-LA), Jim Demint (R-SC), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Judd Gregg (R-NH), Gordon Smith (R-OR), John Cornyn (R-TX), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), John Thune (R-SD), Larry Craig (R-ID), Michael Enzi (R-WY), Kit Bond (R-MO), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Jim Bunning (R-KY), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Mel Martinez (R-FL), John Barrasso (R-WY), George Voinovich (R-OH).
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 