SEN. COLEMAN REACTS TO PRESIDENT'S FISCAL 2008 BUDGET PROPOSAL
 Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today made the following remarks in response to the President's budget proposal for the fiscal year of 08. 
   "Today the President sent Congress a blueprint to balance the budget in five years. I support the President's efforts to reach this goal by restraining spending and maintaining the pro-growth tax policies that have created over 7.4 million jobs since May 2003 and record tax revenues. Notably, I applaud the President's call to make the 2003 tax relief permanent. Doing so will prevent a major tax increase on Minnesota's hardworking families, teachers, seniors and small businesses. This budget also reaffirms the commitment to winning the Global War on Terror by providing our armed forces with a 10 percent increase in overall funding to ensure they have the resources they need for victory. 
   That said, there are aspects of the President's budget that raise some serious concerns for me. The budget puts programs that are critical to Minnesotans on the chopping block, such as the Commodity Supplemental Food Program that provides nutritional assistance to the poor and elderly. Once again, the Administration also is taking aim at the Community Development Block Grant program on which Minnesota's rural and urban cities depend to drive community and economic development.  
   At the end of the day, it is important to keep in mind that the President's budget request is just that-a request. It signals the beginning of the budget process, but ultimately it is up to the Congress to craft the details and I will work hard to protect Minnesota's priorities." 
   Healthcare 
   "I applaud the President's recognition that without significantly scaling back the growth of Medicare and Medicaid, these programs are in danger of being unavailable for future generations. However, I am concerned that so many of the Medicaid reforms are aimed at reducing state flexibility in using Medicaid and State Children's health insurance program funding. Minnesota has one of the lowest rates of uninsured residents and proposed new restrictions could have a devastating effect on our state's most vulnerable families. Additionally, the proposal eliminates the Preventative Health and Health Services Block Grant which is the primary source of flexible funding for a number of important national health objectives. Also zeroed out in the President's Budget are Rural Health Outreach Grants and Rural Health Flexibility Grants. It is vital that we do not tie the hands of States to provide critical healthcare services." 
   Agriculture 
   "Like the Administration's farm bill proposal, I am encouraged by some aspects of the budget, especially the investment in renewable fuels which includes $402 million for rural businesses and producers to develop and use renewable energy systems. However, I continue to have severe reservations about the idea of cutting commodity programs by $4.5 billion over 10 years, including cuts of $3.7 billion from the Counter-Cyclical Program and $4.5 billion from the Marketing Loan Program - cuts not offset by the proposed increases to the Direct Payment Program. As always, the most important analysis is going to come from Minnesota's farms. I want to hear from our farmers exactly how these proposals would affect them." 
   Education 
   "As a strong advocate of increasing the Pell Grant maximum award, I am pleased the President's budget would raise the Pell maximum award from $4,050 to $4,600 in 2008 and $5,400 over five years. Over 5 million students will benefit from this increase. I am also pleased to see that the President's budget increases funding for No Child Left Behind, and in the months ahead, I will continue to work with my colleagues to build additional flexibility into the program. 
   I am, however, extremely disappointed the President did not increase funding for Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). The current budget constraints on state and local governments make it difficult for school districts to pay for the shortfall. When this bill was enacted, the federal government promised to pay 40 percent of the costs, but currently only provides 19 percent. I will continue to fight for increased IDEA funding as the budget process continues."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 