SEN. COLEMAN SECURES COMMITMENT TO ADDRESS HMONG GRAVE DESECRATION
  Continuing his ongoing efforts to address the issue of Hmong grave desecration at Wat Tham Krabok in Thailand, Sen. Norm Coleman yesterday urged the U.S. Ambassador to Thailand, Ralph "Skip" Boyce, to find a solution that would allow the remaining bodies to be recovered in an honorable and timely fashion. Coleman, who initiated the call to Ambassador Boyce, was pleased to learn the Thai government's deadline to reclaim the bodies would be extended from the original deadline of July 2007 to December 2007. Ambassador Boyce also assured Coleman he is committed to working with the Hmong community to find a solution for the remaining bodies.  
   "Grave desecration at Wat Tham Krabok is a major concern for myself and many of my constituents," Coleman said. "We need to protect the dignity of those who have been buried and ensure the Thai government understands the very personal nature of this issue. I am very encouraged that Ambassador Boyce recognizes the importance of this issue going forward and I thank him for his support." 
   A large group of Hmong refugees had been living in the Wat Tham Krabok temple site in Thailand until their recent resettlement in the U.S. However, the Thai government has been in the process of exhuming bodies of deceased community members, citing health concerns. Today, 211 bodies remain at the site, and Sen. Coleman has worked with concerned parties to find a solution that honors, rather than desecrates, them. Along with today's call to Ambassador Boyce, Sen. Coleman previously signed a letter with the Minnesota Congressional delegation to Secretary Rice to urge an examination of the matter and to press Thai officials to take immediate actions to ensure that the graves are being handled with proper respect for Hmong funeral rites and rituals. A member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Coleman has been and will continue to be engaged in facilitating communication between the Hmong community in the U.S. and officials in Thailand. 
   Following his meeting, Sen. Coleman sent a letter to the National Hmong Desecration Committee updating them on his conversation with Ambassador Boyce. Text of the letter is attached.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 