SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS SURGING ECONOMY, CONTINUED SOLID JOB GROWTH
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today praised the latest jobs report released by the Department of Labor, citing pro-growth policies as the key to continuing the creation of jobs and sustaining the nation's low unemployment level. According to the most recent government figures, 138,000 jobs were created in the month of April and the economy has now added more than 5.2 million jobs since the President's pro-growth tax policies were enacted in May 2003. The unemployment rate remained at 4.7 percent - the lowest rate since July 2001 - and the U.S. economy has now experienced 32 consecutive months of job growth.  
   "The success of the U.S. economy over the past few years continues to get lost in the news headlines," Coleman said. "In the last 12 months, we have created close to 2 million new jobs. Republican pro-growth policies are undoubtedly fueling job creation and economic growth and I believe we can take pride in what we've accomplished and look with optimism towards the future. Despite rising energy prices, the job market continues to expand and wages are increasing. But we cannot rest until every American has economic security and the opportunity for a good-paying job." 
   According to the most recent government figures, Minnesota added 8,000 jobs in the month of March while the state's unemployment level was at 4.1 percent - better than the national average of 4.7 percent. Additionally, the nation's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased at an annual rate of 4.8 percent in the first quarter of 2006, making it the 18th consecutive quarter of growth. 
   "The pro-growth tax policies that were implemented by the President three years ago have fueled a resurgence in the economy and it's important that Congress extend these policies," Coleman said. "We still have a lot of work ahead of us, but Americans should feel good about where the economy is at, and where it is heading." 
   Coleman was also encouraged by recent figures that revealed wages in America increased by 0.5 percent - the highest wage increase since October 2005. Meanwhile, average hourly earnings increased by 3.8 percent (the best rate since August 2001) and average weekly earnings increased by 4.1 percent. Productivity continued to grow at a rate of 3.2 percent in first quarter 2006 and real compensation per hour increased at a 3.6 percent rate - 8.5 percent higher than the peak of the business cycle in early 2001.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 