SENS. COLEMAN, LEVIN INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO PREVENT FEDERAL CONTRACTS WITH KNOWN TAX CHEATS
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN), Chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, today introduced bipartisan legislation with ranking member Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI) that would require federal contractors to provide valid taxpayer identification numbers before they could be eligible to receive a federal contract. 
   The bill, co-sponsored by Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) and Senator Jack Reed (D-RI), establishes the Central Contractor Registry within the Department of Defense. As part of the registration process, individuals and companies will be required to provide a taxpayer identification number and their consent to validate that number with the Internal Revenue Service and to provide their correct number if possible. In the past, the Department of Defense has not been able to comprehensively check the validity of the taxpayer identification numbers that all contractors provided.
   "For too long tax cheats at the Department of Defense have used fake taxpayer identification numbers that could not be verified. That day is past. This legislation would close a $3 billion loophole," said Coleman.
   "Allowing tax cheats to bid on DOD contracts is a disservice to the military men and women who put their lives on the line for us every day and to the honest companies that pay their taxes," said Levin. "This legislation will cut through some of the bureaucratic red tape that makes it hard to identify the DOD contractors with unpaid taxes."
   In a February 12th hearing before the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations representatives from the General Accounting Office reported that there are more than 27,000 contractors at the Department of Defense who owe more than $3 billion in unpaid taxes. In addition, more than 26,000 information returns that the Department of Defense sent to the Internal Revenue Service could not be used to determine contractors' tax liability because the returns had invalid taxpayer identification numbers.
   There were numerous DOD contractors who were cheating on their taxes. One individual who owned a base support and custodial service borrowed over $1 million from his business. His company owes nearly $10 million in unpaid taxes and was paid over $40 million in DOD contract payments in one year. He bought several cars, a boat and a home in the Caribbean. In 2003 he dissolved his company and fled to the Caribbean where he is living today. In another case, an individual business that performs repair services on military vehicles owes over $500,000 in business and individual taxes. This contractor has contracts with DOD that are worth over $60 million and recently received an annual payment of over $100,000. In both of these cases no money was withheld from the contractors' payments to pay their unpaid taxes.
   By requiring contractors to provide valid taxpayer identification numbers the government will be able to levy a portion of contractors' payments, accurately report their income to the Internal Revenue Service, impose backup withholding if required, and deny contracts to contractors who do not provide valid taxpayer identification numbers. The senators will attempt to include the bill provisions in the defense authorization bill being marked up this week in the Senate Armed Services Committee.
   "This legislation will promote federal agency cooperation that is a prerequisite to rewarding responsible individuals and companies with federal contracts and cracking down on tax cheats," Coleman concluded.
 
 