SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $185 MILLION FOR MINNESOTA IN NEW MARKETS TAX CREDIT ALLOCATION
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that Midwest Minnesota Community Development Corporation in Detroit Lakes and National New Markets Tax Credit Fund, Inc., a Community Reinvestment Fund affiliate, in Minneapolis have been authorized to seek investment through the federal New Markets Tax Credit Program, which permits taxpayers to receive a credit against federal income taxes for making qualified equity investments in designated Community Development Entities (CDEs). All of the qualified equity investments must in turn be used by the CDE to provide investments in low-income communities. Both of these Minnesota organizations are CDEs, which means their investors can receive a credit against their federal income taxes. National New Markets Tax Credit Fund has been authorized to raise up to $150 million under this program and Midwest Minnesota Community Development Corporation can raise $35 million in investment.  
   "These allocations represent public private partnership in action," Coleman said. "These are two great Minnesota organizations that will now be able to make substantial investment in low income areas in Minnesota and help revitalize the economy and grow jobs there. At the same time, this program fosters a greater spirit of community and giving in Minnesota by providing a financial incentive for taxpayers to get involved with these organizations." 
   "I am extremely pleased to work with CDFI Fund in implementing important programs for low income areas," said Dr. Arlen Kangas, President of Midwest Minnesota Community Development Corporation. 
   "We are absolutely thrilled to receive a second round allocation," stated Frank Altman, Community Reinvestment Fund president and CEO. "After receiving our first round allocation of $162.5 million we enhanced our infrastructure to support effective program implementation. We hired additional staff, consultants, established lending partnerships and a complex partnership between several affiliates and acquired both equity and credit investors. This second round increases our total allocation to more than $300 million which allows us to serve Minnesota and areas around the country encompassed by nearly 70 lenders." 
   The Midwest Minnesota Community Development Corporation plans to the $35 million in raised capital to expand its lending and investing programs - which will allow qualified low-income community businesses to get better interest rates. The grant will help Midwest Minnesota CDC reach out to low-income communities, by providing them with a source of capital to develop business and improve local economies. 
   The National New Markets Tax Credit Fund will use the $150 million to buy loans at below-market rates, or with more flexible terms, and begin and buy loans ranging from $25,000 to $2,000,000. The grant will help National NMTC purchase more loans and serve a wider range of lending partners throughout the country. It will also provide the lending partners with loans tailored to each local group's mission. 
   Both grants are part of the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund. The CDFI Fund supports economic growth and development in low-income communities throughout America by investing in financial intermediaries whose primary focus is community revitalization.
 
 