SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF SEX OFFENDER REGISTRY LEGISLATION
  Sen. Norm Coleman joined his colleagues in the Senate this week in unanimously passing legislation aimed at strengthening sex offender laws. The Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (S. 1086), cosponsored by Coleman, will require sex offenders to register in person, versus mailing in a letter. Additionally, states will be given grant money to tag sex offenders with tracking devices. The bill also includes provisions from Dru's Law (S. 792) which enables states to offer citizens a searchable, statewide sex offender registry that interacts with all other 50 states to provide seamless registration and notification across the country. Under current law, each state maintains its own separate registry of sex offenders - and those registries are limited to offenders who reside in that state.  
   "No child should ever be at risk of being victimized by a sexual predator - let alone a repeat offender," said Coleman. "I am greatly concerned about loopholes in the system that allow sex offenders to go undetected when crossing state lines. This legislation will remove the cloak that offenders have been using to shield themselves by combining all 50 state registries of sex offenders into one national database that the public can access online. Moreover, it provides additional funding for tracking devices to locate sex offenders. I am pleased each and every one of my colleagues in the Senate recognizes the importance of the bill, and I continue working to ensure it reaches the President's desk." 
   In 2003, Dru Sjodin, of Pequot Lakes, Minnesota, was tragically abducted allegedly by a released sex offender who had been rated as having a "high risk" for reoffending. Although Alfonso Rodriguez was on a Minnesota registry as a sex offender, he chose to live in a small Minnesota town close to the North Dakota border. Dru was attending the University of North Dakota when she was kidnapped, but North Dakota does not keep track of Minnesota's sex offenders. 
   "Dru's case should not be forgotten. We must employ all measures at our disposal to make sure that it never happens again, and I am confident this bill takes us one step forward in that direction," Coleman added.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 