SEN. COLEMAN RAISES CONCERNS OVER GUATEMALAN ADOPTIONS, ADVISES CONSTITUENTS OF CHANGES TO ADOPTION PROCESS
  In light of changes to the process for completing international adoptions in Guatemala, Senator Norm Coleman is advising U.S. residents of a State Department message cautioning against pursuing new adoptions in Guatemala until uncertainties are resolved. Coleman, who serves as a Co-Chair of the Congressional Coalition on Adoptions, also signed on to letters this week to the U.S. Ambassador to Guatemala and the President of Guatemala seeking clarification and resolution regarding Guatemala's implementation of new adoption requirements - as part of the Hague Adoption Convention - on January 1st, 2008.  
   "The changes to adoptions in Guatemala could negatively affect the ability of U.S. citizens to adopt from the country," Coleman said. "My office has been working with Minnesotans on international adoptions from Guatemala for a number of years now, and I have serious concerns about what Guatemala's Hague accession will mean for U.S. families - not only for new adoptions, but also adoptions already in progress. It is important that the State Department and the government of Guatemala work expeditiously to clarify the path forward and resolve any current obstacles. Families that have not yet begun the adoption process should be advised that the State Department has cautioned against initiating a new adoption from Guatemala until more clarity is found with regard to their intentions related to the Hague Convention." 
   Earlier this week, Sen. Coleman set a letter to U.S. Ambassador to Guatemala, James Derham, asking for his assistance obtaining clarification from the Guatemalan government about the impact that the implementation of the Hague Convention will have on existing cases. Additionally, Sen. Coleman joined several of his colleagues from the Congressional Coalition on Adoption on a letter on this matter to be sent directly to Guatemalan President Oscar Berger Perdomo, urging his assistance to resolve this issue. 
   Guatemala has stated that it will become a Hague Convention country on January 1, 2008 and the Government of Guatemala has informed the State Department that they will not process adoption cases that do not meet Hague standards after December 31, 2007. They have also stated they will not process adoptions for non-Hague member countries after December 31. This could result in Guatemala halting the processing of adoptions to the United States beginning January 1, 2008, until U.S. accession to the Hague Convention takes effect. The U.S. has not yet ratified the Hague Convention but may do so in the next year. 
   The Department of State is recommending that prospective adoptive parents defer plans to begin an adoption in Guatemala until the legal and procedural issues described above have been resolved. For more information, please visit: http://www.travel.state.gov/family/adoption/intercountry/intercountry_3825.html. 
   During his time in office, Senator Coleman has been recognized as a leader in international adoptions, helping nearly 400 families complete adoptions of international children, many of them from Guatemala.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 