SEN. COLEMAN: ECONOMY REMAINS STRONG WITH SOLID JOB, ECONOMIC GROWTH
  Sen. Norm Coleman praised today's Labor Department jobs report showing continued solid job growth and strong wage gains in August. For the month of August, 128,000 jobs were created nationwide. Payrolls have now increased for 36 straight months. During these three years, more than 5.7 million jobs have been created and during the past year the economy has added 1.7 million new jobs. Moreover, the August unemployment rate fell to 4.7 percent from 4.8 percent. The current unemployment rate of 4.7 percent is below the average unemployment rate of each of the past three decades. Meanwhile, wage gains continued to be solid with average hourly earnings up by 3.9 percent over the year and average weekly earnings up by 4.2 percent.  
   Also, earlier this week, the Commerce Department announced that second quarter real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased at a 2.9 percent annual rate as opposed to the initial report of a 2.5 percent increase. GDP growth has now averaged over 3.7 percent since pro-growth tax policies were enacted in 2003. This is in stark contrast to the 1.1 percent average growth between 2001 and the second quarter of 2003. 
   "These economic figures serve as strong proof of the strength and resiliency of our economy," said Coleman. "Our economy remains fundamentally sound despite challenges from a slowing housing market, high energy prices and heightened geopolitical tensions. Over the first half of this year, our economy grew at a strong 4.2 percent annual rate, better than any other major industrialized country. As we move forward, we need to stay true to the pro-growth policies that have not only enabled the economy to recover as it has in the past three years but to successfully weather significant challenges during this same time." 
   During the month of July, 11,600 jobs were created in Minnesota, equaling ten percent of the U.S. jobs gains for that month. More impressively over the year 79,250 jobs have been created in the state. 
   "I am particularly pleased at the impressive jobs performance in Minnesota and prospects for future jobs gains in the state," Coleman added.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 