SEN. COLEMAN TRAVELS TO IRAQ TO ASSESS SITUATION ON GROUND
  To assess firsthand the situation on the ground and determine why more political progress has not been made toward reconciliation, Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman traveled to Iraq this weekend where he met with military and government officials including: General David Petraeus, Ambassador Ryan Crocker, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh, and Vice President Adel Abdul-Mehdi. Coleman traveled to the cities of Baghdad, Fallujah, and Ramadi where U.S. military officials indicated that al-Qaeda is losing it's stronghold in Anbar Province as a result of the surge in U.S. military forces in the area. According to officials, earlier this year the city of Ramadi was averaging over 100 incidents per day between indirect fire, mortar, and IED attacks. Today, that number has drasticly decreased to an average of less than one per day. While in Ramadi, Coleman met with the Mayor, Latif Obaid Ayadah, who noted that eight months ago the city was a ghost town with people prisoners in their own homes. Today, two of the largest factories in the town that employ nearly 5,000 people have come back on line.  
   "During my fourth visit to Iraq, I was able to meet with top military and political officials to get a firsthand account of the results of the surge strategy. When the surge was first announced by the Administration in January, we were told that its purpose was to provide the conditions necessary for the Iraqi government to further the political reconciliation process. Our military has succeeded in providing the security needed by Iraqi politicians to advance the national reconciliation agenda. General Petraeus shared data that showed that since January the number of roadside bombings and sectarian killings has dramatically decreased throughout Iraq. Moreover, al-Qaeda has lost its stronghold and influence with the local Sunni population in Anbar Province, something I saw firsthand on the streets of Ramadi," said Coleman. 
   Despite the military successes of the U.S.'s current strategy, the political strategy for stabilizing Iraq has not moved forward due to the deficiencies of Iraqi leadership. The Iraqi government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, has failed to meet all but three of eighteen congressionally mandated benchmarks for political and security progress, which includes passage of a national oil revenue-sharing law. Yet it is a widely held consensus that U.S. military successes in Iraq can only be sustained over the long term through political reconciliation among Iraq's competing groups, a process that can only be led by the Iraqis themselves. 
   "The Iraqi government's inability to meet specific benchmarks for success is inexcusable as more Americans continue to make the ultimate sacrifice in this far away land. I made it clear to Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh and Vice President Adel Abdul-Mehdi that this situation must drastically and definitively change, as the support of the American people is not open ended. I will continue to push Prime Minister Maliki's government to achieve these necessary objectives in a timely manner. As a result of my consultations in Iraq, I believe we should take the step of making an initial troop reduction by Christmas, as proposed by Senator Warner, in order to send an unmistakable message to Iraqi leadership that they must immediately accelerate the process of national reconciliation. Importantly, I support these troop reductions as they would only be from areas where the Iraqi Security Forces are prepared to take control, and according to our Generals on the ground would not undermine our overall military strategy in Iraq." Coleman added. "The reality is that our national security interests demand that we have a long term presence in the region - a fact both sides of the aisle recognize. However, going forward, we must implement a surge of diplomacy and obtain a commitment from Iraq's neighbors and the United Nations to ensure a constructive future for this fledgling government and its people."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 