SEN. COLEMAN CHAIRS NOMINATION HEARING FOR MINNESOTAN NAMED TO HEAD PEACE CORPS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today chaired a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on the nomination of Minnesotan Ronald Tschetter to serve as the U.S. Director of the Peace Corps. Tschetter was nominated by the President to succeed Gaddi Vasquez as the 17th Peace Corps Director. Tschetter's nomination will next be voted on by the full committee before heading to the Senate floor for consideration.  
   "I am pleased the Committee had the opportunity to consider the nomination of such an outstanding individual," said Coleman. "Mr. Tschetter has a perspective and vision for the Peace Corps that was uniquely formulated by his own experience as a former Peace Corps Volunteer in India. Most importantly, he placed a great emphasis on addressing volunteer safety and security concerns. His commitment to the organization makes him an excellent choice for this important post and I look forward to casting my vote in favor of his nomination." 
   Tschetter currently serves as President of D.A. Davidson & Co., the largest full-service investment firm based in the Northwest. If confirmed, Tschetter would be overseeing an agency with 7,810 volunteers and trainees serving in 75 countries. He is a former Chairman of the National Peace Corps Association and former Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Bethel University in St. Paul, Minnesota - where he received bachelor degrees in psychology and social studies. He has also served as Director for the Community Bank of Plymouth, Minnesota. 
   The primary goal of the Peace Corps is to empower countries around the world through activities that train and educate their people in areas critical for development. Peace Corps volunteers generally make a 27 month commitment to serve overseas typically in underdeveloped or rural areas in need of many modern necessities such as sanitation, transportation, and electricity. The Peace Corps sends volunteers to serve as teachers, business advisors, information technology consultants, agricultural workers and HIV/AIDS educators. Today, Peace Corps volunteers are even helping to implement President Bush's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. 
   Since 1961, over 170,000 Americans have volunteered their expertise, time, and energy to foster development and progress in 136 countries. In Minnesota, over 5,000 state residents have served as volunteers. 
   "There is no greater symbol of America's generosity than American volunteers living and working in partnership with the people of developing nations to encourage education and opportunity," Coleman added.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 