SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $1.9 MILLION GRANT FOR NORTHSTAR RAIL
  Senator Norm Coleman today announced the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded the Northstar Corridor Rail Project a $1.9 million grant, which will be used to fund right of way acquisition and construction for the project.  
   "This grant represents another key step in the completion of this critical project," said Coleman. "When finished, Northstar will ease traffic congestion in the north metro area, reduce consumption of oil and gasoline, and have a positive impact on our environment. Additionally, it represents one of the most readily available alternatives to ease the added congestion and delays that have been caused by the collapse of the 35W bridge. The Department of Transportation's continued commitment to this project is important for Minnesota, and I thank them for awarding this grant." 
   "This is great news," said Dan Erhart, chair of the Northstar Corridor Development Authority. "With needed funds for construction and right of way acquisition, we're closer to having Minnesota's first commuter rail line in operations in late 2009." 
   The Northstar rail line is a $320 million project that will run from downtown Minneapolis up through the northwest suburbs to Big Lake. The 40-mile, commuter rail line system will have six stations in Hennepin, Anoka and Sherburne Counties. It will have the capacity to give more than 2 million rides each year. 
   Coleman and Senator Amy Klobuchar recently sent a letter to Transportation Secretary Mary Peters and the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Administrator, James Simpson urging them to continue their efforts to help Minnesota recover from the collapse of the I-35W bridge by immediately recommending the Northstar Commuter Rail Corridor for a Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA). 
   On August 30th Coleman announced the U.S. Department of Transportation had granted $4.9 million in additional funding for the Northstar Corridor Rail Project to be used to finance final design activities for the corridor. Specifically, that funding will help Minnesota meet the requirements needed to gain a Full Funding Grant Agreement, perform final designs, prepare bid packages and cover additional administrative and project management costs.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 