SEN. COLEMAN FARM DISASTER AID BILL PASSES SENATE PANEL AS PART OF LARGER PACKAGE
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that the Emergency Agriculture Disaster Assistance Act was adopted yesterday in a unanimous Appropriations Committee vote as part of a larger supplemental bill. The legislation, sponsored by Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and coauthored by Senator Coleman, is aimed specifically at protecting those affected in the wake of a natural disaster, and will provide emergency funding to farmers and ranchers who have suffered weather-related crop production shortfalls, disease, and high energy prices caused by the Gulf Coast hurricanes.  
   "Northwest Minnesota is no stranger to the devastation national disasters and floods have inflicted on our farmers and communities," said Coleman. "As we watch flooding once again impact the area, I am committed to do whatever it takes to help these communities, farmers, and their families area leaders get back on their feet as soon as possible. Minnesota farms play a vital role in feeding and fueling our nation, and I'm pleased that this important legislation I have introduced with Sen. Conrad has cleared another hurdle in Congress. I know how important it is to provide a safety net to those who need emergency funding the most. This Disaster Aid bill will provide the necessary resources and protection our farmers need to recover from last year's losses caused by forces outside their control, even as we begin to assess the needs caused by the recent flooding." 
   The Emergency Agriculture Disaster Assistance Act will also help farmers overcome losses as a result of energy prices that spiked following last year's hurricanes. Energy-related farm expenses rose by more than $6 billion last year compared to 2004. Unlike other industries, farmers and ranchers are largely unable to pass on these costs to consumers, meaning those higher energy costs directly impact farm income. 
   The total cost of the aid package is about $4 billion and the supplemental bill will require a vote by the full Senate. Currently the legislation has 27 cosponsors.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 