SENS. COLEMAN, HARKIN INTRODUCE NATIONAL HEALTH LITERACY ACT
  In an effort to address the negative impact that low health literacy has on both individual health and overall healthcare costs, Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Tom Harkin (D-IA) today introduced the National Health Literacy Act, legislation aimed at expanding consumers' ability to obtain, process and disseminate essential healthcare information. Millions of Americans lack the basic health literacy skills necessary to make good, informed health decisions for themselves and their families. This is particularly important for the Medicare and Medicaid populations, since data has shown that low health literacy rates disproportionately affect low-income and elderly Americans. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) are co-sponsors of this measure.  
   "In our ever changing and extremely complex health care system, it is critical that all Americans have the skills to make informed decisions about their treatment options. Despite this need, health literacy has been an afterthought in the larger healthcare debate," said Coleman. "Consumers must have the ability to make knowledgeable choices about their healthcare options, as low health literacy impacts everything from access to quality affordable care to misinterpretation of doctor's orders - all of which negatively affect patients and drive up overall costs. Our bill will help alleviate this costly problem by expanding the consumer's ability to obtain and understand health care information and services." 
   "Hard working Americans deserve to see their health care needs met but instead they are led to maneuver a confusing bureaucratic health care system. Poor health literacy leads to medical errors, lower quality of care and the loss of billions dollars each year," said Harkin. "Our bill works to fix that by ensuring that the 90 million Americans needing assistance be empowered to make better health care decisions by expanding access to basic health care information." 
   "Health literacy is a critical issue for many Americans, especially older Americans," noted Collins. "This legislation is an important step toward ensuring that everyone has the knowledge and information they need to make the best decisions for their health." 
   "This legislation is about giving consumers easy access to vital information to make informed decisions - informed consumers are healthy consumers," said Klobuchar. 
   Specifically, the Coleman-Harkin bill would create a Health Literacy Implementation Center that would gather and disseminate resources and best practices, sponsor demonstration projects, coordinate research, assist other federal agencies, and set national health literacy strategies and goals - all of which will be aimed at increasing healthcare knowledge and understanding among healthcare consumers. Additionally, it would establish state-based health literacy resource centers to identify and understand health literacy challenges in the applicable state or region, coordinate public and private efforts to deliver health literacy services, and provide technical and policy assistance to state and local governments. 
   "Understanding basic health information will affect every patient in the United States during their lifetime. This bill will provide critical funding to expand health literacy research and the development of patient-centered resources," William B. Applegate, MD, MPH, FACP, Chair, American College of Physicians Foundation Board of Trustees 
   "Health literacy skills are critical to being an effective health care consumer. Health literacy can save money by avoiding unnecessary health expenditures and can also improve response to health care needs. The proposed legislation would provide resources needed to improve understanding of basic health care information," Ron Pollack, Executive Director, FamiliesUSA 
   In addition to improving patient-safety and the overall quality of care, the National Health Literacy Act will help address additional healthcare concerns, such as affordable coverage, maintaining access to coverage and ensuring that the price of health insurance does not continue to limit 47 million Americans from receiving care. 
   The Coleman-Harkin bill has also received the support or endorsement of the following organizations: AARP, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, America's Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), National Health Council, FamiliesUSA, Institute of Medicine (IOM) Roundtable on Health Literacy, American Medical Association (AMA), Institute for Healthcare Advancement (IHA), UCLA/Johnson & Johnson Health Care Institute, American College of Physicians Foundation, American College of Physicians, and the American Physical Therapy Association. 
   "Consumers need easy-to-understand information in order to take a more active roll in improving their health. AARP believes that Sen. Coleman's bipartisan legislation to create national and local health literacy centers is a very good step towards improving health outcomes for all Americans." 
  Michelle Kimball, AARP Minnesota State Director 
   "Health Literacy Month was just celebrated in October, so it was very timely that we should see this bipartisan legislation. In the United States, health literacy rates are extremely low, with research indicating that more than half of all adults have difficulty understanding medical terms, treatment and care options, and even medication instructions. The bill proposed by Senators Coleman and Harkin will help to ensure Americans are more knowledgeable about their health care - and thus lower costs by systematically reducing unnecessary medical services." 
  Myrl Weinberg, President of National Health Council 
   "We know that 90 million Americans have inadequate health literacy. Low health literacy leads to delayed diagnosis, poorer physical and mental health and increased risk of death. The establishment of implementation resource centers at AHRQ and in the states fills an important need for practical tools that health care organizations across the country can use to address this critical issue," George Isham, Medical Director and Chief Health Officer, HealthPartners, and current Chair of the IOM Roundtable on Health Literacy 
   "The American College of Physicians (ACP) believes the "National Health Literacy Act" is an important step to provide the public with the tools needed to make informed decisions about health care, improve the quality of care, and stem rising health care costs," ACP President David C. Dale, MD, FACP 
   "This bill brings much needed federal attention to advancing a national agenda to address an issue that has been called a "silent epidemic". Health literacy is the currency needed to successfully function in our health system, and about half the adults in our country cannot understand the information they need for health and health care," Ruth Parker M.D., Emory University School of Medicine 
   "About ninety million people in the U.S. have limited health literacy skills, which can have serious consequences for their own health and that of their loved ones. The American Medical Association was the first national medical organization to adopt policy recognizing that limited patient literacy affects medical diagnosis and treatment. The National Health Literacy Act of 2007 is intended to ensure that all Americans have basic health literacy skills to function effectively as patients and health care consumers, and, as drafted, is consistent with AMA policy. The AMA commends Senator Coleman and Senator Harkin for their leadership in sponsoring this important piece of legislation, and looks forward to working with them to advance this issue" Peter Carmel, M.D., AMA Board Member.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 