SEN. COLEMAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON IRAQ STUDY GROUP REPORT
STATEMENT FROM SENATOR NORM COLEMAN ON THE IRAQ STUDY GROUP REPORT:
 I appreciate the long hours and hard work that the members of the Iraq Study Group have dedicated to their task. The group has given us an insightful document, and their recommendations promise to foster a national dialogue about our strategy for achieving success in Iraq.  
 Our current strategy in Iraq is not working, and it is time to recommit ourselves to the mission by charting a new course - a course that embraces a fresh perspective and emphasizes success rather than defeat. 
 There are few moments in the history of man where so much has been at stake. Our battle against terrorism and radical Islam is the calling of our generation, and Iraq is the proving ground for our commitment to this calling. If we succeed, we will have helped usher in a new era in the Middle East. If we fail, it will be decades - possibly centuries - before the world can recover. Our nation will be less secure at home and the promise of an entire region will be long deferred. 
 While I agree with many of the study group's conclusions, there are others that give me serious pause. I agree that the Iraqi Security Forces must assume responsibility for quelling the insurgent violence. I also agree that we must accelerate the transition of U.S. forces from a combat role to a support function. These recommendations reflect my long-standing belief that American troop withdrawal must coincide with the fulfillment of appropriate benchmarks, not arbitrary deadlines. 
 I am skeptical, however, of the report's assertion that direct dialogue with Iran and Syria would be productive or wise. Both of these countries have actively supported the insurgency in Iraq, and each would likely demand an untenable trade-off in exchange for their participation. Syria would likely demand that it be allowed to reoccupy Lebanon. Iran would use this opportunity to gain acceptance and approval of its nuclear program. These demands are the inevitable result of direct engagement, and the harm of accepting these conditions greatly outweighs the benefits of either country's participation. We should never fear to engage in discussion; but neither should we fear to demand that our discussion partners step back from the support of terrorism and insurgency. 
 The study group is one voice in a conversation of many. Its bipartisan character demands that its recommendations be listened to and seriously considered. I intend to look closely at its recommendations and, where appropriate, apply its thinking. But this is an on-going discussion and there are other voices those of us in Congress must heed before we act. In the coming weeks, I will to work with my colleagues to ensure these viewpoints are considered as our nation works to develop a successful and cohesive strategy for success in Iraq.
 Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 