SEN. COLEMAN TO HOST ANNUAL 'HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS' ADOPTION PARTY ON DEC. 8TH
  U.S. Senator Norm Coleman will host his fifth-annual "Home for the Holidays" party for Minnesota families he has assisted with the process of international adoptions this Saturday, December 8th at the Parkview Ballroom in downtown St. Paul. Coleman, who co-chairs the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, hosts the get-together each December to reunite with folks from the nearly 400 families his office has assisted since 2003. 
   Coleman recently returned from a Thanksgiving weekend trip to Guatemala, where he received assurances from Guatemalan officials that Minnesotans and other families in the process of adopting from the country will not be affected by pending changes in the adoption process between Guatemala and the United States.  
   "Every year, my staff and I have the privilege of helping loving families unite with children in need of a home, and the chance to reunite with these families during the holiday season is a one of my favorite parts of being a senator," Coleman said. "This year's party takes on an a special meaning following the recent commitment from Guatemalan leaders that families currently in the process of adopting from the country will not be left out in the cold. Clearly, we have much to celebrate and I cannot wait to reunite with many of these families this weekend." 
   Nearly 100 people from over 20 families are expected to attend Saturday's event, including Tracy and Michael McGarry, who adopted a son from Guatemala in 2006 and are in the process of adopting their second son from the country. Sen. Coleman's office assisted the McGarrys with their first adoption and is working to ensure they are able to complete their current adoption as well. 
   "We are in the process of adopting our second son from Guatemala," said Michael McGarry. "With all of the recent changes the Guatemalan government is undergoing, our fear is the process to bring our son home could take years rather than months. We are now working with Senator Coleman's office to help us get pre-approval from the U.S. Embassy. Our son is three months old today and we desperately want to bring him home to his forever family as quickly as possible." 
   Another family planning to attend Saturday's event are Deborah Manning and Marc Thompson, who were near completion in the process of adopting their son from China early this year, when the length of the process resulted in some of their documents expiring just before the couple was set to travel to China to bring him home. They contacted Sen. Coleman's office, who contacted the government agency processing the papers and was ultimately successful in getting the couple's approval updated and re-issued in time for the couple to travel on time. 
   "My wife and I would like to thank Senator Coleman and his staff for the help they provided us when we adopted our son," said Marc Thompson. "Things seemed completely out of control to us; at one point we over-nighted a requested batch of documents to USCIS, only to have them returned the next day because one form was missing. Of course, the missing form was already at USCIS and we were sending the other documents at their request. This is when we contacted the Senator's office. We talked to one of the Senator's case workers on January 24, and she then contacted USCIS. Our paperwork was approved the next day. We traveled to China on January 30th, and we have been a very happy family since February." 
   Senator Coleman's office has assisted over 50 families with the adoption of 62 children so far during 2007.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 