FUTURE USDA UNDERSECRETARY MAKES COMMITMENT TO SEN. COLEMAN TO ENFORCE CURRENT U.S. SUGAR POLICY
At his confirmation hearing today to be Undersecretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, Dr. Mark Keenum was pressed by Sen. Norm Coleman about USDA's July 27th agreement with Mexico that coincided with a plummet in U.S. sugar prices. Concerned this new agreement will violate the written pledge made to Coleman in June, 2005 by Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns not to undermine the no-net-cost operation of the sugar program, the Minnesota senator asked for Keenum's commitment to restore balance to the U.S. sugar market and eliminate the threat of sugar loan forfeitures.  
 "Minnesota's sugar farmers were dealt a terrible blow by USDA on July 27th by the U.S. - Mexico sweetener agreement that has already cost farmers millions of dollars. I'm encouraged that Dr. Keenum was willing to acknowledge USDA used numbers that have contributed to our current state of affairs that threatens the no-net-cost of the U.S. sugar program. I'm very pleased Dr. Keenum has committed to enforce our current sugar policy as statute requires, at no-net-cost to the taxpayer." said Coleman. "The current sugar program has delivered stability for sugar farmers in Minnesota and across the nation." 
 Keenum, who if confirmed will oversee domestic sugar policy at USDA, responded to several questions from Senator Coleman regarding USDA oversight and enforcement of sugar policy during the hearing. Specifically, Coleman raised concerns over USDA actions in July that promised Mexico generous and unwarranted additional access to the U.S. sugar market, while failing to knock down barriers for U.S. sugar growers who want to export to Mexico, a country that is a net importer of sugar. 
 "Dr. Keenum didn't create this mess, but I'm pleased to hear he is willing to help clean it up. He is a man of impeccable credentials, and I will support his confirmation to Undersecretary of Farm and Foreign Agriculture Services at USDA," Coleman added.
 Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 