SEN. COLEMAN VISITS UNITED NATIONS TO FOSTER REFORM DIALOGUE
  Following up on his investigation into the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program and resulting legislation on U.N. reform, Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) on Monday joined colleagues on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in evaluating progress on reform at the world body in New York. Coleman met with U.N. Ambassador John Bolton, Under-Secretary-General for Management Christopher Burnham, and the President of the General Assembly, Mr. Jan Eliasson, to discuss proposed management reform. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar (R-IN) addressed the U.N. Security Council. Among various other topics, the Senators discussed efforts to improve UN oversight and transparency. Senator George Voinovich (R-OH) also took part in the delegation.  
   "Our trip provided us with an excellent opportunity take the U.N.'s temperature on reform," said Coleman. "If the U.N. is to reassert itself as a credible and effective institution, it must undergo a dramatic reform agenda such as that outlined in my U.N. legislation. For almost two years, my subcommittee and the Volker commission have led exhaustive investigations that exposed gross mismanagement of the Oil-for-Food program, including the extensive bribes, kickbacks and fraud that took place under U.N. auspices. My worry is that member states of the U.N. have not recognized the urgency of the need for reform, and this has stalled the pursuit of a substantive reform agenda. These member states must understand that American taxpayers may not want to keep footing the majority of the bill for the U.N. when it has consistently failed to prove its ability to manage resources in a transparent and effective way." 
   The senators stressed the importance of negotiations to replace the current Human Rights Commission, whose membership includes many of the world's worst human right violators, with a new, more credible body. Progress on this critical reform has been stalled due to concerns about its composition and structure. 
   "The new Human Rights Council must represent a meaningful change from its discredited predecessor," said Coleman. "We cannot let the same problems that undermined the Human Rights Commission be perpetrated in this new body." 
   As the U.N. prepared to vote on its biennial budget in December, Senator Coleman led ten senators in sending a letter to Ambassador Bolton urging him to oppose the two-year U.N. budget unless it could be amended to reflect the enactment of needed reforms. Ambassador Bolton was ultimately able to reach a compromise with other member states whereby the budget was passed for six months, when an assessment of progress on management reforms can be made. 
   "My letter to Ambassador Bolton was an effort to rally support for ensuring that the U.N.'s budget reflect the urgency of reform," said Coleman. "My fear was that the U.N. would enact a budget that locked in the status quo for another two years. I am pleased that the budget agreed to in December will be modified to reflect needed reforms." 
   In an effort to restore the U.N.'s credibility and efficacy, Senators Coleman and Lugar (R-IN) introduced the United Nations Management, Personnel, and Policy Reform Act of 2005 (S. 1383) last July, which is aimed at bringing greater transparency, accountability, and oversight to the U.N. The Coleman-Lugar Bill includes the following provisions: 
   * A Management Section that will strengthen the power of the Secretary-General to replace top officials in the U.N. Secretariat and recruit only the highest quality individuals. The Bill also creates a Management Performance Board to ensure that U.N. officials are held accountable for their actions and results. The establishment of a Chief Operating Officer is also intended to improve the efficiency of the operations of the U.N.; 
   * More stringent and independent oversight of the U.N.'s operations, including stronger whistleblower policies, greater resources for the Office of Internal Oversight Services, and the creation of an Independent Oversight Board that would provide much-needed examination of U.N. activities; and 
   * Meaningful reform of the U.N.'s peacekeeping efforts, such as the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission and a Peacebuilding Support Office, monitoring peacekeepers' conduct, and instituting an enforcement system to punish those that violate the U.N.'s ethical standards. It also accentuates the need for meaningful reform of human rights institutions, including the abolishment of the disastrous U.N. Human Rights Commission and the creation of a new Human Rights Council that would be composed of states that adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
 
 