SEN. COLEMAN REACTS TO PRESIDENT'S FY07 BUDGET PROPOSAL
  "While I have deep concerns about some areas in the budget, I am pleased the President's $2.7 trillion budget proposal is aimed at cutting the deficit in half over five years. If we fail to address this problem, the deficit will saddle future generations - our children and grandchildren - with our unpaid debts and threaten their economic security. The President's budget proposes to hold discretionary spending growth below the rate of inflation, while still taking care of national priorities such as reducing health care costs, fostering innovation, supporting our troops and democracy in the Middle East, and reducing our dependence on foreign oil.  
   I am very encouraged to see the President's commitment to reducing our reliance of foreign oil, enhancing our ability to compete globally, and improving our nation's transportation infrastructure--all areas in which Minnesota is ready to take advantage of our resources and lead the nation. At the root of the President's budget proposal is long-term economic and global competitiveness, and I applaud him for including $5.9 billion for the American Competitiveness Initiative. ACI includes innovative programs to enhance math and science education, doubles federal scientific research funding, and extends research and development tax incentives, which help 1,000 Minnesota companies get their new products to market. The President's Advanced Energy Initiative provides a 22 percent increase in funding for clean, renewable energy resources to help America reach our goal of energy independence. This is funding that is well-directed. 
   I am also encouraged by this budget's sound stance and promotion of pro-growth policies and tax relief. Helping to create 4.7 million jobs since August 2003, tax relief has been a boon to our economy, and the President's tax relief policy has been instrumental in growing good paying jobs throughout our state and the country. I support making good policies permanent. 
   While fiscal discipline must be our priority, there are some places where the President's budget either cuts too deeply or fails to recognize the positive impact of a program, such as our Agriculture program, Pell grants, Medicaid and Medicare, and the Community Development Block Grants program. I will urge my colleagues to proceed cautiously and measure twice. 
   I am mindful that at the end of the day, the President's budget proposal is only that: a proposal that starts a much longer conversation in which Congress has the final say. The President's budget provides us with a good blueprint. We in Congress will continue to work to keep the economy on track, and at the same time, keep our commitment to funding national priorities, such as fighting the war on terror, education, and our veterans."
 
 