SEN. COLEMAN BACKS BILL TO HELP MN COMMUNTIES COMPLY WITH SAFE WATER STANDARDS
  Continuing his efforts to ease the strain unfunded mandates are placing on small communities across Minnesota, Senator Norm Coleman today announced his support for the Small System Drinking Water Act of 2007. This bipartisan legislation, which Coleman is co-sponsoring, will help small communities by protecting them from arcane federal drinking water regulations until the federal government provides the financial assistance needed to carry out mandated infrastructure improvements. 
   The bill would also require the Environmental Protection Agency to provide technical assistance to local officials to ensure any needed infrastructure upgrades can be achieved as efficiently as possible. This legislation will help Minnesota communities such as Goodview, New Auburn, and many others who are struggling to comply with onerous federal drinking water standards - without imposing debilitating cost increases on local ratepayers. Senator James Inhofe (R-OK), who is Ranking Member of the Environment & Public Works Committee, and Senators Ben Nelson (D-NE) and Chuck Hagel (R-NE) are original cosponsors of this legislation.
   "As a former mayor, I know how unfunded federal mandates can hurt local communities and their residents," said Coleman. "Rules and regulations drawn up in the offices of distant government bureaucrats might look good in Washington, but they can cripple services for small cities and towns back home. Drinking water requirements are a perfect example of the federal government writing the rules, but not providing the funding. This legislation is a chance to lessen the financial burden on local ratepayers until the federal government provides the funding and technical expertise to make mandated infrastructure improvements. Everyone deserves a clean, safe drinking water system, but we can't force local communities to foot the bills they can't afford on their own."
   Coleman has worked to expand and upgrade Minnesota's water infrastructure throughout his time in office, including pushing for passage of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which was signed into law last year. WRDA contained authorization for key projects to upgrade and improve Minnesota's water infrastructure, including projects in Roseau, Goodview, Willmar, Grand Rapids and Douglas County, among others - along with navigational improvements and ecosystem restoration of the Upper Mississippi River, including the construction an Asian carp barrier at Lock and Dam #11 in Iowa.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 