SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES BUSH'S NEW AGRICULTURE SECRETARY NOMINEE'S CREDENTIALS
  Sen. Norm Coleman, a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry and founder and co-chair of the Senate Biofuels Caucus, expressed his strong support for Nebraska Gov. Mike Johanns, President Bush's pick to be the next United States Secretary of Agriculture today at the committee's nomination hearing. He will replace outgoing Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman. 
   "Johanns is governor of a key farm state with most of the same commodities as Minnesota," Coleman said in his opening statement. "Like me, he was mayor of a city dependent on the farm economy. He grew up on a dairy farm and worked in the dairy industry to earn his way through college. And, maybe best of all, he got his smarts in Minnesota, graduating from St. Mary's University in Winona. He's going to be a real champion for America's farmers and ranchers."  
   Coleman has known Johanns since both men served as Midwest mayors in St. Paul and Lincoln, respectively. In his questioning, Coleman stressed the need for the new Agriculture Secretary to aggressively advocate for a number of key issues that make for a strong farm and rural economy, including: 
   - The farm safety net, including the MILC program and U.S. sugar policy 
   - Renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel 
   - Opening new markets to American beef, corn, soybeans, wheat, barley, dairy products, pork, chicken, turkey, eggs, potatoes, dry edible beans and other MN farm products 
   - Enforcing trade laws to make sure farmers can compete on a level playing field 
   - Conservation programs to help farmers and protect soil, water and wildlife 
   - Re-opening Japanese markets to U.S. beef 
   An advocate for rural economic development, last Congress Coleman introduced the Rural Renaissance Act to help small towns fund their critical needs, such as water and wastewater infrastructure, high-speed Internet access, and community facilities like health clinics and fire departments. "I hope you will join me in working both legislatively and administratively in meeting those very basic infrastructure needs that must be met if our rural communities are to grow," Coleman said to Johanns. 
   The State of Minnesota is the 7th largest agricultural producer in the United States. Agriculture represents the second largest economic sector and employer in the state. 
   Senator Coleman's statement and questions follow: 
   Mr. Chairman, thank you and congratulations on taking over the reigns of this Committee. You are a proven friend of the American farmer and rancher, having served on both this Committee and as a Subcommittee Chairman over at House Agriculture, and I know you have taken some pretty gutsy stands in favor of our farm families over the years. You have certainly been a good friend of mine and I am proud to call you my Chairman. 
   Chairman Cochran, I appreciate your strong leadership on behalf of U.S. agriculture over the years and particularly for the responsiveness you have shown my Minnesota farm families and me. Last year you took a day out of your busy schedule to travel all the way to Owatonna, Minnesota to hear the views of my farmers. They sure appreciated your time and attention as did I. You're a good friend and I congratulate you on moving on to the Mount Olympus of the Senate, the Chairman of Senate Appropriations Committee. Please don't forget about the little people like me that you met along the way! 
   I also want to join in welcoming the new members of the Committee. I look forward to working with each of you as we address both the opportunities and challenges facing American agriculture today and in the years to come. 
   And, of course, welcome to you, Governor Johanns. 
   There are some qualities about Governor Johanns that I think make him an eminently qualified nominee for Secretary of Agriculture. 
   First, he has served as the Governor of an important farm state. In fact, Nebraska has much the same agricultural profile as Minnesota, with Nebraska's top 5 commodities being cattle, corn, soybeans, hogs, and wheat. I also like the fact that Nebraska has sugar beets, a very important part of Minnesota's economy. 
   Second, he has served as the mayor of a city whose economy is very much impacted by what is happening on the farm. In fact, I first got to know Governor Johanns when he was mayor of Lincoln and I was the mayor of Saint Paul, both capitol cities of our respective states. Both of us toiled at the bottom of the political food chain as mayors where budgets are always tight, the power to get things done is very limited when compared to the big kids on the block in state and federal government, and the people you serve hold you accountable for everything. Tight budgets, limited power, and raw accountability: the perfect training ground for a Secretary of Agriculture. 
   Third, Governor Johanns has dirt under his finger nails. He grew up on a dairy farm and he worked in a dairy processing plant to earn money while in college. So he knows a little bit about the life of dairy farmers in my state who get up everyday at 5 in the morning in some pretty chilly temperatures in order to make Minnesota 5th in the nation in milk production. 
   And fourth, he's got to be a pretty sharp guy in order to be accepted and graduate from a fine Minnesota college, Saint Mary's University in Winona, Minnesota, a beautiful town located in southeastern Minnesota right on the Mississippi River. 
   So, Governor Johanns, you come with some impressive credentials. 
   I have few main points to emphasize - they are statements as much as questions really - and I would like you to offer any comments you may have on each. Governor, I would very much appreciate you providing me with written answers to the following questions. 
   1. Farm Bill. First, the farm economy is important to farm families, rural communities and cities like Lincoln and Saint Paul, as evidenced by articles like the December 17, 2003 piece in the Wall Street Journal, which I would ask unanimous consent, Mr. Chairman, to be included in the record. This article, entitled "Farm Belt Becomes Driver For the Overall Economy," noted that "The present boom is proving that agriculture still matters in the U.S. [as] rising farm incomes are helping to ease the blow of the loss of manufacturing jobs in Midwest states. Wells Fargo's Chief Economist was quoted as saying, "The farm sector is a significant source of strength for the U.S. economy." And the article went on to say that, "Although farmers themselves are a tiny part of the population, they have an outsize impact on the economy." All of us here know that our national economy is in fact boosted by a strong farm economy. But we also know from experience that, like in the1980's, the nation also suffers when times on the farm are tough. So the farm bill is a critical safety net for our entire economy, not just farmers and rural communities. 
   The farm bill is also a competitiveness bill, just like the $136 billion JOBS bill we passed last Congress, in part, as a response to the job losses we experienced in the manufacturing sector due to off-shoring. If you ever visited the new World War II Memorial, you would notice all the wreaths on the monument which represent the two American pillars of industry and agriculture. It speaks to the importance of both. So at a time when we are taking steps to stop the off-shoring of one sector, we should not do anything that would jeopardize the world competitiveness of the other. Mr. Chairman, the farm bill helps an important economic sector stay competitive in a world market where foreign subsidies and tariffs are 5 and 6 times higher than the help we provide to our own farmers. 
   While helping sustain an industry that creates 25 million American jobs, $3.5 trillion a year in economic activity, and 17% of our Gross Domestic Product, the farm bill also helps ensure that Americans enjoy the safest, most abundant, most affordable food supply in the world - all at a cost to the taxpayer of about one-half of one percent of the total federal budget. In fact, the safety net provided under the 2002 Farm Bill has cost over $17 billion less than was projected by CBO back in March of 2002 and has actually cost nearly $1 billion less than what would have been spent had the 2002 Farm Bill not been enacted and had we remained under the old budget baseline. These savings do not even take into account an estimated $1.6 billion saved from the farm bill budget during the appropriations process over the last two years. My understanding is that this picture will not change much when the actual FY2005 budget numbers are reported. So the bottom line is that the 2002 farm safety net is important to our national economy, it is a competitiveness bill for agriculture just as the JOBS bill is for manufacturing, and it has proven to be fiscally sound despite the misrepresentations we hear and read from the big city press and others. I hope, as Secretary of Agriculture, that you will join me and others in working to protect this important federal policy. What are your thoughts on the farm bill budget as we head into this year's budget debate? 
   Follow up to any comments from Johanns in re: Question #1: My point is that agriculture has contributed to deficit reduction. For example, from 1999 through 2001, we spent an average of $19 billion per year on the safety net, much of which was unbudgeted. But, from 2002 to 2004, we spent an average of $12 billion. That's not to mention cuts during the appropriations process over the last couple years. So I would hope that folks over at OMB are looking at this and, if they are not, you might point them in the right direction. 
   2. Sugar. Second, sugar beets are a $3 billion a year industry in my state creating a lot of jobs in the Red River Valley and down into the Renville area in southwest Minnesota. And this industry is not just a part of that region's economy, it is an economic hub. My sugar beet farmers are efficient, helping place U.S. sugar producers in the top 1/3rd in overall efficiency in world production. Part of this, as you can imagine, is natural refrigeration where in the winter months we stockpile beets in section corners, called "Minnesota Mountains." I am very proud to represent the largest sugar producing and processing state in the nation. And like my corn and soybean farmers and others, my sugar beet farmers face a very unlevel world playing field. I only need to point out that while the world dump price for sugar is about 6 to 8 cents per pound, the average world cost of production is around 16 cents. This is a global problem. Every country in the world that produces sugar subsidizes or protects their producers. In our case, we have a no net cost program to the federal treasury that simply helps shield our producers from heavily protected and subsidized dumped foreign sugar. This world problem cannot be fixed in a bilateral or regional trade agreement. It can only be fixed in the WTO. The Administration rightly recognized this in the case of other crops when they excluded domestic support for these crops from bilateral and regional agreements, and they also recognized this in the trade agreement with Australia when they excluded sugar. These were good decisions and they ought to be the template for all our regional and bilateral agreements. I hope that, if confirmed, you will join me and others in making this the policy of the Administration as it relates to trade. Governor, you want to break the good news to the folks at USTR or should I? 
   Follow up to any comments from Johanns in re: Question #2: Governor, I'd like to extend an invitation for you to come and see first hand the importance of this industry to my state some time soon - although you might want to wait until summer! I know our 3 farmer owned cooperatives would be glad to have you as would I. In closing on sugar, I would also just add that we've had problems in the past with circumvention around the tariff rate quota for sugar, most recently involving stuffed molasses. I'd appreciate it, Governor, if you as the Secretary of Agriculture would coordinate with other agencies to track and report to Congress - as provided by the Breaux Law - any circumvention that may be going on today. 
   3. Dairy. Third, I was very pleased when President Bush endorsed extension of the Milk Income Loss Compensation program, or MILC, last year. As you may know, I introduced a bill last Congress to extend this important program for my dairy farm families. MILC is a good program because it provides a safety net that is fair and equitable to farmers from every region of the country, unlike, at least from my point of view, federal dairy policy in the past. It is also a market-oriented program that does not fix prices but simply provides a counter-cyclical safety net when prices are depressed. In fact, according to USDA, MILC has had very little impact on milk prices. For these reasons, Democrat and Republican senators from across the country have endorsed my bill to extend this program through the life of the 2002 Farm Bill. It seems only fair to me that my dairy farmers continue to have this safety net, just as my other farmers do. I hope that, as Secretary of Agriculture, you will work with me to pass my bill and this important program which President Bush has endorsed, starting with its inclusion in the President's budget. Governor, are you ready to work with me on extending MILC? 
   Follow up to any comments from Johanns in re: Question #3: Thank you, Governor. I would make just one other observation on dairy and that is that Congress has instructed USDA to use the Dairy Export Incentives Program or "DEEP" to the maximum extent allowable under the rules of the WTO but USDA has not done this. I'd like you to revisit this issue and ramp up the use of DEEP so we use this program like our competitors in the world use theirs. 
   4. Rural Development. Now, I want to talk about an issue that is near and dear to my heart and that is rural economic development. When I travel around rural Minnesota, the theme is consistent: we can't survive unless we have the basic infrastructure that any community needs to survive and to grow. My favorite story is the one about a small town of around 500 people in southwest Minnesota called Brewster. Not long ago, about 2,000 plus farm families banded together to build a $50 million soybean-processing facility in that town. The problem was that Brewster simply could not handle the increased waste water from the plant and had no money or tax base to make the needed improvements. This story is a good one because it underscores the very real problem communities across rural America have when they try to grow and create jobs so they can keep their kids at home when they graduate from high school or college. I also happen to like the story because it has a good ending: I was ultimately able to help Brewster find the money to get the job done. But, the problem persists and it is looming large. Over the next 20 years, Minnesota alone will need $7 billion for infrastructure improvements just to meet current water quality standards. Estimates nationally are anywhere from $150 billion according to EPA and $268 billion according to a Minnesota group with expertise in this area. Bringing high speed internet access to rural communities is also extremely important if rural America is to fully participate in the economic recovery. The Rural Utilities Service Administrator was quoted as saying it is "absolutely essential" if communities of 20,000 people are to even "remain viable" - much less grow. Yet, the cost of making this happen is estimated to be about $10.9 billion. Same thing is true with rural housing. 1.8 million rural homes and apartments are moderately or severely substandard. Last Congress, Senators Mark Pryor, Lindsey Graham, and Mike DeWine joined me in introducing the Rural Renaissance Act to help meet these critical infrastructure needs through federal bonding. I also worked with OMB to get regulations published for the Rural Development Loan and Grant program, known as "Red Leg," so some of these needs can be met right now. I hope you will join me in working both legislatively and administratively in meeting these very basic infrastructure needs that must be met if our rural communities are to grow and provide the kind of jobs people in places like Brewster need to support their families. Governor, we are going to take another stab at Rural Renaissance in some form or fashion this Congress and I'd appreciate you working with me. Any comments or thoughts on rural development? 
   5. Ethanol and Biodiesel. Another issue that is extremely important to Minnesota and me is renewable fuels. Minnesota and Nebraska are both leaders in this area. Every gallon of gasoline is blended with ethanol in my state and soon every gallon of diesel will be blended with biodiesel derived from virgin soybean oil and even recycled oils. In fact, Governor Pawlenty has proposed that Minnesota increase our ethanol blend requirement from 10% to 20% in the future. How can we in Congress work together with you as Secretary of Agriculture to spread this kind of progressive policy throughout the country in order to advance renewable fuels and the environmental, energy independence, and economic development dividends renewable fuels can provide our country, especially our rural communities? 
   5. U.S. Beef Access to Japan. Governor, a while back Japan agreed in principle to open up its borders to U.S. beef saying it would work out the details of implementation later. The problem is the foot dragging by Japan. And since South Korea seems to be waiting to see what Japan does, this has a cascading effect on some big U.S. markets. So, the obvious question is, how are you going to get these markets open - in reality rather than principle - and when is that going to happen? 
   6. Soybean Research. Soybean farmers in Minnesota have been asking USDA to place a scientist at the University of Minnesota to carry out genomics research that would benefit farmers in the entire northern tier of soybean-producing states. By using our knowledge of the soybean genome to improve protein content in northern soybeans, we could increase export sales to Asia and potentially add 25 cents a bushel to Minnesota and other Midwestern farmers' income from soybeans. Will you work with me to find a way to place an USDA-ARS scientist at Minnesota, where the State and the private sector have already invested $10 million of non-federal money to create a state-of-the-art genomics research facility? 
   Mr. Chairman, again, thank you for holding this important hearing. I look forward to the confirmation of this eminently qualified nominee.
 
 