SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES RELEASE OF $4 MILLION IN LIHEAP FUNDING TO MINNESOTA
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services has allotted $4,241,251 in emergency contingency funding to Minnesota's Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). LIHEAP helps eligible families pay for home heating and insulation in winter and cooling their homes in the warmer months. Estimates show that over 100,000 Minnesota households received LIHEAP assistance in 2005.  
   "I am pleased that families in Minnesota will have access to an additional $4 million in funding to help heat their homes this winter," said Coleman. "Given the high cost of energy, we need to do all that we can to ensure families are not left in the cold. I applaud the Bush Administration for recognizing the positive impact this funding will have on the quality of life in our communities." 
   Last month, Coleman, along with Senators Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), and Susan Collins (R-ME) obtained a commitment from Senate leadership for a separate vote on an emergency supplemental bill to provide $2 billion in additional funding for LIHEAP, early this year. 
   "Senators Snowe and Collins and I were not going to allow politics to stop this much-needed funding from reaching the people who need it the most," said Coleman. "The commitment we received ensures that an emergency supplemental bill to provide $2 billion additional funding for LIHEAP will receive an up or down vote. In addition, I will continue working hard to see a reduction in home heating costs by lessening our nation's dependence on foreign oil and promoting the usage of renewable fuels." 
   During the heating season, on average, households heating primarily with natural gas are expected to spend about $281 (38 percent) more this winter in fuel expenditures. Households heating primarily with heating oil can expect to pay, on average, $255 (21 percent) more this winter. Each year, almost 5 million low-income households across the country receive LIHEAP assistance.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 