SENS. COLEMAN, KOHL OFFER MILK PROGRAM EXTENSION LEGISLATION
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Sen. Herb Kohl (D-WI) today introduced bipartisan legislation to extend the Milk Income Loss Compensation (MILC) Program first authorized under the 2002 Farm Bill. The MILC program, a key safety net for U.S. dairy farm families during the price collapse of 2002 and early 2003, is currently set to expire September 30, 2005 even while the remaining safety net for other commodities authorized under the Farm Bill remain in effect through 2007. Sens. Susan Collins (R-MA) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) also cosponsored the legislation. 
   "A December 17, 2003 Wall Street Journal article pointed out that the recovering farm economy is helping to fuel an economic recovery nationally and I agree," said Coleman. "We need to maintain a strong safety net for all America's farm families so if prices fall again, we not only safeguard our hard working farm families but our national economy as well. The 2002 Farm Bill provides that safety net to most farm families through 2007 and we need to ensure that the MILC program, which provided Minnesota dairy farmers with $149 million in critical help during some record low prices in 2002 and 2003, stays in effect at least through 2007 as well. This should be a bipartisan, national goal and I am pleased to be leading this effort with Senator Kohl."
   The MILC program provided critical assistance to U.S. dairy farm families when prices collapsed in 2002 and early 2003 due to factors beyond their control while still allowing markets to readjust and return to more profitable levels later in 2003 and into 2004 just as this market-oriented safety net was carefully crafted to do. Importantly, the MILC program provides the same safety net to all producers across the United States regardless of their location.
   "For thousands of family-sized dairy operations across the nation, the MILC program has meant the difference between bankruptcy and survival," Kohl said. "The MILC program provides critical support to dairy farmers when prices are low. When dairy prices rebound, as they have in recent months, it makes no payments to dairy farmers and the government spends nothing. This proposal is a bipartisan and national approach that will provide stability and predictability in an otherwise volatile industry." 
   Since the MILC program was first authorized under the 2002 Farm Bill, this safety net has provided about $2 billion in needed assistance to hard working U.S. dairy farm families who have struggled over the last two years against collapsed prices with prices in some months falling to levels not seen since 1979. Prices began to recover later in 2003 which has continued into 2004. June 2004 posted an all milk price of $18.40 per hundredweight after dipping to $11 in June of the previous year.
   Importantly, this legislation does not increase milk prices paid by consumers.
 
 