SEN. COLEMAN TO VISIT SEVEN COMMUNITIES DURING 2-DAY TRIP THROUGH NORTHEASTERN MINNESOTA
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that on Friday, June 9th and Saturday, June 10th, he will be visiting seven communities in seven counties during a two-day visit to northeastern and north-central Minnesota. The trip will include visits with local leaders and media, highlighted by two public events in Grand Rapids: a ceremony highlighting the next phase of the Excelsior Energy coal gasification project and an open house for Coleman's recently opened Grand Rapids field office. As a whole, Coleman will visit Duluth, Moose Lake, Two Harbors, Grand Marais, Aitkin, Grand Rapids, and Walker. 
   "I am anxious to get up into God's country to visit with local leaders and residents about a number of key issues currently affecting them," said Coleman. "From the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative - which I am continuing to work on in the Senate - to rural health care to coal gasification, there is no shortage of issues I would like to receive local input on during this visit. I am also looking forward to celebrating the opening of my local office in Grand Rapids, along with the continued progress toward the Excelsior Energy project - both of which will benefit area residents."  
   On Friday, June 9th, Senator Coleman will visit Mercy Hospital in Moose Lake for a tour and policy discussion on Critical Access Hospitals. He will then meet with local media in Duluth, followed by lunch with local officials and leaders at Betty's Pies in Two Harbors. He will wrap up Friday's visits with a discussion of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative during a meeting with local leaders in at the Blue Water Café in Grand Marais. 
   On Saturday, June 10th, Senator Coleman will begin the day with a discussion of local economic development and timber issues during a meeting with area officials in Aitkin. Coleman will then host a public event highlighting the next phase of the Excelsior Energy coal gasification project, which will include remarks from the CEO of Excelsior Energy, before hosting an open house for his recently-opened Grand Rapids office. Coleman will finish his trip with a walking tour and meeting with area leaders in Walker. 
   Details on the local events, which local media are encouraged to attend, are as follows: 
   Friday, June 9th 
   Mercy Hospital Tour/ Meet and Greet 
  8:00 a.m. - 9:00 a.m. 
  Mercy Hospital 
  710 South Kenwood Ave. 
  Moose Lake, MN 55767 
   Lunch with Area Leaders and Officials 
  12:05 p.m.- 1:15 p.m. 
  Betty's Pies 
  1633 Highway 61 
  Two Harbors, MN 55616 
   Meeting with Area leaders on Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative 
  3:05 p.m.- 4:00 p.m. 
  Blue Water Café 
  Wisconsin and 1st Street, 
  Grand Marais, MN 55604 
   Saturday, June 10th 
   Meeting with local officials 
  8:30 a.m. - 9:30 a.m. 
  The Birchwood Inn 
  120 Minnesota Ave North 
  Aitkin, MN 56431 
   Excelsior Energy Project Event and Grand Rapids Office Open House 
  10:45 a.m.- 12:00 p.m. 
  KAXE Amphitheater 
  Rotary Tent 
  260 Northeast 2nd Street 
  Grand Rapids, MN 
   Walking Tour/Discussion of Local Issues with Walker officials 
  1:45 a.m. - 2:45 p.m. 
  Village Square Coffee Shop 
  411 Minnesota Avenue West 
  Walker, MN 56484
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 