SEN. COLEMAN SPONSORS BILL TO ENSURE GREATER ACCOUNTABILITY AMONG NATION'S RAILROADS
  Sen. Norm Coleman joined Sen. Herb Kohl (D-WI) today in introducing the Railroad Antitrust Enforcement Act of 2007 in response to concerns that freight railroads are abusing their dominant market power and raising rates for those who rely on them to ship dozens of vital commodities, including coal and agricultural products. The legislation, co-sponsored by Sens. David Vitter (R-LA) and Russ Feingold (D-WI), will repeal the obsolete antitrust exemptions protecting freight railroads from competition. These exemptions deny rail consumers the protections available to consumers in virtually every other industry.  
   "Our nation's utilities, who rely on the railroad to transport coal for electricity generation, are all too often subject to exorbitant fees and unreliable service, causing drastically higher energy costs for consumers," said Coleman. "Similarly, our farmers and timber producers who depend on rail for the shipment of their products often shoulder the financial burden with no recourse, due to the antitrust exemptions on the books. By eliminating railroad antitrust laws, we can give those who suffer from anti-competitive practices a tool to fight to back." 
   Over the last 20 years, railroad industry consolidation has reached the point where only four class I railroads provide over 90 percent of the nation's rail transportation. Many industries - known as "captive shippers" - are served by only one railroad. These captive shippers have faced constantly rising rail rates, and allege they have been the victim of monopolistic practices and price gouging by the single railroad that serves them, price increases which they are forced to pass along, ultimately, to consumers. In many cases the ordinary protections of antitrust law are unavailable to these captive shippers - instead, the railroads are protected by a series of exemptions from the normal rules of antitrust law to which all other industries must abide. 
   Current antitrust law protects a wide range of railroad industry conduct from scrutiny by antitrust enforcers. Railroad mergers and acquisitions are exempt from antitrust law and are reviewed solely by the Surface Transportation Board. Railroads that engage in collective ratemaking are also exempt from antitrust law. This bill will eliminate these antitrust exemptions by allowing the federal government, state attorneys general and private parties to file suit to enjoin anti-competitive mergers and acquisitions. It will restore the review of these mergers to the Justice Department's Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission. The legislation will also eliminate the antitrust exemption for railroad collective rate making.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 