SEN. COLEMAN SECURES FUNDING FOR KEY MINNESOTA NATIONAL GUARD PROJECTS IN CONFERENCE REPORT
  Senator Norm Coleman today was successful in including funding for two key Minnesota National Guard projects in the Veterans-Military Construction Appropriations Conference Report. First, he secured $17,450,000 for phases I and II of the Combined Arms Collective Training Facility (CACTF) at Camp Ripley. When completed, this landmark facility will consist of structures and mock utilities that simulate an urban setting (school, church, police station, hotel, residences and businesses). Facilities include a Range Operations Center, Target Operations/Storage Building, service roads, site improvements, and associated range power and data transfer cabling. Most importantly, the facility will have the potential to allow Minnesota National Guard troops to train closer to home in advance of future deployments.  
   "This facility is critical to the Minnesota National Guard as it will allow them to remain closer to their loved ones during their pre and post deployment training," said Coleman. "It will not only substantially improve their urban warfare training for future deployments but will also drastically increase their quality of life by reducing time away from home. After a long hard fight, I am extremely pleased to see this funding make its way to the President's desk." 
   Coleman was also successful in attaching $1,500,000 for a wing storage facility for the 148th Fighter Wing in Duluth, Minnesota in the conference report. The 148th Fighter Wing currently has four separate storage facilities that are poorly configured, have failing structural systems and are currently situated along the Wing's new base entry road. Failing floor slabs are subject to water infiltration thus putting them in danger of significant damage. This project will properly locate wing storage to eliminate safety hazards, avoid interference with the current wing master plan, as well as provide the storage and supply space required to efficiently accomplish the mission.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 