FROM WAR ZONE TO WHITE HOUSE: SEN. COLEMAN ACCOMPANIES MINNESOTA FAMILY TO MEETING WITH PRESIDENT
  Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman today accompanied Patience Carlson, her mother Ellen and her sister Zoe to the White House's Congressional Hour where they met with President Bush. The Carlsons, a Minnesota family from Chaska, were within days of completing the adoption of Patience from Liberia when the 2003 violence broke out. As conditions worsened, the U.S. Embassy focused their consular efforts toward U.S. citizens only, leaving Patience and other adoptive children in limbo. The orphanage began to run low on supplies, and the Carlsons became increasingly desperate to unite with their new daughter. With the help of Senator Coleman's office and the U.S. Embassy, the Carlsons were ultimately able to secure the needed visa to bring Patience to Minnesota. For those who came to know the Carlson family during this ordeal, Patience became the face of concern for a war torn nation and ultimately of hope in the midst of chaos and tragedy.  
   "I am thrilled that little Patience and her family were able to come to all the way to Washington to meet with the President, said Coleman. "I worked extremely close with the Carlson family through their ordeal in trying to adopt Patience, through the fears and uncertainties as the civil war in Liberia worsened, and through the red tape that was keeping their adoptive daughter stuck in a war-torn nation. After working with State and U.S. Embassy officials, we were able to get Patience the visa she needed to come home to Minnesota with her new family. International adoptions are one of the most rewarding aspects of my job, and Patience's story is one I will never forget." 
   Patience's meeting with the President is especially timely as November is National Adoption Month, which is a time to celebrate family and raise awareness that there are hundreds of thousands of children in foster homes awaiting adoption. The eighth annual National Adoption Day is Saturday, November 17, 2007. On this day, hundreds of volunteer lawyers, foster care professionals, child advocates and local judges across the country will join forces to finalize the adoptions of thousands of children from foster care. 
   "Today there are hundreds of thousands of children in foster homes awaiting adoption, and Patience's story can help to bring greater awareness to this issue," Coleman added.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 