SEN. COLEMAN INITIATIVE GIVES NEW HOPE TO HMONG STUDENT FACING DEPORTATION
  A year ago, Tchisou Tho's 2003 graduation from Como Park High School in St. Paul was to have marked an important achievement for any first generation family in the United States: he was to be the first member in his family to graduate from high school. However, 22 days before graduation, immigration problems threatened to interrupt his commencement ceremony, as well as his life. Tho and his family of seven, were to be deported from the U.S. after overstaying their visitors' visas. Sen. Norm Coleman immediately introduced legislation to keep Tho in Minnesota and allow him to complete his education. 
   That extension worked to help Tho graduate high school and get started at the University of Minnesota as an international student. However, he was forced to leave the University because he could not afford the out-of-state tuition.
   Today, Senator Coleman announced that the private relief legislation he introduced last year has been approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee, moving Tho another step closer to permanent resident status and the green card which will allow him to pay in-state tuition in the state he has resided in most of his life. Tho will need to wait for passage of the bill to finalize his education plans, but Coleman noted this is a positive step in the process.
   "When I heard about Tchisou's situation last year," said Coleman, "my heart went out to him and his family. The Thos were trying to make a better life for themselves and give their children the American Dream, one that held a better future for their children than the one they left behind in Laos. Tchisou was an honor-roll student, active in church and school, and an overall good kid-he was just caught in a bad situation. We have the chance to give Tchisou the opportunity of his lifetime and one of the best gifts we can offer here in Minnesota: a quality and affordable education. I am going to work to ensure this happens."
   "I'm very happy," said Tho. "Things would be much easier with school and work. I won't have to worry that I will have to go back. It's been pretty rough, but this is good news."
   Tho's family came to the United States fourteen years ago on visitors' visas from France after fleeing Communist rule in Laos in 1975. They moved to Minnesota in 1993 to find work and to give their children an opportunity to receive a quality education. Tchisou Tho was brought to the United States as a child of five.
   "It is unfair to ask children to pay for their parent's mistakes," Coleman said. "His parents did break the law, but as a five-year-old, Tschisou had no choice. Now, it would be unfair of us to ask Tchisou to give up all he has worked for. He is a young person with a promising American future. It is important we keep him here."
   Last May, the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Service found that the family had defied a judge's order to leave the U.S. voluntarily before March 26, 2003. Previously, the family had been granted work authorizations in the United States. The family then met with immigration officials to request modifications in their immigration status, which resulted in their deportation order.
   Tchisou's parents and some of his siblings were deported last year, and currently live in France. Tchisou currently lives with his sister and her husband, a U.S. citizen.
 
 