SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES ECONOMY'S CONTINUING STRONG PERFORMANCE
  Sen. Norm Coleman praised today's Labor Department September jobs report showing continuing strong job and wage gains. According to the latest labor figures,  
   362,000 new jobs were created during the past three months while the unemployment rate fell to 4.6 percent in September and average hourly and weekly earnings increased by 4.0 percent during the past year. September marks the 37th straight month of job gains and according to preliminary labor department revision estimates more than 6.6 million new jobs have been created since August 2003. The strong labor report is just the latest in a string of good economic news this week that includes a new Dow record high and a lower budget deficit for the just concluded fiscal year. 
   "If there were ever a week that served as proof of the economic power of Republican pro-growth tax policies this would be it," Coleman said. "Without question Republican pro-growth tax policies have been paying off not only in the form of new jobs and higher wages but surging tax revenues that have significantly reduced the deficit." 
   In addition to the outstanding labor market figures this week the Dow broke its record high set during the peak of the stock market bubble in early 2000. Along with this good news, the Congressional Budget Office reported today that the budget deficit for fiscal year is expected to decrease to $250 billion, a 21 percent decline from last year's deficit. The decrease in the deficit is primarily as a result of surging tax revenues. During the past two fiscal years, revenues have increased by more than half a trillion dollars - the largest such increase in history. 
   "The last thing we should consider is reversing the successful pro-growth tax policies that have enabled our economy to grow at such an impressive pace, in spite of challenges ranging from the war on terror to last year's devastating hurricane season to recent record gas prices," Coleman said.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 