SEN. COLEMAN'S CHIEF OF STAFF TO BECOME SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF D.C. BASED GOVERNMENT RELATIONS FIRM
  Erich E. Mische, 43, Chief of Staff for Sen. Norm Coleman, has accepted an offer to serve as Senior Vice President of a D.C. based government relations firm. Mische has been Coleman's key political and policy advisor since 1992, having first served Coleman as his campaign manager for his successful campaign for Saint Paul Mayor in 1992.  
   "Erich Mische is one of the best political and policy strategists in the business," said Coleman. "He's creative, visionary, and most importantly, he gets things done. Erich takes ideas and concepts and puts them into action. I am extremely grateful for his service as my Chief of Staff, and pleased for this new opportunity for him and his family." 
   Mische expressed his appreciation for Coleman's leadership, and the opportunity to serve the people of Minnesota. 
   "I've had the opportunity to serve two of the best political leaders in Minnesota - Mayor Norm Coleman and United States Senator Norm Coleman", said Mische. "Since I was 17 years old, I have been involved in politics and government. Norm Coleman gave me the opportunity to take my passion for public service and put it into action. For that, and for his friendship, I remain eternally grateful." 
   During his tenure as Coleman's Chief of Staff, Mische focused on making sure Coleman's office was responsive to Minnesota citizens and concerns, overseeing and aggressive outreach to the State of Minnesota, and, building strong, bi-partisan relationships among his colleagues. These efforts, according to Coleman, distinguished Mische's service to his office. 
   "Erich understands that getting things done requires being able to work with Democrats and Republicans. I've appreciated his efforts to work across party lines, because, in the end, it has allowed me to be more effective in what I do on behalf of the people I serve," said Coleman. "It's been this kind of leadership that I will miss in my personal office. But, Erich will remain a key advisor, supporter and my friend long into the future. We've had a successful partnership over the years, and I am pleased to be able to continue that in the years ahead."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 