SEN. COLEMAN NAMES TIGWELL MINNESOTA STATE DIRECTOR
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that Vicki Tigwell, who most recently served as Chair of the Metropolitan Airports Commission (MAC), has been hired to serve as State Director in Coleman's St. Paul Office. Tigwell, who ran the MAC from 2003-2006, was responsible for oversight of seven airports including Minneapolis-St. Paul International - with a focus on increasing non aeronautical revenue and public-private partnerships. She will replace Bill Huepenbecker, who was recently appointed Senior Policy Director, beginning in September of 2006.  
   "I'm thrilled to have Vicki become a part of my Senate operations," said Coleman. "She brings great leadership skills, strong management experience and a reputation for getting things done. She will build upon what is already a strong foundation of a State Office, focused on serving the needs of all Minnesotans throughout the state." 
   "This is a fantastic opportunity for me to join Senator Coleman's staff and be part of his entire team's efforts to bring expanded economic opportunities to all of Minnesota, while delivering the kind of constituent services Minnesotans expect and deserve," said Tigwell. "I look forward to being part of his Senate staff and hope Minnesotans will continue to let his office know how we can be of service to them." 
   Tigwell has an extensive background in the private sector, serving as the Founder and CFO of QAI, Inc from 1991-1997, as well as other ventures focused on IT and telecommunications both in Minnesota and Australia. 
   With Tigwell's hiring, Coleman intends to bring additional focus to his state office in areas of customer service and improved communications. 
   "Vicki has a background that fits my desire to have strong focus and attention to the needs of Minnesotans," Coleman added. "She recognizes that our job as public servants is to serve the people who sent us to represent them. Her leadership and vision on the MAC, as well as her professional experiences in the private sector underscore her understanding that people are looking for more than just rhetoric - they want results."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 