CONFEREE SEN. COLEMAN HAILS CONGRESSIONAL CONSENSUS ON HISTORIC NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE REFORM ACT
  Sen. Norm Coleman, who played a key role in the Senate-House conference committee, announced today that a bipartisan agreement has been reached on the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, which includes several key amendments crafted by the Minnesota Republican to enhance border security and emergency communications.  
   Coleman helped lead a bipartisan effort to work out differences between the House and Senate versions of the historic reforms prompted by the findings of the 9/11 Commission findings. Passage of the bill is expected sometime this week. 
   "Today's agreement marks a serious commitment on behalf of Congress and the Administration to significantly increase our nation's ability to track down and deter terrorists and make Americans more secure," Coleman said. "It addresses the central problem identified by the 9/11 Commission that prior to the terrorist attacks of 2001 no one was in charge of our intelligence efforts. This is an historic piece of legislation, and I am pleased that we were able to come to this agreement in a bipartisan way before this Congress ends." 
   As a senator representing a border state, Coleman noted that the bill reflects his priority of significantly increasing border security over the next five years, a key concern raised by Coleman and other public safety officials this past August in a community meeting in International Falls, Minnesota. 
   "A strong defense is America's best tool in the war on terrorism," Coleman said. "At least 10,000 agents will be added to protect U.S. borders, and unmanned aerial vehicles would be used to monitor the border with Canada. There is also room to expand on our detention facilities to detain possible terrorist suspects. This increase in border security is crucial for the future of our nation's defense." 
   Coleman also worked closely with the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities on a proposal to create an Incident Command System, which would enable intelligence agencies and first responders to communicate with each other in case of a natural disaster or terrorist attack. Coleman has pledged to continue to work with Minnesota law enforcement officials to ensure that their voice is heard when decisions on the communications network are made. 
   Additionally, Coleman authored an amendment to preserve the Homeland Security Council as a separate agency within the Executive Office of the President. This body, which works closely with the National Security Council, ensures that interagency issues dealing with homeland security receive high-level attention. 
   The Minnesota Senator also co-authored with Senator Carl Levin (D-MI) an amendment which imposes a one-year moratorium on senior bank examiners before they can accept employment at a bank that they formerly supervised, and requires the Treasury Department to make recommendations on how to strengthen U.S. anti-terrorist financing efforts. 
   Other key provisions in The National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 make Americans safer by: 
   * Creating a strong National Intelligence Director with significant powers to implement common policies dealing with personnel, training, information sharing, and communications systems. The NID will also have strong powers over the budget and personnel decisions within the intelligence community. 
   * Creating a National Counterterrorism Center, which will collect the best people from all agencies and develop a common strategy for combating terror. 
   * Safeguarding privacy and civil liberties by setting up a separate watchdog board to ensure that the new powers are not abused. 
   TEXT OF SENATOR COLEMAN'S REMARKS AT PRESS CONFERENCE ON THE INTELLIGENCE REFORM BILL 
   COLEMAN: Thank you just for the opportunity to be a part of this very important moment. 
   I'll start like everyone else has, and very appropriately, to thank the chair and the ranking member for their leadership. This has been an extraordinary effort. This was not easy, not easy and there are a lot of folks who doubted whether this moment would come. 
   I actually told Susan I never doubted because I know Susan Collins. I got to know Joe Lieberman and they were not going to let us fail. America could not afford to fail. We had to get this done and with the support of the president we're at this moment. 
   Two observations. One, this bill is not a rush to judgment. You have to understand the process. 
   If Pat Roberts could be here - and he can't - chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, played a very active role in this conference committee. He chronicled the many decades of intelligence reform ideas. There's a lot that's been on the table. 
   In addition, we went through a process that me, as a former prosecutor, who understood what it took to do the investigation, prepare the case and then deliver the argument, this was an amazing process. 
   It was so rich and so deep and so thorough and so reflective in a short period of time. So we moved quickly, but no rush to judgment here. This was a very thoughtful reflection of what needed to be done, coming together in a bipartisan way, reaching across in a bicameral way to come to this very significant moment. I think that's absolutely critical to understand. 
   The second reflection, coming from a border community in a small 
  state, so much of what we talk about and the key stuff, most important 
  stuff is we'll have a director of national intelligence and we'll have 
  a national counterterrorism center. 
   But we're also, in this bill, touching upon the needs of folks at the local level: integrated communication systems, so that first responders can actually communicate with each other because God forbid, we face another 9/11. It's the folks at the local level, not the folks at the federal government, who are going to be the first on the scene. We respond to that. 
   There are things that we do, we have for border security, including reflecting on increasing the resources going to border security and making, kind of, easier by the way some of the folks who live on the border, kind of, deal with the reality of their life. There are things in here beyond the big stuff, there are some little things here that in the end are absolutely critical to the security of this nation. 
   And so, in the end, I think this has been a magnificent effort with great leadership that has brought us to a very significant moment.
 
 