HOUSE PASSES MENTAL HEALTH PARITY ACT WITH PROVISION TO STOP MEDICARE TAX CHEATS
  The U.S. House of Representatives today passed an extension of the Mental Health Parity Act of 1996, which included companion legislation to a bill introduced in May by Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Carl Levin (D-MI) that would withhold Medicare payments made to providers who do not pay their taxes. The provision, sponsored in the House by Congressman Rahm Emanuel (D-IL), requires the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to participate in the Federal Payment Levy Program (FPLP). The FPLP levies payments from the federal government to recoup tax debts. 
   According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) more than 21,000 doctors and related health care providers that received Medicare Part B payments in the first nine months of 2005 owed more than $1.3 billion in federal taxes.
   "My investigation revealed that thousands of Medicare providers who are supposed to be serving our nation's elderly and disabled are instead cheating American taxpayers in order to line their pockets," said Senator Coleman. "As a solution, this bill will ensure that CMS participates in the Federal Payment Levy Program so that Medicare payments to these practitioners can be levied. Moreover, it will reduce the number of notices the IRS must send to a delinquent taxpayer before a levy can be imposed. By shortening the time prior to collection, we can enable the government to collect this tax debt earlier."
   "This is simple common sense. The taxpayer should not have to pick up the slack for Medicare providers and suppliers who refuse to pay their taxes," said Emanuel. "Congress has a responsibility to ensure that this kind of abuse by a small number of Medicare providers and suppliers ends."
   Currently, the FPLP levies payments on delinquent taxpayers from the federal government at 15% or more until the outstanding tax debt is recovered. CMS has been participating in FPLP for payments to Medicare Part C and D providers, but has failed to include payments to Medicare Part A and B providers. This bill will require CMS to participate in the FPLP by screening 50% of their Part A and B payments within one year, and all payments by the following year.
   "The process of collecting these outstanding tax debts is often stymied by redundant paperwork and by those who are taking advantage of the system, pushing collection through the FPLP back by months or even years. By shortening the timeframe, this provision would enable the federal government to substantially increase the amount of tax debt to be collected," Coleman added.
   "When dead-beat dads don't pay their child support, we garnish his wages, refuse passports and prevent them from collecting unemployment. This bill will ensure these deadbeat taxpayers do not get away with fleecing the system," said Emanuel.
   Additionally, the bill will include provisions that will make it more feasible for CMS to recover the non-tax debt. And, in an effort to streamline the process, this bill will also authorize the IRS to begin to levy the federal payments after notice and demand have been sent, and allow the levy notice and any appeal proceedings to take place after the levy has been initiated.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 