SEN. COLEMAN TAKES ?ACTION' TO REVERSE DECLINE IN FOREIGN STUDENTS ON U.S. CAMPUSES
  Sen. Norm Coleman will hold summits with educators and college students in Mankato, St. Cloud, and Minneapolis on Friday, February 11th to discuss the American Competitiveness Through International Openness Now (ACTION) Act, new legislation aimed at reversing the decline in foreign students in U.S. higher education. ACTION seeks to reverse this decline by changing the way visa applications are processed, redefining criteria by which visas are issued, and improving communication and the exchange of information between government agencies.  
   "America has a strategic interest in continuing to welcome international students at our colleges, universities, and high schools," said Coleman. "Attracting the world's top scientific scholars helps to keep our economy competitive. It is in our local and national interest for the best and brightest foreign students to study in America because these are people who will lead their nations one day. The experience they gain with our democratic system and our values gives them a better understanding of what America is and who Americans are." 
   International education is a $13 billion business, and foreign students who pay full tuition help keep costs down for American students. Yet policies implemented to keep our country safe in the wake of September 11th have had the unintended consequence of dramatically reducing the number of international students studying here. Total international applications to U.S. graduate schools fell 28 percent during the 2003-04 academic year, and 54 percent of all English as a Second Language (ESL) programs have reported declines in overall applications, while the U.K., Canada, and Australia are experiencing increases. 
   The idea for Coleman's legislation was inspired in part by Humphrey Tusimiirwe, a brilliant student from Uganda who will share his story at the Minneapolis summit. Although Humphrey had been awarded a full scholarship at the University of St. Thomas, he was denied a student visa twice since he could not "prove" his plans to return to his home country because he has no spouse or strong familial connections in Uganda. Only after Coleman's intervention did Humphrey obtain a visa and enroll at St. Thomas. 
   "We do ourselves, both economically and diplomatically, a major disservice if we close our country to qualified, legitimate foreign students," Coleman said. "These summits will be an opportunity to share with those on our Minnesota's college campuses my ideas for improving our current system, as well as an opportunity for me to get real feedback and take suggestions from those already involved and affected by our current policies before I reintroduce the bill. I'm always looking for ways to improve on what's being done, and these summits in Minnesota are a way to do that." 
   Key Provisions of ACTION: 
   * A strategic marketing plan similar to strategies implemented by the U.K., Canada and Australia to help America regain lost ground in attracting the world's best and brightest. 
   * More realistic standards for visa evaluations by updating a 50-year old criterion for visa approval and admittance to the United States. 
   * Common-sense changes to management of the SEVIS system, which tracks international students and visitors. Under this new legislation, the database would be run more effectively. 
   * Sets standards for more timeliness and certainty in the student visa process, upgrading communication between government agencies dealing with student visas and enabling them to identify security risks and clear those who are not a threat more quickly. 
   Format: The format of the summit will include introductory remarks by Senator Coleman to provide a brief overview of ACTION. The panelists will include local educators, business leaders, and students who will discuss the bill, and a brief question and answer period among panelists and the public will follow. There will be media availability immediately following each event. 
   There will be a live webcast from Senator Coleman's website, www.coleman.senate.gov, from the Mankato summit from 9:00-10:00 a.m. CST. 
   * SCHEDULE FOR FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2005 
   MINNESOTA STATE UNIVERSITY, MANKATO 
  9:00 a.m-10:15 a.m. 
  Centennial Student Union 254 
  Mankato, MN 56001 
  Site Contact: Mike Cooper 507-389-6838 
   ST. CLOUD STATE UNIVERSITY 
  11:45 a.m- 1:00 p.m. 
  Miller Center Auditorium (MC-122) 
  James W. Miller Learning Resources Center 
  720 Fourth Avenue South 
  St. Cloud, Minnesota 56301 
  Site Contact: Dr. Chunsheng Zhang, Ph.D. 320-308-4287 
   UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA, MINNEAPOLIS 
  2:30 p.m.-4:00 p.m. 
  Cowles Auditorium 
  HHH Institute of Public Affairs, UOM 
  301 19th Avenue South 
  Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455 
  Site Contact: Jennifer Schulz 
  612-624-0557.
 
 