SEN. COLEMAN REACTS TO PRESIDENT'S BUDGET PROPOSAL
  "Everyone should share the President's goal of cutting the deficit in half in 5 years. The President's budget achieves this by holding spending increases down to 2.1% over last year while still taking care of national priorities like supporting our troops and the War on Terror, protecting our homeland security, and stepping up the fight against Global AIDS.  
   I am very pleased the President included an increase in Pell Grant awards for college students. The Senate passed my amendment to increase Pell Grants last year and I hope to get the job done this Congress. Title I and Special Education, or IDEA, funding is also up which is a good thing. I'm also pleased the President included my request to fully fund the ongoing flood control project in East Grand Forks-Grand Forks this year. 
   Meanwhile the President's budget ensures there are no tax increases on working moms and dads and small businesses. Tax relief has helped heal our economy, creating 2.7 million jobs since May 2003, putting us back on our economic feet so we are more competitive in the world and so we can keep and grow good paying jobs here at home. Raising taxes would hurt our economy and choke off the economic recovery. 
   But, there are some areas where I think the President's budget got it totally wrong. The cuts and changes to the community development block grant (CDBG) program - the lifeblood of community development and revitalization - are nonstarters. The $45 billion in Medicaid cuts to states seems out of line given rising health care costs and already strained state budgets. The cuts and changes to the farm safety net, conservation, and rural development are too deep and set back U.S. agriculture competitiveness, gains in environmental protection, and rural economic development on Main Street. 
   And while I applaud the overall increase in funding for veterans, the new enrollment fees on some veterans for health care treatment and the increased prescription drug co-payments in the president's budget have been proposed in the past and rightly rejected. Finally, I am troubled about proposals in the budget eliminating education and training programs, like Vocational Education and Upward Bound, at a time when up-scaling our workforce is critically important to competing in an increasingly globalized economy. 
   But, at the end of the day, the President's budget proposal is only that: a proposal that starts a much longer conversation in which Congress has the final say. I hope to take the good ideas the President has offered, drop the bad ones, and come up with a budget that cuts the deficit in half. We can do this while holding the line on taxes in order to keep our economy moving in the right direction, and while keeping our commitment to important national priorities."
 
 