SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES NAME OF NEW STATE DIRECTOR
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that Bill Huepenbecker will serve as his new State Director, effective in mid-August. Huepenbecker is the Executive Director of the Saint Paul RiverCentre and will replace Susan Kimberly, who now heads St. Paul's Department of Planning and Economic Development. 
   "I'm very excited to work with Bill again," said Coleman. "He's a very talented and visionary leader. In the past, we brought about many tremendous changes while working for St. Paul.
   I look forward to renewing that same spirit while we work together for all of Minnesota."
   Huepenbecker, a Minnesota native and resident of St. Paul, has had a long history of working for Senator Coleman. Huepenbecker served as Chief of Staff, Deputy Chief of Staff, and Director of Governmental Relations for then Mayor Coleman and played an important role as St. Paul burgeoned under new growth and development, including the emergence of St. Paul's Xcel Center.
   "I'm fully confident that Bill's transition to the office will be a smooth one," said Coleman. "He will join our team already knowledgeable about the legislative process and with strong connections to Washington. But more than that, Bill shares our team's vision of increasing jobs in Minnesota, promoting economic growth, and continuing to build successful relationships with Minnesota's partners.
   "I'm honored to have the opportunity to return to the service of Norm Coleman and to further his mission to serve the people of Minnesota," said Huepenbecker. "At the same time, I am enormously appreciative of the opportunity to work for Mayor Randy Kelly. The leadership of the RiverCentre Board and all of those who work to ensure the success of this facility is something I will cherish throughout my career."
   "Bill's energy and dedication has served St. Paul well," said Mayor Kelly. "I'm fully confident that his service to Senator Coleman and Minnesota will benefit us all. We will miss his presence in the office but still look forward to seeing his positive impact on Minnesota."
   Huepenbecker's previous work includes Legislative Assistant and Committee Administrator for the Senate Commerce Committee for the Minnesota State Senate. In addition, he served as a legislative expert with the firm of Goff and Howard.
   In addition to naming the new State Director, Coleman also announced today that David Bowell has been promoted to Deputy State Director. Bowell is the former Regional Affairs Director and has been with Senator Coleman since 2002 when he served as the campaign's Director of Coalitions.
   "David has been a pivotal part of this team since the beginning," Coleman said. "He will serve this new position well with his broad knowledge of Minnesota."
 
 