SEN. COLEMAN SECURES PROVISION TO 2005 HIGHWAY BILL TO IMPROVE MOORHEAD TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
  Sen. Norm Coleman commended the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee (EPW) for approving a bill yesterday that will make technical corrections to the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act - A Legacy for Users Act of 2005 (SAFETEA-LU), also known as the 2005 Highway Bill. The 2005 Highway Bill provides $286.5 billion over five years to improve transportation infrastructure throughout the United States. The technical corrections bill approved by the Senate EPW Committee will make technical changes to several important projects secured by Sen. Coleman in the 2005 Highway Bill to ensure that they can be carried out as planned.  
   Specifically, the 2005 Highway Bill included $13 million for the City of Moorhead for access and safety improvements access from I-94 to Southeast Main Avenue. Because of a technical interpretation of the original bill, the city has been unable to use the funding as originally planned. With this correction, the city will be able to more effectively use this funding to meet the original objectives of the project. 
   "The Senate's passage of the 2005 Highway bill was a breakthrough for Minnesota transportation," Coleman said. "I fought hard to make this bill a reality and I am proud to see this work pay off as improvements are taking place across our state. As former mayor of St. Paul, I am well aware that infrastructure improvements are critical for safety and development in our cities. Moorhead is a perfect example of this relationship, as their project will not only attract economic development but also improve traffic flow while providing peace of mind for families through increased safety." 
   "The City of Moorhead is excited to learn of the success of Senator Coleman in securing the technical corrections to SAFTEA-LU legislation," says Mayor Mark Voxland. "This important correction will assist Moorhead greatly in the flexibility needed to most effectively use federal funds allocated for critical infrastructure improvements." 
   According to City Council Member and Metropolitan Council of Government Representative John Rowell, "the technical corrections language will also do much to enhance the safety aspects of Moorhead's transportation projects, in particular along Interstate 94 and the 34th Street Corridor. Our focus has always been on improving the overall safety of Moorhead's transportation network. The leadership of Senator Coleman, along with strong bi-partisan support from Senator Klobuchar and Representative Peterson, is now making this objective a reality." 
   The 2005 Highway Bill provided Minnesota with $3 billion for the state's transportation needs, an increase of 46 percent and the second highest increase in the country. The bill also contributed to significant new road construction and thousands of new jobs statewide. Specifically, the bill provided $70 million for 17 key Minnesota highway projects, include including $80 million for the Northstar Commuter Rail Project and $50 million for the Union Depot Project in St. Paul. 
   "The Highway bill has resulted in improved commuting times, increased safety, and healthier highways and roadways across Minnesota," added Coleman. "In addition to keeping our roads safe, this bill is helping to create thousands of new, good paying jobs in Minnesota. Making critical improvements to our infrastructure is absolutely vital if Minnesota is to remain competitive in an increasingly global economy."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 