SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES EXPECTED DECISION TO TEMPORARILY SUSPEND PASSPORT REQUIREMENT
  Sen. Norm Coleman today hailed the expected announcement of a temporary suspension of the current passport requirement for U.S. citizens traveling by air to Mexico or Canada. The requirement, instituted in January of this year, was the first phase in the proposed Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative that would eventually require similar documentation for land and sea travel as early as January 2008. A decision to suspend the current requirement for air travel, expected to last through the summer, is likely to come as early as tomorrow. During the suspension, travelers would still need a "passport receipt" proving they had applied for a passport.  
   "The expected announcement by the Administration to temporarily suspend the passport requirement for air travel by U.S. citizens to Canada and Mexico is the right thing to do and underscores the exact problems we have identified in recent weeks and months," said Coleman. "Since the first phase of WHTI went into effect in January, my office has been inundated with over a thousand passport cases from folks who had applied well within the recommended timeframe but had not been processed by the State Department in time for their trips. Clearly, the government was not ready to handle this new requirement. Temporary suspension will allow us to catch our breath and address the problems that have led to this fiasco."
   Coleman has been an outspoken voice in raising concerns about the ability of the government to handle the new requirements, and their impact on border residents and other travelers. Following the crunch in passport applications this spring, Coleman met with the top State Department official in charge of the passport process and pressed for quick action to address the massive backlog. He also held a meeting with the Treasury Department, which is in charge of passport payments, and had been similarly delayed in their processing. Coleman has also introduced legislation to ensure that this problem does not recur again next year, when passports or new passport cards become necessary for travel by land or sea. The Western Hemisphere Traveler Improvement Act requires the Secretary of State to certify capacity to process passports within eight weeks before moving ahead with the land phase of WHTI. 
   "While I am relieved by the expected decision tomorrow, it will mean little in the long term if we do not take the lessons learned and ensure that the government is fully capable of handling the influx of applications for land and sea travel in the future," said Coleman. "While the expected suspension should have been implemented months ago, it shows that the Administration is listening to us and gives me hope as we continue working on this critical issue. This is good news, but I urge travelers to continue to apply for passports early and contact my office with any questions or problems. We continue to stand ready to help."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 