SEN. COLEMAN PRAISES SENATE PASSAGE OF $1 BILLION IN ADDITIONAL LOW-INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced that the Senate today voted to approve the Low Income Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP) bill he coauthored to deliver $1 billion to states for home energy assistance programs for low-income households. The measure will provide $500 million in additional LIHEAP formula funding and $500 million in LIHEAP contingency funds the Administration can use to meet immediate needs. The low-income heating assistance fund provides crucial funding for over 140,000 Minnesotans in dire need of heating assistance this year.  
   Minnesota is one of the coldest states in the country, and natural gas prices have risen dramatically in the past year. Natural gas users saw double digit increases last year, and families on average are likely to experience up to a 35 percent increase this year. With over 60 percent of all LIHEAP households in Minnesota heating their homes with natural gas, families across my state are facing a tangible burden as heating bills continue to rise. These costs hit low income households and fixed income seniors the hardest, a blow LIHEAP is designed to soften. 
   Coleman is a consistent supporter of increased funding for LIHEAP. In December, Senators Coleman, Snowe, and Collins successfully secured a commitment from Senate Leadership to move additional LIHEAP funding forward in the Senate. That commitment culminated in the Senate vote today to provide the additional energy assistance. 
   "When Americans face desperate situations, the Senate has a long tradition of ignoring partisan and regional divisions to produce relief - we come together as citizens of the same Nation, with a spirit of cooperation," Coleman said on the Senate floor. "With the passage of $1 billion more in LIHEAP funding, the Senate has again proven that it can respond to real needs across the country. I've seen the faces of those who need this assistance, and for those working to get back on their feet, the high heating prices they are enduring this winter of are a cruel burden. I am proud to say that today my colleagues offered a helping hand to meet the needs of those who need it most." 
   On March 1, 2006, Senator Coleman sent a letter to the President urging him to immediately release the remaining balance of funds in the LIHEAP contingency fund. On February 13th, Coleman held a hearing in St. Paul to address the volatility in the Natural Gas Market to assess the impact the high prices of gas has had on Minnesotan consumers, businesses, and families. Following passage of LIHEAP assistance today by the U.S. Senate, the measure will move forward for consideration by the House of Representatives.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 