MORTGAGE RELIEF BILL INCLUDES SEN. COLEMAN PLAN TO PROTECT VETERANS FROM FORECLOSURE
  Continuing his efforts to address the subprime mortgage crisis, Senator Norm Coleman joined lead sponsor Kit Bond (R-MO) today in introducing the Security Against Foreclosure and Education (SAFE) Act to assist distressed homeowners, provide critical housing related tax relief and strengthen mortgage disclosure. The bill includes a provision Coleman authored to protect returning servicemembers from the threat of foreclosure. Current law provides our men and women in uniform a three month window after separating from the armed forces to work out mortgage difficulties they may have encountered while in the service of our nation. The Coleman provision would double this protection to six months in recognition of the service our troops are providing in these difficult economic times. The SAFE Act is cosponsored by McConnell, Alexander, Allard, Chambliss, Cornyn, Craig, Dole, Hutchison, Inhofe, Isakson, and Stevens. 
   "The subprime mortgage crisis is devastating families and communities, and is having ripple effects throughout our economy," Coleman said. "This package contains a number of consensus proposals that will help stem the tide of this crisis and give deserving homeowners a chance to stay in their homes. I'm particularly pleased this bill includes my provision to give returning veterans and servicemembers additional protection from foreclosure. These brave men and women have made incredible sacrifices on behalf of our nation. They shouldn't be penalized by the threat of losing their home because of difficulties they faced in their service abroad. I'm hopeful that the Senate will be able to act quickly on these widely-accepted proposals."
   In addition to Coleman's proposal to assist veterans and servicemembers, the SAFE Act includes: $10 billion in mortgage revenue bonds for the refinancing of subprime mortgages; $180 million in loan counseling funds; a $15,000 tax credit for the purchase of foreclosed homes; Truth in Lending Act reform to improve mortgage disclosures, a temporary expansion of theNet Operating Loss Carryback tax provision to help businesses affected by the housing downturn, and Senate passed-FHA reform.
   Senator Coleman previously introduced the Home Ownership Mortgage Emergency Act (HOME) Act, which would give homeowners who are 60 days late in their mortgage payments the option of withdrawing up to $100,000 penalty-free from their retirement accounts through 2009, as long as they pay back such funds within three years.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 