SEN. COLEMAN, COLLEAGUES URGE BUDGET COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN TO MAINTAIN COMMITMENT MADE TO FARM FAMILIES, RURAL COMMUNITIES UNDER CURRENT FARM POLICY
  Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN), along with Sens. Jim Talent (R-MO) Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) and Mark Pryor (D-AR), today sent a letter to Senate Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg (R-NH) signed by more than 20 of their colleagues urging him to maintain the commitment made to American farm families and rural communities under current U.S. farm policy by rejecting any mandatory cuts to agriculture in the fiscal year 2007 budget resolution. Last month, President Bush introduced the Administration's budget for 2007, which included a total of $9 billion in cuts to agriculture commodity programs.  
   "At a time when energy prices are high, commodity prices are low, and the U.S. is engaged in a major world trade negotiation, now is hardly the time to unilaterally disarm American farmers and ranchers," said Coleman. "Unfortunately, that is exactly what this budget would do. It would blow a nearly $9 billion hole right through the farm safety net and it employs bad policy to do it, including tax increases on sugar and dairy farmers. The Administration's agriculture budget is a nonstarter." 
   In the letter to Chairman Gregg, the senators cite that fact that U.S. farm policy for commodities has already significantly contributed to deficit reduction by achieving $12.9 billion in savings compared to the Congressional Budget Office's August 2002 projection. These numbers do not include the savings generated by the $38 million in annual cuts to Federal Crop Insurance resulting from the renegotiation of the Standard Reinsurance Agreement with crop insurance providers or the $2.7 billion in savings to be achieved over the next 5 years as a consequence of last year's budget reconciliation. 
   "While I am committed to the goal of deficit reduction, the reality is that U.S. farm policy has already contributed substantially to deficit reduction," Coleman added. "Compounding the burden this budget would place on our farmers is the fact it proposes disruptive changes to the Farm Bill, undermining the ability of America's farmers to operate their businesses and, in the end, continue to feed the nation." 
   The Senators' letter was sent in advance of the Budget Committee's markup, which is Congress's first step in the budget process and is expected to begin tomorrow. Last year, Coleman led a similar effort, ultimately helping to fend off deep cuts to the overall agriculture budget. 
   "Since 2003, I have successfully led bipartisan efforts in the U.S. Senate to protect this farm bill," Coleman concluded. "I fully intend to continue this fight for Minnesota's farmers as Congress crafts a budget for 2007."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 