SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS BIPARTISAN COMMISSION ON MILITARY HOSPITALS
  Following the recent reports of appalling conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded the appointment of an independent, bipartisan commission to investigate the outpatient facilities and treatment of veterans and servicemembers at the nation's military and veteran's hospitals, calling it an important first step to ensure that all servicemembers receive the best care possible.  
   "The recent revelations of the appalling conditions at Walter Reed Hospital are unacceptable, and I commend the president for acting quickly to rectify this serious problem," said Coleman. "Our brave men and women in uniform make sacrifices every day to protect our nation, and they deserve nothing less than the absolute best care possible. This commission is an important first step in ensuring this problem is addressed at Walter Reed, and that is does not happen elsewhere." 
   President Bush has announced the creation of an independent commission, headed by former Senator Bob Dole and former Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala, to lead an investigation into problems at the nation's military and veterans' hospitals, including Walter Reed. The President's 'Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors' will recommend ways to improve the transition from deployment to other military service or civilian life, ensure high-quality services for returning wounded servicemembers and increase access to benefits and services. Additionally, commission members will consult with foundations, veterans service organizations, non-profit groups, and faith-based organizations as they move forward. 
   "Former Senator Dole and former Secretary Shalala have the credibility and experience to lead this investigation and I am confident they will find effective ways to address this issue," said Coleman. "I had the honor of meeting with leaders of the Minnesota VFW and the American Legion in Washington this week to get their input as this process moves forward, and I am committed to continuing my work as a senator to not only ensure our fighting men and women are fully supported when they are deployed, but that they are fully taken care of here at home."
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 