SEN. COLEMAN APPLAUDS PRESIDENT BUSH'S STRONG ENDORSEMENT OF MILK BILL
  Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today applauded President George W. Bush's endorsement of his bill to extend the Milk Income Loss Compensation Program, commonly known as MILC. This legislation, first authorized in the 2002 Farm Bill, has served as a critical safety net to Upper Midwest dairy farm families when milk prices were depressed. 
   "Earlier this year I introduced legislation to extend the MILC program that has been a critical safety net for Upper Midwest dairy farm families," said Coleman. "The MILC program is the only program that treats Upper Midwest dairy farmers fairly and provides them with the strong safety net they need to weather the kind of low prices we saw not all that long ago when prices dipped to 25 year lows."
   Coleman noted that his legislation, introduced in July, would extend the MILC program through 2007 to coincide with the rest of the farm safety net provisions for other agricultural producers. Without Coleman's bill, the main safety net for Upper Midwest dairy farmers would expire in 2005. The MILC legislation is a bipartisan bill enjoying broad, bipartisan support from all over the country, rare in a political season and particularly on the issue of federal dairy policy.
   "I have worked very hard to keep partisan politics away from this important issue," said Coleman. "I worked hard to attract both Republican and Democrat support in the Senate from inside and outside the Upper Midwest because this issue is too important to be jeopardized by political or regional divides. So, I am very disappointed that Senator Kerry and the Democratic National Committee have decided to drag this issue into partisan presidential politics."
   "The fact is that John Kerry has been an arch enemy to the Upper Midwest on federal dairy policy, as evidenced by his repeated support of dairy compacts that openly discriminate against Upper Midwest dairy farm families," said Coleman. "President Bush has always opposed these discriminatory compacts and he is a strong supporter of the MILC program, a program that treats all dairy farmers fairly and which replaced Kerry's compacts."
   Coleman expressed hope he could move his MILC legislation yet this year.
   "The MILC program has provided nearly three quarters of a billion dollars in safety net support to Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Iowa dairy farm families when prices tanked to 25-year lows not long ago," said Coleman. "I commend President Bush for endorsing the extension of this program and giving this bill the momentum it needs to become law."
 
 