SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $2.6 MILLION FOR CITY OF EMILY
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that the City of Emily will receive a $1,637,000 low interest loan and a $955,000 grant from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). The $2,592,000 in funds will help this town of 857 residents in north-central Minnesota update its wastewater infrastructure. 
   Emily has been working on securing funds for this project for the past five years. Coleman had been working closely with officials of Emily and USDA. In June, he discussed securing funds for the project with Hilda Gay Legg, Administrator of the USDA Rural Utilities Service.
   "Our small towns cannot thrive, attract businesses and residents, and grow economically without basic working infrastructure," said Coleman. "A new wastewater facility was of vital importance to the City of Emily, and it needed to be fully funded in order to help the city to grow and develop. President Bush knows that in order for rural communities to share in the current economic recovery, there must be an investment in basic rural infrastructure. This project could not have happened without USDA's assistance, and I'm glad that the Administration recognizes the importance these funds have on rural Minnesota."
   "This money will be positive for Emily," said Mayor Bonnie Kile. "This project has been five years of hard work. We are growing, and with new sewers, we will be able to have senior housing. It'll be positive for business, too. We're expecting to grow at a tremendous rate, and we need something like this to stay modern and move ahead."
   The City of Emily is located 30 miles north of Brainerd, a region of Crow County surrounded by over 30 lakes. The money will construct a gravity collection system to be utilized in the downtown sector of the community.
   Presentation of the funds will take place on Wednesday, September 8, 2004 at 3:30 pm at Emily City Park, which is adjacent to Emily City Hall. Carl Kuhl, a representative for Senator Coleman will be on hand with Curtis Anderson, Deputy Administrator USDA Rural Development, and Steve Wenzel, State Director USDA Rural Development to present the award to City of Emily Mayor Bonnie Kile.
 
 