SENATE PASSES EDUCATION BILL CONTAINING KEY SEN. COLEMAN AMENDMENT
  The Untied States Senate today passed the College Cost Reduction and Access Act by a vote of 79 to 12, which contained a critical amendment authored by Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Mary Landrieu (D-LA). Coleman's provision, known as the Fostering Adoption to Further Student Achievement Act, ensures adopted teenagers who seek an education are not forced to choose between a loving family and financial aid for college. 
   "Too often, foster teens are forced to choose between a loving family and a quality education - when in reality both are needed to thrive in today's world," said Coleman. "We ought to be encouraging, not discouraging, teen adoptions to provide the stability these children need. This bill now heads to the President's desk and his signature will mark the final step in making this much-needed change on behalf of foster children."  
   "This legislation helps tip the scale in the youth's favor, making adoption more likely for even the oldest youth in foster care," said Michelle Chalmers of the Minnesota Adoption Resource Network. "I can name dozens of Minnesota youth whose odds of joining an adoptive family and being able to afford college both increased exponentially with the passage of this bill." 
   Under current law, youth who "age out" of the foster care system qualify for virtually all loans and grants, while those who are adopted are essentially penalized in terms of college financial aid eligibility. The Coleman-Landrieu measure amends the definition of "independent student" as defined in current law to include foster care youth who are adopted after their 13th birthday. This will allow for a student's financial aid eligibility to be determined solely by the student's ability to pay, regardless of his or her adoptive family's income level. This recognizes that families who adopt teenagers and pre-teens may have not been able to plan a college savings account for them. 
   In addition to Coleman's provision, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act: 
   Increases the Maximum Pell Grant by $490 next year and to $5,400 by the year 2012 (the current maximum is $4,310) 
   Increases the family income level under which a student is automatically eligible for the maximum pell grant from $20,000 per year to $30,000 and indexes this level to the Consumer Price Index 
   Provides an additional $228 million over the years 2008 - 2011 for the upward bound programs that did not receive assistance in Fiscal Year 2007 and received a grant score above 70 
   Creates the "TEACH" (Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education) grant program which provide up-front pre-paid tuition assistance of $4,000 per year ($16,000 maximum) to graduate and undergraduate students who commit to teaching in a high-need school for four years 
   Eliminates a three-year limitation on the period for which certain members of the armed forces may receive deferments on the interest on their student loan payments 
   Allows active duty members of the armed services, including members of the National Guard to receive extended repayment on loan terms of up to 13 months upon return from active duty 
   Creates a loan forgiveness program for public service employees. Under the plan, loan balances under the Direct Loan program will be cancelled for a borrower who has been employed in a public sector job (emergency management, military service, law enforcement, public education, and public child care) and making payments on the loan for ten years. 
   Reduces interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans for undergraduates to 3.4% by 2012 (6.12% on July 1, 2008 - 5.44% in 2009, 4.76% in 2010, 4.08% in 2011)
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 