DEFENSE SECRETARY GATES RESPONDS TO SEN. COLEMAN'S REQUEST TO LIFT 60-DAY HANDS-OFF POLICY FOR RETURNING MINNESOTA TROOPS
  Defense Secretary Robert Gates announced today the Department of Defense will support Senator Norm Coleman's efforts aimed at easing the Minnesota National Guard's reintegration back into civilian life. Secretary Gates stated that the Pentagon will rescind their 60-day "hands-off policy" on a pilot bases for Minnesota National Guard and Reserve troops returning home from combat in order to facilitate the reintegration programs under Minnesota's Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program. Gates also requested of Pentagon officials additional information to ensure returning Guard and reserve troops are afforded the same level of reintegration support given to active duty troops, with necessary modifications due to the different circumstances facing the reserve component.  
   "Full implementation of the Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program, by reversing the 60-day "hands-off" policy, is a critical component of a soldier's adjustment back into their home and their overall reintegration back into civilian life. I have worked long and hard to put these initiatives on the top of the nation's priority list. I applaud Secretary Gates for recognizing what I have been stressing for so long, and urge him to begin thinking about a nationwide approach modeled after Minnesota. I look forward to working with him and the rest of the Department in welcoming our troops home and making their transition into civilian life as easy as possible." 
   Coleman, along with Senator Amy Klobuchar, introduced the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program Act of 2007, which would create a nation-wide program for reintegration of National Guard soldiers based on the Minnesota National Guard's Beyond the Yellow Ribbon Program. It provides informational events and activities to assist National Guard soldiers, families and community members through all phases of their deployment cycle including pre and post-deployment. The legislation calls for events and activities including, family and marriage counseling, financial planning, educational benefits, small business planning, community outreach, and healthcare and veterans benefits education. It also provides reintegration activity seminars 30, 60 and 90 days after the troops return home to assist returning troops and their families with specific challenges presented by the reintegration process. The bill also creates of an Office for Reintegration Programs within the National Guard Bureau to implement and monitor the effectiveness of the program. 
   Last month, Coleman called Secretary Gates to urge him to rescind the Defense Department's 60-day "hands-off policy" for National Guard and Reserve troops returning home from combat. Currently, military officials cannot require returning National Guard troops to perform any mandatory activities within the first 60 days of their return from combat. Coleman has met with numerous Minnesota National Guard soldiers who have told him repeatedly that while this policy is well intentioned, it doesn't maximize participation in activities where troops can reconnect with their comrades to address the challenges they are confronting upon their return home.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 