SEN. COLEMAN PUSHES CREATION OF INDEPENDENT ETHICS COMMISSION AT SENATE RULES COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Norm Coleman today testified before the Senate Rules Committee hearing to urge the adoption of his bipartisan legislation introduced with Senator Ben Nelson (D-NE) to form the Commission to Strengthen Confidence in Congress (CSCC), an independent, bipartisan commission to bring greater transparency and long-term reform to Washington. Sens. Wayne Allard (R - CO), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Michael Enzi (R-WY), Craig Thomas (R-WY) and Conrad Burns (R-MT) have also cosponsored this legislation.  
   The Commission, modeled after the 9-11 Commission, will be comprised of an equal number of Republicans and Democrats and will be chosen by both the House and Senate leadership of both parties. The Commission will issue its first report containing findings, conclusions and recommendations for corrective measures on July 1, 2006, with annual reports thereafter to monitor Congressional progress in implementing reform and make additional recommendations. The Commission will also be given the ability to hold hearings in order to carry out its duties. 
   "This Commission is designed to take the politics and partisanship out of the debate and put the issue in the hands of bipartisan, independent and wise leaders who can strike a proper balance that will both restore confidence and preserve the best of how the legislative branch operates today," said Coleman. "While I support the adoption of immediate short-term reform measures, such as the McCain-Lieberman bill, I believe we also need an independent and bipartisan panel to examine Congressional ethics over the long term, from the outside looking in. With the creation of the Commission, we can seize the historic opportunity to position the United States Congress to govern more effectively, transparently, confidently, and with the trust and faith of the American people well into the new Century." 
   The Committee also heard testimony from Senators Baraka Obama (D-IL), John McCain (R-AZ), and Russ Feingold (D-WI).
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 