SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES $230,000 FOR WEST CENTRAL MINNESOTA COMMUNITIES ACTION, IN ELBOW LAKE
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced West Central Minnesota Communities Action, Inc., based in Elbow Lake, has been awarded a $230,000 grant from the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The funding, recently administered as a discretionary HHS grant, is slated to be used as part of WCMCA's Assets for Independence Demonstration program, which aims to improve asset accumulation opportunities for low-income individuals and families.  
   "I am excited to announce that West Central Minnesota Communities Action will receive this grant," said Coleman. "This grant will help them continue their work to combat the effects of poverty in rural Minnesota communities and help empower individuals as they look to strengthen their financial independence. I am pleased that WCMCA received this funding and I applaud the Department of Health and Human Services for awarding this grant." 
   "Individual Development Accounts are perhaps the best opportunity for working poor families to escape poverty," said WCMCA Executive Director Steve Nagle. "West Central Minnesota Communities Action is excited to be partnering with Twin Cities United Way to help families save for post secondary education, small business investment, and home purchases." 
   WCMCA is located in Elbow Lake, Minnesota and the majority of their programs serve low-income residents in the surrounding west-central Minnesota counties of Douglas, Grant, Pope, Stevens, and Traverse, although certain programs extend to other counties as well. The mission of WCMCA is reducing the effects of poverty, helping individuals achieve self-sufficiency, and improving the quality of life in rural communities. 
   The primary goal of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is to protect the health of all Americans and provide essential human services. HHS administers more grant dollars than all other federal agencies combined and works with state and local governments to efficiently provide funding for a variety of health, housing, employment, and community issues.
 
 