SEN. COLEMAN SELECTED TO JOIN SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING
  Eager to tackle the challenges confronting the increasing number of baby boomers approaching retirement, Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman today was selected to join the U.S. Senate Special Committee on Aging, which looks out for the interests of America's seniors. Among the many issues impacting senior citizens, the committee will continue exploring advanced medical research to combat diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's; oversight of Medicaid and Medicare; issues such as prescription drugs; and Social Security reform.  
   "As a new member of this committee, I hope to continue its proud tradition of bringing the issues of our aging population to the forefront of our national debate," said Coleman. "As the needs of the baby boomer generation increase over the next 10 years, Congress must look at how we can improve the health care system for our nation's seniors. I will also continue working with Minnesota's medical alley on exploring ways we can improve the quality of life for our seniors." 
   Senator Coleman has been a leading advocate for improving the lives of seniors. During the last session of Congress, he introduced legislation to establish the Consortium on the Impact of Technology in Aging Services. The consortium will be charged with studying how technological advances can be used to support elders, families and communities as the demand for healthcare and aging services increases exponentially. 
   "I am concerned that we have not yet developed solutions to foster continued independence, mobility and quality of life for older adults," Coleman added. "Current and emerging technology may be the key to ensuring that baby boomers are able to maintain their quality of life by staying active, living in their own homes and engaging in the workforce as long as they please, well into their senior years. The appropriate use of this technology will also help us control spiraling healthcare costs. I am focused on finding a solution that brings the public and private sectors together to build a national infrastructure to support the health of older adults, their families and communities."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 