SEN. COLEMAN SPEAKS ON SENATE FLOOR HONORING PRESIDENT REAGAN
  Sen. Coleman's Statement on Senate Floor Honoring President Ronald Reagan
   "It's an honor, Mr. President, to join with my colleagues here on the floor to express our thoughts of remembrance and admiration for the life of Ronald Reagan. 
   For those who grew up in the Midwest, and those like myself who have made it our home, Ronald Reagan has a special significance. Places like Dixon, Illinois have been dubbed "fly-overs" by the sophisticated and powerful who live on the coasts. But we know places like that are the heartland: strong, simple and true. What we love about the Midwest is what America and the world have come to appreciate about Ronald Reagan.
   To go on and on in flowery rhetoric about Ronald Reagan would not fit the subject matter. As he did so well, his life deserves a few, well chosen words.
   Oscar Wilde once said, "Life is not complex. We are complex. Life is simple and the simple thing is the right thing." Ronald Reagan could have said that, because he sure lived it.
   Democracy is superior to communism. America is the world's best hope. Liberty requires limited government. The best is yet to come.
   Those were Ronald Reagan's moral anchors from the start of his public life to the end. Without deviation, they shaped his outlook and actions for half a century.
   He certainly didn't originate any of them. But we all know they are far more prominent in the fabric of American life because of the power of his witness.
   In the last few days, we are hearing a lot about Reagan as the Great Communicator but I think too much emphasis is being put on the craft.
   As far as Ronald Reagan was concerned, the key to being a good communicator was this: having something to say. He was the message he delivered and so he touched hearts and changed minds.
   He understood that the key to American progress was our spirit. Resources, wealth, and past accomplishments have ruined more people and nations than they have made. He knew we needed a sense of the heroic, a stirring of our souls to rise above selfishness, division and fear. He inspired us.
   He restored our confidence in the idea of leadership. Vietnam, Watergate, inflation, gas lines and the hostage crisis were causing many to wonder if the American hour had passed. Not Ronald Reagan. He stubbornly held onto a wonderful vision of the future rather than focus on temporary negative circumstances. He led us.
   And perhaps of greatest importance, by his own choice, Ronald Reagan was not the star of our dramatic national resurgence. Neither was government. In Reagan's mind and words, the heroes who restored the American economy and won the Cold War were ordinary Americans doing their simple duty, kind of like a national barn-raising. He united us.
   I also grew up as a democrat. He deeply inspired me, and had a lot to do with the fact that I'm sitting on this side of the Senate chamber instead of over there. But it wasn't about politics, it was about results.
   Ronald Reagan would be honored I think, that we're shutting down the federal government on Friday. His only concern might be that we're starting it up again on Monday.
   Ronald Reagan changed us and that transformed the world, without a doubt. Some days, I get concerned that we're changing back.
   As we remember his life, I hope we all remember that the simple things are the right things: freedom; hope; liberty and optimism.
   I thank God that he gave us Ronald Reagan when we needed him most. Now, this is our time. I pray that we will courageously follow his example and embrace America's destiny in this challenging hour."
 
 