SEN. COLEMAN TO HOLD SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING ON POSSIBLE PASSPORT REQUIREMENT FOR TRAVELERS BETWEEN U.S., CANADA, MEXICO
  This Thursday, Sen. Norm Coleman, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps, and Narcotics Affairs, will hold a hearing entitled "Safety and Convenience in Cross-Border Travel: An Analysis of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative" on the proposed passport requirement for travelers between the United States, Canada, and Mexico. The hearing will examine how the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative would impact trade and travel between the nations, as well as examine the options for what type of documentation would be deemed acceptable for travel.  
   "This hearing will bring us one step closer to finding a solution to this problem, whether it can be accomplished administratively or through legislation," said Coleman. "Canada is America's most important trading partner, with over $1.6 billion worth of goods crossing the border each day, 16 million Canadians visiting the United States each year, and 14.2 million Americans visiting Canada annually. While it is important for us to enhance the security of our borders, we need to do so in a way that does not disrupt our economic relations. Requiring a Passport, in my judgment, is over the top." 
   On April 6, the Departments of State and Homeland Security announced plans, called the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, to require all U.S. citizens, Canadians, citizens of Bermuda, and citizens of Mexico to have a passport or other accepted secure document establishing citizenship to enter or re-enter United States. This program is scheduled to be phased in starting at the end of this year and will take effect for all travel on January 1, 2008. 
   In response, Senator Coleman sent a letter to the Departments of State and Homeland Security officials expressing his serious concern with the initiative that might necessitate American and Canadian citizens to carry a passport each and every time they cross the U.S. - Canadian Border, seriously hampering border crossings vital to Minnesota's economy. 
   "While the National Intelligence Reform Act clearly requires enhanced U.S. border security, including documentation that more clearly denotes identity and citizenship, the possible requirement of passports as opposed to other forms of identification could create undue hardship and burden on legitimate interstate travel between the United States and our neighbors," Coleman wrote in his letter. 
   Following his letter, Senator Coleman met with Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Maura Harty and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Border and Transportation Security Michael Neifach to discuss possible remedies for the passport requirement. 
   "I had a productive meeting with Maura Harty and Michael Neifach," Coleman said. "My message was that while I believe we need to do a better job of monitoring who is coming in and out of out country, we need to make sure this program works for ordinary Americans as well as visiting neighbors with legitimate business in our country. I think that a passport requirement has the potential to be a real burden on residents of northern Minnesota, and if this problem cannot be fixed administratively, I am prepared to introduce legislation to remedy it." 
   Witnesses include: 
   The Honorable Elaine Dezinski 
  Acting Assistant Secretary for Policy and Planning 
  Border and Transportation Security Directorate 
  Department of Homeland Security 
  Washington, DC 
   Mr. Frank Moss 
  Deputy Assistant Secretary for Passport Services 
  Bureau of Consular Affairs 
  Department of State 
  Washington, DC 
   Mr. Paul Ruden 
  Senior Vice President of Legal and Industry Affairs 
  American Society of Travel Agents 
  Alexandria, VA 
   Dr. Robert Pastor 
  Vice President of International Affairs and Professor of International Relations 
  School of International Service 
  American University 
  Washington, DC 
   NOTE: Hearing will be held in room 216 of the Hart Senate Office Building at 2:30 pm EST/1:30 pm CST. To watch a live broadcast of the hearing, please follow the link provided below: 
  www.coleman.senate.gov
   Contact: Tom Steward, 651/645-0323; Andy Brehm, 202/224-5641; Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323; LeRoy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 