SEN. COLEMAN, COLLEAGUES, MINNESOTA FAMILY, AND NHL TEAM UP TO FIGHT CHILDHOOD CANCER
  Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jim Talent (R-MO), and Rep. Deborah Pryce (R-OH) today teamed up with the NHL and CureSearch Foundation, along with a New Prague, Minnesota family who has struggled with cancer, during a Wednesday joint press conference where they introduced important legislation encouraging the expansion of research programs aimed at preventing childhood cancer. Cancer is the number one disease killer of children, and more than 12, 500 children are diagnosed with cancer each year. 
   The bill - the Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2006 - is designed to provide funds to raise awareness about childhood cancer and support children and their families who are suffering from this disease. Cosponsors of the bill are Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN), Jack Reed (D-RI), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Jim Talent (R-MO), Thad Chochran (R-MS), Jim Bunning (R-KY), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), Tom Carper (D-DE), and Mary Landrieu (D-LA)  
   "I am proud to introduce the Conquer Childhood Cancer Act with my fellow colleagues to fight this terrible disease," Coleman said. "Cancer is the number one disease killer of children and until we meet the day when every child can live a life free of cancer, we must continue to promote awareness and strengthen our investment in childhood cancer research. Our legislation will give a voice to the thousands of children and families in the United States who have been touched by childhood cancer. It provides the thousands of physicians, nurses and scientists the tools they need to find a cure." 
   Each year, cancer claims the lives of over 2,000 children while an additional 10,000 are diagnosed with the disease. The Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2006, which will distribute $20 million per year over a 5-year period. In addition to creating a biomedical research program aimed at curing and preventing childhood cancer, the legislation will establish a national childhood cancer registry to monitor the incidence of childhood cancers, support a long-term survivorship center and provide informational and educational services. 
   Wednesday's press conference was attended by families who have been directly affected by the devastation of childhood cancer - including Kris Rech, a New Prague, Minnesota resident, and her four-year-old son Wyatt, who was recently diagnosed with a form of kidney cancer. 
   "The introduction of the bill has strengthened my need to advocate not only for Wyatt, but for other families who have a child diagnosed with cancer," Rech said. "I never imagined that as a result of sharing our story with Senator Coleman that this bill would be introduced bringing increased awareness of childhood cancer and the need for additional research. Wyatt, being only 4 years old, is unaware of the significance of the bill. In the years to come I hope that he will be able to look back and see the introduction of the Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2006 as a beginning of possibilities for every courageous child diagnosed with cancer and their families." 
   CureSearch - the world's largest childhood cancer research organization - has teamed up with the National Hockey League (NHL) to raise money and awareness for cancer, and has worked closely with the senators in highlighting the needs of this important legislation. The NHL's partnership with CureSearch is an expansion of the NHL Foundation's "Hockey Fights Cancer" joint charitable initiative to raise money and awareness for cancer patients. 
   "CureSearch is extremely grateful to the Senate champions who are shining a national spotlight on the issue of childhood cancer by making children with cancer a public policy priority through the introduction of the Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2006," said Paul Burke, President of CureSearch National Childhood Cancer Foundation. "Thanks to their dedicated support and leadership, we are one step closer to reaching the day when every child with cancer can be guaranteed a cure." 
   "The National Hockey League is dedicated to the fight against childhood cancer and proud to be associated with CureSearch through the Hockey Fights Cancer program," said Ken Martin, Director, Community & Diversity Programming, NHL. "We are honored to be present for the introduction of the Conquer Childhood Cancer Act. We believe this event will be a unique opportunity to spotlight the cause of childhood cancer, the tremendous leadership in the United States Senate and our shared effort to find a cure for childhood cancer." 
   Also attending Wednesday's press conference was Dr. Maura O'Leary, a practicing Pediatric Hematologist-Oncologist for more than 25 years and member of the Children's Oncology Group. 
   "Over my 35 years in the medical community, I have seen remarkable progress in the treatment of childhood cancer," said Dr. O'Leary. "This has been due to the government's commitment to research through the National Cancer Institute and the clinical trials network. Unfortunately, funding is now at 50 percent of our original budges and to continue with the research plans for the next five years, we will need additional support that will allow us to treat successfully the one in 330 children that will develop cancer in their lifetime."
 
 