SEN. COLEMAN: SENATE FILIBUSTER LEAVES MINNESOTANS WITH MORE EXPENSIVE, LESS AVAILABLE HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Norm Coleman today expressed his disappointment at the Senate's failure to allow two important medical malpractice bills to be considered and voted on. This evening, Senate Democrats filibustered medical legislation that would have improved access to health care by implementing reasonable, comprehensive, and effective health care liability reforms.  
   The two bills - the Medical Care Access Protection Act of 2006 failing by a vote of 48-42, and the Healthy Mothers and Healthy Babies Access to Care Act, failing 49 to 44 - were designed to ensure victims of meritorious health care injury claims receive fair and reasonable compensation while driving down the number of frivolous malpractice lawsuits that have been escalating the costs of health insurance premiums for years. Under Senate rules, 60 votes would have been needed to take up the bills. 
   "The escalating cost of medical liability insurance is threatening the stability of our nation's health care delivery system," Coleman said. "These rates are forcing many physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers to move out of high-liability states, limit the scope of their practices, and even close their doors permanently. Due to a filibuster that allowed us from even debating these critical issues, I believe we missed a golden opportunity to address this nation's current medical liability crisis." 
   Sharp increases in the number of medical malpractice suits against various physicians and hospitals in recent years have forced many healthcare providers to raise their rates or abandon their practice altogether. This development over the past decade has obstructed Americans' access to healthcare by making it unaffordable or inaccessible due to the closings of many healthcare facilities, particularly in rural areas. Currently, 49 percent of America's counties lack an OB-GYN facility while 75 percent of neurosurgeons won't even operate on children. 55 percent of orthopedic surgeons avoid certain high-risk procedures while 39 percent no longer perform spine surgery. 
   "Seventy-five percent of Americans support medical liability reform," Coleman said. "We can no longer have our doctors avoid certain procedures out of fear of being sued and we can no longer expect Americans to pay these inflated premiums as a result of frivolous lawsuits. I'm disappointed that my colleagues in the Senate fail to realize the immediacy needed in attacking this growing problem."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 