SEN. COLEMAN, REP. KENNEDY PRAISE KEY AGREEMENT PAVING WAY FOR NORTHSTAR COMMUTER RAIL PROJECT
  Sen. Norm Coleman and Sixth District Rep. Mark Kennedy praised the financial agreement announced in principle today that paves the way for the construction, maintenance, and operation by the BNSF Railway Company of the Northstar commuter rail line that will run from Big Lake to Minneapolis. The breakthrough means a projected 5,600 commuters a day could be traveling on the planned 40 mile commuter track by the year 2009.  
   "I am very excited by today's announcement that BNSF has agreed to financial terms for construction and operation of the Northstar commuter rail line," said Coleman. "For the folks living in the Twin Cities and the surrounding northern suburbs, this is major step forward as we look to bring a viable, environmentally-friendly transit option to the area's commuters. I'm pleased to have played a part in moving Northstar forward and am committed to continue working to secure this important commuter line for one of the most congested areas of the state." 
   "I am pleased to see that Northstar and BNSF have reached this agreement," Kennedy said. "For several years, Northstar has been one of the state of Minnesota's top transportation priorities. Senator Coleman and I have worked very hard to make sure that the federal government has been a partner along the way. While there is still much to do, the project today cleared a significant hurdle to become a reality." 
   Coleman and Kennedy have worked diligently with federal authorities to keep this commuter rail project on track. The project is well on its way to becoming a reality, with Coleman securing over $12 million in federal appropriations for the project since taking office in 2003. Coleman was also able to secure $80 million in authorization for Northstar in the Highway Bill signed into law last year and Coleman and Kennedy continue to work on other aspects that will enable the project to move forward. 
   The agreement between BNSF, Northstar Corridor Development Authority (NCDA), and the state means Minnesota officials can now seek federal approval to move into the final design phase for the commuter rail line in the fast growing area in the northwest metro area. Pending final federal approval expected sometime in 2006, construction of the rail line could begin next year with the first riders anticipated to climb on board in 2009. 
   "Minnesota's families will breathe easier from the significant reduction in air pollutants that will result from Northstar's rail service displacing 2,600 cars that would otherwise have been on the road," said Coleman. 
   The project's economic impact will be significant as it will spur an estimated $2 to $3 billion in housing and commercial development and will save commuters nearly 900,000 hours annually.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 