SEN. COLEMAN BILL CONDEMNS STATES THAT ISSUE DRIVERS' LICENSES TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
  Minnesota Senator Norm Coleman today introduced legislation condemning states that issue driver's licenses to aliens residing in the United States illegally. Coleman's Sense of the Senate resolution would make it the official position of the Senate that states who issue government identification to illegal immigrants are disrespecting and disregarding federal immigration laws. The measure also finds that these actions present a national security risk and enable election fraud. Coleman's resolution is cosponsored by: Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Elizabeth Dole (R-NC), Jim DeMint (R-SC), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Johnny Isakson, (R-GA), Pat Roberts (R - KS), Trent Lott (R-MS), David Vitter (R-LA), Richard Burr (R-NC), Kit Bond (R-MO), James Inhofe (R-OK), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Lindsay Graham (R-SC).  
   "When states engage in this practice, we are telling illegal immigrants that you can live here with impunity," said Coleman. "At the core, this is a national security issue. Following the attacks of 9-11, we made a promise to the American people to make this country safer. Providing illegal immigrants with a driver's license affords them access to bank accounts, airline flights and other resources that the 9-11 hijackers used to attack this nation. As a former mayor, I have led the charge against sanctuary cities; and I believe states must similarly stop undermining our immigration laws." 
   "Giving illegal immigrants valid government-issued IDs defies common sense and undermines the rule of law," Alexander said. 
   "Like most Americans, I believe common sense would dictate that someone who is here illegally should not be allowed to obtain a driver's license. It is irresponsible for states to loosely hand out these documents without checking that the recipients are here lawfully. This poses a national security risk, encourages illegal immigration, and is an affront to our sensibilities about the rule of law. Over the years, I've supported legislation to make sure that illegal immigrants cannot obtain driver's licenses, and I hope this resolution sends a clear message to the states that they must act responsibly," said Gregg 
   Eight states currently issue driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, and New York will begin doing so soon. Iowa Congressman Tom Latham has introduced identical legislation in the House of Representatives.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 