SENATE PASSES SEN. COLEMAN RESOLUTION PROMOTING AWARENESS OF CHILDHOOD CANCER, ENCOURAGING INVESTMENT IN RESEARCH
  The U.S. Senate today unanimously approved a resolution by Sen. Norm Coleman aimed at finding a cure for childhood cancer. The resolution calls on the Senate to support public and private investment for improvements in childhood cancer research, including prevention, diagnosis and treatment. The resolution also encourages the development of policies that provide incentives for medical trainees and investigators to enter the field of pediatric oncology, as well as incentives for developing cancer treatment drugs and biologics. The resolution promotes a myriad of initiatives that foster awareness of the disease.  
   "I am pleased that we were able to pass this resolution, which will continue the fight against this terrible disease," Coleman said. "All efforts to increase the awareness of childhood cancer, treatment, and research must receive nothing less than our full support. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to address this critical issue." 
   Each year, cancer claims the lives of over 2,000 children, while an additional 10,000 are diagnosed with the disease. One in every 330 Americans develops cancer before the age of 20. Meanwhile, the rate of childhood cancer continues to rise at an average of one percent a year. 
   Coleman recently introduced a bill, the Conquer Childhood Cancer Act, to address the incidence of childhood cancer in the U.S. The act distributes $20 million per year over a 5-year period for the funding of childhood cancer research. In addition to creating a biomedical research program aimed at curing and preventing childhood cancer, the legislation establishes a national childhood cancer registry to monitor the incidence of childhood cancers, support a long-term survivorship center and provide informational and educational services about the disease. 
   "While some progress has been made, we need to recognize that there are still many unfunded childhood cancer research opportunities and many programs that do not receive adequate funding," Coleman said. "Cancer is the number one disease killer of children, and until we reach the point when every child can live cancer-free, we must embrace every opportunity to promote awareness and increase funding for this vital research."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 