SEN. COLEMAN TO HOST BORDER SECURITY SUMMIT IN INTERNATIONAL FALLS
  Sen. Norm Coleman announced today that he will hold a Border Security Summit in International Falls, Minnesota. The Summit will be a roundtable discussion with local, state, and federal law enforcement officials to discuss the issues surrounding the U.S.-Canadian border and the Port of Duluth. The discussion will focus on the state of readiness along the border, concerns community members may have, areas where the federal government can continue to keep U.S. borders secure, and the proposal to create a northern border security training program at Rainy River Community College. 
   "A strong defense is America's best tool in the war on terrorism," said Coleman. "Modern threats require modern responses, which is why Minnesota's borders must be just as secure as Washington's or New York's. The events of the past few weeks have demonstrated that we need to stay vigilant and aware of our national security. If we can't provide an equal amount of security here in Minnesota, our nation's level of safety goes down regardless of the strong border security anywhere else in the country. Our citizens must have confidence their leaders are taking these threats seriously by constantly assessing our situation. The main purpose of this session is for me to listen to any ideas the community has for improving border performance."
   Coleman, a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, which oversees the Department of Homeland Security, will be joined by members of various business and governmental backgrounds on a panel for this roundtable discussion.
   Panelists include: Paul Nevanen, Director of Koochiching Economic Development Authority; Michael Champion, Commissioner of Minnesota Public Safety; Glen W. Schroeder, Chief Patrol Agent of Border Patrol - Grand Forks Sector; Ray Skelton, Captain and Director of Security of Duluth Seaway Port Authority; Bob Anderson, Public Affairs Manager of Boise Paper Solutions; Chad Anderson, Superintendent of Minnesota and Northern Wisconsin Canadian National Railway. A Department of Homeland Security Representative will also be available to comment on border concerns and to gain a better understanding of Northern Minnesota border issues.
   This is event is open to the public, and attendance is strongly encouraged. Following the discussion, there will be an audience question-and-answer session.
   The Border Security Summit details are as follows:
   Where: Rainy River Community College, 1501 Highway 71, International Falls, MN 56649.
   When: Friday, August 13, 2004 
  11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
 
 