SEN. COLEMAN ANNOUNCES MINNESOTA FIELD HEARING ON INVESTIGATION OF NATURAL GAS PRICES
  To address concerns over the rising costs of natural gas in Minnesota and across the nation, Sen. Norm Coleman, Chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), announced today he has scheduled a PSI field hearing on the issue February 13th, 2006, at the James J. Hill Reference Library in St. Paul. The hearing, entitled "Volatility in the Natural Gas Market: The Impact of High Natural Gas Prices on American Consumers," will feature the Subcommittee's investigation into the natural gas market and will include testimony from local Minnesotans on the devastating impact of escalating energy prices on their lives. It will also cover a range of related topics, including the impact of last year's Gulf hurricanes on the natural gas market, and allegations that price and supply manipulation have caused increasingly high and volatile natural gas prices.  
   "Across the nation, and specifically in Minnesota, the surge in natural gas prices following the Gulf Hurricanes last summer has been weighing heavily on the minds of businesses, consumers, and families alike," said Coleman. "I am deeply concerned when families have to spend more money on their heating bill, and have to choose between paying for heat, medicine, food, and clothing. Natural gas prices paid by Minnesota's manufacturers have increased nearly 150 percent since 1999. That is a serious drag on our economy, and hamstrings our businesses which are trying to compete with countries where energy costs far less. In fact, the United States pays significantly higher prices for natural gas than the rest of the world. Even countries that produce no natural gas, like Japan, have lower natural gas prices than the United States. Obviously, this is a serious issue that needs to be addressed, and I am looking forward to Monday's hearing in St. Paul." 
   Monday's hearing will include testimony from two Minnesotans - Deidre Jackson and Lucille Olson - who will illustrate the affect of high heating bills on our communities. Deidre Jackson is a single mother, a working professional and a college student. Her heating bill has increased over 100 percent from December of 2004 to December of 2005. Lucille Olson is a senior trying to live with high costs for health insurance and prescription drugs, while at same time trying to pay a heating bill that now represents 30 percent of her monthly income. 
   Additionally, the Vice President of Minnesota-based Cargill, Inc. will testify about how higher natural gas prices have affected business this year. The University of Minnesota will also discuss how the University is dealing with higher energy costs and what effect prices have had on the school's educational mission. 
   The Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations has focused on four areas to determine whether the domestic natural gas market was flawed or subject to manipulation: 
   (1) Escalating natural gas prices in the years before Hurricane Katrina (2000-05); 
   (2) Natural gas prices and supplies post-Katrina and Rita; 
   (3) The current Alaska gas pipeline dispute and federal antitrust suit; and 
   (4) Efforts to expand natural gas supplies in the future. 
   In analyzing these topics, the Subcommittee is examining the evolution of this country's natural gas price problems, the causes for those problems, and whether any solutions are on the horizon. 
   In addition to directing this investigation, Sen. Coleman has worked extensively in the Senate to secure needed funding from the Low Income Heating Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for low-income Minnesotans. Additionally, the Senate is currently considering legislation Coleman developed with Senate Leadership to secure additional funds for LIHEAP. 
   Monday's event will begin at 8:30 a.m. The public and media are welcome to attend. Media availability will follow the event. 
   Event Details: 
   DATE: Monday, February13th, 2006 
   TIME: 8:30 a.m. 
   LOCATION: James J. Hill Reference Library 
  80 West 4th Street 
  St. Paul, MN
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 