SEN. COLEMAN INTRODUCES BILL TO HELP MEET FINANCIAL NEEDS OF FAMILIES OF RESERVISTS, NATIONAL GUARD MEMBERS
  Recognizing the need to better support the families of our service men and women, Sen. Norm Coleman today introduced legislation designed to augment the financial assistance available to the families of reservists and National Guard members. The Voluntary Support for Reservists and National Guard Members Act would provide taxpayers the option of contributing part of their tax refund to an income support fund that will be provided to those Reservists and National Guard members who have experienced an income loss due to their call to active duty.  
   "The families of our reservists and National Guard members already make great sacrifices every day on behalf of our nation, and they should not also be put in a position of financial hardship," said Coleman. "My legislation seeks to bolster the financial assistance available to these families and hopefully ease the financial burden they face in their loved one's absence. Additionally, the bill will give Americans a convenient way to provide direct support to our troops. Having just visited Iraq, I can tell you that any expression of gratitude we offer for their service goes a long way in terms of morale." 
   In 2005, the IRS issued 106 million refunds that totaled $227 billion with the average refund coming in at $2,141.36. Some 55 percent of married Guard members and reservists have experienced a loss in income with nearly 50 percent experiencing a loss of $1,000 in pay per month and 15 percent experiencing a loss of $30,000 or more in pay a year. 
   "Even a small amount allocated by some taxpayers will make a significant difference in the lives of these military families," said Coleman. "We can do little to ease the emotional burden these families experience, but we can at least try to give them some peace of mind with their day-to-day finances." 
   Senator Coleman recently visited Iraq, where he met with Minnesota soldiers, military commanders and Iraqi leaders to get a firsthand assessment of the situation on the ground. Coleman maintained that ending the sectarian violence in Iraq will require a political solution that only the Iraqis can provide. During his trip, U.S. military leaders expressed the need for high-tech monitoring towers and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles to efficiently patrol the roadways susceptible to Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), as well as replacing flat-bottomed Humvees with new V-hulled vehicles that can withstand IED explosions. Senator Coleman promised to bring these concerns back to Washington and urge his colleagues to provide greater technological support.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 