SENATE LOBBYING REFORM BILL CONTAINS SEN. COLEMAN INDEPENDENT COMMISSION TO ASSESS ETHICS REFORMS IN CONGRESS
  Sen. Norm Coleman today announced that the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act (S.1) retains his bipartisan amendment to create the Commission to Strengthen Confidence in Congress, which will provide an independent long-term review of the enacted reforms and recommend any additional reforms necessary to help restore public confidence in the legislative process. The bipartisan commission will create a roadmap for the Congress by evaluating ethical issues such as disclosure, earmarks and travel. During the last Congressional session, the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act which passed by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 90 - 8, similarly contained the provision, which was co-authored by Sen. Ben Nelson (D-NE).  
   "I am pleased that my amendment was retained as a central theme for this legislation and continues to receive bipartisan support. It is a major step in the right direction toward a transparent and open ethical environment in Congress, and I will continue to push hard until it reaches final passage," said Coleman. "Today more than ever, we need to implement effective and rational reform in the way Congress does its business and interacts with outside groups. This Commission is a common sense solution to make sure the efforts we undertake are having the intended effect. We need to make sure our reforms are appropriate and fully address public concern, rather than change for change's sake. This amendment has already passed as part of similar legislation last year and I look forward to its passage for a second time." 
   The bill also contains a second Coleman amendment to require organizations that arrange or direct travel for members or staff, to report this activity within 30 days. Current Senate ethics rules require Members and staff to report travel paid for and arranged by outside groups within 30 days of the travel taking place, but do not have the same reporting requirements for outside groups that organize such travel. 
   "I have always believed that sunlight is the best disinfectant, which is why I was the first in the Senate to post my complete Senate travel records on my website," said Coleman. "This is a standard that every member of Congress should be held to in order to create a solid foundation of public confidence. The central theme of any reform effort must be transparency, and my amendment will help both Congress and the lobbying community to bring their travel to public light."
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 