SENS. COLEMAN, LINCOLN URGE NO HARMFUL BUDGET CUTS FOR RURAL AMERICA
  Sens. Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Blanche L. Lincoln (D-AR) Monday sent a letter to President Bush urging him to avoid proposing harmful budget cuts that would injure our nation's farmers and ranchers, rural communities, food nutrition policies that help school children and low-income families, resource conservation initiatives, and other important national priorities provided under the Farm Bill. 
   "Congress is already facing a significantly reduced farm policy budget this year than what was provided in 2002," said Coleman. "Farm policy costs are already down by as much as $17 billion since 2002, so proposing further budget cuts would be irresponsible given the economic harm it would cause to rural America. Our farmers have a farm policy that is a proven safety net out in the field and a proven budget saver over at CBO. This is a policy we should build on, not tear apart. Instead of making cuts to current farm policy in its budget, the Administration should add a robust, new investment in renewable fuels that will reduce the Nation's foreign oil dependence and increase our economic security."  
   "America's farmers provide the safest, most abundant, and most affordable food supply on the globe, and they do so with the support of a farm policy that is less than one-half of one percent of our overall budget," Lincoln said. "As the President prepares this year's budget proposal, I hope he remembers the contributions of rural America and the programs vital to our working families, farmers, small business and local economies across the heartland. Moreover, the already-realized and expected budget savings under current farm policy offer the Administration the opportunity to make new investments to expand our goals on agriculture policy rather than propose more harmful cuts." 
   Joined by thirteen other senators, Democrats and Republicans from nearly every region of the country, Senators Lincoln and Coleman urged the President to instead propose a robust new investment in renewable fuels in keeping with his commitment to end America's addiction to foreign oil. 
   "If the Administration wants to aggressively pursue this nation's energy independence, the budget is the right place to start by proposing a strong new investment in renewable fuels. The bonus of doing this is that experience has proven that the higher demand for crops created by this new investment means lower costs to farm policy and some budget room for new needs to be met," said Coleman. "As a member of both the Senate Foreign Relations and Agriculture Committees, I see clearly from two vantage points the critical role that American agriculture plays in our own national security, from feeding and clothing our people in a manner unrivaled in history to holding the key to America's energy independence." 
   "Lessening America's dependence on foreign sources of energy must be a top priority for this Administration," Lincoln said. "Our farmers in Arkansas and across the country have shown what can be done with renewable fuels like biodiesel. We have fallen behind other nations with respect to our alternative energy policy and it is time our government makes the proper investment in renewable fuels. These budget savings are welcome news and create an opportunity for the Administration to place our country on the path to greater energy independence with a strong commitment to renewable fuels." 
   Senators signing the budget letter to the President include: Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN); Blanche L. Lincoln (D-AR); Max Baucus D-MT, Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee; Carl Levin (D-MI) Chairman of the Armed Services Committee; Larry Craig (R-ID); Mike Crapo (R-ID); Debbie Stabenow (D-MI); Mark Pryor (D-AR); David Vitter (R-LA); Mary Landrieu (D-LA); John Thune (R-SD); Johnny Isakson (R-GA); Byron Dorgan (D-ND); Ken Salazar (D-CO); and Kit Bond (R-MO).
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 