SENS. COLEMAN, DAYTON INTRODUCE SENATE RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING BEMIDJI'S ACHIEVEMENT IN CURLING
  Minnesota Sens. Norm Coleman and Mark Dayton yesterday introduced a Senate resolution recognizing and honoring the curling community of Bemidji for its efforts and achievements in promoting the sport of curling in both Minnesota and the United States.  
   During last month's winter Olympics, the U.S. Men's Curling team defeated Great Britain to secure the Bronze Medal in curling, the first time the U.S. has won a medal in the Olympic Games for curling. The team, counting the one alternate, was comprised of five Olympians - three from Bemidji and two from the Chisholm area. Additionally, the U.S. women's curling team competing in 2006 was comprised of two members from Bemidji, as well as one from Duluth. 
   "I am excited to introduce this Senate resolution with Senator Dayton recognizing the accomplishments of the Bemidji curling community and the area Olympians who represented their communities, state and nation with great class and pride during this year's winter games," said Coleman. "Not only did these teams, who were comprised almost exclusively of Minnesotans, have great success at the games - including the United States' first every Olympic medal in curling - they have already helped bring greater attention to the sport of curling. They can be proud of their accomplishments, and I am equally proud to recognize them in the Senate." 
   "I congratulate the Bemidji curling community and the members of the U.S. Olympic curling team for their accomplishments!" said Dayton. "Their tremendous efforts won the United States' first Olympic medal in curling at Torino. Congratulations, and now it's on to the Gold in Vancouver!" 
   The Bemidji Curling Club was first founded in 1935 and has been instrumental in increasing both participation and awareness in the sport for over 70 years. In addition to the 2006 Bronze medal winning team, teams belonging to the Bemidji Curling Club have combined to win over 50 state and national titles.
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 