SEN. COLEMAN FIGHTS TO BOLSTER AMERICA'S COMPETITIVENESS
  Continuing his efforts to bolster America's competitiveness in an increasingly information technology-driven global economy, Sen. Norm Coleman today introduced bipartisan legislation aimed at strengthening our high-tech industry and workforce to ensure the U.S. remains a leader in technology and innovation. The Competitiveness through Education, Technology and Enterprise Act (COMPETE Act) takes significant steps to keep America competitive by making permanent the research and development tax credit, establishing a high tech-workforce training credit and offering incentives to strengthen and improve math and science education. Sen. Coleman is also an original cosponsor of a comprehensive competitiveness bill, the America Competes Act (S. 761), and will seek to advance key provisions of his COMPETE Act through this measure.  
   "This week, Bill Gates came before the Congress and testified, 'The U.S. cannot maintain its economic leadership unless our workforce consists of people who have the knowledge and skills needed to drive innovation'. In an increasingly global economy, we need to ensure that America remains competitive in order to keep and grow high paying, high quality jobs here at home," said Coleman. "Simply put, we need to do what is necessary to keep the U.S competitive, starting with research and development and a better educated workforce. By better preparing our future workforce, upskilling our current workforce, enabling American companies to remain at the forefront of innovation and better utilizing existing private-public partnerships we will be better positioned to secure our leadership in the global economy." 
   "Successful organizations understand that investing in workplace learning and performance is the key to a highly-skilled workforce," said Tony Bingham, President and CEO of American Society for Training & Development. "Senator Coleman's bill recognizes the vital role that training and development plays in ensuring that U.S. organizations remain competitive in a knowledge-based global economy." 
   Specifically, the legislation will: 
   Makes permanent the R&D tax credit; 
   Establishes a tax credit for an amount equal to 50% of expenses paid or incurred for Information and Communications Technology Training (ICT) Programs; 
   Offers sense of the Senate to raise the maximum Pell Grant to $5,400; 
   Provides a bonus grant of $500,000 to the top five elementary and secondary schools in each state who improve the most in their math and science state assessment test scores; 
   Establishes a workforce development grant pilot program: Leading innovative small businesses would provide short-term workforce training opportunities for college students who major in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math; 
   Increases the alternative percentage limitation for corporate charitable contributions to the Department of Education's Mathematics and Science Partnership Program: This provision would raise the deduction level to 15 percent (now at 10 percent) on cash contributions that aid Science, Math, Engineering and Technological (STEM) education in K-12 schools; and 
   Establishes federal a grant matching program with math and science graduate schools which would provide up to $1 million through the Department of Energy's Office of Science for eligible graduate schools in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Schools could use the funds: (1) to provide stipends or other financial assistance for their students; (2) to support outreach and mentoring activities to increase the participation of underrepresented groups; and (3) agrees to spend its own funds equal to at least 25% of the amount received in matching funds.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 