SEN. COLEMAN MEETS WITH MEXICO PRESIDENT-ELECT CALDERON TO DISCUSS MEXICO-U.S. RELATIONS
  To welcome Mexico's new President-elect and maintain dialogue on U.S.-Mexico relations, Sen. Norm Coleman last night met with Mexico President-elect Felipe Calderon to discuss issues of regional growth and development in the United States and Mexico. The meeting was part of a small dinner held by Mexican Ambassador Carlos de Icaza to honor the President-elect, which was also attended by such individuals as former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, National Intelligence Director John Negroponte, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, author Christopher Hitchens, and a dozen others.  
   During their meeting, Coleman and Calderon discussed bi-national job growth and hemispheric competitiveness through trade and development, as well as corruption and narcotics trafficking. Coleman also presented Calderon with a book called Latinos in Minnesota, which was provided by the Comunidades Latinas Unidas en Servicio (CLUES) and has been chosen to be distributed to every 6th grade classroom in Minnesota next year. 
   "The strength of our Mexico-U.S. relations relies on a continuous dialogue between the leaders of both of our countries, which is why I was delighted with the opportunity to discuss issues of both national and local concern with the new President-elect," said Coleman. "While immigration issues receive the bulk of the headlines, in reality the relationship between our two nations hinges on issues ranging from trade, job growth, and global terrorism. After my discussions with President-elect Calderon, I am confident that we are on the right path to solving many of the issues that we still face, and look forward to continuing this dialogue throughout his six-year term." 
   The trade issues that were discussed are of particular importance for Coleman, given the strong Minnesota-Mexico trade relationship. Mexico became Minnesota's 8th largest export market in 2005 with Minnesota companies selling manufactured goods valued at $515.9 million to Mexico in 2005. These trade levels were up 42 percent from the last five years and also surpassed the national export growth rate of 19.1 percent over the same period. 
   "We hope to continue building a mutually beneficial economic partnership with Mexico and further exploring and expanding potential opportunities," said Coleman. "Minnesota values its relationship with Mexico and appreciates the economic, cultural and social contributions of our large and growing Mexican community." 
   Mexicans constitute a large majority of the Hispanic population in Minnesota. With a population of 95, 613, almost 67% percent of Hispanics in Minnesota were of Mexican origin as of the 2000 census. Since his days as Mayor, Coleman has advocated for a Mexican consulate in St. Paul, and was present at its groundbreaking in June 2005.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 