SEN. COLEMAN SUCCESSFULLY INCLUDES BEYOND THE YELLOW RIBBON PROGRAM FOR VETERANS IN DOD CONFERENCE REPORT
  Senator Norm Coleman applauded the passage of the fiscal year 2008 Defense Appropriations Conference Report which passed the Senate last night and will now head to the President's desk for signature. This conference report provides $459 billion in discretionary funding for the Department of Defense including $3,520,000 secured by Coleman to fund the Minnesota National Guard's innovative Beyond the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program. This program provides informational events and activities to assist National Guard soldiers, families, and community members through all phases of their deployment cycle including pre and post deployment. The events and activities in this program include family and marriage counseling, financial planning and education, small business planning, community outreach, and healthcare and veterans benefits education. 
   "Soldiers often face a myriad of challenges when they return from combat and it is imperative they have the support they need as they transition back into civilian life," said Coleman. "These brave soldiers and their families have made incredible sacrifices and programs like Beyond the Yellow Ribbon are necessary to bring them all the way home. I have been fighting for this program from the moment the Guard brought it to my attention and I am thrilled to see it included in the bill that will now head to the President's desk."  
   "Minnesota's Congressional Delegation has modeled exceptional support to the troops of the Minnesota National Guard," said Major General Larry Shellito, the Adjutant General of the Minnesota National Guard. "The 2007 Defense Appropriations Bill showcases the support for a long-term investment in both national defense and homeland security." 
   Coleman was also successful in securing the following key Minnesota projects in the Department of Defense Appropriations Conference Report: 
   $3,000,000 for a Satellite Multi-Modal Collaborative Crisis & Training Network (SMM-CCTN) for the Minnesota National Guard. The SMM-CCTN is a major initiative designed to change how the Minnesota Army National Guard communicates by using a tactical satellite network to integrate voice, video, data, GIS (Geographic Information Systems) and application collaboration throughout the State and in support of deployed troops. 
   $2,000,000 for a FlexTrain eXportable Combat Training Capability (XCTC) for the Minnesota National Guard. The XCTC is a relocatable Army National Guard training site instrumentation system similar to that installed at active Army combat training centers.  
  $3,000,000 for Phygen, Inc. for a Plasma Sterilizer to allow for a "cold" sterilization of medical instruments in far forward surgical units. 
   $3,800,000 for Humanetics to develop a vaccine for radiation. 
   $1,000,000 for Remmele Engineering to develop technology to assist in cutting and machine tools used in our most advances weapons systems. 
   $2,000,000 for Eaton Corporation to develop hydraulic hybrid engineering to save energy in military vehicles. 
   $3,000,000 for Stanley Widmer Associates to develop a stronger hull structure for un-manned patrol boats. 
   $2,400,000 for Gradient Technology to improve methods for safely disassembling munitions and recovering Nitroguanidine. 
   $2,400,000 for the University of Minnesota to develop technologies for advanced hypersonic research. 
   $2,400,000 for ATK Systems for a more powerful mortar munition. 
   $1,840,000 for Speechgear, Inc. to develop an instant language translation system for deployed troops. 
   $3,200,000 for the National Guard Virtual Warrior Interactive trainer, which will allow soldiers to train dismounted operations & counter-IED training in the Middle East Contemporary Operations Environment (COE) and in urban areas, wooded terrain, jungle terrain, and desert terrain. 
   $1,600,000 for the Shield Technologies Corporation to prevent corrosion on weapons and deck equipment on Navy surface combatants. 
   $2,000,000 for Cerus Corporation to inactivate infectious agents (bacteria, viruses, and parasites) in blood and blood components collected for transfusion support of patients. 
   $1,600,000 for Twin Star Medical to prevent thousands of fasciotomy surgeries and save millions of dollars in health care costs and rehabilitation. 
   $1,600,000 for AMEC to warn local fishermen and the rest of the community of potential UXO danger. 
   $1,000,000 for ATK Systems to provide a non-lethal alterative in the event that both combatants and non-combatants are encountered. 
   $1,500,000 for Goodrich Sensors and Integrated Systems to provide surveillance, warning, detection, monitoring, and tracking of vehicles, vessels, swimmers, and people in a land base perimeter or shoreline environment. 
   $4,000,000 for Nobles Manufacturing, Inc. to expand the operational envelope, increase survivability, and augment unit level fire support.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 