SEN. COLEMAN CHAIRS FULL AG COMMITTEE HEARING ON AGRICULTURE, TRANSPORTATION, ENERGY ISSUES
  Sen. Norm Coleman, member of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today chaired a full committee hearing on agriculture, transportation and energy issues to address the United States' long-term energy needs. Key panelists included Dr. Keith Collins, Chief Economist for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Mr. Gerald Barnes, Chief of Operations for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and Mr. Howard Gruenspecht from the Energy Information Administration. Discussion focused on the transportation and energy needs currently facing our farmers and country, as well as current research into farm-produced fuels to investigate ways in which America can become more energy efficient, innovative, and independent from foreign sources of oil.  
   "I have serious concerns about the direction our country is headed in terms of energy," said Coleman. "This nation's energy dependence is the greatest threat to our economy, our security, and our freedom. As the senator from Minnesota, I see the tremendous potential for future resources our fields hold. Today's hearing was an important step as we explore ways to make sure that our long-term energy vision takes advantage of the resources we have, especially in a strong renewables state such as Minnesota." 
   Today's hearing focused on key transportation concerns that currently face farms and businesses. In light of the recent hurricanes that affected the agriculture transportation system in and around the Mississippi gulf region, an area responsible for about 60-70 percent of U.S. raw grain exports, the need for the passage of the Water Resources and Development Act (WRDA) was discussed, legislation that would authorize critical funding for America's water infrastructure. 
   In addition to the importance of our transportation infrastructure and the rising cost of energy, the potential of renewables to combat these high energy prices was also addressed. On average, energy accounts for 13 percent of a farm's expense. Before Katrina, farms were projected to spend about $10.2 billion in 2005 for fuel, $2 billion higher than in 2004. In 1980, the U.S. purchased 37 percent of its oil overseas: in 2025, the percentage of oil expected to be purchased overseas is expected to nearly double 74 percent. 
   "If we think Katrina was bad for energy prices, just imagine what would happen if OPEC, which currently accounts for well over 50 percent of our oil supplies, shuts off the spigot," said Coleman. "We must have energy independence or risk losing our autonomy. Our farmers are a major part of our energy independence, and that is why I want to see 10 percent of our motor fuel com from renewable fuels by 2010. This is just one step--there are more we can take, and I plan on pursuing an aggressive energy policy that will help solve our energy dependence problem. It's a good plan for Minnesota, and it will be good for America." 
   Other panelists today included: Mr. Daniel Kelley of the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives; Mr. Richard Calhoun, Cargill Vice President for Grain and Oilseed Supply Chain, North America; Dr. Neal Elliott, Industrial and Agricultural Program Director for the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, and Mr. Ryan Neibur, Rocky Mountain Farmers Union. 
   Listen to Radio Clip: http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/colemanAg11_09_05.mp3
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 