SENS. COLEMAN, KLOBUCHAR SECURE REMAINING FUNDS FOR I-35W BRIDGE
  Senators Norm Coleman and Amy Klobuchar announced that the remaining funds needed to rebuild Minneapolis' I-35W bridge were included in the FY08 Transportation Appropriations conference report, which will be filed next week. $195 million was included in the bill as a result of a Coleman-Klobuchar amendment to the Transportation Appropriations bill on the Senate floor. Today's $195 million appropriation brings the total federal funds for bridge rebuilding to $373 million.  
   On August 3, immediately following the bridge collapse, the Minnesota Congressional Delegation secured passage of an authorization for emergency assistance to expedite funding and waive the current cap on federal Emergency Fund (ER) dollars. Prior to this waiver, the cap on ER Fund dollars available to a single project was $100 million. That action allowed the Department of Transportation to release more than $123 million in funds just last week from the Department's Emergency Relief (ER) Fund to Minnesota. In August, $55 million was sent to the Minnesota Department of Transportation from that fund. 
   "As we stood at the site of this terrible tragedy, we promised not just to rebuild the bridge, but to work together and use the full resources of the federal government to cut through any red tape," said Coleman. "Three months later, we have approved an additional $195 million investment that will make reconstruction a reality and ease concerns about diversion of funds from other worthy projects." 
   "The day after our tragedy, I said that a bridge in America just shouldn't fall down - and when one does fall down, we must rebuild it," said Klobuchar. "With construction of the new bridge just underway, I'm pleased we were able to move so quickly to secure the funds to rebuild. It's a testament to our commitment to rebuild our bridge and our community. It is my hope that these funds not only help the rebuilding process, but also help ensure state dollars are available for critical transportation projects across Minnesota." 
   "I urge the President to sign the Transportation bill, and to send these funds to Minnesota immediately," said Klobuchar. 
   The full Senate is expected to take up the FY08 Transportation Appropriations Bill next week.
   Contact: Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 