SEN. COLEMAN URGES TOP U.N. DIPLOMATS TO SEIZE MOMENTUM TO ENACT CRUCIAL REFORMS
  Sen. Norm Coleman, Chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, today met in New York with U.S. Ambassador John Bolton and representatives of key member states of the United Nations to urge the consideration and adoption of extensive reforms that stemmed from Coleman's 18 month long investigation into the Oil-for-Food Program. In several meetings at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, Coleman pressed for greater transparency, accountability, and oversight in order to restore the credibility and effectiveness of the U.N.  
   "We are on the verge of an important milestone regarding reform at the United Nations," Coleman said. "It is vital that we put an end to the culture of corruption and impunity that has diminished the U.N.'s ability to be a global force for peace and stability. My investigation into the Oil-for-Food program has produced a series of proposed reforms that are long overdue and absolutely necessary. If the U.N. is to be taken seriously, these reforms must be adopted and action be taken now." 
   Coleman's discussions come just days before the convening of the U.N. World Summit at which world leaders will consider an agenda of potential reforms that would overhaul the management of the world body. The Minnesota senator conveyed his strong support for Ambassador Bolton's efforts to strengthen the reforms outlined in the draft Outcome Document that will serve as the basis for discussion of reforms by world leaders at the World Summit from September 14-15, 2005. 
   "The most recent Independent Inquiry Committee report this week provides further confirmation of widespread misconduct and maladministration at the U.N.," said Coleman. "It also calls for immediate implementation of reform measures. The test of commitment to UN reform will be the willingness of top U.N. officials including the Secretary General, to accept responsibility for the fraud, abuse and mismanagement identified in the report. Kofi Annan should resign and allow a new team to implement a true commitment to accountability and transparency." 
   Coleman's agenda included breakfast with U.S. Ambassador John Bolton; discussions with the Permanent Representatives from the United Kingdom, Russia, Japan, and the Arab League; a meeting with members of the Community of Democracies to discuss promoting democracy by strengthening vehicles such as the Democracy Caucus and the Democracy Fund at the U.N.; and a meeting with the Israeli Permanent Representative to the U.N. to discus efforts to eliminate the anti-Israel apparatus that is funded and operated by U.N. subsidiary organs. 
   During the PSI investigation led by Chairman Coleman, the Subcommittee held three hearings and released three reports containing an avalanche of evidence demonstrating that the U.N. grossly mismanaged the OFF Program, ranging from sloppy administration to outright corruption. Based on these findings, Coleman and Sen. Richard Lugar, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, introduced U.N. reform legislation. 
   Key provisions include: 
   A Management Section that will strengthen the power of the Secretary-General to replace top officials in the U.N. Secretariat and recruit only the highest quality individuals. The Bill also creates a Management Performance Board to ensure that U.N. officials are held accountable for their actions and results. The establishment of a Chief Operating Officer is also intended to improve the efficiency of the operations of the U.N.; 
   More stringent and independent oversight of the U.N.'s operations, including stronger whistleblower policies, greater resources for the Office of Internal Oversight Services, and the creation of an Independent Oversight Board that would provide much-needed examination of U.N. activities; 
   Meaningful reform of the U.N.'s peacekeeping efforts, such as the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission and a Peacebuilding Support Office, monitoring peacekeepers' conduct, and instituting an enforcement system to punish those that violate the U.N.'s ethical standards. It also accentuates the need for meaningful reform of human rights institutions, including the abolishment of the U.N. Human Rights Commission and the creation of a Human Rights Council that would be composed of states that adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
   In order to enforce changes to the U.N. as outlined in the legislation, the Coleman-Lugar Bill requires the President to submit an annual report on U.N. reform to Congress, and also authorizes the President to withhold 50 percent of U.S. contributions to the U.N. if he determines that the U.N. is not making sufficient progress in implementing reforms described in the Act.
   Contact: Andrea Wuebker, 651/645-0323.
 
 