SENS. COLEMAN, DAYTON ANNOUNCE MINNESOTAN TO BE SWORN IN AS AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION CHAIRMAN NEXT WEDNESDAY
  Minnesota Sens. Norm Coleman and Mark Dayton announced today that Ward Brehm of Wayzata, Minnesota, will be sworn in as Chairman of the African Development Foundation's Board of Directors next Wednesday, September 15, 2004, at 9:00 a.m. EDT. The ceremony will take place in Room SC-4 of the United States Capitol. The event is open to the public and media and to all ADF Board members. Coleman and Dayton will be attending, along with Senators Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Bill Nelson (D-FL), and Mike Enzi (R-WY). President Bush appointed Brehm to the ADF Board last April.  
   "As a Minnesota Senator, I have been and will remain committed to fighting the hunger and AIDS pandemics that are devastating the African continent," Coleman said. "Having traveled to Africa with Senator Frist just last summer, I've seen firsthand the need for American foreign aid and its efficient and effective distribution. The ADF is responsible for ensuring just that, and Ward Brehm will be an important ally in this incredibly imperative effort. Ward shares my view that the mission of ensuring Africa's economic and political stability is a vital one, both to the interests of the African people and our own as well. Africa is a deeply troubled region of the world, but also, as Ward also knows well, a place of great potential. I look forward to working with him and the other countless caring citizens and government officials to help build a brighter, more stable future for the African people." 
   "Ward Brehm's personal devotion to the people of Africa, their problems, and their potentials is extraordinary," said Dayton. "His personal commitment and his proven business prowess will make him a superb Chairman. I salute him for his willingness to undertake this important responsibility. I commend President Bush for this outstanding nomination." 
   Brehm has traveled to Africa 14 times and is the author of two books on his journeys there, White Man Walking and Life Through a Different Lens. 
   The United States Congress created ADF as an independent government corporation in 1980, and the Foundation began active program operations in Africa in 1984. ADF is the only U.S. government agency that works solely at the grassroots level in Africa to address poverty, enhance social and economic opportunity, and promote broad-based, sustainable development. ADF has funded more than 1,600 projects and is currently supporting 250 projects across 15 African nations. For more information on ADF, go to www.adf.gov.
 
 