 
		    
            Thursday, May 10, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded the adoption the Brownback-Brown Elimination of Neglected Diseases Amendment to the Food and Drug Administration Revitalization Act, which yesterday passed the Senate.  The amendment creates a market-based approach to eliminating neglected diseases by encouraging pharmaceutical companies to invest in developing treatments for such diseases.     
"Too many people in the developing world suffer and die from diseases that for the most part are both preventable and curable," said Brownback.  "The main obstacle to responding to the needs of those suffering is insufficient incentive for companies to produce drugs that treat and prevent neglected tropical diseases."     
Because pharmaceuticals are expensive to develop, companies have fewer incentives to pursue treatments and cures for diseases that mostly affect developing countries.  The Brownback-Brown amendment provides a significant financial incentive for pharmaceutical companies to produce neglected tropical disease treatments by awarding them with a FDA priority review voucher for bringing to market such products.  The priority review voucher could be applied to any drug in a company's production pipeline and would reduce the FDA review time from roughly 18 months to 6 months.  The twelve month shorter review process would be worth more than $300 million if applied to top 10% grossing drugs.       
Brownback continued, "It is unacceptable that neglected diseases like leprosy, hookworm, and river blindness cause over 500,000 deaths annually.  A total of 13 such diseases afflict the poor in Africa, Asia, and the Americas, and I am hopeful that this amendment will work toward reducing deaths and suffering from these diseases."     
According to the World Health Organization, roughly one billion people - nearly one of every six people worldwide - are affected by at least one neglected tropical disease.  However, less than 1% of the roughly 1,400 drugs registered between 1975 and 1999 treated such diseases.       
Finding cures for neglected diseases helps curb instances of HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis, the three highest-profile neglected tropical diseases.  
 