 
		    
            Wednesday, May 10, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today called for the preservation of the 54 cent-per-gallon tariff on imported ethanol.     
"Now is not the time to remove the tariff on imported ethanol," said Brownback.  "Our ethanol industry is growing robustly and setting production records each month.  The proposal to remove the tariff is based on the false assumption that a shortage of domestic ethanol is causing price increases at the pump.  In fact, we are producing more than enough ethanol each day and we have 25 days worth ethanol reserves."     
Recently Senators Jon Kyl (R-AZ), Diane Feinstein (D-CA), and John Sununu (R-NH) introduced a bill that would permanently lift the tariff.  Brownback and a bipartisan group of senators will soon send a letter to President Bush outlining their opposition to removing the tariff.     
Brownback continued, "Some claim that we face an ethanol shortage because oil refineries are moving away from using the MTBE gasoline additive and switching to mixing gasoline with ethanol to make cleaner-burning fuel.  But according to the Energy Information Administration, although only 130,000 barrels per day of ethanol are needed to replace MTBE, we are producing 302,000 barrels of ethanol per day."     
Currently, Brazil and other countries can ship duty-free ethanol to the U.S. under the provisions of the Caribbean Basin Initiative, provided that such imports constitute no more than seven percent of the U.S. market.  Brazil has never met this seven percent cap.     
"We are already providing limited duty-free access for foreign ethanol," stated Brownback.  "Some countries pushing for the removal of the ethanol tariff, like Brazil, have used World Trade Organization talks to resist efforts to remove tariffs imposed by other countries on American goods.  Why should we give Brazil and other countries improved market access for their products when they have resisted better access for American products?"     
Senator Brownback sits on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Rural Development.  
 