 
		    
            Thursday, March 10, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today welcomed former Marine Captain Brian Steidle to a news conference on Capitol Hill.  Captain Steidle just returned from spending six months monitoring Darfur with the African Union mission in Sudan.  His firsthand observations clearly implicate the government of Sudan in the ongoing genocide.    
 
“Captain Brian Steidle is an all-American hero,” Brownback said.  “As a former Marine, he recently monitored the Darfur region of Sudan and is ‘The American Witness to Genocide in Sudan.’  He has made a decision to speak out about his eyewitness accounts of atrocities like rape, murder, displacement and torture.  He is brave and what he is doing is honorable.  No one should turn a blind eye to the genocide, and I applaud Brian for sharing these stories with the world.   
 
“I first became aware of Captain Steidle through a column written by Nicholas Kristof of the New York Times, in which he also published four of Capt. Steidle’s photos.  In reading and viewing the photos I knew that Brian Steidle had many more stories to tell, and I am grateful that he has chosen to come to Washington to tell those stories to the government, to the media and, quite frankly, to anyone who will listen.   
 
“Captain Steidle has spent the last year of his life monitoring one of the most troubled countries in the world today: Sudan.  After monitoring the Darfur region for six months, he could not stand by in silent witness.  His campaign of awareness through the photos and accounts of the government-backed violence and pillage is in an attempt to stop further attacks and save lives and I consider him a modern-day hero for this effort.    
 
“I would also like to thank my colleagues for joining us here.  Senator Corzine, and Congressmen Wolf and Payne have been staunch advocates for ending the genocide and they are to be commended for their great work.  We all agree: the genocide in Sudan must stop and it must stop now.  It is not a political issue, it is not a partisan issue and, in fact, it is not a U.S. issue.  This is an issue for the world, it is an issue for all communities, all ethnicities, and all religions to rally around.  The people of Darfur need every voice to call for peace and justice.”   
 
Brownback serves on the Senate Appropriations, Judiciary, and Joint Economic Committees.  He also is chairman of the Helsinki Commission.  
 