 
		    
            Wednesday, December 12, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON, DC - The entire Kansas Congressional Delegation today sent the following letter to the President to support authorization of FEMA assistance to Kansas due to the multiple winter storms:     
"We write today to once again ask that your attention be directed to the spate of disasters that have struck the state of Kansas this year.      
"As you know, multiple large winter storms spread thick ice throughout Kansas this week. This event was made worse by consecutive days of precipitation and dropping temperatures, which quickly solidified ice on power lines and trees. The damage to date includes wide scale power outages and a great deal of damage to homes and businesses. Over 100,000 people are without power, a great deal more cannot leave their homes, and at least four people have died due to icy conditions. Currently, in many parts of the state, Kansans are making do without power and without access to supplies.     
"As you might imagine, yet another disaster striking our state this year comes as disheartening news for Kansans, who have already endured a blizzard that destroyed infrastructure and endangered livestock, a tornado that wiped an entire town off the map, and floods that compounded with an oil spill to destroy grave amounts of property and businesses.      
"In the immediate wake of this most recent storm, the Governor of Kansas declared a state emergency. Today, she also requested that you authorize FEMA to provide public assistance to aid in the recovery. We wholeheartedly support this request and thank you for your support to date. The federal government, including FEMA and the National Guard, deserve endless amounts of credit for their rapid and effective responses in Kansas this year. This, combined with the can-do attitude and spirit of giving inherent in Kansans have mitigated the long term effects of the disasters we've faced this year to an incredible degree.      
"Thank you in advance for your consideration."      
The letter was signed by Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Representatives Nancy Boyda (D-KS), Dennis Moore (D-KS), Jerry Moran (R-KS) and Todd Tiahrt (R-KS).     Brownback is a member of the Senate Judiciary and Appropriations Committee.     
-30-  
 