 
		    
            Tuesday, December 12, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded the Food and Drug Administration's announcement that it is proposing regulatory changes to make experimental drugs more easily available to seriously ill patients.         
"I applaud the FDA's announcement and am hopeful that it will lead to new treatment options for seriously-ill patients," said Brownback.  "The FDA's proposed regulatory changes will offer new alternatives for patients suffering from life-threatening illnesses such as Huntington's disease, Lou Gehrig's disease and certain types of cancers, for which there currently are few approved treatments."     
Today's FDA proposal will determine patient access to a treatment by weighing the benefits of an investigational drug against the seriousness of the disease.  The proposal also offers a mechanism that clarifies the payment options for those using an investigational drug.     
In November of 2005, Brownback authored the Access, Compassion, Care and Ethics for Seriously-ill Patients Act, which would reform the FDA's approval system for treatments for terminally ill patients.  Under the ACCESS Act, seriously ill patients who have exhausted all treatment options and are facing life-threatening risks from their disease would be offered access to promising treatments in earlier stages of the FDA drug approval process.       
Brownback continued, "I authored the ACCESS Act because there currently are too many barriers between seriously-ill patients and access to safe and effective drugs.  The decision for terminally-ill patients to take an investigational drug should be between the physician and the patients, not government bureaucrats.  Accordingly, I plan to keep a close eye on the progress of the FDA's proposal as it moves through the implementation process."      
The FDA's proposed rule will become finalized following a comment period.      
Brownback is a member of the Senate Judiciary and Appropriations Committee.  
 