 
		    
            Monday, December 12, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback applauded Japan’s decision to re-open its market to American beef after being closed for nearly two years.   
“I am pleased the Japanese have finally agreed to open their market to U.S. beef, the safest and highest quality beef in the world,” said Brownback.  “Along with many of my colleagues in Congress, I had grown tired of the delays in the re-importation process.  While this announcement marks a critical first step, more work is needed to expand access to Asian markets for U.S. beef.  I want to thank Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns, U.S. Trade Representative Rob Portman, and President Bush for their work in re-opening this important export market.  However, I ask that they continue to fight on behalf of the U.S. beef producer.  Beef producers are a significant component of the Kansas economy and the national economy.  It’s vital that we continue to fight for more market access for U.S. beef across the world.”   
The Japanese market had been closed since December 2003, after a single cow in Washington state—which was born in Canada—tested positive for BSE (also known as “mad cow disease”).  The Japanese market is now open to American beef from cattle 20 months old or younger, although Sen. Brownback would like to see the age limit set at 30 months.   
Brownback continued, “I call on the other nations across the world that continue their embargo against U.S. beef, including Taiwan and South Korea, to formally reconsider their position.  There is simply no sound scientific reasoning for continuing to ban the importation of American beef.”   
At the time of the BSE discovery, the U.S. exported beef to 119 countries.  With Japan’s market re-opening, that number is now at 70.   
Since December 2003, the USDA has tested well over 500,000 cattle for BSE.  The USDA has found and confirmed only one case.  Brownback’s efforts to re-open the market include a visit to Japan in January 2004 to discuss the safety of U.S. beef with government officials and hosting a Japanese technical team at a Kansas beef ranch and processing plant in the spring of 2004 to highlight the quality and safety of U.S. beef.   
Sen. Brownback sits on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Rural Development.   
-30-  
 