 
		    
            Wednesday, September 12, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today in a speech on the Senate Floor addressed the worsening situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and called for international intervention in that country.       
"I am very troubled by the escalating violence and urge my colleagues to join me in speaking out on behalf of those suffering in the Congo," said Brownback.  "We must speak out against the ongoing violence in the Congo and commit to assisting those who are suffering there."     
Presently the situation in eastern Congo, specifically in North Kivu, is deteriorating. According to United Nations relief agencies, nearly 40,000 people have been displaced from their homes during the past month.    Since the beginning of this year, approximately 250,000 people have been displaced.  These displacements stem from tensions between the renegade General Laurent Nkunda and those loyal to the Congolese government.               
Brownback continued, "Sexual violence and rape is on the rise in Congo.  Rape is a tool of war there, and it must not be tolerated.  It is done in such a degree of cruelty and humiliation that it is hard for us to even comprehend.  I visited a hospital in Goma where women could be treated for these ailments due to brutal rapes.  More support is needed for these women as they attempt to heal and reintegrate into their communities."      
U.N. emergency relief agencies report that 4,500 cases of sexual violence have been reported since January 2007 in one eastern province.  Women are brutally raped in front of crowds, their families and husbands, resulting in serious physical and emotional trauma.  Because of their condition many of the rape victims become outcasts within their communities and families.       
Brownback plans to this week send a letter to Secretary Condoleezza Rice urging the State Department to take more action in Congo.       
Brownback is a member of the Senate Judiciary and Appropriations Committees.       
-30-  
 