 
		    
            Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today held a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, examining whether federal and state marriage protection initiatives are vulnerable to judicial activism.  The hearing investigated DOMA laws across the nation and whether or not a federal remedy is needed to protect those laws.   
“In the nine years since DOMA was passed, a largely unaccountable judiciary bent on imposing its own radical agenda has undermined the right of the people to deciding this fundamental social matter for themselves,” Brownback said.  “It has become increasingly apparent that amending the Constitution is an absolute necessity, precisely in order to defend the overwhelming public consensus in favor of preserving traditional marriage.”   
As the Senate debated the proposed amendment to the Constitution to protect marriage last year, one of the most frequently-heard refrains was the assertion that a marriage protection amendment was completely unnecessary in light of the federal Defense of Marriage Act or “DOMA,” which strong bipartisan majorities in Congress passed and which President Clinton signed in 1996.     
Many argued against amending the Constitution because, they said, DOMA specifically says that states and localities opposing same-sex marriage need not recognize same-sex marriages contracted outside their borders.  Some suggested leaving marriage law up to the individual states.     
Allowing the people in each state to decide this important issue for themselves was what Congress intended in passing DOMA in 1996.  DOMA establishes that no state may force its own redefinition of marriage on other states or on the federal government over their objections.  It leaves decisions about marriage law and regulation up to the people of each state.   
Brownback continued, “The American people, through their legislatures, are the ones who must be able to make the laws with regard to fundamental social institutions such as the family.  The argument that marriage is a matter reserved to the states and to the people only makes sense if the people are the ones who determine the definition of marriage and the laws that regulate it.   
“DOMA, and with it the democratic principle of consensual governance, are increasingly at risk from an activist judiciary determined to run roughshod over democratically-enacted laws and referenda, well-established traditions, and the will of the people.”   
Five years ago, the Supreme Court of Vermont ruled that same-sex couples must be given the same legal status and rights as married couples.  Last year, the Massachusetts Supreme Court ruled that state law restricting marriage to male-female couples had no rational basis, and violated the state constitution; going even further, the court subsequently required the Massachusetts legislature to enact same sex marriage, reasoning that giving same-sex couples all the legal benefits of marriage with civil unions did not go far enough.    
In California, New York, Washington, and Oregon, judges have found a right to same-sex marriage in the state constitution, contradicting the expressed desire of voters to preserve marriage as the union between a man and a woman.  More such rulings are seemingly just around the corner, as eight states currently face lawsuits challenging their traditional marriage laws.  Courts in at least two states have already recognized civil unions imported from Vermont.  And DOMA itself is already being challenged: a federal lawsuit in Washington State challenging DOMA’s constitutionality could be before the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals within the year.    
“Many scholars and citizens believe it is only a matter of time before the Supreme Court mandates same-sex marriage in every state, either by expansively interpreting the Constitution’s Full Faith and Credit Clause or though yet another far-reaching substantive due process decision like Lawrence v. Texas, which stated that judges can freely invalidate laws based on mere ‘moral disapproval,’” Brownback said.  “That so many people in so many states have recently and overwhelmingly passed marriage protection initiatives suggests that they too expect the Supreme Court to invalidate federal and state DOMAs as interfering with the newfound fundamental ‘right’ discovered in Lawrence.   
“An amendment to the Constitution would not be federalizing an issue that has heretofore been left to the states.  The principle of state autonomy in marriage law is already under a variety of constitutional attacks from judges across the country.  An amendment simply would protect the right of the people to decide the issue of marriage for themselves.”  
 