 
		    
            Friday, January 13, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback applauded South Korea’s decision to partially re-open its market to American beef after being closed for nearly two years, but also noted that more needs to be done.   
“I am encouraged by South Korea’s movement towards full resumption of U.S. beef imports,” said Sen. Brownback.  “Their decision to allow imports from cattle under 30 months of age is especially appreciated, given that neighboring Japan has ignored science and set its limit at 20 months.  However, I remain troubled by South Korea’s refusal to allow importation of bone-in cuts of meat, especially beef ribs.  These decisions need to be based on science, not emotion.  I will continue fighting for a full resumption of U.S. beef shipments to South Korea, Japan, and other countries around the world.”   
The South Korean market had been closed since December 2003, after a Canadian-born cow found in Washington state tested positive for BSE.  The South Korean market is now open to American beef from cattle 30 months old or younger, with shipments expected to start arriving in South Korea by late March.  However, South Korean officials said they will not import beef ribs, which had accounted for more than 60% of beef shipments from America to South Korea.   
Brownback continued, “I call on the other nations across the world that continue their embargo against U.S. beef, such as Taiwan,  to formally reconsider their position.  There is simply no sound scientific basis for continuing to ban the importation of American beef.”   
Brownback plans to write to South Korea’s Ambassador to push for a full resumption of beef trade.   
South Korea imported more than 199,000 tons of U.S. beef in 2003, valued at $880 million, making South Korea America’s third largest beef export market.  At the time of the BSE discovery, the U.S. exported beef to 119 countries.  With South Korea’s market re-opening, that number is now at 71.   
Since December 2003, the USDA has tested well over 500,000 cattle for BSE.  The USDA has found and confirmed only one case.    
Sen. Brownback sits on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Rural Development.   
-30-  
 