 
		    
            Wednesday, June 13, 2007 
           

   WASHINGTON  U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded Senate passage by a 63-30 vote of an amendment to H.R. 6, the Energy Bill. The amendment, co-sponsored by Brownback, directs the executive branch to identify within 9 months, and publish within 18 months, federal requirements for barrel per-day reduction in U.S. oil consumption.     WASHINGTON  U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded Senate passage by a 63-30 vote of an amendment to H.R. 6, the Energy Bill. The amendment, co-sponsored by Brownback, directs the executive branch to identify within 9 months, and publish within 18 months, federal requirements for barrel per-day reduction in U.S. oil consumption.   I am pleased my colleagues overwhelmingly supported this amendment, said Brownback. Our nation is addicted to foreign oil, which not only harms our economy, but also funds hostile regimes halfway across the world. Despite our military and economic strength, our security is still compromised if we are reliant upon foreign sources of oil. America should be more dependent on the Midwest than the Middle  East for our fuel needs. Also, we need to increase domestic and offshore drilling to lessen our dependence on foreign oil. I hope this bill contains those provisions when the Senate votes on final passage.  The amendment sets several goals for reducing our nations oil consumption: 2.5 million barrels per day reduction by 2016; 7 million barrels per day reduction by 2026; 10 million barrels per day reduction by 2031, which would represent roughly a 50% reduction in per-day oil consumption.   Brownback continued, To reach these goals, the President can utilize any of his existing authorities, in addition to the provisions contained within this bill like the increased usage of renewable fuels. Also, I plan to introduce another amendment to the Energy Bill which would promote the usage of plug-in hybrid vehicles. Brownback is a member of the Senate Judiciary and Appropriations Committees.   -30- 
 