 
		    
            Wednesday, July 13, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today urged people across the nation to participate in the National Weekend of Prayer and Reflection for Darfur, Sudan.  Brownback had introduced a resolution that passed the Senate (S. Res. 186) designating July 15-17 as this special weekend.   
 
“This weekend provides a unique opportunity for faith-based institutions and houses of worship around the country to pray together for an end to the genocide in Darfur, and for Americans to become actively involved in opposing these atrocities together,” Brownback said.  “It is a matter of the highest moral responsibility for each of us individually, for Congress, for the United States, and for the global community to do all we can to stop the violence against innocents in Darfur.”   
 
It was a year ago this month that Congress declared genocide in Darfur, Sudan, followed by the same historic declaration by the Bush Administration.  Some figures estimate that as many as 400,000 people have died as a result of violence, disease and hunger and more than 2 million have fled their homes and remain displaced.   
 
Just a few weeks ago, President Bush confirmed that “the violence in Darfur region is clearly genocide. The human cost is beyond calculation.”   
 
Brownback specifically urged Americans to pray for an end to the violence and humanitarian disaster in Sudan, and for breakthroughs in peace talks and reconciliation.  Brownback continued, “I also urge your prayers for the leaders of all nations, that they may be given wisdom and guidance to fight the devastating effects of genocide and crimes against humanity and that they may be willing to deplore the violence and provide assistance for the humanitarian efforts.   
 
“Additionally, please remember the suffering people of Darfur, that they would be granted peace and healing; and especially for the women who have suffered violent crimes of rape and abuse, that they would be given the treatment and care needed to heal from the physical and emotional scars.”   
 
Brownback thanked Senator Corzine and Congressmen Wexler, Wolf, Payne and Tancredo for diligently working to raise awareness and end the genocide in Darfur.     
 
Brownback traveled to the Darfur region of Sudan in July 2004 and issued a report with recommendations for the international community to deal with the dire human rights situation there.  Brownback also co-authored legislation declaring the dire situation in Sudan genocide, and sponsored legislation providing $95 million in emergency humanitarian aid to the Darfur region.    
 
 