 
		    
            Tuesday, November 13, 2007 
           

   WASHINGTON - The report on the costs of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan issued this morning by Democrats on the Joint Economic Committee and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate is another thinly veiled exercise in political hyperbole masquerading as academic research.   The report contains a number of factual errors indicating poor quality control,  is inconsistent with various estimates of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), and makes speculative assertions that far exceed cost estimates of other analysts.  The report, War at Any Price?, purports to calculate the total costs of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.  The Democrats' report was released without any notice to or consultation with Republican members or staff of the Joint Economic Committee (JEC). Congressman Jim Saxton and Senator Sam Brownback, ranking members of the JEC, made the following statement regarding the report: It is disappointing that the Democrats would release a report that contains so many factual errors, but the errors are in keeping with its sloppiness and overtly political tone.  For example, many of the state by state cost comparisons are obviously wrong, but in the rush to score political points, no one bothered to fact check the report.  This reflects poorly on the quality control and review process used by the Democrats in producing the report. All wars involve costs, and the war on terror is no exception.  The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq certainly involve costs, but prematurely pulling out of these wars would also include huge costs that are ignored in the Democrats' report.  In addition, in the case of Afghanistan, the Democratic report fails to mention that the U.S. was attacked on September 11th.  The report ignores the fact that there are indeed benefits from curbing terrorism.  The Democrat's report would have benefited from more analysis and quality control, and less political content.  We call on Senator Schumer and the Democratic leadership in the House and the Senate to withdraw this defective report. Other problems with the report include:  
 