 
		    
            Wednesday, February 14, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today expressed disappointment that this year's continuing resolution does not include funding for Marriage Development Accounts, which are used in the District of Columbia to offset financial disincentives to marriage in the welfare system.       
"I am greatly disappointed that my colleagues do not recognize the importance of funding the Marriage Development Account program," said Brownback.  "Study after study has concluded that children who are raised by married parents do far better physically, intellectually, and emotionally.  For example, children raised in intact families are 3 times less likely to repeat a grade in school; 5 times less likely to have behavioral problems; half as likely to be depressed; and 14 times less likely to suffer abuse from their parents."     
Last year, Brownback began a pilot program in the District of Columbia to allow couples to open Marriage Development Accounts.  Couples' contributions to MDAs are matched at a ratio of 3:1 by the Federal government and partnering private institutions.  MDAs can be used for education, buying a home, and starting a business.  As a requirement of participation, couples receive training that helps them repair their credit, set a budget and savings schedule, and manage their money.  They also receive bonuses in their MDA accounts if they receive marriage counseling.     
Brownback continued, "Nationwide, 35 percent of all babies are born to single mothers. However, in the District of Columbia, 57 percent of all babies are born to single mothers.  I am saddened by my colleagues' decision to discontinue funding to a program that has the potential to help end such a disheartening trend."       
The continuing resolution passed the Senate today by a vote of 81-15.  Brownback also was troubled by the $4.3 billion in funding cuts to the U.S. military.         
Senator Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Judiciary Committee.     
-30-  
 