 
		    
            Friday, July 14, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today co-sponsored the North Korea Nonproliferation Act of 2006, which would impose sanctions on individuals or companies who provide goods, services, or technology that support North Korea's weapons programs.     
"North Korea is a failed state on life support from China," said Brownback.  "We must do everything we can to prevent the regime from drawing on outside support for its weapons programs.  The North Korean regime must understand that its deplorable and provocative behavior has consequences."     
The bill would subject North Korea to the same sanctions currently in place for Iran and Syria by adding North Korea to the Iran Nonproliferation Act of 2000.  The United States already places several types of sanctions on North Korea, and this legislation extends these sanctions to include anyone assisting North Korea's missile and weapons of mass destruction programs.     
Brownback continued, "While we continue to make it difficult for North Korea to develop missile capabilities on its own, we must also discourage others from assisting North Korea.  North Korea should use its scarce resources to provide for its starving people, not to produce weapons that threaten its neighbors.  I call on other governments concerned about North Korea's belligerence and instability  to impose similar sanctions.  Iran and Syria already are subject to these sanctions, and North Korea should be placed in the same category."     
Brownback sponsored the North Korean Human Rights Act, which passed the Senate in 2004 and made human rights a priority in U.S. policy toward North Korea.  Under the provision of the Act in early May six North Koreans were admitted into the U.S. as refugees, which marked the first time that the U.S. has formally processed North Koreans as refugees from a third country since the end of the Korean War half a century ago.     
Senator Brownback chairs the Helsinki Commission and is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Judiciary Committee.  
 