 
		    
            Friday, April 15, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today urged the Department of Health and Human Services to immediately implement a recommendation by the Institute of Medicine Cord Blood Stem Cell Report to establish a National Cord Blood Stem Cell Bank Program.   
 
“This report brings us one step closer to making cures available to more people,” Brownback said.  “I call on the Department of Health and Human Services to begin implementing the IOM recommendations immediately.  Since the funds have already been appropriated there is no reason to lose another day.”   
 
Over the past two years, about $20 million has been appropriated for the purpose of establishing a National Cord Blood Bank, pending the outcome and recommendations of the IOM review.  This money was placed in accounts and is available until fully spent.   
 
Brownback worked with Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) to include the appropriation in FY 2004 and FY 2005.  He has also introduced legislation with Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Specter, and Tom Harkin (D-IA) that would appropriate sufficient funds to ensure the success of a National Cord Blood Bank, as recommended by IOM.   
 
Brownback continued, “Cord blood stem cells represent some of the most promising advances being made in the field of stem cell research, and they are not controversial.  Unlike human embryonic stem cells, which require the destruction of young human beings, umbilical cord blood stem cells are completely ethical as their derivation and use results in no harm to any human beings.  Moreover, they have incredible therapeutic power.”     
 
Cord blood stem cell research involves the blood from human umbilical cords, also known as “cord blood.”  This blood contains a high number of pluripotent stem cells.  Once considered medical waste, it has been discovered that cord blood has the potential to save thousands of lives.   
 
A living testament to the therapeutic power of cord blood is Keone Penn.  Mr. Penn, a young African American man who suffered terribly from sickle cell anemia, testified at a hearing Brownback chaired in July 2003.  Mr. Penn was cured of sickle cell anemia through cord blood.   
 
 