 
		    
            Friday, July 15, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today announced Senate passage of H.R. 2360, the Homeland Security Appropriations bill.  This $32 billion measure, which passed the Senate by a vote of 96-1, funds the operations of the Department of Homeland Security as well as other programs to ensure that our borders, airports, and mass transit systems are secure from attack.  The bill also funds grant programs designed to aid state and local law enforcement and fire units in carrying out their duty of protecting their communities.  H.R. 2360, as passed by the Senate, is within its budget allocation.   
 
“I am pleased the Senate acted quickly and passed this vitally important bill and has done so in a manner that maintains a commitment to fiscal responsibility,” Brownback said.  “The United States government exists to protect its citizens, and the Homeland Security Appropriations bill provides the necessary funding for programs that aim to protect the public from those who intend to harm us.”    
 
However, Brownback expressed his disappointment over two border security amendments which he cosponsored that were not accepted by the Senate.  The first would have allocated $368 million for the hiring of 1,000 new border security agents.  The second would have allocated nearly $200 million for the purchase of 5,760 new beds in detention facilities.   
 
“It is unfortunate that the Senate did not agree to these two amendments.  Protecting our borders is critical, and these amendments would have done much to achieve this goal.  They would have provided a larger border security force for greater land coverage and more beds so that individuals who are captured crossing the border are housed adequately in detention facilities.  I will continue to work diligently in the future to ensure that our borders are secure,” Brownback said.   
 
H.R. 2360 now goes to conference with the House of Representatives where the differences between the two bills will be worked out.  Brownback is a member of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, which writes the twelve bills passed annually that fund the operations of the federal government and numerous projects in the State of Kansas.   
 
 