 
		    
            Thursday, September 15, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today made the following opening statement at the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the nomination of John G. Roberts, Jr. to be Chief Justice of the United States:     
"We need a more modest Court."       
These words from Judge John Roberts certainly struck a chord with me and would, I believe, with most Americans.  We do need a Supreme Court which is true to itself and to the nation, and not some form of super-legislature.  A Court which views the Constitution with respect, perhaps even awe.  It is what it is, and not what we wish it to be.  This is the necessary view of the Constitution if we are to be governed by the Rule of Law, and not ruled by the whims and wishes of whoever might be on the bench.  The Constitution is for the Ages.  It represents stability, not malleability.       
In my meeting with Judge Roberts, he talked about baseball and the courts.  He gave an apt analogy when he said, "it is a bad thing when the umpire is the most watched person on the field."  He was alluding, of course, to the current situation in American governance in which the legislature can pass a law and the executive can sign it, but everybody waits, holding their breath, to see what the courts will do with it.     
We need a more modest Court - one which is an unbiased umpire, not a player, in American policy making.  When Judge Roberts was originally nominated on July 19th, I was particularly struck by his statement that he had a "profound appreciation for the role of the Court in our constitutional democracy."  The role of the Court in American government and life is also of great concern to us all.     
It is my hope that when confirmed, Judge Roberts will be faithful to the role originally intended for the courts by the Framers of the Constitution.       
Democracy loses its luster when Justices on the high Court - who are unelected and not directly accountable - invent constitutional rights and alter the balance of governmental powers in ways that find no support in the text, structure, or history of the Constitution.  Unfortunately, the Court in recent years has aggressively assumed a more prominent political role.     
In our system of government, the Constitution contemplates that federal courts will exercise limited jurisdiction: they should neither write nor execute the laws, but simply "say what the law is," as former Chief Justice Marshall stated in the famous case of Marbury v. Madison.       
As Alexander Hamilton explained, this limitation on judicial power is what would make the federal judiciary the "least dangerous" branch of government.  He assured his fellow Framers and citizens that judges could be trusted with the power to decide cases because they would not resolve divisive social issues, short-circuit the political process, or create rights grounded more in the preferences of a temporary Supreme Court majority than in the Constitution.     
The narrow scope of judicial power was the reason the People accepted the idea that the federal courts could have the power of judicial review - that is, the ability to decide whether a challenged law comports with the Constitution.  The People believed that the courts would maintain their independence and, at the same time, would recognize their role by deferring to the political branches on policy choices.     
Legitimacy based on judicial restraint was a concept perhaps best expressed by Justice Felix Frankfurter, appointed by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt:     
"Courts are not representative bodies.  They are not designed to be a good reflex of a democratic society.  Their judgment is best informed, and therefore most dependable, within narrow limits.  Their essential quality is detachment, founded on independence.  History teaches that the independence of the judiciary is jeopardized when courts become embroiled in the passions of the day and assume primary responsibility in choosing between competing political, economic and social pressures.  Primary responsibility for adjusting the interests which compete . . . of necessity belongs to the Congress."       
Yet courts today have strayed far beyond this limited role.  Constitutionalists from Hamilton to Frankfurter surely would be shocked at the broad sweep of judicial activity today. Federal courts are redefining the meaning of marriage; deciding when a human life is worthy of protection; running prisons and schools by decree; removing expressions of faith in the public square; permitting the government under the Takings Clause to confiscate property from one person and give it to another in the name of private economic development; and interpreting our American Constitution on the basis of foreign and international law.     
Perhaps the Supreme Court's most notorious exercise of raw political power came in Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton, two 1973 cases which invented a constitutional right to abortion.  The issue had been handled by the People through their elected representatives prior to that time.     
One final thought.  Righteousness and justice travel together in a healthy society.  Righteousness is the knowledge of right from wrong, good from evil, that is written on our hearts.  Justice is the application of that knowledge.     
Everybody in our representative form of government tries to do both of these, righteousness and justice, within the boundaries set for each of us.  No one branch has unlimited control.     
The Supreme Court has boundaries too.  There are checks and balances on what it can deal with and what it can do.  For instance, the Court cannot appropriate money.  That power is specifically left to the Congress in the Constitution, no matter how right or just the Court may view the cause.     
We all are constitutional officers sworn to uphold the Constitution, yet each branch has separate functions, which the other branches can check and balance.  The total system functions best when each branch does its job, but not the other's.     
We have arrived at an important moment with the nomination of Judge John Roberts to serve as Chief Justice of the United States.  Will he serve, as Hamilton assured the People, by exercising judgment rather than will?  My review of his many legal writings over the past quarter century leads me to believe that this is the case.  I hope that this instinct will be proven correct during the days to come, that Judge Roberts will be confirmed to serve as the first Justice among equals, and that the noble legacy of the Justice he once served will be honored.  
 