 
		    
            Friday, February 16, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Mark Pryor (D-AR) yesterday introduced a resolution commemorating the 200th anniversary of the abolition of the British slave trade and honoring the life of William Wilberforce, a humanitarian who was instrumental in abolishing the British slave trade.     
"Wilberforce's passion and commitment to end the British slave trade and renew the culture solidified the inherency of human dignity and sanctity of human life," said Brownback.  "As the 200th anniversary of British slave trade abolition approaches we should celebrate Wilberforce's victories and use his legacy as an inspiration to renew our culture by continuing to fight for human life and human dignity."     
"William Wilberforce's unmatched determination to end the British slave trade practice continues to inspire leaders and communities throughout the world," said Pryor. "However, we can not turn a blind eye to how the slave trade has evolved into the trafficking of women and children.  The life of Wilberforce is a powerful reminder that we all have a responsibility to stand up and speak out against injustice no matter how long it takes."       
As a member of the British House of Commons, William Wilberforce fought for twenty years to pass legislation banning the slave trade.  On February 23, 1807, the British Parliament passed a bill banning the slave trade in the British Empire.  In 1833, the House of Commons voted to abolish slavery altogether.       
Brownback continued, "We must continue to follow Wilberforce's example and fight for the dignity and freedom of every person.  It is intolerable that 200 years after Britain banned its slave trade, there are still hundreds of thousands of victims of human trafficking who are used as bonded labors, sex slaves, and in other horrifying capacities."       
In 2006, the United States Department of State estimated that between 600,000 and 800,000 persons were trafficked across international borders.  In 2000, Brownback was instrumental in drafting and passing the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act, which seeks to combat human trafficking.         
-30-  
 