 
		    
            Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today made the following statement as he chaired a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights, and Property Rights examining the constitutional context for obscenity prosecution.     
 
“The explosion of sexually-explicit material is not a problem that exists in the vacuum of constitutional theory; government has a compelling and real-life interest in the matter, because of porn’s adverse effects on individuals, families, and communities in the forms of criminality and addiction.     
 
“The editor and publisher of a journal of the pornography trade recently stated that ‘it’s scary how much money is made on porn.’  About this, there can be little debate.  The porn industry has grown rapidly in the last decade.  Part of the reason for this growth is that the nature of, and access to, sexually explicit material in the marketplace has been radically transformed and expanded.   
 
“According to many legal scholars, another reason for the industry’s growth is a legal regime that has undermined the whole notion that illegal obscenity can be prosecuted.   
 
“Just last month federal judge Gary Lancaster of the Western District of Pennsylvania threw out a ten-count Justice Department indictment against Extreme Associates, purveyors of the vilest sort of pornography.  The defendants were in the business of producing films that, according to one report, ‘even porn veterans find disturbing.’  A co-owner of Extreme Associates even boasted that the films—which depict rape, torture, and murder—represent ‘the depths of human depravity.’  He also proudly admitted that the films covered by the indictment met the legal definition of obscenity.   
 
“There was a reason why Judge Lancaster had to bypass First Amendment jurisprudence in reaching the result he wanted.  Numerous First Amendment precedents distinguish between protected speech and illegal obscenity.     
 
“This hearing will emphasize two well-established legal principles.  The first is that the Supreme Court has clearly and repeatedly held that obscenity does not merit First Amendment protection.  The second is that the government has a legitimate and constitutionally valid interest in regulating obscenity through, among other things, the enforcement of relevant federal and state statutes.”  
 