 
		    
            Wednesday, March 16, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) today held a hearing with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) on colorectal cancer screening awareness and the future of the virtual colonoscopy.  The senators co-chair the Senate Cancer Coalition.   
 
“We’re here not only to highlight the tremendous problem of colon cancer, but also to highlight that there is hope,” Brownback said.  “This is a problem with a solution.  People do not need to die from this disease.  Medicine is ready to prevent cancer, but people just aren’t taking advantage of the variety of screening methods available.  Today there’s a new technology that may offer hope for improving screening rates: Virtual colonoscopy provides a non-invasive way to screen for cancer—and that can make a huge difference in mitigating the risks and enhancing the benefits to screening.”     
 
“Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths in the U.S., after lung cancer,” Feinstein said.  “Though if it is detected in time, colorectal cancer is 90 percent curable.  As we strive to overcome the unpleasantness of talking about this disease, it is important that people who are at risk see their doctors and get screened.”   
 
Colorectal cancer is the leading cancer killer among non-smokers in the U.S, and the third most common cancer found in both men and women in the U.S.  It strikes almost 150,000 people a year, and ultimately kills over 50,000 people a year.   
 
Many of those lives might have been saved if their cancers were found early or if the pre-cancerous polyps were found and removed.     
 
Brownback continued, “We must encourage any innovations that simplify the process.  The tools we’ve got are only as good as people’s willingness to use them.  Anything that increases the user-friendliness of safe and effective colorectal cancer screening should be encouraged.  I encourage everyone to get screened for cancer.”   
 
March is colon cancer awareness month.     
 
Brownback was first elected to the Senate to fill the unexpired term of Bob Dole in 1996.  He was returned by the voters of Kansas for a full term in 1998, and reelected this past November.  He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1994-1996.  Brownback serves on the Appropriations, Judiciary, and Joint Economic Committees.  He also is chairman of the Helsinki Commission and co-chairman of the Senate Cancer Coalition.  
 