 
		    
            Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback joined several senate colleagues today to introduce a bipartisan plan that would reduce foreign oil consumption to improve America’s national security.  The bill, called the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, is co-sponsored by senators Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Evan Bayh (D-IN), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC).     
“It's good common sense to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and it's doable in the near-term,” said Senator Brownback.  “This dependence limits our foreign policy and national security options, and there is broad public support for reducing oil consumption.  We can create market incentives to use technologies available today to deal with a problem that will only get worse unless we take action.”     
The bill features three main components: setting goals for reducing national oil consumption, market-based tax credits and R funding to encourage producers and consumers of fuel-efficient vehicles, and expansion of the renewable fuels infrastructure.     
Brownback continued, “We need to be innovative in solving our nation’s energy problems.  We can’t drill enough domestic oil to break our dependence on foreign oil, nor can we conserve enough oil by carpooling to work.  But we can grow and innovate our way to more diversified fuel sources.  We should rely more on the Midwest for our fuel, not on the Middle East.  This helps farmers, rural communities, and our overall economy, and it protects our national security.”     
The plan sets targets for reducing oil consumption, such as lowering our usage by 2.5 million barrels a day by 2016.  Today, we import approximately 2.5 million barrels a day from the Persian Gulf region.  Overall, the United States consumes about 20 million barrels a day.     
The bill provides tax credits for producers of fuel-efficient cars and for consumers who purchase the vehicles.  Research and development funds are increased for technologies used in fuel-efficient vehicles, and the renewable fuel infrastructure is enhanced through tax credits, loan guarantees, and the use of CAFE penalties paid by foreign automakers for retooling pumps to support ethanol.     
Brownback continued, “The fact that senators and congressmen from both sides of the aisle and from many parts of the country can come together on this bill indicates that our goals represent an achievable common ground.  While there may be several ideas on how to reach the goals in this plan, we can all agree that we face pressing national and economic security pressures to diversify our energy sources.”     
A companion bill was introduced in the House with Jack Kingston (R-GA) and Elliot Engle (D-NY) as the lead cosponsors.     
-30-  
 