 
		    
            Friday, September 16, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today commended the Senate for passing by unanimous consent a resolution condemning a decision by a U.S. District Court which ruled that the Pledge of Allegiance was unconstitutional because it contains the words "under God."  Brownback was an original cosponsor of the resolution.     
"This is another case of the courts interfering with the will of the people," Brownback stated.  "There is nothing more American than the Pledge of Allegiance and an acknowledgement of God is at the heart of our founding principles and is our nation's motto.  The district court ruling seriously undermines our ability as a nation to encourage civic pride, respect for our heritage, and much-needed patriotism in our public square."     
The Senate Resolution is a response to yesterday's decision by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California which ruled that the Pledge of Allegiance is unconstitutional.  In 2002, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco ruled the Pledge of Allegiance to be unconstitutional when recited voluntarily because it uses the phrase "one nation, under God."  Although the Supreme Court last year ruled to preserve the phrase "one nation, under God," in the Pledge of Allegiance, the federal court decision yesterday illustrates that the Pledge is still under attack.     
The Resolution was sponsored by Senator Jim Talent of Missouri.  "The Senate today is expressing its resolve that the Pledge of Allegiance is constitutional," said Talent.  "It's unfortunate that the Senate is once again compelled to defend the Pledge of Allegiance because of the actions of a federal court.  For more than 50 years, the Pledge has been an affirmation that our country was established as a union, "under God."  No person should ever be forced to say "under God" when reciting the Pledge, but the Senate believes the Pledge of Allegiance is a fully constitutional expression of patriotism."     
Brownback is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights.  
 