 
		    
            Friday, June 17, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – Senator Sam Brownback announced last night Appropriations Committee approval of the Energy and Water, and Homeland Security Appropriations bills.  The Energy and Water Appropriations bill provides more than $17 billion in funding for the Department of Energy and for various flood control, lake maintenance, and dam safety projects through the Army Corps of Engineers.  The $32 billion Homeland Security Appropriations bill funds the operations of the Department of Homeland Security as well as other programs to ensure border security and airport safety.  As approved, both bills are within budget.   
 
“I am pleased that the Appropriations Committee passed two important and fiscally responsible bills today.  The Senate continues to show its commitment to securing the United States against those who intend to harm us.  The United States Government exists in order to protect its citizens, and the Homeland Security Appropriations bill does just that by providing important and necessary funding for programs that secure our border, airports, roads, and public places.” Brownback said.   
 
“I am also encouraged by the Committee’s commitment to energy development and flood control.  Although the Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of Energy don’t always make front page news, Americans benefit from their hard work whenever they go to the gas station, turn on their lights, or drink tap water.”   
 
The Energy and Water Appropriations bill included $66.4 million for Kansas projects.  This includes $25.8 million for routine maintenance of Kansas’ reservoirs and lakes and $33.6 million for water infrastructure construction in the state.  Selected projects include:   
 
Brush Creek Basin General Investigation: $175,000   
Grand (Neosho) River Basin Study: $300,000   
Missouri River Degradation Study: $155,000   
Rock Creek Basin Stormwater Project: $400,000   
Telecommunications Energy Storage Systems Development, Overland Park, KS: $3,000,000   
Turkey Creek Basin Flood Control Construction: $4,000,000   
Tuttle Creek Lake Dam Safety Project: $27,000,000   
Upper Arkansas River Reconnaissance Study: $100,000   
Upper Turkey Creek General Investigation: $300,000   
 
Having been approved by the Appropriations Committee, the Energy and Water and Homeland Security Appropriations bills now go to the full Senate for consideration.  Senator Brownback is a member of the Senate Committee on Appropriations.   
 
 