 
		    
            Wednesday, July 18, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA) today reintroduced the Pre-natally and Post-natally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act, legislation which would require that families who receive a diagnosis of Down syndrome or any other condition, pre-natally or up until a year after birth, will be given up-to-date information about the nature of the condition and connection with support services and networks that could offer assistance.       
"We as a society must offer as much protection as we can to 'the least of these,'" said Brownback.  "When a mother receives the news that her unborn child may be born with a disability, she should be supplied with current and reliable information about the many options available for caring for children with disabilities."       
The Pre-natally and Post-natally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act would provide for the expansion and further development of a national clearinghouse on information for parents of children with disabilities, so that the clearinghouse would be better equipped to assist parents whose children have recently been pre- or post-natally diagnosed. The bill also provides for the expansion and further development of national and local peer-support programs.  The bill also calls for the creation of a national registry of families willing to adopt children with pre- or post-natally diagnosed conditions.     
"One of the hardest moments in the life of an expectant mother is when she receives news that she is going to have a child with special needs," said Kennedy.  "Access to the best support and information about the condition, and the quality of life for a child born with that condition, can make all the difference to a woman trying to make an informed and difficult decision.  I believe this kind of support is a vital element to strengthening a true culture of life in America."     
Currently, 90 percent of children pre-natally diagnosed with Down syndrome are aborted.  That percentage is similar for children pre-natally diagnosed with other conditions such as spina bifida, cystic fibrosis, and dwarfism.     
Brownback is a member of the Senate Judiciary and Appropriations Committees.       
-30-  
 