 
		    
            Wednesday, July 18, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded the announcement from the Council of Better Business Bureaus that eleven businesses have pledged to refocus their food and beverage advertising in an effort to combat childhood obesity.       
"I commend the Council of Better Business Bureaus and the eleven participating companies that have pledged to focus most of their advertising on products that meet voluntary healthier nutrition standards," said Brownback.  "These companies have taken the responsible step of refocusing their advertising to children under 12 on foods that adhere to a healthier standard.  Several of the companies have decided to limit the use of advertising third-party licensed characters on products that do not meet their new nutrition standards and that target children younger than 12 years old."      
The CBBB today approved pledges made by eleven businesses:  Cadbury Adams, USA, LLC;  Campbell Soup Company, The Coca-Cola Company, General Mills, Inc.; The Hershey Company,  Kellogg Company, Kraft Foods Inc., Mars, Inc.;  McDonald's USA, LLC, PepsiCo, Inc. and Unilever United States.  These companies have agreed to be voluntarily monitored by the CBBB and the CBBB will publicly report on the companies' compliance with their pledges.      
Brownback continued, "Today's announcement underscores the need to continue to work together to end the sharp rise in childhood obesity.  As Senator Harkin and I continue to participate with the FCC task force on childhood obesity, and as the task force works to announce its recommendations on how it will address this epidemic, I am hopeful that the media companies will build off of efforts such as this and commit to similar bold and responsible steps.  Initiatives like this help parents make better and healthier choices for their children."     
Brownback last year joined Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA), FCC Chairman Kevin Martin and FCC Commissioners Michael J. Copps and Deborah Taylor Tate to announce the formation of a government and industry task force to examine the impact of media and advertising on children's health.       
Brownback is a member of the Senate Judiciary and Appropriations Committees.     
-30-  
 