 
		    
            Wednesday, December 19, 2007 
           

   WASHINGTON  U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today announced the introduction of his Freedom to Choose Tax Reform Act (S.2518) which will offer taxpayers an optional plan that will tax the first $102,000 at 10% and anything above at 23% and allows a $1,000 tax credit for all dependents. The Internal Revenue Code is a legalistic maze that presents a huge burden to American taxpayers, said Brownback. Therefore, I have introduced a bill that would give taxpayers an option: Taxpayers may file under the existing system if they prefer; or individuals may choose to pay taxes under the Freedom to Choose Tax Reform plan, which has low rates and individual credits. For those who would opt in, the Freedom to Choose Tax Reform Act would minimize their tax compliance burden, and provide many with tax relief. The measure is pro-growth and family-friendly. I look forward to debating this issue and fighting for meaningful tax reform. S.2518 employs a two-rate structure, with a 10% rate applied to an individuals gross income up to the Social Security earnings cap, which will be $102,000 in 2008, and a 23% rate on gross income above this threshold. The marriage penalty is eliminated under the bill by allowing each spouse on a joint return to have their income taxed separately before individual credits for family members would be applied on a joint return. In place of deductions and exemptions, the Freedom to Choose Tax Reform Act would allow a credit of $1,000 for each individual in a taxpayers household: the taxpayer, taxpayers spouse, and each dependent, including children, relatives with disabilities, and aging parents. The plan abolishes the distinction between short and long-term capital gains, hence allowing freer movement of capital to more productive uses; and capital and dividend income is taxed at a rate of only 10% up to the Social Security earnings cap. A taxpayer who drops out of the optional system may not re-enter the system for five years. The bill also includes a government reform commission modeled after the successful Defense Base Realignment and Closure Commission, which has saved taxpayers billions of dollars. The commission in Title II would focus on increasing government efficiency and saving taxpayer dollars in all discretionary and mandatory spending programs. Brownback is the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee and Senior Republican Senator on the Joint Economic Committee. 
 