 
		    
            Wednesday, January 19, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today became chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, commonly known as the Helsinki Commission, which monitors human rights and democracy in Europe.   
“Now more than ever, it is important to ensure democracy and human rights are protected throughout the world,” Brownback said.  “I am pleased to assume the chairmanship of this important commission.  The Helsinki Commission was created to build cooperation between the U.S. and Europe on issues critical to both continents and to the world.  I look forward to expanding that cooperation moving forward.”   
Brownback, who currently serves on the Helsinki Commission, was appointed chairman by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, who made the announcement today.  The Commission, an independent federal agency, monitors and encourages progress in implementing provisions of the Helsinki Accords.     
The Commission, created in 1976, is composed of nine Senators, nine Representatives and one official each from the Departments of State, Defense and Commerce, was created to monitor and encourage compliance with the Helsinki Final Act and other OSCE commitments.    
The Commission monitors violations of individual liberties in the 55 states belonging to the OSCE, encompassing the United States, Canada, Europe and the 15 former Soviet republics.  In addition, 10 Mediterranean and Asian countries serve as partners for cooperation in the OSCE.   As the new Chairman, Senator Brownback will help shape U.S. policy toward Ukraine and neighboring Russia and, by extension, take part in efforts to curb nuclear-weapons proliferation, global terrorism and arms and drug trafficking.  In the coming years, the Helsinki Commission—with the White House, the State Department and other foreign-policymakers on Capitol Hill—will be involved in discussions surrounding Ukraine’s possible entry into NATO and the European Union.   Serving as the Commission’s Chief of Staff will be Sean Woo, currently General Counsel and Foreign Policy Advisor to Senator Brownback.  Mr. Woo is a graduate of Harvard University and Widener University School of Law.  Mr. Woo has worked as Counsel to Senators Peter Fitzgerald, Chuck Grassley and the late William V. Roth, Jr., as well as Congressman Frank Wolf.   
Brownback was first elected to the Senate to fill the unexpired term of Bob Dole in 1996.  He was returned by the voters of Kansas for a full term in 1998, and reelected this past November.  He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1994-1996.  Brownback serves on the Appropriations, Judiciary, and Joint Economic Committees.  
 