 
		    
            Wednesday, July 19, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today called for greater pressure on North Korea from within by casting more light on the regime's human rights abuses and by accepting more North Koreans into the U.S. as refugees.     
"Much like the Soviet Union collapsed under the weight of its own moral illegitimacy, we can pressure the North Korean regime from within by providing its brutalized citizens with an opportunity to flee and a place to go," said Brownback.  "The problem is not only that the North Korean regime possesses dangerous weapons, but also that the regime itself is unstable and dangerous.  If we focus only on containing weapons programs, we will not solve the root of the problem, which is the regime itself."     
Under the provisions of the North Korean Human Rights Act, which passed the Senate in 2004, this past May six North Koreans were admitted into the U.S. as refugees, and not as political asylum seekers, for the first time since the Korean War ended nearly 50 years ago.     
Brownback described a resolution he will soon introduce that will urge the White House to create a Northeast Asia security framework that would enlarge the scope of the issues that would be reviewed in the interest of regional peace:     
"Cold War structures still frame the North Korean debate and I believe it is necessary to augment those piecemeal security arrangements with a more comprehensive, multilateral arrangement similar to the Helsinki Accords that changed the landscape of Europe."     
Brownback called for passage of the North Korea Nonproliferation Act of 2006, which would impose sanctions on individuals or companies who provide goods, services, or technologies that support North Korea's weapons programs.     
"While we continue to make it difficult for North Korea to develop missile capabilities on its own, we must also discourage others from assisting North Korea.  North Korea should use its scarce resources to provide for its starving people, not to produce weapons that threaten its neighbors.  Iran and Syria are already subject to these sanctions, and North Korea should be placed in the same category."     
Senator Brownback chairs the Helsinki Commission and is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Judiciary Committee.  
 