 
		    
            Thursday, July 19, 2007 
           

   WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded Appropriations Committee passage of the Agriculture Appropriations bill.  The bill now moves for full consideration by the full Senate. I am pleased my project requests for Kansas were funded by the Appropriations Committee, said Brownback.  The projects included in this bill will help make the agricultural industry more productive and help create and protect jobs.  It is possible to balance federal spending restraint while supporting Kansas communities, farmers and ranchers. The bill includes the following Kansas projects: 	Kansas Polymer Research Center, Pittsburg State University: $1.5 million. 	National Veterinary Medical Services Act: $750,000. 	Wheat Genetics and Genomics Resources Center, Kansas State University: $344,000. 	Great Plains Sorghum Improvement and Utilization Center, Kansas State University: $736,000. 	Water Conservation for Feed Grains, Kansas State University: $100,000. 	Pre-harvest Food Safety and Security, Kansas State University: $202,000. Other items of interest that benefit Kansas: 	Report language is included that encourages the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to provide regional field crop designations for Sericea Lespedeza.  Sericea is an invasive species in tallgrass prairie lands but a field crop in the southeast United States.  A regional field crop designation would allow APHIS to work with conservation groups in KS to develop strategies to exterminate Sericea in the Flint Hills. 	Language making Lansing, KS, eligible for Rural Development grants and loans. 	Language making Leavenworth, KS, eligible for Rural Development grants and loans. 	Language making Parsons, KS, eligible for Rural Utility Service wastewater treatment grants and loans. 	Language making several areas (including Liberal, Concordia, Phillipsburg, Dodge City and Great Bend) acquired by Mid-Kansas Electric Cooperative eligible for financing from Rural Utility Service.  Senator Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee. -30- 
 