 
		    
            Wednesday, July 19, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today called for increased American energy independence and more diversified energy sources in a speech at the National Press Club.     
"Although every bit helps, conservation efforts and new oil drilling alone will not be enough to break our dependence of foreign oil," said Brownback at the PowerShift energy conference, which was sponsored by the 20/20 Vision organization.  "But we can grow and innovate our way to more diversified fuel sources, and we should rely more on the Midwest for our fuel, not on the Middle East."     
Brownback's speech described the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, which would reduce American dependence on foreign oil by setting goals for reducing national oil consumption, enacting market-based tax credits and R funding to encourage producers and consumers of fuel-efficient vehicles, and expanding the renewable fuels infrastructure.     
Brownback continued, "It's good common sense to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and it's doable in the near-term.  This dependence limits our foreign policy and national security options, and there is broad public support for reducing oil consumption. We can create market incentives to use technologies available today to deal with a problem that will only get worse unless we take action."     
The bill provides tax credits for producers of fuel-efficient cars and for consumers who purchase the vehicles.  Research and development funds are increased for technologies used in fuel-efficient vehicles, and the renewable fuel infrastructure is enhanced through tax credits, loan guarantees, and the use of CAFE penalties paid by foreign automakers to retooling pumps to support ethanol.     
Brownback continued, "The fact that such a diverse and bipartisan group can come together on this plan indicates that our goals represent an achievable common ground. While there may be several ideas on how to reach the goals in this plan, we can all agree that we face pressing national and economic security pressures to diversify our energy sources."     
The plan sets targets for reducing oil consumption, such as lowering our usage by 2.5 million barrels a day by 2016.  Today, we import approximately 2.5 million barrels a day from the Persian Gulf region. Overall, the United States consumes about 20 million barrels a day.     
The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, S.2025, was authored by Brownback and Senators Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Evan Bayh (D-IN), and Norm Coleman (R-MN), and is co-sponsored by 24 other Republican and Democratic senators.     
Senator Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Judiciary Committee.  
 