 
		    
            Tuesday, February 1, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today responded to the United Nations’ Commission of Inquiry report on the crisis in Sudan.   
 
“As spokesman for the world’s people, Kofi Annan should make a passionate plea to the Security Council to deal effectively and immediately with the genocide in Darfur,” Brownback said.  “If the Security Council fails to take meaningful actions that will end the situation on the ground, like those we have outlined here today, Secretary Annan should resign in protest.  As Congressman Wolf has said before, ‘Resigning out of protest is an act of great moral leadership and the world would respect his actions.’”   
 
Brownback also called for the deployment of African Union peacekeeping troops to be accelerated and expanded immediately.  He urged the development of intelligence sharing to assist the AU in tracking Sudanese or rebel movement, and stated that the UN should vote to immediately levy hefty and serious economic and diplomatic sanctions against the government of Sudan, the government-sponsored Janjaweed, and any businesses or companies complicit through their government connections.     
 
Brownback continued, “It is time for you, Mr. Annan, to speak and to act on behalf of the suffering people in a way that brings peace, justice and equality to the African villagers of Darfur.  I urge Mr. Annan to return to Darfur, and to confirm to the world that the situation has not improved.  We can no longer stand idly by in good conscience and watch as thousands more fall victim the brutality of the worst man-made crisis in the world today.”   
 
It has been nearly six months since the U.S. Congress declared that genocide was occurring in Sudan’s western region of Darfur, followed shortly thereafter with a similar declaration by former Secretary of State Colin Powell.  However, since that time, attacks aimed at killing innocent civilians and destroying villages have continued and aid groups have withdrawn from the region.   
 
Despite numerous calls from the U.S. Congress and the United Nations Security Council, the government of Sudan has not made any attempt at ending the violence against civilians, disarming the Janjaweed, and abiding by cease-fire violations, including use of air power against civilians.   
 
The Commission of Inquiry began its three-month mandate on October 25, 2004.  After three months, the United Nations has failed to declare genocide and take any meaningful action.  The report was leaked by the government of Sudan despite agreements with the UN.    
 
Brownback and Rep. Frank Wolf of Virginia traveled to the Darfur region of Sudan in July 2004 and issued a report with recommendations for the international community to deal with the dire human rights situation there.  Brownback also authored legislation declaring the dire situation in Sudan genocide, and sponsored legislation providing $95 million in emergency humanitarian aid to the Darfur region.  
 