 
		    
            Friday, July 1, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today commented on the retirement of Supreme Court Justice Sandra O’Connor and outlined his hopes for a deliberative and constitutionally appropriate confirmation process in the Senate.   
 
“I sincerely hope that the Senate rejects partisan politics in its evaluation of the upcoming Supreme Court nominee.  Instead, we must remain mindful of the constitutional principles underlying the process of selecting a new Justice.   
 
“First, we should be crystal clear that the President has the sole power to nominate judicial officers to the Supreme Court under the Constitution.  As the Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, I take the words of our founding document very seriously.  And those words leave no room for a Senatorial veto before a nomination is made, as some have suggested.  Indeed, the Constitution does not afford the Senate, let alone individual Senators, the power effectively to serve as co-President in selecting Justices of the Supreme Court.   
 
“This is confirmed by the words of the Founders themselves.  In Federalist 66, for instance, Alexander Hamilton explained that: ‘It will be the office of the President to nominate, and, with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint.  There will, of course, be no exertion of choice in the part of the Senate.  They may defeat one choice of the Executive, and oblige him to make another; but they cannot themselves choose — they can only ratify or reject the choice he may have made.’   
 
“This tradition has applied to Supreme Court nominees through the presidencies of Lincoln, FDR, and Kennedy.  It would be a tragedy for this body and for the Republic if the confirmation process for the upcoming Supreme Court nominee resembles the contentious process to which some of President Bush’s mainstream circuit court nominees have been subjected.  Neither filibusters nor supermajority requirements have any place in the confirmation process, and I hope those tactics of obstruction will become the historical relics they deserve to be.   
 
“I urge my colleagues to reject the politics of confrontation, and to adhere instead to the Senate role prescribed by the Constitution:  the President’s nominee deserves nothing less than a prompt, respectful confirmation hearing in the Judiciary Committee and a fair up-or-down vote on the Senate floor.”   
 
 
 