 
		    
            Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback yesterday reintroduced legislation to offer an apology from the government of the United States to American Indians.  Senators Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Christopher Dodd (D-CT) cosponsored the legislation.     
“This resolution recognizes and honors the importance of Native Americans to this land and to our nation – in the past and today – and offers an official apology to the Native peoples for the poor and painful past choices our government sometimes made to disregard its solemn word,” Brownback said.  “This is a resolution of apology and a resolution of reconciliation.  It is a step toward healing the wounds that have divided us for so long – a potential foundation for a new era of positive relations between Tribal governments and the federal government.  It is past time for us to heal our land of division, and bring us together as one people.”   
The legislation, S.J.Res. 15, commends and honors the Native peoples for the thousands of years that they have stewarded and protected this land, and apologizes on behalf of the people of the United States to all Native peoples for the many instances of violence, maltreatment, and neglect inflicted on them by citizens of the United States.  It also commits to build on the positive relationships of the past and present to move toward a brighter future “where all the people of this land live reconciled as brothers and sisters, and harmoniously steward and protect this land together.”   
Brownback continued, “The resolution I am introducing today does not dismiss the valiance of our American soldiers who bravely fought for their families in wars between the United States and a number of the Indian Tribes.  Nor does this resolution cast all the blame for the various battles on one side or another.   
“Martin Luther King once said, ‘The end is reconciliation, the end is redemption, the end is the creation of the beloved community.’  This resolution is not the end.  But perhaps it signals the beginning of the end of division and the faint first light and first fruits of the creation of beloved community.”        The resolution of apology does not authorize or serve as a settlement of any claim against the United States and does not resolve many challenges still facing Native peoples, however, it does recognize the negative impact of numerous federal policies on Native peoples and cultures and strives to progress the process of reconciliation.  
 