 
		    
            Thursday, July 20, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded Appropriations Committee passage of four fiscal year 2007 appropriations bills: the Defense Appropriations bill; the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill; the Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill; and the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill.     
"I am pleased that the Appropriations Committee worked quickly and efficiently to pass each of these fiscally responsible appropriations bills," said Brownback.  "All of the bills passed today were within the already established budget guidelines and fund much needed projects."       
The appropriations bills fund the operations of the federal government and local projects in Kansas.  All three bills now head to the full Senate for approval.  Select projects listed below.       
The Department of Defense bill lists the following Kansas projects as federal priorities:   Fort Riley ASR-11 Digital Airport Surveillance Radar: $6.5 million.  E-4B National Airborne Operations Center, work done in Wichita: $5.64 million for procurement, $283,000 for research and development.  Advanced Inspection Techniques and Analysis Methods for Multi-layer Structures and Widespread Fatigue Damage in Aging Military Aircraft at the National Institute for Aviation Research, Wichita State University: $2 million.  Accelerated Insertion of Advanced Materials and Certification for Military Aircraft Structure Material Substitution and Repair at the National Institute for Aviation Research, Wichita State University: $2 million.  Next Generation M291 Wound Disinfectant, Manhattan: $1 million.  Urban Operations Environmental Laboratory, Kansas State University: $11 million.  600 Series Commercial Trailers, Marysville: $3 million.  Composite Small Main Rotor Blades, Wichita: $4 million.  Defense Fuelcell Locomotive, Topeka: $3 million.  Titanium Honeycomb Sandwich and Composite Structures Design Manual for Aerospace Applications, Wichita: $2 million.  Radar Test Sets for the Identification of Friend or Foe, Wichita: $3.5 million.  Life Support Radio Test Sets, Wichita: $3.5 million.  Army Extended Range Attack Missile, Lansing: $2 million.  Multi-mission Maritime Aircraft, work done in Wichita: $1.13 billion.  Sensor Fuzed Weapon, Parsons: $118.9 million.  60MM Mortar, Army, Parsons: $13.04 million.  60MM Mortar, Marine Corps, Parsons: $2.947 million.    The Labor, HHS and Education bill lists the following Kansas projects as federal priorities:   Equipment to support postnatal stem cell research, Kansas State University: $1.3 million.  Providence Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, for equipment for the Chronic Disease Management Center: $500,000.  MidAmerica Nazarine University, Olathe, KS for the Distance Education Initiative in Western Kansas: $200,000.    The Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development bill lists the following Kansas projects as federal priorities:   $117 million for the Essential Air Service program, a $7.6 million increase over last year's level.  EAS provides commercial air service to rural areas, and Kansas is the single largest recipient of EAS funds.  The following Western Kansas communities will benefit from this year's funding increase: Dodge City, Garden City, Great Bend, Hays, Liberal, Manhattan, and Salina.  $16 million increase in funding for the Office of Aircraft Certification for the purpose of hiring new inspection officers.  This funding will go toward getting aircraft parts manufactured in Kansas to the market in a timely fashion.  Reconstruction of US50 in Gray County: $2 million.  Intersection Rehabilitation and Improvements, US24 and Marlatt Avenue, Manhattan: $1.5 million.  87th Street Parkway Improvements, Lenexa: $1.5 million.  Reconstruction of US50 in Reno County: $1 million.  Interchange Construction at US73 and 20th Street, Leavenworth: $1 million.  Reconstruction of Two Interchanges on I-235 in Wichita: $500,000.  I-70 Viaduct Realignment near downtown Topeka: $500,000.  Wichita State University's National Institute for Aviation Research for Advanced Materials Performance Research: $500,000.  Technical Education and Training Center, Sedgwick County: $750,000.  TLC for Children and Families, Construction of the Residential Treatment Center: $750,000.  NeighborhoodsNOW Housing Development Project, Wyandotte County: $500,000.    The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill lists the following Kansas projects as federal priorities:   Battle seminar facility at Fort Leavenworth: $15 million.    Barracks complex at Fort Riley: $32 million.     Child development center at Fort Riley: $5.2 million.     Vehicle inspection and cargo processing facility at Fort Riley: $10.2 million.    Senator Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee.  
 