 
		    
            Thursday, October 20, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today chaired a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution to examine a constitutional amendment that would define marriage as the union of one man and one woman.     
"Just one year ago, the issue of marriage was center stage in the national political debate. Poll after poll showed strong support for preserving traditional marriage, and a majority of Americans supported a marriage amendment to the Constitution," said Brownback.  "When the people spoke at the voting booth last November, they approved--by decisive majorities--every one of the 11 state amendments protecting traditional marriage."     
The hearing was called to discuss popular support for protecting traditional marriage, judicial activism that threatens marriage, and the need for swift constitutional action to address this problem.     
18 states have constitutional amendments protecting marriage as solely between a man and a woman, and 27 other states have statutes to protect traditional marriage.     
Last April, a federal district judge overturned Nebraska's marriage amendment, which was passed by the people of Nebraska by 70 percent in 2001.  Many legal scholars think it is just a matter of time before this activist phenomenon becomes the norm.     
"Make no mistake: the threat to marriage is imminent and the time to act is now," said Brownback. "The will of the American people is in danger of being thwarted by the will of an unaccountable, activist federal judiciary.  In order to protect this vital institution, so central to the health and stability of families and society at large, we will have to define marriage.  The only question is, who will do the defining?  The people of the 50 states, as originally envisioned by the constitution, or judges forcing social change and bypassing the democratic process?"     
Witnesses at the hearing presented arguments for and against a constitutional amendment designed to prevent legal attempts to bypass the will of the people.  Implications of the wording of the amendment were explored, as well as social consequences of judicially-imposed same sex marriage.     
Brownback is a member of the Judiciary Committee and chairs the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights subcommittee.     
-30-  
 