 
		    
            Thursday, April 21, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded passage of two amendments designed to provide protection and material aid to victims of the genocide in Darfur, Sudan.  The amendments were included in H.R. 1268, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, 2005, which passed the Senate today.   
 
“There is a genocide taking place right before our very eyes and it must be stopped,” Brownback said.  “The U.S. must continue to press this issue at the highest levels.  I want to thank my colleague Senator Corzine for offering these amendments and the more than 30 other members who cosponsored them.  The Darfur Accountability Amendment provides the administration the tools they need to sanction individuals who have committed atrocities in the region, and the funding amendment puts our money where our mouth is—helping out the people of Darfur.”   
 
Last night the Senate passed a revised version of the Darfur Accountability Act as an amendment to the Emergency Supplemental.  The amendment calls for a new U.N. Security Council resolution with sanctions against the government of Sudan, an extension of the current arms embargo to cover the government of Sudan, a military non-fly zone in Darfur, and an expansion of the United Nations Mission in the Sudan’s mandate to protect civilians in all of Sudan, which would include Darfur.     
 
It calls on the U.S. to appoint a Presidential Envoy for Sudan and to raise this issue at the highest diplomatic levels in our bilateral relations.  In addition, it calls for accelerated assistance to the African Union mission in Darfur and an expansion of the size and mandate of the mission necessary to protect civilians.   
 
A second amendment, passed today, would redirect $90.5 million in general peacekeeping funds and target them to the crisis in Darfur.  It provides $50 million for the African Union Peacekeeping Mission in Darfur and $40.5 million for International Disaster and Famine Assistance in and around the affected region.  This funding will allow the African Union to ramp up their efforts to stop genocide in Darfur and give aid groups the necessary resources to provide emergency shelter, water sanitation, food security and other needed emergency items for affected citizens.     
 
Also included in H.R. 1268 is $47 million in military construction funds for Fort Riley, Kansas.  This funding will be used for barracks construction and general site preparation at the Fort.   
 
Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the State-Foreign Operations and Military Construction Subcommittees.  
 