 
		    
            Wednesday, June 21, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded Japan's announcement to re-open its market to American beef imports but promised to closely monitor the proposed timetable for resuming the beef trade.     
"I am very thankful that Japan has made a positive step toward re-opening its market to the safest and best beef in the world," said Brownback.  "However, this is not the first time Japan has said it will re-open its market, and I will closely follow the progress of the final round of inspections so that we can bring a quick and expeditious end to this unfortunate trade stalemate."     
Japan initially announced it would re-open its market to American beef in December 2005, but after an isolated incident in January, Japan closed its markets again.  Since Japan first closed its market to U.S. beef imports over two years ago, the USDA has tested over 500,000 cattle for BSE.  The USDA has found and confirmed only one case.     
Brownback continued, "I still support legislation to impose trade sanctions if Japan does not follow through on its promise.  The trade legislation I support takes into account Japan's announcement and provides a window for the proposed inspections to be completed.  I thank Department of Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns and U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab for their diligent work opening the Japanese market to American beef producers.  Although he has since left the position, former Trade Representative Rob Portman also deserves credit for his work on the Japanese beef trade."     
Brownback's efforts to re-open the market include a meeting last March with Japanese Ambassador Ryozo Kato and a visit to Japan in January 2004 to discuss the safety of U.S. beef with government officials.  In 2004 Brownback hosted a Japanese technical team at a Kansas beef ranch and processing plant to highlight the quality and safety of U.S. beef.     
Sen. Brownback sits on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Rural Development.  
 