 
		    
            Monday, November 21, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded passage of S.1462, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2005, which he authored.   
“It was nearly a year and a half ago when the U.S. declared that genocide was occurring in Darfur, Sudan and it is not enough for us to stand by idly,” said Senator Brownback.  “In recent weeks and months we have seen a deterioration of events in Darfur, including offensive military campaigns, attacks against international monitors and aid workers, and additional displacement of civilians.”   
The Darfur Peace and Accountability Act calls on the U.S. to appoint a Presidential Envoy for Sudan and to raise the issue at the highest diplomatic levels in our bilateral relations with U.N. member states.  In addition, it calls for accelerated assistance to the African Union mission in Darfur and an expansion of the size and mandate of the mission that is necessary to protect civilians.   
Brownback continued, “Important progress has been made to end the 21-year-old civil war between the North and South, and on July 9, former enemies joined together to create a new Government of National Unity.  Unfortunately, peace in Sudan has not extended to Darfur.  There is a genocide taking place right before our very eyes and it must be stopped.  The Darfur Peace and Accountability Act provides the administration the tools they need to sanction those responsible for perpetuating the violence and authorizes more assistance to help secure peace in the region.  I am thankful to all my colleagues who supported this bill and moved it to passage in the Senate.  We will continue to push for peace in all of Sudan.”   
The bill calls for a new U.N. Security Council resolution with sanctions against the government of Sudan, an extension of the current arms embargo, a military no-fly zone in Darfur, and an expansion of the United Nations Mission in the Sudan’s mandate to protect civilians.  It also prohibits U.S. assistance to countries which violate the military and arms embargo and calls for the suspension of Sudan’s membership from the United Nations General Assembly, permissible under Article 5 of the U.N. Charter.   Additionally, the bill authorizes the blocking of assets and restriction of travel on any individual whom the president determines is responsible for acts of genocide, war crimes, or crimes against humanity in the Darfur region.   
-30-  
 