 
		    
            Tuesday, November 21, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Richard Durbin (D-IL) today called on state governors to help end the genocide in Darfur by divesting their states' public pension funds from companies that assist or do business with the Sudanese regime.     
"Governors can send a tangible signal to Khartoum that the American people do not tolerate genocide," said Brownback.  "Divestment helped bring an end to apartheid in South Africa and I hope the example already set by six states will inspire other governors to take action."     
"Darfur is the first genocide of the 21st century and we all must do our part to stop the killing and displacement of innocent people," said Durbin.  "We encourage the nation's governors to join Illinois and other states that have taken this clear and firm stand by passing their own divestment laws."     
Brownback and Durbin sent the governors a letter asking them to review their states' pension funds and make targeted divestments from companies that do business with the Sudanese government, a principal actor in the ongoing genocide in Darfur.     
California, Connecticut, Illinois, Maine, New Jersey and Oregon have already taken steps to divest from companies doing business with Sudan.  The senators sent the letter to the remaining 44 governors.     
Following is the full text of the letter:     
"We write today to urge you and your state to take action against the ongoing genocide in Darfur by divesting from companies identified as assisting the current regime in Sudan.  This matter is of the highest priority relating to the genocide in Darfur.  California, Connecticut, Illinois, Maine, New Jersey, and Oregon have already moved to divest from companies doing business with Sudan and we encourage your state to follow their bold lead.     
"For over twenty years, the government of Sudan was engaged in a brutal civil war with the people of southern Sudan.  This conflict took the lives of over two million people.  During this time, slavery flourished and terrorism took root in Sudan.  In the 1990s Osama bin Laden took refuge in Sudan and operated terrorist training camps there.  In 2003, as the civil war was ending, a conflict in Sudan's Darfur region broke out.  The government reacted by arming a militia, the Janjaweed, and beginning a devastating and genocidal campaign, which continues to this day.  Hundreds of thousands of people have died and more than two million people have been displaced.     
"There is no question that the government of Sudan orchestrated and continues to direct the genocide in Darfur.  Bold action is now warranted.  The United Nations has passed numerous resolutions in an effort to stop the genocide, yet the Sudanese government continues to act with impunity.  Currently, the U.N. is working to get desperately needed peacekeeping troops on the ground to help protect innocent victims, but once again the Sudanese government is standing in the way of these efforts.  It is time for the American people to speak for themselves.     
"American pension funds should not support a genocidal government.  Targeted divestment from companies doing business in Sudan will speak volumes as an indictment by the American people of the disgraceful actions of the Sudanese government.     
"Enclosed is a list of companies that may warrant scrutiny, provided to us by the Sudan Divestment Task Force.  We encourage you to review your state's pension funds and identify companies that are doing the type of business in Sudan that is aiding the government in carrying out this genocide.  Then we ask that you work with your state legislators to enact legislation to divest from those companies.     
"We urge you to join the six states that have already spoken out against the genocide in Darfur by passing similar divestment legislation.  We need to send a signal to the government in Khartoum that America and the West will not stand silent in the face of genocide.     
"As the Los Angeles Times stated, divestment could be the 'catalyst for change in Africa's worst killing zone.'  This movement stands on the shoulders of the anti-apartheid movement.  Divestment helped bring change to South Africa and could do the same in Sudan.   We would be happy to work with you in the fight against genocide.  Thank you for your attention to this critical issue."     
Brownback visited Darfur in June 2004 and later authored and passed a Senate resolution declaring genocide in Darfur.  In March 2006 he joined Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) to pass a Senate resolution calling for NATO troops to aid the African Union peacekeeping mission in Darfur.  Brownback sponsored the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act, which became law in October 2006.     
Brownback chairs the Helsinki Commission and is a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations.  
 