 
		    
            Friday, September 21, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded Senate adoption of the Elimination of Neglected Diseases Act amendment to the Food and Drug Administration Reauthorization Bill of 2007.  The FDA Reauthorization bill passed the Senate by unanimous consent and now heads to the President's desk to be signed into law.       
"It is unacceptable that in 2007 so many people are suffering from and dying of preventable and treatable diseases," said Brownback.  "According to the World Health Organization, roughly one billion people are affected by at least one neglected tropical disease, such as tuberculosis, malaria, cholera and leprosy.  Less than 1% of the roughly 1,400 drugs registered between 1975 and 1999 treated such diseases."     
The disparity is due to the lack of financial incentives for private pharmaceutical companies to bring neglected tropical disease treatments to market given that the vast majority of people suffering from neglected tropical diseases live in extremely low-income countries.     
Brownback continued, "While we are blessed to live in a nation in which diseases like malaria and cholera are not serious threats, we must not forget that almost one-sixth of the world's population faces death and suffering from easily treatable diseases.  Private companies have the potential to be major players in the fight against neglected tropical diseases."       
The END Act would award a treatment "priority review voucher" to any company which brings to market a treatment for a neglected tropical disease.  The priority review voucher would be transferable and could be applied to any drug in a company's pipeline.  FDA priority review takes roughly 6 months to complete as opposed to 18 months under regular review.  Priority review does not alter the scientific standards for approval or the quality of evidence necessary.  The twelve months of review time saved would be worth more than $300 million to a pharmaceutical company for a top 10% drug, in exchange for investment in life-saving treatments for improvised populations.         
Brownback is a member of the Senate Judiciary and Appropriations Committees.       
-30-  
 