 
		    
            Thursday, June 22, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded Appropriations Committee passage of the fiscal year 2007 agriculture appropriations bill.  The bill now heads to the full Senate.     
“It’s possible to balance federal spending restraint while supporting Kansan communities, farmers, and ranchers,” said Brownback.  “The projects and disaster relief assistance funding in this bill support the farmers, ranchers, and small towns that embody the spirit of America.  This bill expresses the Senate’s belief that trade sanctions should be imposed on Japan if it does not follow through on its promise to re-open its markets to American beef imports.”     
The bill also includes disaster relief funding for farmers and ranchers hit by rising fuel prices and record droughts.  This funding was included in the recent emergency supplemental funding bill but was removed in the House-Senate conference committee.     
  Selected Kansas projects receiving funding:     
 Kansas Polymer Research Center, Pittsburg State University: $400k   National Veterinary Medical Services Act: $750k   Wheat Genetics and Genomics Resources Center, Kansas State University: $340k   Great Plains Sorghum Improvement and Utilization Center, Kansas State University: $729k   Water Conservation for Feed Grains, Kansas State University: $73k   Preharvest Food Safety and Security, Kansas State University: $200k   Wind Erosion Research Unit, ARS Manhattan: $1.28M     
Other items of interest that benefit Kansas:     
 Report language is included that encourages the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to provide regional field crop designations for Sericea Lespedeza.  Sericea is an invasive species in tallgrass prairie lands but a field crop in the southeast United States.  A regional field crop designation would allow APHIS to work with conservation groups in KS to develop strategies to exterminate Sericea in the Flint Hills.   Language making Lansing, KS, eligible for Rural Development grants and loans.   Language making Parsons, KS, eligible for RUS wastewater treatment grants and loans.   Report Language regarding the High Plains Aquifer Irrigation Transition Initiative.   Report Language regarding the Flint Hills Conservation Initiative.   Public Law 480 Part II food aid: $1.225B.  This is the federal government’s largest and most comprehensive foreign food aid program.   McGovern-Dole Food for Education Program: $100M.   Hatch Act: $185.8M, +$10M from last year’s level.  The Hatch Act is a key component of the federal land-grant system.  The act authorizes federal grants for each state to establish an agricultural experiment station in connection with the state’s land-grant institution.   Smith-Lever Act: $286.6M, +$10M from last year’s level.  The Smith-Lever Act created a Cooperative Extension Service associated with each land-grant institution to disseminate information gathered from the experiment station’s research.    Senator Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee.  
 