 
		    
            Monday, October 22, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Pat Roberts (R-KS) joined several of their colleagues and sent the following letter to urge the Senate Armed Services Committee to eliminate a provision in the Defense Authorization Bill that would prohibit the Army-Air Force Joint Cargo Aircraft (JCA) from becoming solely an Air Force Program. Company B, 7th Battalion, 158th aviation regiment in Olathe is slated to receive these Aircraft through the U.S. Army.     
Full text of the letter is below.       
 "We write to express our concern regarding a provision related to the Joint Cargo Aircraft (JCA) in the Senate passed version of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. Section 1030 of the bill directs that the current joint program between the Army and Air Force be ended in favor of a program fully run and controlled by the Air Force. The immediate effect of this language is to remove the Army's lead role in the JCA program, prohibit the Army from fielding JCA, and deny assignment of 54 JCA to Army National Guard units across the country. While the long term impacts are uncertain, there are many reasons to be deeply concerned that this language will be harmful to the JCA program and the warfighter. An amendment to the Senate bill on this issue with 30 co-sponsors and numerous other supporters was, unfortunately, not permitted a vote during floor consideration of the bill. We believe the conference negotiations should produce an agreement to retain the current, joint nature of the JCA program in a way that conforms to existing Joint Doctrine.     
"We are troubled that section 1030 would reverse existing joint doctrine on roles and missions in the military as well as the current organization of intra-theater lift assets among the Services. Joint doctrine recognizes that limited missions can be accomplished by fixed or rotary wing aircraft provided by Services other than the Air Force. For instance, an aging fleet of Army C-23 Sherpas as well as C-12 and C-26 aircraft which would all be replaced by JCA, currently provide the Army limited but vital intra-theater lift capabilities. These aircraft provide a crucial forward deployed, responsive, flexible lift capability to the ground commander, who can also access Air Force assets for missions in which greater planning is required. This tiered distribution of intra-theater lift assets reflects realities of battlefield operations, longstanding organizational approaches to distributing logistical support assets on the battlefield, and provides a highly responsive distribution of capabilities to combatant commanders. The expansive use of these fixed wing aircraft, paired with Air Force support, in Iraq and Afghanistan has validated the current tiered distribution of intra-theater lift capabilities between the Services and, therefore, the model sought to be employed by the Air Force and Army in fielding the JCA. We do not believe that this model, backstopped by joint doctrine, which is being successfully employed in combat theaters and supported by both the Air Force and Army, should be summarily reversed.      
 
 "Furthermore, the JCA program is the product of extensive deliberation and consideration within the Department's acquisition organizations and by senior leadership across the military departments. At each step, the current fielding model has been validated. Section 1030 would overrule this thorough process. The fielding plan for the JCA has been approved by, among other entities, the Joint Requirement Oversight Council (JROC). Documents guiding the jointly developed program include the "Memorandum of Agreement Between the Department of the Army and the Department of the Air Force on the Joint Cargo Aircraft Program", the "Joint Cargo Aircraft Acquisition Decision Memorandum," and the "Acquisition Program Baseline for the Joint Cargo Aircraft Program." We see no reason to discredit this work.     
"Of great importance, the current SASC mark would adversely challenge plans to assign 54 JCA to Army National Guard units in 13 states and territories. A capability lost in the National Guard is a capability lost for homeland security and Federal Emergency Management Agency missions. The need for lift capabilities in National Guard units is readily apparent, evidenced by the challenges faced in the wake of Hurricane Katrina and numerous other recent emergency relief missions. Further, the JCA will provide relief to numerous states struggling to retain pilots as they suffer from losses of flying units as a result of the recent BRAC round. The National Guard Association of the United States has expressed opposition to Section 1030 and the National Governors Association has supported continuing the program in its joint format. Lieutenant General Steven Blum, Chief of the National Guard Bureau, has also expressed his deep concerns with Section 1030, concerns that have been echoed by Army and Air National Guard senior leaders.      
"We also bring to your attention a lack of documented support for Section 1030. No study produced by Department of Defense (DoD), outside group or Congressional entity has recommended that the joint nature of the JCA program be modified. Additionally, hearings have not been held on the JCA program nor has the JCA been extensively discussed in hearings covering broader topics. In these hearings, no witness from the Army, Air Force or DoD has recommended that the JCA be assigned solely to the Air Force. While some assert that this universal and unified support for the program as currently structured is a reflection of politics within DoD, given the advanced stage in the acquisition strategy that JCA has reached, the extensive senior DoD leadership involvement in JCA programmatic decisions to date, and the dearth of concerns raised about the JCA fielding strategy, it is difficult to lend this theory much weight. At minimum, before making a programmatic change as drastic as that embodied in Section 1030, further inquiry should be conducted in the form of independent studies and Congressional hearings.      
"In closing, we are in favor of reaching an agreement during conference negotiations that retains the current, joint nature of the JCA program in a way that conforms to existing Joint doctrine. The existing provision would severely damage the JCA program, strike a blow to the National Guard's ability to respond to domestic emergencies and to State homeland security and FEMA responsibilities, and could jeopardize the availability of an asset that will be critical to our nation's warfighters in future endeavors. Thank you for your consideration."      
The Defense Authorization Bill is currently in a conference committee to iron out differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. This letter urges conferees to take out the provision that would move the Army Joint Cargo Aircraft (JCA) under only the Air Force. Olathe's Reserve Unit is on the Army's current map to receive these planes.                   
-30-  
 