 
		    
            Tuesday, January 23, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback and FCC Chairman Kevin Martin today announced the participants in a public-private task force that will examine the impact of media and advertising on child health.     
"I'm pleased that the task force on media and childhood obesity brings together representatives from a wide range of organizations in the public and private sector," said Brownback. "I am concerned about links between media, advertising and children's health, but I do not necessarily think that more government regulation is the answer. I'm hopeful that this task force will forge a voluntary, public-private partnership to effectively address the pressing issue of media and child health."     
The task force, called "Media and Childhood Obesity: Today and Tomorrow," will hold its first meeting on February 14.     
The task force participants represent a wide range of interests from Congress, the Administration, consumer advocacy groups, the food and beverage industry, media companies, advertisers, and experts from healthcare and academia.     
The participants include: American Diabetes Association, American Society for Nutrition, American Academy of Pediatrics, American Psychological Association, Kraft Foods, Coca-Cola Company, General Mills, The Grocery Manufacturers Association, Kellogg Company, McDonald's, PepsiCo, Ion Media Networks, Viacom, Discovery Channel, Walt Disney Company, Sesame Workshop, Black Family Channel, Telemundo, The Beverly LaHaye Institute, The Benton Foundation, Children Now, Common Sense Media, The Center for Screen Time Awareness, PTA, Parents Television Council, The Ad Council, Association of National Advertisers, and the American Association of Advertising Agencies.     
First announced last September, the task force is a bipartisan effort to provide a forum for the public and private sectors to jointly examine the impact of media on childhood obesity and to explore voluntary recommendations that will address the alarming rise in childhood obesity rates.     
In addition to Chairman Martin, FCC participants include Commissioners Deborah Taylor Tate and Michael Copps. The offices of Senators Brownback and Tom Harkin (D-IA) will also participate.     
Visit   http://www.fcc.gov/obesity for the latest information on the task force.  
 