 
		    
            Thursday, June 23, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today chaired a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, examining the consequences of Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton.  He made the following statement:   
 
America was founded upon the “self-evident truth” that all humans are endowed with the unalienable right to life.  Yet the wisdom that flowed in 1776 from Jefferson’s pen was rejected almost two centuries later, when a divided Supreme Court found a constitutional right to abortion.  In the years since Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton were decided, it is estimated that around 40 million abortions have taken place in the United States.  The legally-sanctioned extinguishing of these millions of innocent lives is a gross injustice in itself.   
 
Not long after the Supreme Court handed down Roe and Doe, many including former Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun, cast in doubt the wisdom of the Supreme Court’s sudden and decisive role in the abortion debate.  The Roe and Doe cases have inspired public criticism of the Supreme Court’s abortion jurisprudence.  The contentious debate since 1973 over the culture of life has proven that the American people, the democratic process, and ultimately even the federal judiciary have been ill-served by the Supreme Court’s intervention into, and permanent circumvention of, the public debate and state’s rights about abortion.   
 
What is striking about the criticism of these decisions is that it has come from across the political spectrum.  Indeed, the Supreme Court decisions have been widely condemned by both the right and the left.  Liberal legal scholars in particular have attacked the abortion decisions’ lack of pedigree in either constitutional text or American tradition.  For instance, John Hart Ely, the foremost constitutional scholar of his generation, stated that Roe v. Wade “is bad because it is bad constitutional law, or rather because it is not constitutional law and gives almost no sense of an obligation to try to be.”    
 
But the left’s strong criticism of Roe and Doe does not stop with the fact that the decisions smacked of political judgment more than constitutional principle.  Rather, it also extends to the fact that the Supreme Court unilaterally ended the democratic process by which the people and the states were making their own judgments about the appropriate governmental role in protecting unborn life.     
 
These powerful objections to Roe and Doe from the left beg the question of what would happen were those objections to be sustained, and the cases to be overturned.  The answer is not, as some have claimed, the nationwide prohibition of abortion.  Rather, as the Constitution contemplates, the decision of whether and how to regulate abortion would return once again to the states.  There, the democratic, deliberative process would work its will, and the People could reach an acceptable accommodation on the fundamental issue of life.   
 
 