 
		    
            Friday, March 23, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback and 33 other senators yesterday sent a letter to the White House urging President Bush to draft, and push for a vote on, a United Nations Security Council resolution that imposes multilateral economic sanctions on the Sudanese government and targeted sanctions on individuals responsible for crimes against humanity.       
"We must call on the international community to do everything possible to stop the genocide in Darfur," said Brownback.  "I join my Senate colleagues to ask President Bush to move the U.N. Security Council to levy sanctions on the Sudanese government and bring much needed peacekeeping troops to Darfur."       
The letter was signed by a bipartisan group of 34 senators.  The full text of the letter is below:       
Dear Mr. President:      
We write to you as Members of Congress who are deeply concerned about the ongoing genocide in Darfur and equally frustrated by the inability or unwillingness of the international community to put a halt to it.  Last August, the United Nations Security Council passed UNSC Resolution 1706 which expanded the mandate of the United Nations Mission in Sudan to include Darfur and stated that over 20,000 military and civilian police personnel were to be deployed as peacekeepers in the region.  Over six months have passed and fewer than 200 UN personnel have been deployed because of the Sudanese government's refusal to comply with what the Security Council has authorized.       
History demonstrates that Sudan's leadership does not respond to this type of request. We believe that it is time for the Security Council to enact a new resolution, imposing multilateral economic sanctions on the Sudanese government and targeted sanctions on individuals named by the UN Commission of inquiry as being responsible for crimes against humanity.     
We recognize that previous U.S.-led efforts to move stronger resolutions at the Security Council have been deterred by the threat of a veto by one or more of the Permanent Members.  We frankly urge you to introduce and push for a vote on a resolution imposing multilateral sanctions regardless.  Let a country stand before the community of nations and announce that it is vetoing the best effort we can muster to build the leverage necessary to end ongoing mass murder.      
There are political risks to advancing this strategy, but we urge you to weigh those risks against the verdict of history if we fail to try.  If the Security Council does not act, the United States should engage with our allies to create a coalition that will impose economic penalties on the Sudanese government.  The United States has already implemented a number of unilateral sanctions, and we understand that you are considering still more, a development that we would applaud.  However, the real key to changing      
Khartoum's behavior most likely lies in multilateral sanctions, especially those aimed at the Sudanese oil industry.     
We encourage you to put this matter before the United Nations Security Council as soon as possible.  A threatened veto should not silence us.       
-30-  
 