 
		    
            Friday, June 24, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today announced Appropriations Committee passage of the $17.3 billion Agriculture, $48.6 billion Commerce/Justice/Science, and $3.8 billion Legislative Branch Appropriations bills.  These bills, which provide funding for farm programs, agriculture research, NASA, the Departments of Commerce and Justice, and the United States Congress, were all within budget.   
 
“I am pleased the committee has passed these important and fiscally responsible bills,” Brownback said.  “The Agriculture Appropriations bill supports our farmers and agricultural system and promotes rural development.  Commerce/Justice/Science funds the departments and agencies that oversee our law enforcement, telecommunications, space, and weather research programs.  The committee has presented to the full Senate three balanced bills that allocate limited funds on a fair basis, and I commend my colleagues for their hard work.”   
 
The Agriculture Appropriations bill also contains 16 Kansas-specific research and conservation projects.  Selected projects are as follows:   
 
1)      Language recognizing the importance of the Ogallala Aquifer in Western Kansas and directing USDA to consider all possible avenues of funding for conserving the aquifer.   
2)      $750,000 for research on the complex nature of water availability, potential uses, and costs which will help determine future water policy in the region irrigated by the Ogallala Aquifer.   
3)      $74,000 for research at Kansas State University on water conservation efforts in Western KS.   
4)      Language directing USDA to use all appropriate funding to support preservation efforts of the tallgrass prairie in the Flint Hills region.   
5)      Language directing the Agriculture Research Service to conduct a feasibility study on the construction and equipping of the Kansas Polymer Research Center, Pittsburg State University.   
6)      $143,000 for the Great Plains Improvement and Utilization Center, Kansas State University.   
7)      $256,000 for the Wheat Genetic and Genomic Resources Center, Kansas State University.   
8)      $540,000 for research on managing karnal bunt of wheat, Kansas State University.   
9)      $833,000 for the National Canola Research Program, Kansas State University.   
10)  $1,432,000 for the Food Safety Consortium, Kansas State University.   
 
Brownback continued, “These important research and conservation projects will help provide support to Kansas farmers and move toward ensuring a viable long term agricultural economy in the state.  I’m also very pleased the committee has provided $750,000 in funding for the National Veterinary Medical Service Act.  It’s difficult to image that rural America would suffer from a shortage of veterinarians, but unfortunately this is the case.  This funding will help provide the necessary veterinary services to the parts of Kansas that need these services the most—rural areas where farmers and ranchers raise animals in large numbers.”   
 
These three bills, as passed by the Appropriations Committee, now await consideration by the full Senate.  Senator Brownback is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and both the Agriculture Appropriations and Commerce/Justice/Science Appropriations Subcommittees.   
 
 