 
		    
            Thursday, January 25, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today met with Ethiopian Ambassador Samuel Assefa to discuss the opportunities for increasing humanitarian funding and investment in Ethiopia and resolving the conflict in neighboring Somalia.  Brownback today also sent a letter to his Senate colleagues praising Ethiopia's recent actions against Islamic extremists in Somalia and requesting greater humanitarian assistance to Ethiopia.       
"U.S.-Ethiopia relations have had their ups and downs, but moving forward we should not hesitate to work with Ethiopia to counter terrorist threats in East Africa," said Brownback.  "We should not hesitate to take steps to replicate the Ethiopia model elsewhere in the world to fight emerging threats.  By combining the global reach of the United States with the local capacity of regional allies, we can combat the threat of the global terrorist insurgency."     
Brownback, who traveled to East Africa earlier this month, also urged providing greater support to the African Union as it provides forces to replace Ethiopian troops withdrawing from Somalia.  Brownback plans to introduce a Senate resolution thanking Ethiopia for its role in combating terrorists in Somalia.        
Following is full text of the letter:       
"We have reached a critical moment for U.S. policy in the Horn of Africa region.  I recently traveled to Ethiopia to congratulate Prime Minister Meles and his government on its actions in Somalia.  In every meeting I had during my two day visit, there was a sense of urgency: now is the time to stabilize Somalia and improve the situation across the Horn of Africa region.     
Somalia has seen one government after another fail to deliver for the Somali people.  The country faced the terrible prospect of rule by Islamic extremists.  Following Ethiopia's intervention, the Transitional Federal Government has a chance to bring stability to Somalia and we should support that effort.      
For its part, Ethiopia eliminated the threat of a Taliban-like state on its eastern border and scored a major victory in the global war on terrorism.  We should take advantage of the spotlight now shining on Ethiopia to boost our humanitarian assistance to that country.  While in Addis Ababa, I was able to visit two humanitarian projects.  The first was an urban garden that allows people who have lost relatives to AIDS to grow food to feed themselves and their families.  The second was a community center for Somali refugees.  Each project addresses a major challenge Ethiopia faces - the African AIDS crisis and the hosting of tens of thousands of refugees from Somalia and elsewhere.  In addition, Ethiopia faces real challenges in areas of health care, food, and water resources.       
As we consider the budget for Fiscal Year 2008, I believe our policy in the Horn of Africa region should include several priorities.  In Somalia, I believe we must demonstrate our support for the Transitional Federal Government as well as provide increased humanitarian assistance.  In Ethiopia, we should increase the level of Title I food aid, restore funding for basic education, support programs to increase the self sufficiency of people living in remote areas of Ethiopia (who remain most vulnerable to the spread of Islamic extremism) and continue to prioritize programs to improve health and develop agricultural and water resources.  We should also take steps to support Ethiopia's accession to the WTO.     
Finally, we should provide support to the African Union as it provides forces to replace Ethiopian troops withdrawing from Somalia.  Such a mission will help the African Union build the organizational capacity necessary to respond to future contingencies across the continent.     
Ethiopia's victory in the war on terrorism should draw our attention to the complicated humanitarian problems in the region.  I hope that as we begin discussing the budget for Fiscal Year 2008, you will join me in addressing these concerns."     
This month, Brownback traveled to the Middle East, Africa, and Central Asia to ascertain firsthand U.S. efforts in the War on Terror.  Brownback visited American troops and high-level leaders and American representatives in Ethiopia, Kuwait, Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan.  Brownback has written short observations about his trip, which can be viewed at: http://brownback.senate.gov/english/samtravelsto-middleeast-africa-asia.htm.     
-30-  
 