 
		    
            Monday, June 25, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today in a letter sent to the White House called on President Bush to strengthen United States policy against the spread of Islamic extremism in Gaza and the Middle East.       
Following is full text of the letter:     
I write to express my concern over the current situation in Gaza.  The violent campaign by Hamas to secure control of Gaza has dealt a strong blow against those in the region who desire peace.  Hamas' actions during this takeover—kidnappings, summary executions, indiscriminate rocket attacks against Israeli civilians—expose and reinforce the group's radical, terrorist agenda.  Unfortunately, Hamas' ability to exert its will in Gaza may further embolden militant Islamic extremists within the Palestinian community and beyond.  Only by directly addressing the problem of Hamas and militant Islamic extremism will we begin to tackle the root causes of instability and violence.       
You made this clear in your press conference on June 19, when you said, "We recognize that it was Hamas that attacked the unity government.  They made a choice of violence.  It was their decision that has caused there to be this current situation in the Middle East..."  I strongly support this assessment.  However, I was disappointed to read the statement by the Quartet regarding the same situation.  The Quartet statement failed even to mention the word Hamas, let alone assign responsibility for the crisis to the terrorist group.  Such whitewashing of the facts is both misleading and dangerous, and I urge you to use our nation's influence among the Quartet principals so that the relevant facts and root causes are addressed.    	  Also, I am concerned about your decision for the U.S. Government to contribute an additional $40 million to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees (UNRWA).  While there can be no doubt that the Palestinian humanitarian crisis will worsen due to Hamas' cruelty and violence, UNRWA is the wrong agency to manage this crisis.  Not only does UNRWA suffer from a lack of oversight and transparency, but also, as recently as 2004, UNRWA employees have been accused of providing shelter and assistance to Hamas and other terrorist groups that flourish in Palestinian refugee camps.  These, along with many other serious problems with UNRWA, make the UN agency ill-suited to receive U.S. taxpayer dollars.       
Finally, I respectfully ask that your Administration broaden the scope of the discussion about Gaza to expose the long reach of Iranian sponsorship of terror in the Middle East.  Hamas has collaborated with and received financial assistance from the Iranian regime for decades.  The violence in Gaza, Hezbollah's attacks last summer and the ongoing insurgency in Iraq, all have ties to the mullahs in Tehran, who stand to benefit from the spread of instability and extremism.       
I remain hopeful that despite these setbacks, we will soon see the advancement of freedom, moderation, and respect for human rights, and I thank you for your leadership in promoting these goals.  
 