 
		    
            Wednesday, May 25, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today appeared before the Senate Indian Affairs Committee to discuss the Native American apology resolution he has reintroduced this year.   
 
“Our nation’s relationship with the Native peoples of this land is an issue that is very important to the health of the United States, and one that has been unresolved for far too long,” Brownback said.     
 
“For some time, relations between the United States and the Native peoples have been in disrepair.  For too much of our history, Federal-Tribal relations have been marked by broken treaties, mistreatment, and dishonorable dealings.  I believe it is time we worked to restore these relationships to good health.  While we cannot erase the record of our past, I am confident that we can acknowledge our past failures, express sincere regrets, and work toward establishing a brighter future for all Americans.  It is in this spirit of hope for our land that I have introduced Senate Joint Resolution 15 to extend a formal apology from the United States to Tribal governments and Native people nationwide.”     
 
During the last session of Congress, Brownback worked with Senators Campbell and Inouye of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee in crafting the resolution.  He also worked with the Native Tribes in drafting the bill.    
 
Brownback continued, “The resolution I have introduced does not dismiss the valiance of our American soldiers who fought bravely for their families in wars between the United States and a number of the Indian Tribes.  Nor does this resolution cast the blame for the various battles on one side or another.  What this resolution does do is recognize and honor the importance of Native Americans to this land and to our nation – in the past and today - and offers an apology to the Native peoples for the poor and painful choices our government sometimes made to disregard its solemn word.     
 
“This is a resolution of apology and a resolution of reconciliation.  It is a first step toward healing the wounds that have divided us for so long - a potential foundation for a new era of positive relations between Tribal governments and the Federal government.  It is past time for us to heal our land of division, all divisions, and bring us together as one people.”     
 
Brownback’s resolution will not authorize or serve as a settlement of any claim against the United States, but it recognizes the negative impact of numerous deleterious Federal acts and policies on Native Americans and their cultures.       
 
Brownback concluded, “Martin Luther King, a true reconciler, once said, ‘The end is reconciliation, the end is redemption, the end is the creation of the beloved community.’  This resolution is not the end.  But perhaps it signals the beginning of the end of division and the expansion of the beloved community that Dr. King desired.”     
 
 