 
		    
            Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
           

   WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback and several Senate colleagues today announced the formation of Fiscal Watch, a team of senators devoted to reducing government spending. The senators also unveiled specific budget savings that offset the new spending obligations created by hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Senator Brownback was joined by Senators Tom Coburn, Jim DeMint, John Ensign, John McCain, Lindsey Graham, and John Sununu. We can properly support victims of hurricanes Katrina and Rita without creating a net increase in government spending, said Brownback. I'm pleased to be a part of this team of senators dedicated to taking a stand against the culture of spending that grips Congress. Before we commit ourselves to significant new spending for hurricane victims, it's imperative that we ask the question of where these funds will come from. There is no better time than now to find wasteful spending and redirect it to Americans who need it most. Senator Brownback also described his proposal to create a bipartisan commission called CARFA that would look for wasteful, duplicative, and outdated government programs and agencies. The Commission on the Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies gets to the heart of the spending problem by changing the system that generates waste and prevents meaningful budget reform. In the past, we've seen that it takes rare and unique political circumstances for meaningful budget cuts to even be considered. The bottom line is that if we don't change the system, we won't be able to reduce spending. Brownback's legislationcurrently co-sponsored by 25 senatorswould create a bipartisan commission modeled on the successful Base Realignment and Closure Commission that reviews military bases. The commission would exist for a limited time period and would prepare draft legislation for Congress to consider on an expedited basis, voting the proposal up or down without amendments. Earlier this year, through section 502 of the Budget Resolution, Congress went on record supporting the concept behind CARFA. Senator Brownback chairs the Appropriations Subcommittee on the District of Columbia. -30- 
 