 
		    
            Tuesday, April 26, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today participated in a news conference at the National Press Club to unveil his legislation to improve U.S. efforts to combat malaria around the world and to highlight U.S. leadership on the issue.   
 
“To the world’s shame, the treatable and preventable infection of malaria has been largely ignored,” Brownback said.  “Drugs to cure the infection cost about $2.  But we also know how to prevent the disease.  Spraying tiny amounts of insecticides inside homes, and placing insecticide-treated bed-nets for people to sleep under would stop malaria in its tracks.  Many people don’t know that the U.S. and most of Europe were once malaria hot-spots.  In rich countries, we eliminated the disease with concerted effort.  Now it is time to apply that same effort to poorer countries.     
 
“For too long, the world community has done little more than talk about the problem.  Despite the ambitious but attainable goals of the Roll Back Malaria partnership, the WHO and other multilateral organizations have failed to have any impact on the problem.  In fact, since the time that the U.N. initiative to cut malaria rates in half by 2010 began, malaria rates have instead increased.  The reason is clear.  Despite that fact that we have the tools to control malaria, and in fact used them in our own countries, our funding has failed to support these tools on the ground in communities.  Instead, money has gone to conferences, advice-giving and reports.”     
 
Brownback mentioned one notable exception in the Global Fund, which has put money into real interventions that will directly touch people affected by malaria.  “In particular, I want to applaud the generosity of the U.S. taxpayers for supporting a third of the Global Fund’s efforts.  Rather than hiding behind the status quo, the Fund has embraced – with direct funding – every available tool.  The U.S. is the leader in this multilateral effort to save lives,” he said.     
 
Brownback noted that bilateral efforts have not demonstrated any impact on malaria rates in the places where they are operating.  As a result, this week he will introduce the Eliminate Neglected Diseases Act.     
 
The END Act will reform the U.S.’s bilateral programs.  First, the bill would require the majority of funding to go to proven life-saving interventions on the ground – effective medicines, insecticide-spraying programs and free bed-net distribution.  Second, the Act would require performance.  Brownback said that taxpayers want to know their money gets results, which in this case translates into lives saved.  The legislation also focuses on improving the transparency of these operations, so that the public knows exactly how our funds our spent.  Finally, the bill will improve coordination and the scientific integrity of programs.     
 
Brownback continued, “Recipient nations must do their part as well.  A recent study by Africa Fighting Malaria and the American Enterprise Institute reports that recipient nations impose taxes and tariffs of 30 percent or more on donated lifesaving medicines and prevention tools.  I call on these governments today to immediately end this practice of profiteering on the backs of their weakest and most vulnerable citizens.     
 
“The world community conquered smallpox.  We have nearly conquered polio and guinea worm.  When we acted in concert, we stopped SARS in its tracks a few years ago.  If malaria were killing our own citizens at the rate it is killing Africans, we would put an end to this controllable disease.  African children are just as precious as American and European children.  To those who have been given much, much is expected.  We will be held responsible for how we responded to this crisis.”   
 
Brownback was first elected to the Senate to fill the unexpired term of Bob Dole in 1996.  He was returned by the voters of Kansas for a full term in 1998, and reelected this past November.  He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1994-1996.  Brownback serves on the Appropriations, Judiciary, and Joint Economic Committees.  He also is chairman of the Helsinki Commission and co-chairman of the Senate Cancer Coalition.  
 