 
		    
            Tuesday, July 26, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded Senate passage of legislation designating 26 counties in Eastern Kansas a National Heritage Area, showcasing the importance of the region’s contributions to the struggle for equality in the nation.   
 
“This legislation will not only preserve and showcase the pivotal history of our state and the subsequent contribution Kansas made to this nation, but will also serve as a tool to promote economic development through travel and tourism for our state,” Brownback said.     
 
The legislation creates the Bleeding Kansas and the Enduring Struggle for Freedom National Heritage Area.  It joins communities throughout eastern Kansas to document, preserve and celebrate Kansas’ significant role in the political struggle that led to the Civil War and in other historic struggles for equality that took place in the state.   
 
Brownback continued, “I would like to commend the steadfast commitment of the Territorial Kansas Heritage Alliance, whose work made this bill possible, as well as thank the Senate Committee on Energy and Subcommittee on National Parks for their unwavering support of this bill and for moving this bill so quickly in the first session of the 109th Congress.     
 
“I hope the House of Representatives will soon pass this much needed legislation for Kansas.”   
 
National Heritage Areas are regions in which residents, businesses, and local governments have joined together to conserve and celebrate heritage and special landscapes.  Congress has established over 24 National Heritage Areas around the country, in which conservation, interpretation and other activities are managed by partnerships among federal, state, and local governments and the private sector.    
 
According to the National Park Service, each National Heritage Area is a settled landscape that tells the story of its residents.  It is a landscape in which the land and the local environment, over time, have shaped traditions and cultural values in the people who live there, and where the residents’ use of the land has, in turn, created and sustained a landscape that reflects their cultures.   
 
Senators Pat Roberts and Jim Talent were cosponsors of the legislation, while Representative Jim Ryun is sponsoring the House version of the bill.   
 
 