 
		    
            Friday, October 26, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today congratulated the Bush administration for its steps to fight Iranian-backed terrorism and called on the president and Congress to take additional actions.       
"I am pleased that the administration will treat the Qods Force as a terrorist organization and take strong steps against Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps as a whole," Brownback said.  "This is a first and long-overdue step in ensuring Tehran pays a price for its sponsorship of terrorism."     
The Bush administration announced today the designation the Qods Force as a terrorist entity and the entire IRGC as proliferators of weapons of mass destruction.  The move will allow the United States to financially isolate the IRGC and its supporters.     
Brownback called on the administration to take additional steps against Iran because of its support for terrorism.  "The administration should also announce its support for legislation that would help investors divest their assets from those entities that provide financial support to the Iranian regime.  Congress should take up and pass such legislation immediately."     
In May, Senator Brownback and Senator Barack Obama (D-IL) introduced the Iranian Sanctions Enabling Act, which would authorize state and local governments and institutional investors to divest themselves of assets invested in entities connected with Iran.     
Brownback also called for robust funding of Iran's pro-democracy movement.  "Congress should match the administration's effort on Iran by providing full funding of programs to promote democracy in Iran.  As we penalize the regime for supporting terrorists, we should send a clear signal of support to the Iranian people who struggle for a better future for their country."     
In July, the Senate passed an amendment introduced by Brownback and Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) which restored full funding for Iran democracy programs in the Foreign Operations bill.  A conference committee is now ironing out differences between House and Senate versions of that legislation before it is sent to the president.     
Brownback is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee's Foreign Operations Subcommittee.     
-30-  
 