 
		    
            Wednesday, July 27, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback yesterday introduced a resolution calling on the Federal Trade Commission to conduct an investigation of Rockstar Games, maker of the popular video game “Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.”  The manufacturer may have deceived the Entertainment Software Ratings Board to avoid an “Adults Only” rating for the game.   
 
“It would be inexcusable for any maker of video games to intentionally deceive the ratings board,” Brownback said.  “Inserting pornographic content into any video game used by teenagers or even younger children is unacceptable, and pretending it got there by mistake is even more egregious.”     
 
Grand Theft Auto has already been a lightning rod for controversy because it rewards players for committing crimes and acts of gratuitous violence.  The game has sold more than 5 million copies in the United States.   
 
Rockstar Games recently admitted that the latest installment of the game includes embedded pornographic content that, it says, was never meant to be seen by players.  Initially, the company had denied responsibility, accusing hackers of inserting explicit sex scenes into the game.   
 
After the discovery of the embedded pornographic content, the Entertainment Software Ratings Board immediately stripped the game of its previous “Mature” rating and required that it be labeled “Adults Only.”  Mainstream stores removed the game from their shelves.   
 
Brownback also recently commissioned a separate study by an independent rater of video games, PSVratings Data Corporation, which documents that the current rating system is seriously flawed.  Many games currently rated “Mature” have content as graphic or more graphic than the Grand Theft Auto game.     
 
Brownback continued, “Parents should be able to depend on the ratings of the ESRB to help them learn which games are acceptable for their sons and daughters.  This incident only shows the increased need for careful examination of the content of video games, and for a system that is clear for parents to understand.”   
 
Brownback continues to consult with the FTC about ways to encourage the Ratings Board to make video game ratings more representative of the games’ content.   
 
 