 
		    
            Wednesday, September 27, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today joined FCC Chairman Kevin Martin and FCC Commissioner Deborah Taylor Tate to announce the formation of a government and industry task force to examine the impact of media and advertising on children's health.     
"Given the saturation of media in our children's lives, we need to understand how media impacts their health and behavior," said Brownback.  "I'm pleased that representatives from the public and private sector are coming together to address the rising rate of childhood obesity and its relationship to media and advertising.  I hope this task force helps government, parents, and the business community define how to address childhood obesity."     
According to a National Health Examination Survey, the percentage of overweight children has more than tripled over the past 40 years.  American companies spend $15 billion a year marketing and advertising to children under the age of 12, twice the amount they spent 10 years ago.  Children influence about $500 billion in annual spending on products like cereal, candy, and fast food.     
Brownback said representatives from the FCC, Congress, advocacy organizations, policy groups, and the private sector will form the task force.  The task force will meet throughout 2007 and issue a report detailing voluntary steps and goals for the public and private sectors in the fight against rising rates of childhood obesity.     
"Studies show that children eight and older are exposed to over six hours a day worth of media," continued Brownback.  "Judging by the sheer volume of media and advertising that children consume on a daily basis, and given alarming trends in childhood obesity, we're facing a public health problem that will only get worse unless we take action."     
Task force members announced at the event included representatives from the Beverly LaHaye Institute, Children Now, Disney, the Parents Television Council, Sesame Workshop, and the Benton Foundation.  Brownback said more task force members, particularly representatives from the business community, are expected to join soon.     
Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Judiciary Committee.  
 