 
		    
            Friday, April 28, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today encouraged people around the nation to march in the Global Night Commute tomorrow evening, Saturday April 29, 2006.  Marches have been organized in 136 cities to highlight the plight of children in Uganda that walk miles every night to sleep in cities in hopes to avoid abduction by rebels who force the children to fight in a bloody civil war.  It is estimated that over 30,000 children in Uganda have been abducted in the last 20 years.     
"The children of Uganda suffer horribly from the prolonged civil war," Brownback stated.  "The Lord's Resistance Army abducts boys to be soldiers and girls as sex slaves.  The boys are usually required to shoot someone they know on the spot before being taken away to fight.  This is one of the worst tragedies in the world.  Two generations of children in Uganda have not been able to have a childhood of any kind."     
The march is organized by Invisible Children, a group of college students who filmed a powerful documentary about the plight of Ugandan children, and who have traveled the country spreading the word.  Over 50, 000 people have signed up for the Global Night Commute so far.  Those interested in participating can find more information at www.invisiblechildren.com.     
Brownback continued, "I highly encourage anyone and everyone to join in the Global Night Commute.  Children in Uganda walk far from home every night to sleep in the open, only to walk back home every morning, all in hopes of not being abducted.  The Global Night Commute will shed light on this atrocity and hopefully touch the lives of everyone who joins us in some way, even if only for one night."     
Brownback will march in Topeka, Kansas from Washburn University to the State Capitol Building and will speak to the rally at the conclusion of the march at approximately 8:30 p.m. central.     
"I want to thank the young people at Invisible Children for their amazing dedication and heart," Brownback concluded.  "They are truly changing the world and saving lives.  I hope more students will get involved.  Take a trip to Africa, learn more about these issues, or join the Global Night Commute."     
Brownback traveled to Uganda in November 2004 to investigate the atrocities against civilians and child abductions committed by the insurgent army.  He also observed World AIDS Day with the First Lady of Uganda.  
 