 
		    
            Monday, February 28, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today made the following statement as he returned from a trip to Iraq, Kuwait and Germany.     
“In Iraq I met with three of the top brokers who are negotiating who will fill positions in the interim government and in writing the constitution.  I had excellent meetings with Prime Minister Allawi and the head of the Shia list, Ibrahim al-Jafari.  We also met with one of the key Kurdish leaders that will be negotiating for the block of votes they have.  Nobody in Iraq has the two-thirds majority necessary to be able to get the government put in place, but there are enough votes between those three groups to put somebody in place.  We talked extensively about having the Sunnis involved in this as well.  Allawi, al-Jafari and others are all very cognizant and supportive of reaching out to the Sunni vote, which is a very good sign.       
“We talked about guaranteed religious freedom, because that’s going to be such a key issue within the region, and the role of Islam in the forming of Iraq’s civil society and of its civil government.  The Kurdish leader and Prime Minister Allawi were certainly in favor of maintaining religious freedom and a secular government.  I think this is a key issue for the development of Iraq.       
“I talked extensively with Prime Minister Allawi and with other leaders in Iraq about Syria.  We must do everything we can to be more aggressive in confronting Syria about what they are doing in Iraq.  They are allowing groups to set up their headquarters in Syria while operating the insurgency movement inside Iraq.  That must stop.  Syria must respect the borders and the sovereignty of Iraq, and not be allowing these insurgency groups to headquarter in Syria.  We must use the tools we have available to us to apply maximum pressure to be able to more aggressively confront the Syrians and this insurgency movement that they’re allowing to operate on their soil.”       
Brownback thanked Senator Jim DeMint (R-SC) for leading the Congressional delegation to the Middle East.  The delegation left for the region Thursday and returns this evening.  They visited Camp Arifjan in Kuwait; Camp Victory, Baghdad and Fallujah in Iraq; and Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany to visit with wounded soldiers.     
Photo Album: Senator Sam Brownback Travels to Iraq  
 