 
		    
            Thursday, July 28, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback last night commended passage of the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement.  The Senate passed the bill on June 30, and the House followed suit yesterday evening.   
 
“As the world grows more connected, it becomes increasingly important that the U.S. foster international relationships,” Brownback said.  “By promoting fair and free trade, the U.S. economy will face the future from a position of strength.  Opening foreign markets supports the economy by creating jobs, increasing income, and lowering poverty.  I’m pleased the House voted to pass DR-CAFTA last night following previous Senate passage.”     
 
The agreement covers trade between the United States and El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala and the Dominican Republic.   
 
DR-CAFTA benefits Kansas by lowering the tariffs currently placed on many products the state produces, including wheat, beef, and several manufacturing goods.  Kansas, which is the 5th largest exporter of agricultural products among all the states, benefits greatly when global trade barriers are knocked down.  Farmers in the state of Kansas receive nearly $3 billion, or about one-third of their income, from exports.      
 
Brownback continued, “Free markets bring about U.S. prosperity, and it benefits the U.S. to be supportive of democracies.  By improving our economic ties with these countries, we can more easily address anti-drug efforts, environmental concerns, and gain cooperation to improve our nation’s fight against those who would do us harm.”   
 
Brownback noted that this free trade agreement is the next step in a process that began under President Reagan which was called the Caribbean Basin Initiative.  The initiative was begun in 1983 to spread economic growth and peace to a region with burgeoning democracies.  Under this agreement, companies in these Central American countries could ship their products to the United States without any tariffs while U.S. products headed to this region were burdened with high tariffs.  DR-CAFTA now levels the playing field for American companies competing in these foreign markets.   
 
Brownback was first elected to the Senate to fill the unexpired term of Bob Dole in 1996.  He was returned by the voters of Kansas for a full term in 1998, and reelected this past November.  He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1994-1996.  Brownback serves on the Appropriations, Judiciary, and Joint Economic Committees.  He also is chairman of the Helsinki Commission and co-chairman of the Senate Cancer Coalition.   
 
 