 
		    
            Thursday, July 28, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today highlighted a new report—demonstrating that adult stem cells from bone marrow can make eggs in ovaries—as additional evidence of the wide versatility of adult stem cells and the lack of a need to use embryonic stem cells for experimentation.   
 
“This is another example of the amazing flexibility of adult stem cells,” Brownback said.  “Today’s publication tracks down the stem cell source for the production of the new eggs: adult stem cells in the bone marrow.   
 
“While embryonic stem cells have never treated a human and tend to form tumors, adult stem cells continue to deliver results, including treatments for more than 65 illnesses.”     
 
The report was published today in the medical journal Cell by researchers at the Massachusetts General Hospital.  Last year the same group of researchers showed that, contrary to scientific dogma, ovaries can potentially generate new eggs.  The scientists found that some bone marrow stem cells express a set of genes normally found only in egg cells, and the expression of these genes follows the menstrual cycle.  The expression of egg cell genes was observed in bone marrow stem cells from mice and from humans.     
 
The scientists then tested whether the bone marrow stem cells could form egg cells.  They sterilized the ovaries of mice, or used mutant mice with ovaries that contain no eggs.  After bone marrow or blood stem cells were transplanted from normal fertile mice, the sterile ovaries began producing eggs and resembled ovaries from normal mice.  Labeled adult stem cells transplanted into mice with sterile ovaries could be tracked and were found as eggs within the revitalized ovaries.     
 
Brownback continued, “Once again adult stem cells have demonstrated their ability to transform into other cell types and repair damaged tissue.  The ability of these adult stem cells to make most or all tissues and the fact that they can be easily obtained from the patient or a donor make these non-embryonic cells the only logical choice for successfully treating patients.”  
 