 
		    
            Wednesday, June 29, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback’s legislation offering an apology to Native Americans on behalf of the United States government was passed today by the Senate Indian Affairs Committee.   
 
“I am pleased the Indian Affairs Committee passed this resolution unanimously, and I’m hopeful Majority Leader Bill Frist will schedule it for consideration by the full Senate in the near future,” Brownback said.  “This is a resolution of apology and a resolution of reconciliation.  It is a step toward healing the wounds that have divided us for so long – a potential foundation for a new era of positive relations between Tribal governments and the federal government.  It is past time for us to heal our land of division, and bring us together as one people.”    
 
Brownback testified last month before the committee on behalf of the resolution.     
 
The legislation, S.J.Res. 15, commends and honors the Native peoples for the thousands of years that they have stewarded and protected this land, and apologizes on behalf of the people of the United States to all Native peoples for the many instances of violence, maltreatment, and neglect inflicted on them by citizens of the United States.  It also commits to build on the positive relationships of the past and present to move toward a brighter future “where all the people of this land live reconciled as brothers and sisters, and harmoniously steward and protect this land together.”   
 
Brownback continued, “It’s time to restore the relationship between the United States and the Native peoples to good health.  We can’t erase our past record, but we can work together to establish a brighter future for all Americans.”     
 
The resolution will not authorize or serve as a settlement of any claim against the United States.       
 
Brownback was first elected to the Senate to fill the unexpired term of Bob Dole in 1996.  He was returned by the voters of Kansas for a full term in 1998, and reelected this past November.  He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1994-1996.  Brownback serves on the Appropriations, Judiciary, and Joint Economic Committees.  He also is chairman of the Helsinki Commission and co-chairman of the Senate Cancer Coalition.   
 
 