 
		    
            Friday, July 29, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today announced final passage of the transportation appropriations bill.  The legislation, known as the Transportation Equity Act, a Legacy for Users, passed 91-4 and now goes to the President’s desk for his signature.     
 
“Our nation is a vast land that needs a transportation infrastructure just as vast to meet the needs of its people and businesses,” Brownback said.  “This highway bill will ensure that the American transportation infrastructure continues to be the best in the world, and that Kansas continues to receive its fair share of federal transportation funds.  I was pleased to vote for this bill that pays for the maintenance and improvements to our highways and does so in a fiscally responsible manner.”     
 
Kansas will receive approximately $1.915 billion in highway funds and approximately $123 million in transit funds for the life of the highway bill, for a total of over $2 billion for the state’s transportation needs.     
 
On an annual basis, Kansas will receive approximately $383.8 million in funding for highway projects.  Selected projects Brownback worked to include in the legislation are as follows:     
 
KDOT Statewide Transit Buses, Bus Facilities and Bus ITA: $12 million   Authorization of I-35 Transit Corridor Project   Reconstruction of I-235/US 54 and I-235/Central interchanges and expansion of I-235 to a 6-lane facility between the interchanges in Wichita: $10 million   Construction of 4-lane improvement on K-18 in Riley Co: $20 million   Replacement or rehabilitation of the Amelia Earhart US-59 Bridge in Atchison County: $5 million        
Brownback is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.  He was first elected to the Senate to fill the unexpired term of Bob Dole in 1996.  He was returned by the voters of Kansas for a full term in 1998, and reelected this past November.  He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1994-1996.  In addition to the Appropriations Committee, Brownback serves on the Judiciary and Joint Economic Committees.  He also is chairman of the Helsinki Commission and co-chairman of the Senate Cancer Coalition.    

 
Brownback is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.  He was first elected to the Senate to fill the unexpired term of Bob Dole in 1996.  He was returned by the voters of Kansas for a full term in 1998, and reelected this past November.  He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1994-1996.  In addition to the Appropriations Committee, Brownback serves on the Judiciary and Joint Economic Committees.  He also is chairman of the Helsinki Commission and co-chairman of the Senate Cancer Coalition.     
 
 