 
		    
            Wednesday, March 29, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today chaired a hearing of the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution to discuss the effects of violent video games on youth and the constitutionality of laws regulating the sale of violent video games.   
“Our society needs to examine the violent media that our children are exposed on a daily basis,” said Senator Brownback.  “The evidence shows that exposure to violent video games is harmful to young people, and many psychologists agree that violent games are associated with violence in children.  As parents, teachers, and lawmakers, we must actively protect our children.”   
At the hearing, a representative of the American Psychological Association discussed recent research showing that violent video games increase aggressive thoughts and behavior among youth.   
Brownback continued, “What too many in the industry fail to realize is that the First Amendment right to free speech is not without limit when it comes to minors.  State laws restricting the access of minors to violent games do not impair adult access because these state laws aim to prevent children from purchasing the games themselves.  Hopefully, requiring adults to purchase these games will force parents to think twice about what they are buying.”   
Since 2001, several states have passed laws restricting the access of minors to violent video games, but these laws have not survived court challenges.   
Brownback added, “To date the video game industry has successfully challenged state laws restricting the access of minors to violent video games, as the judges in these cases were not convinced that protecting young people from the harmful content of certain video games justified restrictions on minors’ access to such games.  However, today we learned that because video games are a relatively new medium, studies exploring their affects are still developing.  New studies showing the negative impact of violent video games bolster the case for increased sales restrictions because they show the serious impact of these games.”   
Senator Brownback chairs the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights, and Property Rights.   
-30-  
 