 
		    
            Thursday, February 2, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today delivered a speech at the American Enterprise Institute calling for a two-tiered approach that challenges the regime both internally and externally:     
"The regime's rebellious disregard for human rights and global security is a defiance that should not be tolerated.  The Iranian people's bold resistance of the regime's dictatorial disregard for democracy and human rights is a moral defiance for truth and justice.  As we witnessed in the Polish Solidarity movement, the defiance of the people eventually cracked the defiance of the government.     
"That is why a two-track approach to the crisis in Iran is needed: an approach that challenges the regime externally, and an approach that challenges the regime internally.     
"I call for $100 million to support independent human rights groups inside Iran which maintain internationally recognized human rights standards.     
"We need a regional human rights dialogue with Iran that is modeled on the Helsinki process and engages countries in the region.  The Helsinki process is one of the tools that brought human rights to the Soviet Empire.     
"We must push aggressively with international organizations.  We have worked well with the International Atomic Energy Agency.  Now let's ensure we do the same at the United Nations and at the World Bank.     
"When the words 'regime change' are uttered around Washington, silence fills the room.  But we must not be constrained by words that actually promote liberty, equality, and justice.  Regime change can happen from within, and I am confident that the Iranian people can champion their future.     
"Outside pressure is not enough to promote change, as change must come from within.  As we remember the life of Coretta Scott King this week, we are reminded of the peaceful civil rights movement that blossomed in the United States.  Freedom is not an American birthright.  There are people across the world who share the courage of Coretta Scott King."     
Senator Brownback is the author of the Iran Democracy Act and serves on the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations.     
-30-  
 