 
		    
            Monday, July 2, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback on Friday sent a letter to Federal Bureau of Prisons Director Harley Lappin asking that the BOP consider building its new facility in Leavenworth, Kansas.  Brownback and Lappin are scheduled to meet later this year to discuss the issue in more detail.         
Following is full text of the letter:     As you begin your consideration of creating a new Bureau of Prisons facility for the Midwestern region of our country, I respectfully request that Leavenworth, Kansas, be considered as a potential site for such a facility.  I appreciate our dialogue in the past on this issue and would like to take this opportunity to formally submit my request to you in writing.     
The city of Leavenworth, KS, is uniquely positioned as not only a "prison friendly community" but also encompasses the resources needed for such an expansion.  Already, the Bureau and Department of Justice own acreage that is contiguous to Fort Leavenworth that would be able to accommodate a new prison facility and already houses two Bureau facilities, USP Leavenworth and the minimum security "Honor Farm."  This infrastructure fits well within the Bureau's current focus of maximizing efficiency by building several facilities in one location, thereby saving tax-payer dollars—especially if this new proposed facility is a maximum security infrastructure.     
In addition to the potential cost savings, the Leavenworth community is ready, willing and eager to assist you in building a new prison facility.   With four major prison facilities located within the Leavenworth-Lansing area and as home to one of the Bureau's most historic facilities, the business and law-enforcement community as well as city management are coordinated and ready to work with you in order to build and operate a new prison.      
I look forward to continuing our dialogue on this very important issue to my state and the Leavenworth community in particular.  As I mentioned to you in our last meeting on this matter, I stand ready to assist you in this endeavor.   Please do not hesitate to contact me on this and any other issue of concern.     
-30-  
 