 
		    
            Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today at the Senate Republican launch of the poverty alleviation agenda, announced his efforts to curb prison recidivism and address prison reform through the Second Chance Act, a bill he is currently drafting.   
 
“We have an incredible opportunity to reshape the way in which our nation fights poverty, and one of the most critical elements is to significantly and substantively reform our prison system to break the cycle of recidivism,” Brownback said.  “Much like welfare reform in the mid-1990s, we have a chance to make real and effective changes in an area where change is sorely needed, which not only will reshape our prison system, but will cut our recidivism rates significantly while making our communities safer.”   
 
The bill will reauthorize the Re-Entry Demonstration Project with an enhanced focus on jobs, housing, substance abuse treatment, mental health, and children and families, and increase the amount of money to fund demonstration programs and create performance outcome standards and deliverables.  The legislation will also encourage states to enhance their re-entry services and systems with grants to fund the creation or enhancement of state re-entry councils for strategic planning and review the state barriers and resources that exist.    
 
Brownback continued, “Today, it is more likely than ever that a person released from prison will be rearrested—two-thirds of state prisoners are rearrested within three years of release.  We can either continue to put up with a system in which offenders leave the prisons more hardened and violent than they went in, with children who are more likely to be dependent upon government programs, or we can raise our expectations that offenders will leave prisons as better citizens and that their children can engage their society in a positive way.  We must stop subsidizing programs that do not work and that lead, in turn, to negative behavior.”   
 
American taxpayers spent approximately $9 billion per year on corrections in 1982 and in 2002 they spent $60 billion.  It is urgent that we find ways of addressing this very serious and very costly problem.  A recent study found that children of prisoners are five times as likely to be incarcerated later in life as a child who has not had a parent incarcerated.  Fifty-five percent of prisoners have children under the age of 18.   
 
More than seven million children can claim a parent in prison, in jail, under parole, or under probation supervision.  While many corrections agencies recognize the need for family-oriented programs for inmates, and have family-related initiatives, only 35 percent indicate agency-wide policies and programs aimed at benefiting the children of inmates.   
 
“We must realize that reforms to address recidivism have to provide hope,” stated Brownback.  “Without hope, the soul withers, and people become hardened.  The Second Chance Act: Community Safety Through Recidivism Reduction facilitates change within our current correctional system, and promotes coordination with the federal government to better assist those returning to our communities after incarceration and their children.  We can no longer sit idly by and allow this decay to continue.  We must find innovative ways to assist the families of these inmates. I am encouraged by organizations such as Prison Fellowship Ministries who partner with churches, communities, prison systems, and families of incarcerated individuals to provide needed family and faith-based services.”   
 
Brownback is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and the Senate Appropriations Committee.  
 