 
		    
            Tuesday, May 2, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) today introduced the Elimination of Neglected Diseases Act of 2006, which encourages pharmaceutical companies to invest in developing treatments for neglected diseases.     
"In the developing world, millions of people suffer from curable diseases that many of us think no longer exist," said Brownback.  "The biggest challenge to finding cures for these diseases is the lack of a market."     
"We have the technology and brain power to bring about cures for these damaging diseases, but what's lacking is a market incentive to tackle them," said Lieberman. "This bill will help bring relief to thousands of people suffering from ancient diseases in a world with contemporary medical capabilities."     
Neglected diseases like leprosy, hookworm, and river blindness cause over 500,000 deaths annually.  A total of 13 such diseases afflict the poor in Africa, Asia, and the Americas.  Africa bears the brunt of this, as nearly 90 percent of the world's neglected diseases afflict people in the continent.     
Brownback continued, "The lack of interest in finding treatments for neglected diseases has led to only a few new drugs for those in need.  Between 1975 and 1997, only 13 new drugs were developed for neglected diseases.  Because pharmaceuticals are expensive to develop, companies have fewer incentives to pursue cures.  We can encourage pharmaceutical companies by granting a patent extension for a lifestyle drug or a neglected disease product if they make the investment to develop a treatment for a neglected disease.  A drug company can recoup costs incurred by developing drugs for a neglected disease by securing these new patent rights."     
Lieberman continued, "The technology and brain power behind cures should not be limited to the privileged and our bill aims to remove the barriers that have too long prevented these cures from reaching the nation's underprivileged.  The financial benefit companies would receive from the patent incentives in our bill can help offset the cost of crucial R investments needed to combat these neglected diseases, which can be as high as $1 billion dollars per drug."     
Finding cures for neglected diseases helps curb instances of HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis, the three highest-profile diseases.  Individuals suffering from HIV/AIDS, malaria, or tuberculosis are more likely to survive if they do not also suffer from a neglected disease.  
 