 
		    
            Friday, November 30, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today announced the transfer of three CQ-10A SnowGoose unmanned aerial vehicles from U.S. Special Operations Command to the Kansas Adjutant General's Department.       
"I am pleased that the Kansas Adjutant General's Department has received these aircraft," said Brownback.  "With this newly acquired federal surplus equipment, the Guard will be able to explore the use of UAV technology for homeland security and disaster response missions.  I applaud the Guard, Kansas State University and the University of Kansas for their leadership and cooperation on this important project."      
The Department of Defense's Special Operations Command is upgrading its fleet of UAVs and designated its CQ-10As as surplus items.  Brownback worked with Kansas Adjutant General Tod Bunting to bring three of the UAV systems to Kansas.       
"Getting these UAVs is a great deal for Kansas and the American taxpayer," said Bunting.  "We're more than excited about working with our state partners to develop some new and much needed disaster response capabilities."       
Research will be conducted as part of a cooperative effort between Kansas State University, the University of Kansas and the Kansas National Guard.       
Dr. Kurt Barnhart, a professor at Kansas State said, "We are excited about the CQ-10A's coming into the state and look forward to partnering with the Kansas Air National Guard and other state agencies to make Kansas a leader in UAV training and deployment."     
Dr. Richard Colgren, of the University at Kansas said, "The Kansas UAV Consortium and The University of Kansas are extremely pleased by the deployment of the CQ-10A SnowGoose Unmanned Aerial System in Kansas.  This effort has required investment and cooperation from the DoD, Kansas Technology Enterprise Corporation, NASA EPSCoR, NSF, Kansas universities and by private industry.  All of us involved are excited about the possibilities as we bolster the state's position as a UAV-friendly environment by promoting UAV research, development, testing and operation."       
The CQ-10A can be launched from the air or from the ground and can carry up to 500 pounds of various types of equipment.  Specifically, the research will focus on the integration of UAV-mounted cameras for search-and-rescue and damage assessment, aerial radio repeaters to enhance first-responder communications, and the use of airborne sensors to detect hazardous materials.     
Brownback is a member of the Senate Appropriations and Judiciary Committees.     
-30-  
 