 
		    
            Tuesday, May 31, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today commended President Bush for pursuing World Trade Organization resolution to the ongoing Boeing/Airbus trade and subsidy dispute.     
 
“I am pleased with the President’s decision to bring the dispute over EU launch aid subsidies for Airbus to the World Trade Organization for dispute resolution,” Brownback said.  “Launch aid has distorted the marketplace for commercial aircraft.  We have been trying to work with the E.U. on a resolution to this issue, but to no avail.  Unfortunately, the EU is leaving us with no choice but to bring the case the WTO.  The commercial aircraft and aerospace industry is too important to our manufacturing base and, ultimately, our National Security to allow it to be stolen from under us.”     
 
Brownback introduced S.Con.Res 140 last year, urging U.S. withdrawal from the 1992 Agreement on Government Support for Civil Aircraft with the European Union.  The legislation also requested that the President urge the U.S. Trade Representative to file a consultation request on the issue with the World Trade Organization.     
 
For more than 30 years, the E.U. governments have pursued a targeted strategy to gain global leadership in the market for large commercial aircraft through massive government subsidies to Airbus.  These subsidies include launch aid to develop new aircraft—such as no- or low-interest government loans repaid only if a program succeeds—debt forgiveness, equity infusion, and infrastructure and research & development support.      
 
The 1992 Agreement on Government Support for Civil Aircraft was negotiated between the United States and the European Community to address the near total subsidization of Airbus commercial aircraft development.  The agreement stated that no more than 33 percent of total aircraft development costs could be borne by the respective governments.       
 
More than $15 billion in launch aid alone has been provided to Airbus by the governments of France, Germany, Britain and Spain with the understanding that full repayment is required only in the event that Airbus airplanes are commercially successful.       
 
 
 