 
		    
            Monday, October 31, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback spoke today at the memorial service honoring Rosa Parks.  Following are his remarks as prepared for delivery.   
“Rosa Parks has been described as a woman of faith, quiet strength, conviction, grace, and as the mother of the modern civil rights movement.  Today we honor this noble and godly woman, who with unwavering faith in God, and a resolve that would no longer allow her to stay silent in the face of egregious bigotry and discrimination, made the bold and brave decision to stand against oppression by refusing to relinquish her seat to a white man.     “Though at that moment she faced an uncertain fate by challenging the unjust segregation laws in 1955, Mrs. Parks said, ‘I felt the Lord would give me the strength to endure whatever I had to face…It was time for someone to stand up—or in my case, sit down.  I refused to move.’   
“Mrs. Parks’ actions awakened a country blind to its own injustice and oppression. She taught this nation the importance of dignity, freedom and equality.  With this single act of civil disobedience rooted in her unwavering faith in God, Mrs. Parks shook the consciousness of this nation, galvanized the civil rights movement, and inspired one of our nation’s most profound prophets, Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.  Through her life, Mrs. Parks taught us righteousness and justice.  Righteousness – the knowledge of right from wrong—of good from evil; and justice – its application in our society.  She saw the inherent evil in segregation and she had the courage to fight it in its common place—on a bus.   
“Today, we honor this tremendous American, this humble person who never sought out recognition for her actions, but who changed a nation.     
“In her book, Quiet Strength, Mrs. Parks addresses her unease at the credit she was given in starting the Montgomery bus boycott and assures readers that there were many other individuals who also deserve credit for inspiring the fight for freedom.  Mrs. Parks quoted Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. who said, ‘If you will protest courageously and yet with dignity and Christian love, when the history books are written in future generations, the historians will have to pause and say: there lived a great people—a black people—who injected new meaning and dignity into the veins of civilization.’   
“It is fitting that we pause and say of Mrs. Rosa Parks, there lived a noble and brave lady who protested courageously, yet with dignity and Christian love, who refused to give in to bigotry and oppression, who injected new meaning and dignity into the veins of a once oppressive civilization and ushered forward freedom and equality in this nation.  Rosa Parks, may you rest in the loving arms of God.”   
The service was held at Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church in Washington, DC.   
-30-  
 