 
		    
            Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded Senate passage of two amendments that provide $60 million to fund a U.N. peacekeeping force in Darfur and establish an Office of the Presidential Envoy for Sudan.     
"The conflict in the Darfur region of Sudan is at a breaking point," said Brownback.  "The war has spread to Chad, aid groups have been expelled, food rations have been cut, and the planting of crops has come to a standstill due to lack of security.  We must act now to help end the suffering of innocent people caught in this genocide.  Today's Senate passage of these two key amendments indicates our willingness to push forward for more security and for a fair peace settlement."     
Brownback worked with Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Barack Obama (D-IL) to pass the amendment allocating $60 million for a U.N. peacekeeping force.     
Brownback continued, "Providing $60 million for U.N. peacekeepers lays the groundwork for a U.N. force to go to Darfur quickly and with means significant enough to end the genocide."     
Brownback joined Senators Joe Biden (D-CT) and Mike DeWine (R-OH) to pass the amendment establishing the Office of the Presidential Envoy for Sudan, whose mandate includes coordinating policy with the African Union and other international actors to end genocide and bring peace to the region.     
"I appreciate the attention and assistance the Bush Administration has given to Darfur, but more can be done," stated Brownback.  "By appointing a high-level special envoy the Bush Administration will improve the chances of finding a sustainable peace for the region."     
The amendments passed the Senate by voice vote and are attached to H.R. 4939, the Emergency Supplemental Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery.  The Senate is expected to vote on H.R. 4939 by the end of this week, at which point it heads to a House-Senate conference committee so that both chambers can agree on a final version to send to the White House.     
Senator Brownback sits on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations.  
 