 
		    
            Wednesday, May 3, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today examined federal and local policies that create financial disincentives to marriage in a hearing of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee for the District of Columbia.     
"Research shows that children raised by married parents are far more likely to avoid poverty, crime, and failure in school," said Senator Brownback.  "By creating financial disincentives for low-income parents to get married, the welfare state actually discourages the behaviors that would be most beneficial for low-income parents and their children.  Statistics prove what we all know, that children benefit from being reared by their married parents, and it is a moral and societal imperative that we foster and encourage the institution of marriage."     
At the hearing Dr. Wade F. Horn, HHS Assistant Secretary for Children and Families, debuted the Marriage Calculator, an online tool that helps low-income couples see the often negative financial impact of marriage on their taxes and benefits.     
Brownback continued, "The online Marriage Calculator will help us examine how tax and benefit policies could be reformed to eliminate marriage penalties.  There is something wrong with a system that penalizes couples for doing the right thing for their children by getting married.  Our society should promote marriage because of the benefits it brings to children, but sadly, government policies that trace their origin to the Great Society programs of the 1960s have often done just the opposite."     
Brownback also followed-up on the status of the Marriage Development Accounts program, which was implemented in the District last year and provides low-income couples with federal matching funds for money that is saved to buy a home, pay for job training or education, or start a business.     
"I'm pleased that local leaders from non-profit and faith-based organizations have embraced Marriage Development Accounts as an important tool to help low-income married and engaged couples put their lives on firm financial ground," stated Brownback.  "We must take every action we can to stop the economic, cultural, and behavioral harm caused by the erosion of marriage."     
Senator Brownback chairs the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on the District of Columbia.  
 