 
		    
            Thursday, November 3, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today applauded passage of H.R. 2744, the FY2006 Agriculture and Rural Development Appropriations bill.  This legislation includes $100.9 billion for programs that strengthen our nation’s farms and rural areas and which support the most fundamental industry in the United States and in Kansas.  This bill, which is within budget spending guidelines, passed the House of Representatives on October 28 and now goes to the president for his signature.   
“I am pleased that the Senate and the House acted quickly to ensure that necessary funding for programs that support our agriculture industry is made available,” Brownback stated.  “I am hopeful the president will sign this important bill into law as soon as possible.”   
However, Brownback expressed concern over the removal of language exempting ranchers and dairy producers from emergency air emissions reporting, even though a majority of senate conferees had voted to add such a provision.  The laws currently governing such reporting requirements were aimed at industrial and not agricultural production, but ambiguity in the law as written could open cattle producers to unfair liabilities.  Senator Brownback, along with his colleague Senator Larry Craig of Idaho, had introduced the amendment to clarify the intent of Congress on the matter.   
Brownback continued, “If the laws that govern emergency air emissions were meant to apply to ranchers and dairy producers, they never would have passed Congress.  Agriculture is already an over-regulated industry, and I’m afraid adding the possibility of superfund litigation will be too much for many farmers and ranchers to bear.  I will continue working with my colleagues to clarify the intent of Congress and to prevent frivolous lawsuits from destroying the cattle industry.”   
H.R. 2744 includes funding for important projects in Kansas as well as language that addresses several pressing issues in the state.  Selected items include:   
+ Language recognizing the importance of the Ogallala Aquifer in western Kansas and directing the USDA to consider all possible funding avenues for conserving the aquifer.   
+ $750,000 for research on the complex nature of water availability, uses, and costs, which will help determine future water policy in the region irrigated by the Ogallala Aquifer.   
+ $74,000 for research at Kansas State University on water conservation efforts in western Kansas.   
+ Language directing the USDA to use all appropriate funding to support preservation efforts of the tallgrass prairie in the Flint Hills region.   
+ Language directing the Agriculture Research Service to conduct a feasibility study on the construction and equipping of the Kansas Polymer Research Center at Pittsburg State University.   
+ Language directing the USDA to cede the title of certain unused land in the vicinity of Elkhart, Kansas to the city of Elkhart.   
+ Language designating the city of Atchison, Kansas as a rural area eligible for grants from USDA Rural Development.   
+ $377,000 for grain sorghum research at Kansas State University.   
+ $344,000 for wheat genetics research at Kansas State University.   
+ $540,000 for research on managing karnal bunt of wheat at Kansas State University.   
+ $833,000 for the National Canola Research Program at Kansas State University.   
+ $1,432,000 for the Animal Science Food Safety Consortium at Kansas State University.   
In addition, $500,000 was included to fund the Veterinary Medical Service Act.  This bill, which before this year had not received any funding, aims to promote the practice of veterinary medicine in underserved areas by paying the principle and interest on loans taken by graduate students who agree to move to such areas following the completion of their degree.   
Brownback said, “This funding is a small step toward solving a large problem—the lack of access to quality veterinary care faced by those who raise animals in rural areas.  The federal government must show its commitment to these individuals who play such a vital role in maintaining the safety of our food supply.”   
Senator Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee, which oversees the drafting of the 12 annual appropriations bills that fund the operations of the federal government and numerous projects in Kansas.   
-30-  
 