 
		    
            Friday, August 4, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback applauded Senate passage by 93-5 of legislation requiring companies to fully fund defined benefit pension plans and to honor promised payments.  The bill now heads to the White House for the president's signature.     
"By passing this reform plan Congress is protecting tens of millions of workers from falling victim to under-funded pension plans," said Brownback.  "American workers should not pay into a pension plan throughout their working years only to find themselves on the losing end of a company's financial problems.  Growing numbers of workers are nearing retirement, and we must take a forward-thinking approach to help them enjoy a prosperous and comfortable retirement."     
The Pension Protection Act of 2006 extends the time period in which companies must meet pension funding obligations, thus preventing an immediate crisis that would require the use of taxpayer dollars to support several plans nearing insolvency.  The bill also strengthens accounting standards and pension funding requirements to prevent under-funding from happening in the first place.     
Brownback continued, "This bill provides fantastic tax incentives for younger workers to take advantage of the many years they have to grow their savings.  Defined contribution plans like IRAs and 401ks are a better deal for younger workers because they control their own money, get higher rates of return, and aren't at the mercy of future promises that a company may or may not be able to meet."     
The bill permanently establishes the high contribution limits to personal retirement plans, such as the $4,000 per year limit for Roth IRAs, that were first enacted in the 2001 tax cuts and that would have expired without Congressional action.  With the high contribution limits permanent, workers and employers will not see a significant tax incentive for retirement plans disappear.     
A separate provision of the pension reform bill allows companies to automatically enroll employees in 401k-style defined contribution programs while giving them the ability to opt-out.  Studies indicate that participation rates skyrocket when employees are automatically enrolled in retirement programs instead of being required to take action to sign themselves up.     
Senator Brownback is a member of the Joint Economic Committee, the Appropriations Committee and the Judiciary Committee.  
 