 
		    
            Wednesday, July 5, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today condemned North Korea's missile launch and called for further economic sanctions.     
"This missile launch is a desperate act from a desperate regime," said Brownback.  "Kim Jong-Il wants to use demonstrations of military force as blackmail for diplomatic concessions and international aid, but we must take a firm stance and refuse to be pushed by this ruthless dictator.  The U.S. should lead the international community in imposing further economic sanctions against the North Korean regime, and we should continue allowing North Koreans to enter the U.S. as refuges under the provisions of the North Korean Human Rights Act."     
North Korea launched a Taepodong-2 missile early Wednesday morning despite warnings from Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns to not fire the missile.     
Brownback continued, "Although the missile fell harmlessly into the ocean it had already taken the lives of millions of starving North Koreans who were deprived of food and basic needs so that Kim Jong-Il can support his malevolent weapons programs. Any country that provides unconditional aid to North Korea under circumstances where it cannot confirm that the aid is going to the most vulnerable is essentially propping up the regime and indirectly supporting its WMD and military programs.  It is time for China and South Korea to make a choice between standing with the free world or standing with one of the most oppressive regimes on the planet."     
The North Korean Human Rights Act, authored by Brownback and passed by the Senate in 2004, made human rights a priority in U.S. policy toward North Korea.  In early May six North Koreans were admitted into the U.S. as refugees, which marked the first time that the U.S. has formally processed North Koreans as refugees from a third country since the end of the Korean War half a century ago.     
Senator Brownback chairs the Helsinki Commission and is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Judiciary Committee.  
 