 
		    
            Thursday, January 6, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback and 31 other Senators recently sent a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman calling for the U.S. to increase its food aid abroad.  Humanitarian crises in Sudan, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Uganda, and Eritrea have resulted in much higher food aid needs in the last fiscal year than anticipated.     
“It is critical to provide for these needs without harming the effectiveness of other important U.S. food aid initiatives,” the Senators wrote.  “We were therefore pleased to learn that 200,000 metric tons of wheat will be provided from the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust (BEHT) for Darfur.  However, much more is needed and we ask you to allocate additional funds and commodities from the BEHT and to assure that nonemergency P.L. 480 Title II programs are fully funded.”   
P.L. 480 Title II requires the donation of 2.5 million metric tons of food aid abroad each fiscal year.  Most of the Title II tonnage is intended for developmental programs that improve the health, living conditions and livelihoods of people who suffer from chronic hunger.  The goal of these nonemergency programs is to build self-reliance in marginalized communities that do not have enough to eat, are prone to disasters, and suffer from chronic disease such as HIV/AIDS, malaria, and TB.     
The Senators noted that private voluntary organizations, or PVOs, work with these poor communities, building local capacity, improving productivity and reducing hunger and susceptibility to disease.  “Reaching millions of people with U.S. food aid, PVOs demonstrate the humanitarian good will of America.  We understand that USAID cancelled commodity shipments for these PVO programs in November and December, which sets back U.S. efforts to build linkages with these communities and to alleviate hunger.”   
When the Bush Administration requested $1.185 billion for P.L. 480 Title II, the budget assumed $468 million of that amount would be used for emergencies, providing about 40% of projected emergency needs worldwide.  However, more current information shows that assessed needs have increased threefold, particularly due to the crisis in Darfur, Sudan, flooding in Bangladesh, locusts in West Africa, continued food shortages in Afghanistan, and drought in Ethiopia and Eritrea.     
“To meet America’s traditional level of commitment of 35-40% of projected emergency needs, USAID estimates that $1.3 billion will be needed to provide 2,060,000 metric tons of commodities.  This is $832 million more than the $468 million estimated in the Administration’s original budget request.  Even with the 200,000 metric ton release from the BEHT, the extra needs are high -- $650 million.   
“In order to continue America’s commitment to fight chronic hunger and to help those suffering from disasters, additional commodities from the BEHT are necessary,” the Senators concluded.  “We appreciate your attention to this urgent matter.”  
 