 
		    
            Tuesday, June 6, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) today introduced the Independent Health Record Bank Act, which would improve medical care and reduce costs by establishing a nationwide health information network for doctors and patients.  Representative Paul Ryan (R-WI) plans to introduce a companion bill in the House later this week.     
"If doctors have better information they can do a better job of treating patients," said Brownback.  "Equipped with ready access to a patient's medical history, doctors will not have to make as many guesses about what procedures or treatments might be appropriate.  Studies have shown that the adoption of electronic medical records could save billions of dollars because fewer unnecessary procedures will be performed, and medical errors will be reduced."     
"Accessing your health records should be as simple as checking your bank records using your ATM card," Ryan said.  "There is no reason that medical information can't be managed in a similar way, with proper safeguards to protect patient confidentiality.  The current cumbersome, largely paper-based system adds to the high cost of health care and sometimes can lead to errors that cost lives.  We can lower costs and improve the quality of care for patients by making the transition to a nationwide system of secure electronic health records."     
Currently the U.S. has no unified, electronic system for storing health records.  The Health Record Bank Act provides legal and regulatory guidelines for the establishment of independent health record banks that would store a patient's electronic health records, in effect creating a nationwide health information network.     
Brownback continued, "This consumer-driven approach will offer Americans portable and electronic health records over their lifetime at little to no cost.  As co-chair of the Senate Cancer Coalition, I saw the devastation Hurricane Katrina caused for cancer patients whose paper records were destroyed.  The Katrina victims lost their test results, treatment histories, and other vital health information."     
The approach outlined in the bill is based on the successful market-driven model used in the financial services industry.  Health records will be owned by patients, and the health record banks will be operated by nonprofit cooperative institutions, much like member-owned credit unions.     
Patients would have the voluntary option to sell their health record data on a blinded basis for research and other authorized purposes.  Revenue from health information sales would be tax-free and split between the patient and health record bank charged with managing the patient's account.     
Brownback and Ryan sponsored the House and Senate bills as part of National Health IT Week.  More information is available at www.healthITweek.org.  
 