 
		    
            Friday, October 6, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today sent a letter to the Chinese Ambassador to the United States commending China for its strong statements in response to North Korea's recent announcement that it would plan a nuclear weapons test.     
"A nuclear weapons test by North Korea must be the bright red line that cannot be crossed," said Brownback.  "I commend the Chinese government for its strong statements in response to North Korea's announcement of future nuclear weapons tests, and I call on the Chinese Ambassador to urge his country to keep the security and human rights situation in North Korea from deteriorating further."     
Following is the text of the letter Brownback sent to Chinese Ambassador Zhou Wenzhong:     
"I wish to express my support for the strong statement your government issued in response to North Korea's announcement of a planned nuclear test.  Even in the absence of an actual test, such an announcement bodes ill for the security and prosperity of Northeast Asia.  I encourage China to use all influence to ensure that the security and human rights situation in North Korea does not further deteriorate due to heightened tensions.  I am hopeful that a unified international condemnation will result in appropriate acts of restraint by North Korea, and I urge the Chinese Government to work with the international community to hold a firm, unified line against North Korea's aggressive actions.     
"As China evaluates its interactions with North Korea, I ask that your government take into consideration the urgent humanitarian crisis of North Korean refugees living in China.  It is wholly within China's rights to protect people inside its own country.  If China were to stop deportations to North Korea and begin to provide appropriate care for the North Korean refugees who are currently living in very dire circumstances in China, this would send a strong signal to North Korea.     
"Doing so will also demonstrate China's willingness to abide by international agreements and norms.  Moreover, it is the right thing to do.  Caring for North Korean refugees also sends a positive signal to the international community, and particularly to the United States, that China is willing to work with others to solve a difficult issue.     
"The current situation with North Korea is neither desirable nor sustainable.  Let us be peacemakers and work together to demonstrate that there is indeed a better future for North Korea than the one they seem bent on pursuing, to the detriment of their own people and to security in the region."     
Senator Brownback chairs the Helsinki Commission and is a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations.  
 