 
		    
            Thursday, April 7, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback announced passage yesterday by the Senate Committee on Appropriations of H.R. 1268, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, 2005, as amended.  The Supplemental Appropriations bill includes $74 billion for continued US military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, $675 million for homeland security upgrades, and $907 million for Indian Ocean tsunami relief.     
“The troops who put their lives on the line every day for our freedom and security must have the resources they need to continue the fight against terror and tyranny,” Brownback said.  “I am pleased the Senate Committee on Appropriations has stepped forward to show our support and gratitude for those brave individuals who put themselves in harm’s way to protect our values and way of life.     
“I am also pleased that we have included a generous amount of funding for relief and reconstruction efforts in areas affected by the December 26, 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami.  The world has seen our power, and now they are getting the opportunity to see our generosity.  Combined with the efforts of individual American donors, this funding will help bring a sense of economic normalcy to a region of the world that has seen so much pain.”     
Also included in the bill is $47 million in Military Construction funds for Ft. Riley.  This funding will be allocated toward general site preparation and utility work and the construction of new barracks.     
Brownback was instrumental in the adoption of six amendments by the Committee:     
$55 million for the processing of refugee admissions and assistance for refugees in Africa.  This funding will allow for the Department of State to process 55,000 persons for immigration to the United States.  The remaining funding will provide material support for refugees in Africa.  Brownback was pleased to work with Senator Leahy on this amendment.  $50 million for checkpoint enhancements along the Israel-Palestinian Territories security fence.  In addition, this amendment emphasizes the importance of the Palestinian Authority closing weapons smuggling routes between Gaza and Egypt and requires the Department of State to provide Congress with a report verifying compliance.  Brownback was pleased to work with Sens. McConnell and Mikulski.  $5 million for assistance for internally displaced persons in Afghanistan.  Brownback was pleased to work with Senator Leahy on this amendment.  $1.5 million for the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at the Department of State for investigating reports of trafficking in tsunami-affected areas and creating trafficking prevention programs in the region.  Report language on the importance of American aid being distributed equally and fairly to all elements of affected societies on the basis of their situation and not their social status, specifically mentioning Tamils, Dalits, and undocumented Burmese refugees.  Report language encouraging the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to invest in a larger mission in Kyrgystan to help aid in the further development of democratic institutions and the protection of civil liberties following the vast political changes that have recently taken place there.  Brownback is the chairman of the Helsinki Commission, the American sister organization of the OSCE.    
Brownback continued, “These amendments provide necessary aid to many people who are in distress and are in keeping with the President’s goal of spreading freedom and democracy around the world.  It is our responsibility as Americans to protect the weak and help the needy.  This bill will hopefully be a small step toward that goal.”    
The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill will now be considered by the full Senate with the timing to be determined by Senate leadership.  Brownback is a member of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, and chairman of the District of Columbia subcommittee. 
 
Brownback continued, “These amendments provide necessary aid to many people who are in distress and are in keeping with the President’s goal of spreading freedom and democracy around the world.  It is our responsibility as Americans to protect the weak and help the needy.  This bill will hopefully be a small step toward that goal.”     
The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill will now be considered by the full Senate with the timing to be determined by Senate leadership.  Brownback is a member of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, and chairman of the District of Columbia subcommittee.  
 