 
		    
            Friday, January 7, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Sam Brownback of Kansas and Jon Corzine of New Jersey will travel to India, Sri Lanka and other areas of Southern Asia this week to assess the damage caused by the recent earthquake and tsunami.       
“This is a horrific tragedy, and our hearts go out to the families and friends of the hundreds of thousands who perished,” Brownback stated, “I am pleased the U.S. has increased our contribution to assist the countries hit by this disaster but we must do more.”       
Corzine added, “The suffering and displacement from this calamity is nearly beyond comprehension.  The Tsunami tragedy has brought out the best in all of us and has demonstrated that the United States is a generous and charitable nation.”     
Corzine left yesterday for Indonesia and will travel with Members of Congress to Thailand, Sri Lanka, and India.  Brownback will depart tonight and join the delegation.  Brownback joined Heart to Heart International to load a FedEx cargo plane full of 84,000 pounds of needed relief supplies this morning in New York and will travel Sri Lanka with World Vision and Heart to Heart relief organizations.  The Heart to Heart airlift included water purification systems, first aid supplies, medical supplies, food and other relief products.  Senator Corzine worked with several New Jersey companies to donate supplies for the effort.     
Corzine continued, “As world leaders, we have an obligation to respond to this humanitarian crisis and I commend Senator Brownback, a dear friend and a true leader on human rights issues, for leading this effort.  I also want to thank Heart-to-Heart International, Direct Relief International and all of the many corporations and their employees who have donated medical supplies and medicine to this just cause.  From Kansas to New Jersey, from Republican to Democrat, from rich to poor – the United States is responding with the generosity of deed and spirit which is consistent with our values as a nation.  It is with those values in mind that Senator Brownback and I will travel to the region to express the compassion of the United States to those who are suffering and to assess the ongoing relief and rebuilding efforts.  Upon our return we will recommend to Congress and the Administration what further steps the U.S. must take to respond to this tragedy.”     
Brownback added, “America offers our friends in Asia ready assistance to the governments of the affected countries.  The United States can, will and must do more to assist these nations in their recovery.  Senator Corzine and I, along with other Members of Congress will assess the damage and return to advocate for financial aid.  I want to thank my friend Jon Corzine, Heart to Heart International for sponsoring this aid delivery, and all the individuals, organizations and companies that are giving from their hearts to those most in need.  We will respond to the calls for help from our brothers and sisters in Southern Asia, and our prayers are with them.”     
Senator Corzine went on to thank the following New Jersey companies and their employees for participating in this air lift with generous contributions of cash, medical supplies and medicine to the relief efforts:  BD, Bristol Myers Squibb, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis, Schering-Plough, Tyco Health Care and Watson Pharmaceuticals.  Corzine also commended the host of other New Jersey companies, organizations and individuals who have already contributed directly to the disaster relief efforts.  
 