 
		    
            Friday, September 7, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - The Senate has passed an amendment offered by Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), Jon Kyl (R-AZ), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) to restore full funding to provide critical support for dissidents and democrats inside Iran.     
The amendment restores the Bush Administration's original request in the Fiscal Year 2008 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Act for $75 million, which had been cut by two-thirds to $25 million by the Senate Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs earlier this year.      
"The radical and brutal Iranian regime has made a choice to target brave Iranians who fight for democracy and freedom.  We must now stand with the people of Iran and fully fund this crucial program," said Senator Brownback.      
"At a time when the Iranian regime is doing everything in its power to roll back dissidents and democrats, Congress has sent a powerful signal that we stand with the Iranian people in their struggle for freedom," said Senator Lieberman.       
"There is an inextricable link between the domestic repression of the Iranian regime and its aggression abroad," said Senator Lieberman. "Supporting Iranian dissidents is not only a moral imperative; it is a strategic necessity."     
"The dangerous conduct of Iran's own regime is the greatest threat the Iranian people face," said Senator Kyl. "America has and will continue to support their right to live in a free and democratic society.  Restoring funding for this important program is a vital part of promoting a secure, peaceful future for Iran."     
"This is money well spent and is the right strategy regarding our national security and future stability of the Middle East," said Senator Graham. "The Iranian regime is a threat to all countries that pursue freedom and democracy."      
"This funding will support the courageous democratization efforts of dissidents throughout Iran," Senator Collins said.  "Such efforts cannot be ignored from within and should be encouraged from without."     
-30-  
 