 
		    
            Thursday, December 8, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today sent letters to several major retailers urging them to display signage explaining the video game ratings system.  According to the findings of the video game report card recently released by the National Institute on Media and the Family, it appears parents may not be getting the information they need to make informed decisions about what games are appropriate for their children.   
In the letter, Senator Brownback said:   
“In order to provide parents with necessary information, I respectfully urge you to do two things.  First, install or improve signage highlighting the importance of considering video game ratings.  Parents must be made aware of the ratings system, and encouraged to choose games appropriate for their child’s age.  With greater education, parents who currently avoid buying games for their children may begin to see that many games are safe and even educational.   
“The second thing I ask is that you please make parents aware of alternative independent ratings services.  Groups such as Commonsense Media (www.commonsensemedia.org), Family Media Guide (www.familymediaguide.com), and others who are part of the Coalition for Independent Ratings Services (www.independentratings.org), provide detailed, objective information about the content of games currently on the market.  I urge you to provide the small amount of space necessary for their brochures, which will further educate parents.   
“I would like to applaud two retailers whose efforts to protect children and educate parents are worthy of recognition.  Wal-Mart has done an excellent job of installing signs in their video game cases, highlighting the ESRB ratings system, and keeping M-rated games out of children’s hands.  Additionally, Best Buy, Inc. had a one hundred percent success rate in a recent secret shopper investigation conducted to determine whether stores were verifying the ages of minors seeking to buy M-rated games.   
“As a parent, I am concerned about all forms of media to which children are exposed.  Video games hold a particular level of concern, however, because of the interactive nature of the games.  I believe that playing a game where killing is rewarded and violence earns points conditions our children to accept, and perhaps engage in, these activities.  It is imperative that parents know the content of games they purchase.  I hope that you will join me in protecting children and educating parents during this holiday shopping season.”   
Senator Brownback sent the letter to Best Buy, Blockbuster, Borders, Circuit City, Electronics Boutique/GameStop, Kmart, Sears, Target, Toys R Us, and Wal-Mart.   
-30-  
 