 
		    
            Thursday, February 8, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today questioned Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters on why the President's Budget shifts the tax burden to pay for updates to our nation's air traffic control system from large airlines to independent general aviation operators.  His dialogue with Secretary Peters took place during a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing this morning.     
"If changing the financing structure of the trust would result in fewer receipts in the future, and the current structure has produced a stable funding mechanism in the past, why change it?" Brownback asked.  "I simply don't understand how the administration intends to modernize our air traffic control system by instituting a financing mechanism that shifts a greater financial burden to a marginal user of the system--general aviation--and results in fewer receipts into the trust fund."     
Estimates from the President's FY2008 Budget Request indicate that over the next five years, the current financing structure for the aviation trust fund would result in more receipts than would a user-fee alternative.  Under the current financing structure, receipts into the trust fund would increase at either 5% or 6% per year until 2012, resulting in net receipts for those five years of $68 billion.  These estimates further note that under a user-fee structure, receipts into the trust fund would increase anywhere from 2% to 8% per year with net receipts coming in at $67.1 billion.  Additionally, the FAA's budget levels have increased at a steady rate for the past 12 years.  These numbers indicate that the FAA has been working with a stable increase in receipts from year to year for at least a dozen years.     
Brownback continued, "Kansans are proud of their legacy as the designers and producers of the world's finest aircraft, and the Air Capital of the World is home to five major aircraft manufacturers: Cessna, Spirit Aerosystems, Hawker Beechcraft, Boeing, and Bombardier Learjet.  Last year, these companies employed over 31,000 people with a combined payroll of $1.65 billion.  Additionally, they are the driving force of south-central Kansas' economy: they purchased over $1.9 billion in supplies from other Kansas-based companies.  It is estimated that over 20,000 people are employed by subcontractors that provide services to the big five.  Because of this, any indication of wholesale changes in the way the FAA does business sends shivers down the spines of thousands of my constituents.     
"As to the budget's insinuation that the FAA will raise fuel taxes for general aviation, I want to remind the administration of a fundamental principle of economics: if you tax it, you get less of it.  If you raise taxes on general aviation, you'll have fewer people flying small aircraft.  Typically in one year, approximately 80% of general aviation flight hours are consumed by people who are using single piston aircraft.  In other words, these are small business owners and independent pilots who use only the smallest of small aircraft.  These are the people who would be harmed the most by a tax increase on fuel.  If a sharp tax increase becomes a reality, I'm sure many of them would find it uneconomical to fly."     
Senator Brownback is a member of the Senate appropriations subcommittee that is tasked with funding the operations of the Federal Aviation Administration.  
 