 
		    
            Monday, January 8, 2007 
           

  ISLAMABAD, Pakistan - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today visited the capital of Pakistan to meet with U.S. Ambassador Ryan Crocker and other officials to discuss U.S. policy toward Pakistan and other regional issues.     
"Pakistan is a crucial partner, both because of its proximity to Afghanistan and its role in fighting extremism," Brownback said.  "It is vital that the United States and Pakistan work together in the global war on terrorism."     
Ambassador Crocker is likely to succeed Zalmay Khalilzad as ambassador to Iraq in the near future after Khalilzad becomes Ambassador to the U.N.  "Ambassador Crocker's resume reveals extensive experience with the Arab world.  He will have no time to rest as he moves from one vital assignment to another.  Ambassador Crocker will go to Iraq at a critical time for U.S. policy, and I look forward to his leadership."     
Yesterday Brownback traveled to Kuwait, meeting with U.S. military leaders and soldiers supporting Operation Iraqi Freedom.  He also met with soldiers from Kansas at Camp Arifjan near Kuwait City.  Brownback had dinner with Kansas soldiers, including members of the 635th National Guard Regional Support Group out of Hutchinson, Kansas.       
Addressing the soldiers after dinner Brownback said, "Your cause is critical and I deeply appreciate your service.  You're doing great work in a tough time."     
Brownback was greeted by Camp Arifjan deputy commander Major General Hardy, who previously served as the commanding general at Fort Riley, Kansas.  Brownback passed out phone cards to the soldiers for a free call to the United States and took questions from the troops about U.S. deployments to Iraq.     
Brownback continued, "We need the Iraqis to step up and help us bring stability to their country.  We cannot withdraw precipitously, but we cannot wait indefinitely for the Iraqi government to bring the sectarian violence under control.  We also need to do a better job of taking care of our soldiers when they come home."     
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback is traveling over the next couple of weeks to the Middle East, Africa, and Central Asia to ascertain firsthand U.S. efforts in the War on Terror.  Brownback will visit American troops and meet with high-level leaders and American representatives in Ethiopia, Kuwait, Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan.  Senator Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee.  
 