 
		    
            Tuesday, March 8, 2005 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today commended the United Nations’ General Assembly for passing an agreement urging governments to adopt laws banning all forms of human cloning, including the cloning of human embryos for stem cells.  The assembly of 191 countries voted 84 to 34 to approve, with 37 abstaining, the Declaration previously endorsed by the UN’s legal committee on February 18, 2005.    
 
“The UN general assembly has made a strong statement in support of protecting innocent human life and human dignity,” Brownback said.  “I commend them for this action.  The UN has rightly taken a stand against human cloning.  Human cloning is the creation of human life for a utilitarian purpose; it makes human life a means rather than an end.  Human cloning leads to the creation of a new class of human beings subject to the whims of another class of people.  Any time in history when we have subjected one class of human beings to enslavement by another class has been wrong.  This time is no different.”   
 
The adopted measure states: “Member States are called upon to prohibit all forms of human cloning inasmuch as they are incompatible with human dignity and the protection of human life.”    
 
Brownback continued, “The United States must catch up with the world to enact a comprehensive ban on all human cloning.  The vote by the UN today shows that the world is moving to stem the tide of this destructive technology; America should not fall behind.  The House of Representatives has twice passed legislation to ban human cloning, and the president supports such a ban.  I will soon be reintroducing my bipartisan legislation along with Sen. Landrieu to ban human cloning and I call on the Senate to pass this ban this year.”   
 
Brownback was first elected to the Senate to fill the unexpired term of Bob Dole in 1996.  He was returned by the voters of Kansas for a full term in 1998, and reelected this past November.  He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1994-1996.  Brownback serves on the Appropriations, Judiciary, and Joint Economic Committees.  He also is chairman of the Helsinki Commission.  
 