 
		    
            Monday, May 8, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today described his outlook on the future of Asian and American foreign policy in a speech at the Asia Society in New York City.     
"If we focus on the fundamentals of democracy, the rule of law, and human rights, our foreign policy toward Asia will be headed in the right direction," said Brownback.  "If you contrast the shifts we've seen in Vietnam with the utter lack of progress in Burma, it's clear that we must continue to balance the forces of trade and economic liberalization with a high standard for the promotion of human rights.  Without a continued policy that prioritizes human rights, we will see little progress in transforming the region for the better."     
Brownback discussed the recent admission into the U.S. of six North Korean refugees.     
"This weekend six North Koreans were admitted into the U.S. as refugees under the provisions of the North Korean Human Rights Act," continued Brownback.  "America has not accepted North Koreans as refugees since the Korean War half a century ago, and this is a great act of compassion by the United States and the other countries who helped these refugees reach our shores.  We must open our arms to as many North Korean refugees as we can while also working to change the conditions in their troubled country."     
Brownback described the challenges of dealing with China's growth and expanding appetite for international influence.     
"American economic engagement has helped lift millions in China out of poverty as their economy grows, but politically the nation's intentions are often unclear," stated Brownback.  "China continues to build its military and assert itself in Asia, Africa, and Latin America while excluding the U.S. whenever possible.  Under the pretense of maintaining stability, the Chinese government continues social and political oppression.  But last year there were over 87,000 major protests in China, and endemic corruption threatens to hollow out China's government from within."     
Brownback cited the Global Network for Avian Influenza Surveillance Act, which he introduced in the Senate along with Joe Lieberman (D-CT), as a starting point in the fight against Avian Flu.     
"We should build a global tracking system that would provide real-time information about Avian Flu to governments and NGOs across the globe," said Brownback.  "Such a monitoring system would be a smart investment in the fight against Avian Flu because wild birds who can travel great distances are able to spread the deadly disease.  I hope we can get this tracking system up and running so that we can provide real-time data to the scientists and health workers who need it."     
Senator Brownback sits on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations.  
 