 
		    
            Friday, February 9, 2007 
           

  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback made the following statement on Iraq from the floor of the Senate on Wednesday, February 7, 2007:       
Mr. President, Iraq is one of the most important and complex subjects we will ever debate on this floor.     
For example, there are some members of this body who want to reduce this to an either-or decision: surge into Iraq, or withdraw from it.  But the issue cannot be discussed in such over-simplified terms.  Our decisions, whatever they end up being, carry consequences far beyond the number of troops we have deployed within Iraq's borders.     
Those who favor a withdrawal or a phased withdrawal from Iraq must fully appreciate those consequences.  We have heard that withdrawal from Iraq would leave a safe haven for terrorists.  That is almost certainly true.  We have heard that withdrawal would destabilize the region.  That is also true.       
But a withdrawal is even worse than that.  A cut and run strategy would set the stage for a region wide conflict between Arabs and Persians - not just a regional war, but a bigger one.  And such a war would have enormous implications for the war on terrorism.  We cannot withdraw from the Middle East and leave behind the kind of chaos in which al Qaeda thrives.       
If Arabs feel compelled to counter a Persian threat, their governments are likely to become more radical, not more moderate.  We recognized in the aftermath of September 11 that winning the war on terror requires the emergence of moderate governments across the Middle East.  Withdrawing from Iraq would amount to pushing the governments of the region toward the arms of the Islamist radicals and undermine the core of our counter-terrorism strategy since 9/11.       
We must acknowledge that we cannot afford to lose in Iraq because such a loss would reverse the gains that we have made in the war on terror and extend the war on terror for years to come.     
On the other hand, I am not convinced that a surge into Iraq will usher in the sort of peace we need to take the place of the consequences I have just discussed.       
I have no doubt that our forces are capable of winning any and every individual battle in which they engage.  I believe strongly that they are capable of defeating the al-Qaeda insurgency in Iraq.  And, as they have demonstrated recently, they are quite capable of defeating Iranian agents seeking to foment violence and instability inside Iraq.     
  What they cannot do is achieve a political solution between Iraq's sectarian groups.   As I found out during my recent travel to Iraq, this sectarian violence is the overwhelming cause of Iraq's difficulties.  Additional troops on the streets simply will not make Sunni and Shi'a trust each other.       
I say this with great respect for General Petraeus, who we have confirmed to be the commander of Multinational Forces-Iraq.  I met with General Petraeus several times during his assignment at Fort Leavenworth in my home state of Kansas.  He is a bright, articulate, and outstanding officer.  I believe he is well-qualified to take on this very difficult assignment and I voted to confirm him because he is the right man for such a difficult position.     
I understand that there are different constitutional roles that must be played in the debate over our strategy in Iraq.  The president has the responsibility as commander in chief to direct the Armed Forces.  As part of that responsibility, he sent us a commander that he believes will serve well under his overall direction and I could not agree more.       
The U.S. Senate has the right, if it chooses, to express its opinion of the president's actions, and we will do so.  It is entirely possible for the Senate to express its disapproval of the president's strategy without taking steps to undermine the commanders or the troops.  I have indicated that I do not support the president's surge plan, but I did not attempt to undermine the commander in chief or our soldiers in the field by voting against General Petraeus, who is very well qualified for command.  Nor will I attempt to undermine our troops by withdrawing their funding.  This is the essence of disagreeing at home, while being united overseas.       
A Senate debate over strategy is consistent with our constitutional role to oversee the executive branch.  Denying promotions of qualified leaders or cutting funding to the troops in the field would not only be inappropriate but irresponsible.     
Let me now turn to those things which I endorse whole-heartedly.     
First, I support our troops.  They are brave, dedicated and talented.  They deserve not only our admiration and gratitude but our very best efforts to help them achieve their mission.       
And I support that mission.  Our troops are vital to preventing the kind of regional stability that I spoke of earlier.  They are crucial to denying radical Islamic extremists a safe haven from which they can launch further attacks.  They are essential to providing the training necessary for the Iraqi Security Forces to take charge of their country's security.       
As I have said, we cannot afford to lose this fight.  Iraq is the key front in the war on terrorism.  We must remain in Iraq as long as it takes to ensure that Iraq can fend off external threats in a tough neighborhood as well as take full responsibility for its own internal security and prevent the establishment of terrorist safe havens in its territory.     
But I fully understand that we cannot sustain the kind of long-term commitment in Iraq that will likely be necessary unless we have bipartisan support here at home.  We must be united here if we are to achieve victory over there.     This principle was at the foundation of the efforts of the Baker-Hamilton commission, which sought to bring people together on a way forward that could have broad support.  I supported the commission's report as something we could rally around.  I did not agree with every part of that report.  Some recommendations, like those linking the Arab-Israeli conflict with the problems in Iraq did not make sense.  Neither a peace accord between Israel and the Palestinians nor new arrangements in the Golan Heights will convince Iran or al-Qaeda to get out of Iraq or end the sectarian violence.  But I supported the overall report because it could have been something we could use to build bipartisan report for a new strategy in Iraq.     If we cannot rally around that report, perhaps we can rally around a Senate resolution that can gain strong bipartisan support, uniting us here to win over there.       
Many of us have begun working toward this goal.  Many of us support resolutions that provide responsible opposition to the surge.  We do not want to see funds withdrawn from our troops, nor do we believe in withdrawing from Iraq.  I hope that the party now in the majority in this chamber will articulate exactly what it can support.       
There has been a lot of discussion in the last several days about funding for our troops.  I am concerned that already there are plans to use the supplemental and the regular appropriations process to restrict funding for operations in Iraq.  Our troops face the threat of real casualties daily.  They ought not be casualties of our debates on Iraq.  I have indicated my support for the Warner resolution because it responsibly articulates an opposition to the surge while guaranteeing our troops in the field have the support they deserve from this body and from the American people.  This is a responsible approach.  I hope that whatever resolution reaches the floor includes a promise of support for our troops.  I will not support proposals that do not include such provisions.     
I believe there is a way that we can come together across the aisle.  I think we can  be clear about our priorities.  The first priority I think we can agree on is getting the Iraqis to reach a political solution to the sectarian violence occurring between Sunnis and Shi'a.  We must encourage the Iraqis to reach a political equilibrium eliminating the motivation for sectarian strife.     
We should make sure Iraq's borders are secure.  We should chase the foreign fighters out of Iraq and deny the terrorists safe haven.  And we should limit the influence of Iran.  I believe that we can sustain this kind of military strategy for a necessary time to come, preserving our interests while we put pressure on Iraq's various groups to reach a political settlement.     
For this reason, I have indicated support for the resolution put forward by Senator Warner.  I believe that it is the most constructive resolution we will consider.  It outlines the importance of winning in Iraq, opposes the surge, offers reasonable political and military goals, and praises the efforts of our men and women in uniform.  This resolution moves us toward the kind of consensus needed for success.     
Other proposals that fail to recognize the consequences of failure, that advocate a precipitous withdrawal or that provide less than full support for our men and women in uniform polarize us, move us away from consensus and further from victory.     
Mr. President the Senate needs to express itself on the subject of Iraq.  I hope that we can get to a vote on a resolution that will have strong bipartisan support, that achieves the goals I have outlined and sustains our commitment for as long as it takes to win in Iraq.  We dare not commit ourselves to anything less.  
 