 
		    
            Tuesday, January 9, 2007 
           

  KABUL, AFGHANISTAN - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback yesterday met with Afghan President Hamid Karzai as part of a visit to Afghanistan to review the political and military situation in that country.     
"I congratulate President Karzai for the progress his country has made since the fall of the Taliban," Brownback said.  "I also applaud President Karzai's leadership in making Afghanistan a freer nation, which is now more secure and an important ally in the War on Terror."     
Brownback and President Karzai discussed a variety of regional security issues as well as the broader global war on terrorism.  In addition to meeting with President Karzai, Brownback also met General Wardak, the Afghan Minister of Defense, and key U.S. military commanders.     
Brownback also visited the Provincial Reconstruction Team in Sharana, Afghanistan.  PRTs consist of American and Afghan government representatives and military personnel who work with the local population to improve security, the rule of law and the local economic situation. While touring the PRT, Brownback ate lunch with soldiers in Sharana.     
Brownback continued, "While the Taliban are no longer in power, terrorism is still a serious threat in this region.  The allied forces have accomplished a lot in Afghanistan, but we must remain committed to Afghanistan's development if we are to achieve long-term success."     
U.S. Senator Sam Brownback is traveling over the next couple of weeks to the Middle East, Africa, and Central Asia to ascertain firsthand U.S. efforts in the War on Terror.  Brownback will visit American troops and meet with high-level leaders and American representatives in Ethiopia, Kuwait, Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan.  Senator Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee.     
Sen. Brownback has written short observations about his trip, which can be viewed at http://brownback.senate.gov/english/samtravelsto-middleeast-africa-asia.htm.  
 