 
		    
            Thursday, March 9, 2006 
           

  WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Sam Brownback today proposed a health care reform plan that would improve America’s overall health care system by giving choice, competition, and consumer values a greater role in health insurance plans.   
“We can take three steps to greatly improve the complex and expensive health care system that encourages rising prices and confuses Americans trying to make decisions about their health care options,” said Senator Brownback in remarks at the Heritage Foundation.  “By expanding the role of consumer values and choice, increasing competition, and making the tax code less slanted against people who buy their own health insurance, we can get costs under control and help people make health care choices that better reflect their own needs and values.”   
The plan would increase choice and emphasize consumer values by allowing consumers to buy health insurance across state lines, which would let them avoid supporting procedures that conflict with their moral views.   
Brownback continued, “Our health care system should help Americans identify health care providers whose treatment decisions reflect their family’s values. We need to create a national market for health insurance because our current system forces consumers to pay for controversial services mandated by state regulations.  For example, someone paying health insurance premiums in Massachusetts may not want to support in vitro fertilization, but today they have no choice because the Massachusetts state government mandates that all insurance programs cover the controversial procedure.”   
The plan would increase competition by improving the quality and availability of price information to consumers, and also make changes to the tax code that could reduce the number of uninsured Americans.   
“We can increase competition by making it easier for individuals to shop and compare prices and treatments,” said Brownback.  “By providing better price information to consumers, they will be able to make informed decisions when facing competing health care options.  Creating competition in our health care system is the best way to combat spiraling costs.   
“One reason why so many people do not have health insurance is that our tax code is biased toward employer purchases of health care.  Employers receive significant tax breaks when buying health coverage, but individuals who purchase health insurance must use after-tax dollars.  We should offer tax breaks to individuals similar to those already offered to employers so that we can help make health care more affordable for low-income and uninsured Americans.”   
Senator Brownback is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Judiciary Committee.   
-30-  
 