SEN. CHAMBLISS SUPPORTS SEN. ISAKSON STEM CELL LEGISLATION
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today took to the Senate floor to show his strong support of a measure sponsored by Sens. Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and Norm Coleman, R-Minn., regarding federal funding for embryonic stem cell research.
   "The Hope Offered through Principled and Ethical Stem Cell Research (HOPE) Act," or S. 30, would permit federal funding of scientific research that does not harm viable embryos, but allows research from embryos that have died naturally. 
   Chambliss' remarks are included below and can be found on the website this afternoon at www.chambliss.senate.gov.
   Mr. President, I rise today in support of the Isakson/Coleman stem cell research bill.
   For me, this issue is personal on many levels and it weighs heavily on my heart, my mind, and my conscience. I have taken great care in coming to my decision to be a cosponsor of this bill, and have spent time reflecting, thinking, and praying about making the right decision on the issue of stem cell research. Today we are debating the various types of research and what many view as the potential to cure diseases. I think everyone here is supportive of medical research. However, there is still so much to be learned from science, so many discoveries yet to be made, and so much that we still do not know.
   I am aware that there are very promising alternatives to embryonic stem cell research, such as deriving stem cells from umbilical cord blood and bone marrow. Those cells have demonstrated the capability of turning into most tissue types, thus helping provide the basis for advanced research to find cures to diseases like juvenile diabetes, Parkinson's disease, sickle cell anemia and heart disease. Research from adult stem cells has saved thousands of lives and funding for this research should certainly continue.
   While I am familiar with the advancements made with adult stem cell research, there is still a lack of scientific evidence to show that embryonic stem cell research yields strong results. There is also the issue of whether or not taxpayer dollars should be used for research that many believe is morally wrong.
   While the morality of embryonic stem cell research is an issue for many Americans, including myself, I also feel that there is a constant need to continue working to advance science and research. As a country, it is important that we stay on the cutting edge of medical research and remain globally competitive, because the US offers the best healthcare in the world.
   The legislation introduced by Senators Coleman and Isakson will not only advance science, it will allow for embryonic research to take place using non-viable embryos. The cells in those embryos have naturally quit dividing, and therefore would never be used for fertilization. Even if these embryos were frozen or saved, no practicing physician would ever attempt to implant them, because the developmental stages have naturally stopped.
   This legislation will allow the Department of Health and Human Services to extend federal funding for research on embryonic stem cell lines only if the lines were derived without harming a viable embryo. I believe this approach is an effective way to provide for advancements in science and give hope to those who are waiting for cures without compromising the value of life.
   Many of us have personally benefited or have family members who have benefited from the advancements made in modern medicine over the past five, ten, or twenty years. Mr. President, I think we are all grateful for the progress that has been made. It is my most sincere hope that we continue to see monumental steps made in medical research, stem cell and otherwise, and that we find cures for those suffering from diseases such as Alzheimers, cancer, multiple sclerosis, and spinal cord injuries.
   Mr. President, make no mistake about it, if you, sincerely, as a member of this body, want to see an advancement in the area of medical stem cell research, then this is the alternative that you must vote for. This is a bill that the President will sign and we can move forward on the issue of embryonic stem cell research.
   I am proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation and urge my colleagues to do the same.
 
 