WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Dear Friends: 
  The Senate is currently in recess until Tuesday, September 4, 2007. Please take a moment to review my notes from the road this past week in Georgia, as well as legislative action items from the week before adjournment. 
  On Tuesday, I met with farmers in Berrien County and spoke to the Nashville-Berrien Rotary Club. Additionally, I held a farm bill meeting at South Georgia College in Douglas. In my capacity as Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, I appreciate the continued input from our agricultural community. One out of every six jobs in Georgia is directly related to agriculture, so it is important as we move forward in crafting a farm bill that we know what has worked in the past and what can be improved with regard to farm policy.
  You can watch a report about the Nashville farm meeting by visiting: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999938061.30301.263&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2512. 
   On Wednesday, I was honored and privileged to present ten military medals to the family of Captain Norman Brantley, a Vietnam veteran, during a ceremony at the Irwin County All Wars Veterans Memorial in Ocilla. Norman was Commander of American Legion Post 100 and was instrumental in getting the memorial built. He passed away last year and I am humbled to have been asked to play a part in paying tribute to his service.
  While in the area I also visited Irwin County High School, where I spoke to students and got a first-hand look at their C.A.S.E. farm project.
  I also traveled to Tifton, where I met with members of the Georgia Peanut Commission and also spoke to the Tifton Rotary Club, and on Thursday I addressed a joint meeting of the Valdosta Rotary Clubs.
   BORDER SECURITY
   On Friday, the Bush Administration announced it will implement a series of border security measures. The announcement by Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez includes 25 steps to toughen security at America's borders, strengthen interior and worksite enforcement, streamline existing temporary worker programs, crack down on employers who knowingly hire illegally workers and enhance worker verification mechanisms. 
   This news is certainly encouraging, but Senator Isakson and I still believe the President should send and emergency supplemental spending bill to Congress to immediately fund border security. I am pleased the many, many months of dialogue and concerns expressed by countless Georgians are resonating with the administration. The Southern border of this country has been an open sieve for far too long and while today's announcement is a good step, we believe an emergency supplemental spending bill is the best solution to ensuring border security. Only when the border is secure will credibility be restored with the American people, and we're going to continue to press this issue. 
   AIRPORT SECURITY
   Recently Senator Isakson and I sent a letter to the administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, urging the TSA to work with Atlanta airport officials to improve efficiency at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport security checkpoints. The personnel at Hartsfield-Jackson work tirelessly to ensure the security of travelers and it is critical that the TSA address the needs being expressed by officials at the airport. 
  Literally millions of people pass through Hartsfield-Jackson each year, and it is one of the busiest airports in the world, so every effort must be made to ensure that efficiency and safety is given top priority. Wait times for security lines have increased as airports have witnessed record travel numbers this summer. Hartsfield-Jackson expects about 30 million fliers to pass through the airport between May and the end of August.
  CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE INSURANCE
  Prior to adjournment, the Senate approved a massive $35 billion expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). I voted against this bill because it allows states to cover adults, and that is not the original intent of the program. The bill also raises the federal tobacco tax by 61 cents per pack of cigarettes to pay for the increase. 
  SCHIP was created to provide health insurance for children of families who earn too much to be eligible for Medicaid but not enough to purchase private health insurance. In Georgia, our program is called PeachCare, and it is a great program.
  Unfortunately, some states, like New Jersey for example, have more adults than they do children on the program, and that's not what Georgia taxpayers expected they would be paying for. We need to ensure that the focus stays where it should be - on our children.
  I supported an alternative proposal that would have expanded SCHIP by $9.5 billion over the next five years, phase out non-pregnant adults from the program, prevent the addition of any new non-pregnant adults to the program, provide additional funds to target low-income children and encourage the use of premium assistance.
 
 