WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Dear Friends: 
  Last week, the U.S. Senate approved the Peru Free Trade Agreement (HR 3688), and the Alternative Minimum Tax Bill (HR 3996), both of which are important to our economy.
  The Peru Free Trade Agreement continues our strong trade relationship with the South American country of Peru and will help to create more jobs as well as contribute to our economy. The Alternative Minimum Tax Bill amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend certain expiring provisions. By extending these tax relief provisions, we are saving taxpayers an average of $2,000 year.
  2007 Farm Bill  
  Last Friday, the Senate resumed consideration of the Food and Energy Security Act of 2007, which is also known as the farm bill. I worked with members of the Senate Agriculture Committee and others during the Thanksgiving recess to make considerable progress moving the farm bill forward. The Senate Majority and Minority leaders reached an agreement last week to afford both sides 20 amendments each. We anticipate that we will start voting on the farm bill amendments as soon as Tuesday. Our farmers and ranchers deserve a good farm bill, and as Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, I will work to produce the best possible framework that strengthens the food and energy security of the United States. 
  Water Update
  The ongoing drought in Georgia continues to threaten our state's drinking water supply and has had a negative effect on many of our businesses. It is crucial that we find the best and most responsible way to ensure that Georgia retains an adequate water supply in the future, and that can be achieved by the Army Corps of Engineers updating the outdated water control plans for the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) and the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa (ACT) river basins. However, due to the unprecedented drought, we need an immediate solution to address our water situation until a new water control manual is updated by the Corps. 
  As a result of having an outdated water control plan, and because the governors of Georgia, Florida and Alabama have not yet come to an agreement on water allocation, the Corps is currently operating the water basins under an Interim Operating Plan. This Interim Operating Plan requires that certain amounts of water be sent downstream to protect endangered species in Florida. Due to the ongoing drought and the negative consequences it is having on Georgians, my most immediate concern has been to modify this plan to stop draining Georgia's lakes. 
  In early November, the Corps of Engineers consulted with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and began implementing Exceptional Drought Operations for the ACF river basin. This plan will allow for more water to be retained in Lake Lanier, West Point Lake, and Lake Walter F. George. On November 30th, the Corps announced they will reduce flows from Lake Allatoona, which is a critical step to prevent the depletion of Lake Allatoona and provide more storage for the ACT river system. Increased storage is vital to the drinking water supply for many of Georgia's communities and to the economic viability of business surroundings these lakes.
  I believe we are making progress on the water issues Georgia still faces. I have met with the Secretary of the Army, Pete Geren, regarding the adverse impact the outdated manuals have had on the water supply in Georgia, and I will continue to do all I can to alleviate the current water shortages and to ensure Georgia has a safe and adequate source of water for years to come. 
  93rd Air Ground Operations Wing to be Activated at Moody Air Force Base
  Last Thursday, the U.S. Air Force announced the activation of the 93rd Air Ground Operations Wing at Moody Air Force Base, which will enhance our state's significant contributions to national security. The 93rd Air Ground Operations Wing is responsible for managing and providing combat-ready Tactical Air Control Party personnel, battlefield weather and force protection assets for joint forces commanders, and the establishment of the new wing will add more than 50 personnel to Moody. Two weeks ago I visited the folks at the base, and they are doing a great job of preparing our men and women for combat. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will continue to work on behalf of our military community to ensure they have the resources they deserve.
  Health Care Update
  Whenever I travel around Georgia, I hear directly from many people who are concerned about meeting their family or individual health care needs. Recently I had a heartfelt meeting with a mother whose child suffers from Spinal Muscular Atrophy, and I'm grateful she took the time to share their experience with this disease. Additionally, she highlighted the important work many nonprofits have done in working to find treatment for Spinal Muscular Atrophy. This week I signed on as a cosponsor of the Spinal Muscular Atrophy Treatment Acceleration Act of 2007, which would provide federal support to nonprofit organizations that are dedicated to discovering a treatment for Spinal Muscular Atrophy. Hopefully, with the help of this piece of legislation, we will begin identifying a cure for this disease. 
  Another health-related bill I recently cosponsored is the ALS Registry Act. This bill would develop a system to collect data on ALS, also referred to as "Lou Gehrig's Disease," and establish a national registry for the collection and storage of ALS data. This bill would also establish an advisory committee on the National ALS Registry which would help identify the prevalence of this disease in an effort to find treatments and a cure. 
  Reimbursement for Fire Fighting Costs of Wildfire in Ware County
  Last Tuesday, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced reimbursement assistance for costs associated with fighting one of the fires that took place earlier this year in Southeast Georgia near Waycross. Specifically, the Sweat Farm Road Fire affected approximately 104,152 acres of land and threatened many homes and businesses in the area. Our firefighters, forestry officials, and rangers did a tremendous job responding quickly to the fires that threatened this area of our state and notifying our citizens of this disaster. I know the people of Georgia appreciated our first responders' diligence and are appreciative of the assistance available through FEMA, which will be critical in helping folks recover from this wildfire. FEMA has authorized a 75 percent federal cost share to be applied to all fire management reimbursement grants. 
  Thomas Gilliland of Blairsville Nominated to Serve on the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority
  Last week, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee unanimously approved the nomination of Thomas Gilliland of Blairsville, Ga., to serve on the board of directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority. The TVA delivers power to approximately 123,000 households in northern Georgia, but no Georgian has ever been nominated to serve on the TVA board. I'm extremely pleased that the people of Georgia have an opportunity to have a voice on the TVA board, and I look forward to a swift confirmation by the full Senate. 
   Thank you for staying in touch with me on the issues concerning you and your family. Should you have a question or concern with a federal agency or any other matter, please do not hesitate to contact my office toll free at 1-800-234-4208. 
  Additionally, if you are planning a trip to Washington and would like a U.S. Capitol tour, or need information on the various tourist and historical attractions, please call my office or visit here for more information.
 
 