SEN. CHAMBLISS DISCUSSES RENEWABLE ENERGY DURING AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today, during the first Senate Agriculture Committee hearing of the 110th Congress, discussed how renewable fuels can help reduce America's dependence on foreign energy sources. At the hearing, Sen. Chambliss pointed out that agriculture and rural America are playing a key role in enhancing national energy security. Dr. Roger Webb, Director of the Strategic Energy Institute at the Georgia Institute of Technology was one of several witnesses testifying before the committee.  
  "Agriculture in the United States is undergoing one of the most profound changes we have ever seen," said Sen. Chambliss, Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "Previously held assumptions about the role of farmers and ranchers across our country are radically changing. Now, agriculture and farm policy is not only about food and fiber, but also fuel." 
  During his remarks, Sen. Chambliss noted that there has been a significant increase in the biofuels industry since the Renewable Fuel Standard went into effect on January 1, 2006. According to the Renewable Fuels Association, there are 110 ethanol plants operating in 19 states with 73 additional biorefineries and 8 expansion projects planned to go online in the next 18 months. Sen. Chambliss, who has been a strong supporter of renewable fuels, noted that corn prices have increased during the 2006 harvest season and exceeded $4 per bushel last week. 
  "The 87 percent increase in the price of corn in just the last two years is a welcome development to corn growers but is having an adverse impact on the livestock industry in my state and to cattle, dairy, hog and poultry producers across the country," said Sen. Chambliss. "Biofuel production is helping to spur a 'rural renaissance' as large amounts of capital are being spent to expand production. Other regions of the country can and need to share in this renaissance. Areas such as the Southeast are just beginning to share in this growth and have tremendous potential for growing energy-dedicated crops."
  Sen. Chambliss emphasized the need to support a strong biofuels sector and intends to work to expand the energy title in the 2007 Farm bill and accelerate research and development on cellulosic ethanol that can be produced in Georgia and throughout the Southeast.
 
 