SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $4 MILLION AWARDED FOR SAVANNAH, BRUNSWICK PORT SECURITY
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today announced funding for port security in the Savannah and Brunswick areas as part of the Fiscal Year 2007 Port Security Grant Program. Specifically, the Savannah area will receive $3,914,120, with $1,944,088 provided for the Georgia Ports Authority. The Brunswick area will receive $286,388, with $261,450 provided for the Georgia Ports Authority.  
   Last year, the senators asked Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to explain why Georgia had been excluded from the previous two port security funding rounds. The senators have had ongoing dialogue with the Department of Homeland Security, Georgia Ports Authority (GPA), U.S. Coast Guard and Customs officials to ensure that the department was aware of the security risks at both ports.
   "This announcement is a tremendous victory, and I am so pleased that through our united effort we were able to achieve results," said Senator Chambliss. "The folks operating our ports do a terrific job from a business perspective, but it is the responsibility of the Department of Homeland Security to ensure that our ports are protected against risk and threats. I am extremely pleased that the Department is aware that this funding is critical to ensuring that our ports have ample security infrastructure in place."
   "I'm extremely pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has recognized the strategic importance of the Savannah and Brunswick ports," Isakson said. "This funding will greatly benefit the national security and economic infrastructure issues at both ports."
   "We want to thank our Congressional delegation for their tireless work in support of our grant requests. Together and individually, Senators Chambliss and Isakson and Congressmen Kingston and Barrow did everything possible to impress upon the Department of Homeland Security the importance of port security funding in Georgia. Their work has paid great dividends," said Former U.S Senator Mack Mattingly and current Chairman of the Georgia Ports Authority.
   In Savannah and Brunswick, the funding will allow establishment of an interoperable communication system to substantially improve maritime domain awareness and link GPA security teams with other first responders. It will also allow the establishment of a sophisticated Savannah River Intrusion Network featuring intelligent video analytics capability that will move GPA into the latest generation of security systems. GPA will always be pressing for further security improvements to counter the evolving threats in our world, and today's action sets the stage for another positive step forward.
   The Port Security Grant Program provides grant funding to port areas for the protection of critical port infrastructure from terrorism. The funds are primarily intended to assist ports in enhancing risk management capabilities, enhanced domain awareness, capabilities to prevent, detect, respond to and recover from attacks involving improvised explosive devices and other non-conventional weapons, as well as training and exercises.
 
 