SEN. CHAMBLISS CO-SPONSORS 'THE STOLEN VALOR ACT OF 2005'
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-GA., joined with Sens. Kent Conrad, D-ND., and David Vitter, R-LA, to introduce "The Stolen Valor Act of 2005," that would allow law enforcement officials to prosecute individuals who falsely claim to be recipients of our Nation's highest medals.  
   Currently, federal law enforcement officials can only prosecute those who fraudulently wear counterfeit medals and those who assist them in their fraud by manufacturing or selling bogus medals. 
   "The Stolen Valor Act of 2005" would subject violators to a six-month jail sentence and a fine for improper use of most medals. These penalties would be enhanced to a one-year maximum sentence for those who falsely claim to have earned a Distinguished Service Cross, Navy Cross, Air Force Cross, Silver Star, or Purple Heart. Additionally, those who wear, manufacture, or sell a Medal of Honor are already subject to a fine and one-year in prison. 
   "I am pleased to cosponsor this amendment which will allow the FBI to prosecute those imposters who have not earned the honors they accord themselves," said Chambliss. "America rewards its veterans with medals that reflect our respect and admiration, and people who fraudulently claim these awards should be punished. I am glad to co-sponsor this important legislation that will serve to honor the courageous heroes who have rightfully earned these awards. We must never allow their service and sacrifice to be cheapened by those who wish to exploit these honors for personal gain." 
   The Military Order if the Purple Heart, FBI Agents of America, Congressional Medal of Honor Foundation, and Vietnam Vets of America all endorse the amendment. 
   "In my experience as a service rep I have come across people who claim to be Vietnam war heroes, and these individuals are stealing the valor and credit of men and women who are far better soldiers than they are or will ever be," said retired colonel Dick Goddard, Service Rep for the Georgia Vietnam Veterans of America. "The expansion of existing legislation in this area is long over due."
   Albert Spears, the State Junior Vice Commander and State Legislative Officer with the Department of Georgia Veterans of Foreign Wars endorsed the legislation saying: "Legislation of this nature is long over due; it is not just a matter of claiming honors not due, it is a matter that leads to business and social opportunities to which they are not due. Although the motives are varied and mixed, these individuals remain truly thieves."
 
 