SEN. CHAMBLISS PRESENTS PURPLE HEART TO GEORGIA VETERAN
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss presented James L. Day of The Rock, Georgia with the Purple Heart. The medal was presented to Day in a special ceremony in Chambliss' Macon office attended by members of Day's family, Mike Starnes, the State Junior Vice-Commander of the American Legion Department of Georgia, and fellow Veterans from the Macon area American Legion.  
   "Helping America's Veterans receive medals they have earned is one of the best parts of my job," said Senator Saxby Chambliss. "America's Veterans have made great sacrifices for our freedom and we should do all we can for them." 
   Day, who served in the United States Army, was awarded the Purple Heart for injuries he received on October 25, 1968, in Vietnam. Almost 37 years later, he received his permanent orders announcing the award, the Purple Heart certificate and an engraved medal set.
   The certificate states that The President of the United States of America has awarded the Purple Heart, established by General George Washington at Newburgh, New York, August 7, 1782, to (then) Specialist Five James L. Day, Army of the United States, for wounds received in action on 25 October 1968 in Vietnam. Additionally, the Department of the Army has verified Mr. Day's entitlement to the Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross Unit Citation with Palm Device and Republic of Vietnam Civil Actions Honor Medal Unit Citation, First Class. 
   Do you need help obtaining a lost, stolen or never received Medal? Helping Georgia Veterans obtain medals they have earned, but not yet received is an important service Senator Chambliss' provides Veterans. Or if your medal has been either lost or stolen, Senator Chambliss and his staff can help you.
   Are you experiencing difficulty with the U.S. Dept. of Veterans Affairs? Additionally, Senator Chambliss and his staff can also be your advocate when you are dealing with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs or any federal agency. So please contact Senator Chambliss' office if you need assistance. While Senator Chambliss and his office cannot guarantee a specific outcome, they will work hard on your behalf.
   Veterans, who need assistance, should visit our website at www.chambliss.senate.gov or call Senator Chambliss' Middle Georgia office, 1-800-234-4208, to request the forms necessary to start a case on their behalf.
 
 