WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY REP. CHAMBLISS
  Sen. Chambliss Introduces Bill Establishing a Unified Combatant Command for Military Intelligence
   Sen. Saxby Chambliss, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee and the Senate Armed Forces Committee, has introduced legislation to establish a unified combatant command for military intelligence within the Department of Defense. The Senator's bill seeks to bridge the gap between a new National Intelligence Director and the many military intelligence organizations which exist. The Department of Defense has a number of agencies providing intelligence support to our combat forces, plus each of the armed forces has its own intelligence capabilities, and these all need to be coordinated within the national intelligence community to ensure they are responsive to both the National Intelligence Director and our combat commanders. "The National Intelligence Director will need one point of contact in the military, not eight," said Chambliss.   
  Chambliss Meets with Georgia Paralympics on Capitol Hill  
   Senator Chambliss met with several Georgia Paralympians in his Capitol Hill office. From September 17 through 29, Athens, Greece will host the world Paralympics in the same ! venues where the Olympics were recently held. Athletes with disabilities from 130 countries will compete in these games. Senator Chambliss met several Georgia competitors to wish them luck during a send-off celebration in Washington, D.C. He thanked them for being such uplifting ambassadors of Georgia and the United States.
  Chambliss Congratulates Robins AFB Spouse of the Year Winner
   Sen. Chambliss met with Colonel Greg Patterson, the 78th Air Base Wing Commander, his Command Chief, Chief Master Sergeant Billy Doolittle and Mrs. Tammie Bocook, winner of the Robins AFB, the Air Force Material Command, and the Air Force Spouse of the Year awards. Chambliss congratulated her on this accomplishment and thanked all of them for their service to our country.
  Chambliss Announces Applications Available for Service Academy Nominations 
   Sen. Chambliss announced that he is currently accepting applications for nomination to the nation's service academies. Individuals seeking an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, or the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York, are strongly encouraged to obtain an application and apply as soon as possible. Applications can be obtained via Chambliss' website: www.chambliss.senate.gov. All applications must be received in Chambliss' office by 5 p.m. on October 15, 2004.
 
 