SEN. CHAMBLISS PRAISES FIREFIGHTERS FOR THEIR ROLE IN RESPONDING TO DISASTERS, WAR ON TERROR
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today addressed the annual meeting of the Georgia Firefighters Association at Lake Lanier in Gainesville, praising them for putting their lives on the line to protect and defend the citizens of Georgia.  
   "Georgia firefighters play a critical role in responding to emergencies and disasters, especially their efforts in helping our neighbor states along the Gulf Coast recover from the devastation of Hurricane Katrina. Even today, as we hear news of terror plots thwarted in London, we are reminded that we live in a world that depends on our first responders like never before, and I know that all of you are working around the clock to make sure our communities are safe and secure.
  "I take great pride today in having the opportunity to thank you personally for your service to your community, your state and ultimately your country. Each day, you come to work prepared to put yourself in harm's way, leaving your loved ones behind, not knowing which emergency you will be called on to respond to. But you do so with dignity and pride, and I want you to know how much we appreciate your hard work.
  "I am also pleased to tell you that Congress is behind your efforts and has provided funding to better train America's first responders. This year, Congress reauthorized and appropriated $650 million for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Georgia has received $44 million in firefighter's grants since 2001 and in fiscal year 2005, Georgia fire departments received 89 grants, totaling more than $10 million. 
  "As facts continue to unfold relative to what happened today in London, we must stand firm in our resolve to see the war on terrorism through to the end. The terror plot thwarted today was a sophisticated thought-out plan contrived by some of the meanest, nastiest and ugliest people in the world. But the fact that we were able to intercept these plans and prevent this attack and save millions of innocent lives only proves that we are doing a much better job from an intelligence standpoint and making great strides toward winning this war on terror."
 
 