UPDATE ON TRI-STATE WATER ISSUE
  The Army Corps of Engineers operates a number of different reservoirs across river systems. Normally they conduct their operations under a water control plan - a plan that identifies the objectives for managing the system, such as releasing and retaining water for different needs, like navigation, water supply, and recreation.
  Interstate water compacts are one of three ways that water can be allocated among states, the other two being direct Congressional legislation and equitable apportionment by the Supreme Court of the United States. Compacts are generally the preferred alternative because they allow states, which are the most knowledgeable about their own water resources and needs for water, to do the apportioning. 
  Georgia shares the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) River Basin with Alabama and Florida. About seventy-four percent of the drainage area of the ACF River Basin is in Georgia. Georgia shares the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa (ACT) River Basin with Alabama. Approximately twenty-three percent of the drainage area of the ACT River Basin is in Georgia.
  Past compacts established an initial deadline of December 31, 1998 for the states to reach agreement on an allocation formula, but allowed states to extend that deadline. If the states did not reach agreement by an ultimate deadline, the compacts would terminate automatically. That is what happened and the ACF Compact terminated as of September 1, 2003, and the ACT Compact terminated as of August 1, 2004.
  I believe that the best and most responsible way to resolve this long-term issue is to first update the water control plans for the systems. There has not been an updated water control plan for the river basins in Georgia in decades and the system has greatly changed over that time. Updating the water control plan will control how the system is managed, in light of modern-day uses and needs. 
  I have met with the Secretary of the Army, Pete Geren, regarding the adverse impact the outdated manuals have had on the water supply in Georgia. On October 17, 2007, Secretary Geren directed the Army Corps of Engineers to update the water control manuals for the ACT basin and on January 30, 2008, he directed them to update the ACF basin. Updating the water control manuals will help ensure our state has an adequate water supply in the future, and will help the Corps make smarter decisions in their management of Georgia's river systems.
  Georgia is currently experiencing a severe and historic drought. Unfortunately, updating the water control plans is a process that cannot be completed quickly enough to address Georgia's current water crisis. The Governors of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama are currently working on a water sharing agreement and the goal is to have a resolution by February 15, 2008. 
  Because there is no updated water control manual and because the Governors of Georgia, Alabama, and Florida have not agreed on water allocations, the Corps of Engineers has been operating the ACF system pursuant to an interim Operating Plan (IOP). This IOP was developed after the state of Florida filed suit against the Corps under the Endangered Species Act for not providing enough water for several endangered sturgeon and mussels in the Apalachicola River. This IOP required the Corps of Engineers to release artificially high levels of water to protect sturgeon and mussel populations downstream in Florida. 
  In light of the ongoing drought and the negative consequences it is having on Georgians, my most immediate concern was modifying the IOP to stop the hemorrhaging of water from Georgia's lakes. To that end, I worked closely with Senator Isakson, Governor Perdue, and the entire Georgia Congressional Delegation to urge the Corps of Engineers to modify the IOP. On November 1, 2007, the Corps of Engineers initiated consultation with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFW) to implement Exceptional Drought Operations (EDO) for the ACF basin. On November 16, 2007, the USFW released its Biological Opinion on the EDO proposed by the Corps. USFW supported the Corps plan to reduce flows from the Woodruff Dam, which would result in reduced releases from Buford Dam at Lake Lanier. Releases from Woodruff Dam had averaged just over 5,000 cubic feet per second (cfs). The EDO plan will allow the Corps to reduce flows down to a level of 4,150 cfs depending on conditions. This will allow the Corps to have more flexibility in managing the ACF basin and better meet the water needs of users upstream while at the same time providing adequate flows to endangered species located downstream. 
  I was pleased to see the Corps note the importance of storage in the headwater lakes in the system. The EDO plan will allow for more water to be retained in Lake Lanier, West Point Lake, and Lake Walter F. George. Increased storage is vital to the drinking water supply for many of Georgia's communities and to the economic viability of businesses surrounding these lakes
  On November 30, 2007, the Corps of Engineers announced they will reduce flows from Lake Allatoona, beginning December 1, 2007, from an average of about 490 cfs to about 320 cfs. This is a critical step to prevent the depletion of Lake Allatoona and providing more storage in Georgia on the ACT system.
  I believe we are making progress on the water issues Georgia is facing. I will continue to do all in my power to alleviate the current water shortages and to ensure Georgia has a safe and adequate source of water for years to come.
 
 