SEN. CHAMBLISS: IN REMEMBERING SEPT. 11, 2001, AMERICA MUST STAND TOGETHER UNITED
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today released the following statement in remembrance of the fifth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks:  
   "As we reflect today on the tragic events of September 11, 2001, we must honor those we lost that day in New York City, in Pennsylvania, and at the Pentagon, and we must stand together as a united front, remembering that our freedom and security should not be taken for granted. Our enemies may plot evil acts against us, but no act of terror will ever crush the American spirit. America has a long and proud history of determination and success that has always prevailed over every threat and battle. The broad stripes and bright starts of Old Glory show no weakness and continue to wave brightly across this great land. Today, more than ever, we must continue to honor those who have died in the name of freedom. 
  "We also honor the great sacrifices made by the brave men and women in the Armed Forces, the National Guard and Reserve, our nation's first responders and law enforcement personnel. Through numerous visits at our Georgia military bases and those around the world, I have seen firsthand the outstanding job these dedicated men and women and their leaders are doing. They are true professionals who know that they are there for the right reason - to ensure a safe and secure America for future generations. As we press forward, we must continue to equip our military and America's first responders with the resources they need to carry out their missions and win this war and strengthen our intelligence community.
  "There is no question that we are safer today than we were on September 11, 2001, and I credit that in large part to our Commander-in-Chief. President Bush has had the toughest job of any president in our generation and I believe he did the right thing in taking this battle to the terrorists. Under his direction, we successfully thwarted several terrorist plots and, in the five years since September 11, 2001, additional attacks on American soil have been prevented. I commend President Bush for his leadership during this trying time and I look forward to hearing his address to the American people tonight. 
  "Julianne and I will continue to remember those who lost their lives in those senseless attacks and those who have perished while defending our freedom. We will continue to pray for their families and loved ones and this great country in which we live."
 
 