SENATORS URGE DOD TO EXTEND PRODUCTION OF F-22A RAPTOR
  A bipartisan group of 28 U.S. Senators led by Saxby Chambliss, R-Georgia, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates urging the Department of Defense to continue procurement of the F-22A Raptor following completion of the multi-year procurement contract. 
  "The F-22A Raptor has already proven to exceed our expectations in quality and performance," said Chambliss. "Our U.S forces deployed worldwide are ensured air superiority to carry out their missions unimpeded. There is no doubt that the F-22 is the world's most advanced fighter and with the growing number of surface-to-air threats and similarly capable aircraft being developed by other countries, it only makes sense to continue procurement of the F-22A Raptor."  
  Text of the letter is below (for a copy, please contact Chambliss' press office):
  Dear Secretary Gates:
  We understand that the Department of Defense is considering ceasing production of the F-22A Raptor following completion of the current multi-year procurement contract. We believe such a decision would be ill-advised and premature, given the recapitalization shortfalls facing our US Air Force and the rapidly emerging airborne and surface-to-air threats facing our nation's military.
  The F-22A Raptor is exceeding all expectations in operational performance as well as production schedule and quality. The USAF urgently needs to replace approximately 500 1970-80's vintage F-15A-D Eagles. Despite the AF's oft-stated minimum requirement for 381, we note that DoD's program of record 183 total is not supported by any rigorous campaign-based analysis assessing the most stressing scenarios and rapidly growing threats. Rather, it has been reported that at least three independent studies commissioned by DoD recommended procuring significantly more than 220 Raptors because of its singularly unique capability to overwhelm all air and surface-to-air threats. 
  Meanwhile, it has recently been reported that three near-peer potential adversaries are busy co-developing two different stealth, twin-engine, high-altitude, Raptor-like fighters. Terminating the Raptor program at such a crucial and uncertain time only further encourages our potential adversaries to continue down this path. It also risks abandoning our AF's unique ability to deter aggressive actions and when called upon, dominate the airspace over our global allies, interests and deployed troops. 
  Furthermore, the F-22A Raptor is the world's only 5th Generation Fighter line currently in full-rate production. Over 25,000 Americans working for 1000 suppliers in 44 states manufacture this unique national asset. These are highly technical jobs that represent the leading edge of our nation's aerospace industry. Additionally, it is estimated another 70,000+ Americans owe their jobs indirectly to this program.
  We urge you to continue procurement of the F-22A Raptor by including sufficient funds in the FY09 budget request to procure long-lead items for an additional lot of planes, beyond the current multi-year contract. We believe any decision to terminate production of this aircraft at such an early stage is more appropriately deferred until completion of the 2009 Quadrennial Defense Review which will assess current and future threats and recommend the necessary procurement strategies to fully support our national security requirements. 
   Background
  On August 1, 2007, the Air Force awarded a multi-year contract between the Air Force and Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company for advanced procurement, Economic Order Quantity, and Full Rate Production of 60 F-22 aircraft. The value of the contract is $5.049 billion. The Air Force also awarded a $1.2 billion contract with Pratt and Whitney for F-22 engines. Final assembly for the F-22 is performed in Marietta GA. On June 29th, 2007, the Secretary of Defense certified that the F-22 multi-year contract authorized in the fiscal year 2007 National Defense Authorization Act meets all requirements of the law and will result in a savings to American taxpayers of $411 million.
  The three-year contract for 60 F-22's was authorized by a floor amendment by sponsored by Senator Chambliss and co-sponsored by Georgia colleague, U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., during Senate deliberations on the FY07 National Defense Authorization Act in June 2006. 
  The F-22 is a first-of-a-kind multi-mission fighter aircraft that combines stealth, supercruise, advanced maneuverability and integrated avionics to make it the world's most capable combat aircraft. The U.S. Air Force considers the F-22 Raptor its top priority for air dominance, operational access, homeland and cruise missile defense.
 
 