WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Sen. Chambliss welcomes constituents to his Washington, DC office. Pictured are Jack Brown and his daughter, Mary Tidwell, of Douglasville and Rebecca McKenzie of Augusta.
   Dear Friends,
   Thank you for staying in touch. It is always a privilege to hear from folks across Georgia about the issues affecting our state and our country. Below are highlights from the past week: 
   PRESIDENT ANNOUNCES NEW STRATEGY FOR IRAQ
   This past week President Bush addressed the situation in Iraq directly, and I know that Georgians were anxious to hear his plans for a new strategy. It is clear that Georgians want victory in Iraq; however, they do not want our presence there to be open-ended. I agree, and most importantly, I believe that it is time for the Iraqi government to step up and take control of their country, both militarily and politically. The Iraqis must deliver on their promises.
   Georgia is a strong and proud military state, home to 13 military installations, and our service men and women have answered the call of duty and performed courageously. The President's visit to Fort Benning this past week underscores the important contributions our Georgia troops have made and will continue to make to the global war on terrorism. No one questions their performance and unwavering commitment and we will continue to support them, many of whom are headed overseas this week.
   In my conversations with the White House over the holidays as well as with the President on Monday prior to his address, I made it clear that my support of any increase in troops is conditional upon those troops having a specific mission, and upon the completion of that mission those troops should be re-deployed.
   To read more of my thoughts on the new strategy for Iraq, please visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999963021.30274.135&gen=1&mailing_linkid=999.
   Read the Friday's editorial in the Columbus Ledger-Enquirer following President Bush's visit to Fort Benning, by visiting: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999963021.30274.135&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1000.
   COMMERCE COMMITTEE WILL HOLD HEARINGS ON AIRLINE MERGER
   As many of you are aware, I have expressed my opposition to a proposed bid by Arizona-based U.S. Airways to merge with Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines. Delta is an economic engine for Georgia and the Southeast and it is my hope that Delta continues its strong presence in Atlanta for years to come.
   Last month, Senator Isakson and I sent a letter to members of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, urging them to hold hearings on the impact of the U.S. Airways proposal. We believe this proposed bid is not in the best interests of the nation, the economy or the consumers.
   We were pleased to hear this week that the Committee will hold a hearing on the potential impact of airline mergers, including the proposed bid by U.S. Airways to merge with Delta, on January 24, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. A hearing on this issue is important to ensuring that the content and potential effects of this proposal are carefully examined.
   FUNDING FOR LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT IS A TOP PRIORITY
   This week, I introduced legislation to reauthorize the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant program to provide more than $1 billion of support to state and local law enforcement task forces agencies each year until 2012. This critical legislation would reauthorize the Byrne/JAG program for an additional five years and would provide the much needed monetary support Georgia's law enforcement relies on to keep our communities safe.
   I have heard first-hand from our law enforcement community that this funding is critical in their efforts to fight crime. This funding is particularly crucial for some areas of our state, where increased crime and the scourge of methamphetamine drug trafficking have placed severe pressures on local law enforcement capabilities. I will continue to push to see that this important legislation is passed.
   GRANT ANNOUNCEMENTS
   I am pleased to announce that the Georgia Tech Research Corporation in Atlanta will receive a $240,599 grant per year for the next three years to support the long-term growth and prosperity of minority business enterprises.
   This important investment will fund a crucial initiative for minority business enterprises and will significantly enhance opportunities to become major contributors in our economy, as well as the global marketplace.
   This funding will be distributed by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Minority Business Development Agency. This agency works to assist minority businesses in developing partnerships with local entities in order to expand minority business enterprises, create new jobs and strengthen the economic wellbeing of local communities.
   COMING UP NEXT WEEK?
   On Monday I will attend and speak at the King Center's Martin Luther King, Jr. Annual Commemorative Service at Ebenezer Baptist Church to pay tribute to the life and death of a man who made an eternal impact on countless Americans. Dr. King inspired Americans to look for the best in each other, to live together in community, and to recognize the God-given talents and purpose of all people. There is no question that Dr. King played a powerful role in the shaping of our nation, and with his untimely death he paid the ultimate sacrifice in the quest for peace and equality.
   CHAMBLISS PUBLIC AFFAIRS PROGRAM TO AIR SATURDAY, JANUARY 20, IN ALBANY TV MARKET
   For those of you in the South Georgia area, please tune into WALB for the latest edition of my public affairs program, The Capitol Report. The program brings the latest news and information on key issues from the U.S. Senate directly to the people of Georgia. The focus of Saturday's program will include a discussion with U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson.
   THE CAPITOL REPORT
  SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2006
  7:00 PM EST
  WALB TV 10, ALBANY
   The show will also air throughout the week on WMGR TV 22 in Bainbridge.
   Please be on the lookout for The Capitol Report. It airs on many local cable stations throughout Georgia.
 
 