SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON HAIL SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE'S APPROVAL OF ST. SIMONS ISLAND ATTORNEY WOOD TO SERVE AS FEDERAL JUDGE FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today praised the Senate Judiciary Committee's approval of the nomination of St. Simons Island attorney Lisa Godbey Wood to serve as the next United States District Court Judge for the Southern District of Georgia. The committee's approval paves the way for Wood's nomination to be brought before the full Senate for confirmation. 
   President Bush tapped Wood to fill the judicial vacancy created by the Honorable Dudley H. Bowen, Jr., who elected to take senior status effective June 26, 2006. Both Isakson and Chambliss recommended Wood for the post. 
   Wood currently serves as United States Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia. She was sworn in as interim U.S. Attorney in July 2004 and then unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate in November 2004.
  "In nominating Ms. Wood, the President has demonstrated his commitment to assuring both the integrity and the quality of the federal judiciary," said Chambliss. "Lisa Godbey Wood is an extraordinarily qualified individual who comes before this body at a time of urgency for the Southern District of Georgia, and I look forward to a swift Committee approval and prompt Senate confirmation."
  "Lisa Godbey Wood has served Georgia ably through her dedicated public service and as U.S. Attorney, and I know she will continue to serve us well on the U.S. District Court," Isakson said. "The Senate Judiciary Committee has approved an outstanding nominee, and I am proud to lend my support to her as she continues the confirmation process in the Senate."
  Ms. Wood is a summa cum laude graduate of the University of Georgia as well as the University of Georgia School of Law. Following gradation from law school, Ms. Wood served as a law clerk to the Honorable Anthony A. Alaimo of the District Court for the Southern District of Georgia before joining the Brunswick law firm of Gilbert, Harrell, Sumerford & Martin where she was quickly elevated to litigating partner. She also served as a Magistrate Judge of the Glynn County Magistrate Court from 1998 to 2000 before accepting the appointment to U.S. Attorney.
 
 