SEN. CHAMBLISS, SENATOR-ELECT ISAKSON FORMING NEW SCREENING PANEL TO REVIEW APPLICATIONS FOR NORTHERN DISTRICT VACANCY
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Senator-elect Johnny Isakson, R-GA., are in the process of forming a new "judicial screening panel" to review applications for recommendations they will make to the White House for Federal judicial appointments in Georgia.   
   Chambliss and Isakson have been asked by the White House to make recommendations to fill the expected vacancy in the Northern District of Georgia when the Honorable Willis B. Hunt, Jr. takes senior status on June 30, 2005.  
   To review prospective applicants, Chambliss in 2003 created a screening panel comprised of Frank C. Jones, a retired partner of King & Spalding in Atlanta, who now resides in Macon; the Honorable H. Arthur (Mac) McLane of Valdosta, Chief Judge of the Superior Courts for the Southern Judicial Circuit of Georgia, and William U. Norwood, III with Pope, McGlamry, Kilpartick, Morrison and Norwood, of Atlanta and Columbus, Georgia. All three of Senator Chambliss' previous panel members will remain on the new panel; Mr. Isakson is expected to name three additional panel members before the end of the year. Once in place, the new panel will review candidates' professional competence and qualifications.
   "As was the case in the last Congress, our charge is to look for and recommend only those potential nominees who have established a record of professional competence, integrity, and the proper temperament for judicial service," said Frank Jones.  
   Applicants who are interested in the expected vacancy in the Northern District of Georgia should request a questionnaire from Frank C. Jones c/o Dianne Smith, 191 Peachtree St., N.E. Atlanta, GA 30303-1763, before December 31, 2004. Only written correspondence from the applicants will be accepted. Letter writing campaigns and telephone calls to Senator Chambliss, Senator-elect Isakson, and/or to the members of the screening panel are strongly discouraged. The panel may wish to interview applicants.  
   "I have great confidence in all members of the screening panel to help me with this important task," said Chambliss. "Helping the president fill judicial vacancies is an important responsibility. As Federal district judges are appointed for life, it is critical that we find the most qualified attorneys for the president to consider."  
   Chambliss, who serves on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said it is customary for the White House to seek recommendations from the "home state" U.S. Senators of the president's party to fill judicial vacancies. However, the White House submits the final nomination to the Senate for its "advice and consent.
 
 