SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON CONTINUE TO URGE COMMITMENT TO BORDER SECURITY
  U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) this week sent a follow-up letter to President Bush urging him to send an emergency supplemental spending bill to Congress to fund border security. One month ago, as the U.S. Senate debated an immigration reform bill, the Georgia senators wrote to President Bush and urged that border security be de-coupled from other immigration reform measures.  
   Additionally, the senators told the president during a meeting with other senators on Capitol Hill that emergency supplemental funds to secure the border will go a long way towards restoring the confidence of the American people in the federal government's commitment to border security.
   The text of the letter sent yesterday is below:
   Dear Mr. President:
   On June 12, 2007, we wrote to you regarding our commitment to securing our nation's borders and suggesting a way forward on comprehensive immigration reform. Now that the Senate has again rejected the comprehensive approach embodied in the Secure Borders, Economic Opportunity and Immigration Reform Act of 2007, we want to underscore our belief that illegal immigration remains our nation's top domestic issue. Although the Senate has turned its attention to other legislative priorities, the American public, who daily encounters the effects of our current failed immigration system, has not forgotten the duty we have, as their federal representatives, to address the issue of illegal immigration. 
   Many Americans from across the nation have become engaged in this issue, and shared with us their wide ranging and passionate opinions on how we can reform our immigration system. While there is no consensus on the best approach to comprehensive immigration reform, there is near unanimity in the belief that we should secure our borders first. We sincerely believe the greatest obstacle we face with the American people on the issue of immigration reform is trust. The government's past failures to uphold and enforce our immigration laws have eroded respect for those laws and eliminated the faith of the American people in the ability of the government to responsibly administer immigration programs. 
   We believe there is a clear way to regain the trust of the American public in the competency of the federal government to enforce our immigration laws and manage our immigration system: We should prove our abilities with actions rather than make promises. To that end, we believe that you and your administration could alleviate many of the fears of our constituents by calling for an emergency supplemental bill to fully fund the border and interior security initiatives contained in the Secure Borders, Economic Opportunity and Immigration Reform Act of 2007, as well as any outstanding existing authorizations. Such a move would show your commitment to securing the border first, stopping the flow of illegal immigrants and drugs into our nation, and creating a tamper-proof biometric identification card for foreign workers. It will also work towards restoring the credibility of the federal government on this critical issue. 
   We urge you to carefully consider this request, and thank you for the opportunity to express the views of the people of Georgia on this matter. 
   Sincerely,
   Saxby Chambliss
  United States Senator
   Johnny Isakson
  United States Senator
 
 