SEN. CHAMBLISS APPLAUDS COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF BYRNE/JAG GRANT FUNDING FOR CRUCIAL LAW ENFORCEMENT RESOURCES
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss today applauded the Senate Appropriations Committee's inclusion of more than $555 million in federal funding for the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program in its Fiscal Year 2007 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill. The Committee reported the bill this afternoon and it now heads to the Senate floor for approval. This represents an increase of over $100 million from Fiscal Year 2006. 
   Chambliss has been a strong advocate of the program, which is designed to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime and improve the criminal justice system. As part of the Senate-passed budget earlier this year, Chambliss successfully offered an amendment to authorize $900 million in funding to the program which some had proposed to eliminate entirely. 
   "I have heard first-hand from Georgia's law enforcement community that this funding is critical to their efforts in fighting crime and drugs and keeping our citizens in both rural and urban communities safe," said Chambliss. "In many areas, increased crime and the scourge of methamphetamine drug trafficking have placed severe pressures on local law enforcement capabilities."
   Chambliss and Senator Mark Dayton, (D-MN), along with 30 Senate colleagues, wrote U.S. Senator Richard Shelby, Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, in April to urge support of the funding request. The lawmakers noted that during the past four years, Byrne/JAG funding has been reduced by more than 50 percent to just $416 million for Fiscal Year 2006. At the same time, Congress and the Administration have called upon local and state law enforcement to do more to prepare for possible terrorist threats. 
   "If we're going to call upon folks to do more, then we have to provide the resources they need to carry out their duties," said Chambliss, who during a recent congressional recess attended the Annual Law Enforcement Appreciation Barbeque in Glennville, Georgia. "It gives me great pride to look these folks in the eye and thank them for their service. Each day they leave their homes and their families and put themselves in harm's way, so every bit of support we can provide is critical."
 
 