SEN. CHAMBLISS ISSUES STATEMENT ON FISCAL 2007 NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today took to the Senate floor to underscore the important components of the Fiscal Year 2007 National Defense Authorization Act, which is critical to meeting the needs of our military as well as the needs of Georgia's defense community. 
  Mr. President: 
  I rise today to offer opening remarks on the 2007 National Defense Authorization Bill. Chairman Warner and Ranking Member Levin, as well as the entire Committee, worked hard during the mark-up process to produce a bill that would support our troops and provide what our military needs to fight and win the Global War on Terrorism, and I am pleased to say that this bill does just that. This bill provides our servicemen and women with the resources necessary to continue and win the War on Terrorism and keep our country safe, and will greatly improve the quality of life for our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines, and their families.  
  Despite what you read or hear in the news sometimes, it is absolutely clear to me that we are winning this war on terrorism and, specifically, that we are winning the war in Iraq. I have heard recently from soldiers of the 3rd Infantry Division at Fort Benning, Georgia, about the great progress they made during their recent deployment to Diyala Province. Over the course of their year there, the security situation in Diyala Province improved dramatically, as did the rule of law and the presence and capability of Iraqi Security Forces and Police. As we all know today, Diyala Province was where US forces found and killed the leader of the anti-Iraqi insurgents, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi last week. 
  And I believe that it was the hard work the 3rd ID did in improving security and developing relationships with the Iraqis in Diyala Province that allowed for the intelligence and network of information that our forces used to track Zarqawi down. So, we need to realize that this is difficult work that our troops are doing in Iraq, and that successes often takes a long time, but that if we stick with it and follow the course we are on that success will come. The operation against Zarqawi proves that this is the case. 
  We absolutely must finish the job we came to do because the future of the Middle East, as well as our own future security, lies in the balance. I believe that there might be some amendments filed to this bill that seek to immediately withdraw troops or set a timetable for troop withdrawal. Clearly, both these approaches are extremely unwise and I hope my colleagues will join with me in voting down those amendments overwhelmingly.
  Related to some specific issues in the bill, I have received numerous letters and phone calls from both active duty soldiers and retirees who were concerned with proposed increases in TRICARE premiums. So, I am pleased to see the Senate bill does not approve DoD's proposed increases in TRICARE Prime enrollment fees. In my home state there are a large number of military personnel and retirees living in rural areas where quality healthcare is often not as readily available as in more urban areas. This bill would help to improve healthcare access for those individuals by authorizing incentive payments for civilian health care providers who provide services to TRICARE beneficiaries in rural and medically underserved areas. This is a good provision and I commend the Chairman and Ranking Member for its inclusion.
  This legislation will authorize $45 million in supplemental education funding for local school districts that are heavily impacted by the presence of military personnel and families, including $30 million for Impact Aid, $5 million for educational services to severely disabled children, and an additional $10 million for districts experiencing rapid increases in the number of students due to rebasing, activation of new military units, or base realignment and closure. This provision is of particular importance to my state. As a result of the 2005 Base Closure and Realignment round, Ft. Benning and school systems in the surrounding area will experience an influx of approximately 10,000 students into their school systems over the next several years as new troops arrive. 
  This funding will ensure that areas like Ft. Benning have the facilities and teachers in place to provide the children of our Armed Forces members with a top notch education when they do arrive. The bill also requires DoD to report to Congress on their plan for working with other federal agencies and local school districts to accommodate this growth. Unfortunately, DoD has been slow to recognize the burden that such unprecedented growth places on small communities and it is important that DoD do the necessary planning and coordination in advance to ensure that military families are taken care of when they move to a new installation.
  During the War in Iraq, our intra and inter theater airlift assets have gone above and beyond the call of duty and have been used at a much greater rate than we ever planned to use them. These airplanes played the critical role of air lifting supplies, vehicles, and other equipment to our troops. In order to recapitalize some of the losses and overuse of these airlift assets, this bill authorizes $2.6 billion for strategic air lift capability, including an increase of 2 C-17 aircraft above the budget request and advance procurement for continued C-17 production. These are superb airplanes and have proven to be extremely reliable and, along with the C-130, have become the backbone of the airlift fleet.
  This bill also provides a well deserved pay raise of 2.2 percent for all military personnel, effective January 1, 2007, and approves targeted pay raises for mid-career and senior enlisted personnel and warrant officers effective April 1, 2007. I have heard directly from troops in the field and personnel at the number of Georgia military installations how important these targeted pay raises are for retaining our men and women in uniform in the service and taking advantage of their hard-to-replace skills. So I commend the Chairman and Ranking Member for including these pay raises in the bill.
  In order to clarify the role and use of the Armed Forces for domestic use during natural disasters or other events, the bill includes a provision that would update the Insurrection Act. The Committee's changes would make explicit the President's authority to use the Armed Forces to restore order and enforce federal law in cases where public order has broken down. In light of Hurricane Katrina and other hurricanes along the Gulf Coast last year, this provision is especially important in clarifying the role that federal troops play in these situations.
  I am also pleased that the Committee bill adds $1.4 billion for the F-22A aircraft in order to fully fund procurement of 20 aircraft, as well as fully funds the C-130J multi-year contract which this Committee has worked so hard to support even as the contract is re-structured from a commercial to a traditional contract. 
  Mr. President, this is a good bill that the Chairman and Ranking Member have crafted with the needs of our troops and the national security of our Nation foremost in their minds. I hope my colleagues will join me in expeditiously considering this legislation so that our men and women in uniform can get the equipment, the benefits, and the support that they need and deserve.
  I yield the floor.
 
 