SENS. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS, REP. BARROW TO HOST MILITARY ACADEMY DAY ON SEPT. 29
  U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) and U.S. Representative John Barrow (D-Ga.) today announced they will host a statewide Military Academy Day event in coordination with the Georgia delegation on Saturday, Sept. 29, 2007, at Benedictine Military School in Savannah, Ga. The event will be held in the school's cafeteria from 10 a.m. until 11:30 a.m. to familiarize students with the application and nomination process for applying to the nation's five service academies.  
   Representatives from all five academies as well as cadets and midshipmen will also be in attendance to explain more about their requirements and expectations and will be available to answer questions. The event is open to students grades eight through 12. All attendees must make reservations in advance. 
   "I am honored to once again be able to offer this excellent opportunity to Georgia's youth," said Isakson. "Many of my former academy nominees have used our Academy Day to decide which service is the right choice for them."
   "I applaud our students who have shown an interest in attending one of our distinguished service academies," said Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "These young men and women are the embodiment of the dedication and leadership that makes America the great nation that it is. It has been such a privilege during my service in both the House and Senate to get to know our young people and their families through this process." 
   "I'm proud to represent the families that produce our future service academy members, and I join Senators Isakson and Chambliss in thanking them for their willingness to serve their country," said Barrow.
   All persons who are interested in attending must make a reservation by contacting Theresa Milligan or Barbara Grogan in Chambliss' office at (770) 763-9090 or through email at theresa_milligan@chambliss.senate.gov, or barbara_grogan@chambliss.senate.gov by the registration deadline, on Friday, Sept. 21, 2007, at 5 p.m.
 
 