SEN. CHAMBLISS INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE FOOD STAMP PROGRAM
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today announced he has introduced legislation to help food stamp beneficiaries become financially independent. Sen. Chambliss' plan, the Food Stamp Savings and Investment Act of 2007, would index the food stamp liquid asset limits to inflation and provide more opportunities for participating families to save for retirement and higher education. Cosponsors of the measure include Sens. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.).  
  "The Food Stamp Program not only helps by providing food and emergency aid, it helps America's needy families on their path to independence and self-sufficiency," said Sen. Chambliss. "In the ten years since welfare reform was passed by Congress and signed by President Clinton, fewer families receive cash welfare, and more welfare families are working. Many families have transitioned from welfare to work, and the Food Stamp Program should do more to encourage this continuing transition."
  During a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing last month, Sen. Chambliss noted that the allowable household limit for liquid assets had gone unchanged for over 20 years and needs to be updated.
  "Reforming food stamp asset limits has the potential to help needy families break the cycle of poverty and achieve long-term financial independence," said Sen. Chambliss. "The limits are outdated and discourage families from investing in strategies to save for their future. This legislation will modernize the program and I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to support the measure." 
  The core ideas underlying the legislation have broad support across the political spectrum. Some of the organizations that have voiced support for reforming asset limits to encourage savings include the Heritage Foundation, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the New America Foundation, the Corporation for Enterprise Development, and Center for Law and Social Policy.
 
 