SEN. CHAMBLISS PLEASED WITH DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY BORDER SECURITY EFFORTS TO APPREHEND CRIMINAL ALIENS
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today applauded news from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that agents and officers have apprehended approximately 2,179 criminal aliens, illegal alien gang members, fugitive aliens, and other immigration status violators as part of "Operation Return to Sender," a nationwide interior immigration enforcement operation that began on May 26 and concluded yesterday.  
  "I am pleased to see these aggressive enforcement efforts being carried out," said Chambliss. "Border Security doesn't end at the border - interior enforcement is a key piece that can be enhanced as a result of serious immigration reform. This is a strong signal to those who might come here in violation of our law and to those here who have committed crimes that there will be consequences." 
  "I believe this is a good step in the right direction, but we have more to do to secure the border. I hope that when the conference committee meets to hammer out the details of a final immigration reform bill, we can craft a package that provides for more agents and more resources - and no amnesty," Chambliss added.  
  According to the DHS, among the roughly 2,179 individuals arrested in the operation, roughly half had criminal records for crimes that ranged from sexual assault of a minor to assault with a deadly weapon, to abduction. For example, approximately 146 of those arrested had convictions for sexual offenses involving minors. In addition, roughly 367 of the arrested aliens were members or associates of violent street gangs. Finally, roughly 640 of those arrested were fugitive aliens who had been issued final orders of removal by an immigration judge but failed to comply.
  Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers arrested the majority of these individuals on administrative immigration violations and have placed them into deportation proceedings. Roughly 829 of those apprehended on administrative violations have already been repatriated to their home countries. ICE agents also apprehended 121 individuals on criminal charges that range from felony re-entry after deportation, to illegal alien in possession of a firearm. The latter individuals are being processed in federal criminal courts.
  Those arrested in the operation came from nations around the globe, including Angola, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cape Verde, China, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Egypt, Gambia, Georgia, Ghana, Guatemala, Honduras, Indonesia, Iraq, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Liberia, Libya, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Senegal, Thailand, Uganda, United Kingdom and Uzbekistan.
 
 