SENS. CHAMBLISS-ISAKSON SCREENING PANEL NOW ACCEPTING APPLICANTS FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT U.S. ATTORNEY
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today announced that their screening panel is now accepting applications for an expected vacancy for United States Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia. The current United States Attorney, Lisa Godbey Wood, is expected to vacate the post if confirmed by the United States Senate to serve as District Court Judge for the Southern District of Georgia.  
  Per the request of the President, Chambliss and Isakson intend to recommend Georgians eligible to serve as United States Attorney and have formed a screening panel to help oversee the process. It is customary for the President to ask for Senators' recommendations for appointments in their state, including United States Attorney. However, it is ultimately the President's responsibility to nominate a candidate to be confirmed by the Senate. The Chambliss/Isakson screening panel will receive and review applications and recommend candidates to the Senators. 
  "This screening panel has consistently provided us with an unbiased review of candidates who wish to be considered to fill this sort of vacancy," said Chambliss. "I have great confidence in the panel's ability to provide a fair analysis of the applicants and appreciate the time they volunteer to help us with this important task." 
  "Filling vacancies on the federal bench with qualified, respected and principled individuals is an extremely important job," Isakson said. "It is essential that we find the most qualified attorneys for the President to consider, and I am confident our panel will do an excellent job evaluating each judicial nominee's application." 
  Interested applicants for the expected United States Attorney vacancy in the Southern District of Georgia should request a questionnaire from Frank C. Jones c/o Dianne Smith, 191 Peachtree St., N.E. Atlanta, GA 30303-1763, before July 14, 2006. Only written correspondence from the applicants will be accepted. Letter writing campaigns and telephone calls to Senator Chambliss, Senator Isakson, and/or to the members of the screening panel are strongly discouraged. The panel may wish to interview applicants. 
  "As with judicial selections, our charge is to look for and recommend only those potential nominees who have established a record of professional competence and integrity to head this important office," said Frank Jones who leads the panel.
 
 