WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  CHAMBLISS PRESENTS PURPLE HEART TO GEORGIA VETERAN
   Senator Saxby Chambliss presented James L. Day of The Rock, Georgia with the Purple Heart. The medal was presented to Day in a special ceremony in Chambliss' Macon office attended by members of Day's family, Mike Stearns, the State Junior Vice-Commander of the American Legion Department of Georgia, and fellow Veterans from the Macon area American Legion. If you are a Veteran and need help obtaining a lost, stolen or never received Medal, contact Senator Chambliss' office for assistance. Additionally, if you are experiencing difficulty with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs or any federal agency, contact Senator Chambliss' office for assistance at 1-800-234-4208. Click here for more details: http://www.chambliss.senate.gov/News/singleNews.cfm?NewsID=429 
   CHAMBLISS DELIVERS CONGRESSIONAL UPDATE TO LAGRANGE ROTARY
   Senator Chambliss delivered a congressional update to the LaGrange Rotary. During his remarks, Chambliss discussed congressional relief efforts to help the victims from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the need for the federal government to secure our borders from the flow of illegal aliens and the latest in Iraq and the War on Terrorism. 
   CHAMBLISS MEETS WITH COLUMBUS CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
   Senator Chambliss met with members of the Greater Columbus Chamber of Commerce. Chambliss received an update from Chamber members regarding their efforts to assist Ft. Benning and the entire Columbus area meet an expected expansion of the base, including the addition of thousands of soldiers, and their families. After the meeting, Chambliss said he was impressed with the plans the Chamber and local community are making to accommodate such a large number of new citizens to West Georgia. Ft. Benning's expansion is expected under the 2005 base realignment recommendations from the Department of Defense. 
   CHAMBLISS TOURS GREENWAY MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES IN CARROLLTON
   Senator Chambliss met with officials and received a briefing on their efforts to efficiently utilize technology that would allow doctors to better serve their patients. In the Senate, Chambliss supports legislation, known as the "The Wired for Health Care Quality Act," that would help make it easier for medical records to be digitized so that in life threatening situations, doctors, nurses and emergency room professionals would have immediate access to a patient's medical file and thus help save lives when every minute counts. Additionally, using technology to bring medical records into the 21st has been a top priority of the Bush Administration so that doctors can better serve their patients.
 
 