SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON ANNOUNCE $1.3 MILLION IN VA GRANTS FOR MILLEDGEVILLE, AUGUSTA VETERANS HOMES
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today announced that the state of Georgia has received grants of more than $1.3 million from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to pay for improvements at the state veterans homes in Augusta and Milledgeville. 
   Approximately $804,000 in grant money will help pay for up to 65 percent of the cost for renovating 10 elevators at the Augusta and Milledgeville veterans homes. The total cost of the elevator project is estimated at $1.2 million.
   Another $520,000 grant will cover as much as 65 percent of the expense of replacing the heating, ventilation and air-conditioning system at the Milledgeville facility. The total project cost is estimated at $800,000.
   "Our veterans deserve medical treatment and services equal to the sacrifice they have made for our country," said Chambliss. "We must continue to keep our promises to our nation's veterans and I will continue to work with Secretary Nicholson and the Department of Veterans Affairs to continue to provide quality services for Georgia's veterans."
   "We honor our commitment to care for those who have served in uniform," said R. James Nicholson, Secretary of Veteran Affairs. "This example of our federal-state partnership offers a comfortable home for some of Georgia's veterans in a time of personal need."
   "I am very pleased to announce these grants today because our nation's veterans have sacrificed tremendously so that my children and grandchildren and everyone across this nation can live in freedom," Isakson said. "As a member of the Veterans Affairs committee, I realize the most important responsibility we have is to see to it that the treatment and services we give our veterans are equal to the sacrifice they have made for our country."
  Last year, Georgia received more than $1.8 billion from VA to provide services to almost 740,000 Georgia Veterans. VA has three major medical centers in Augusta, Decatur and Dublin, along with outpatient clinics and Vet Centers across the state.
 
 