SEN. CHAMBLISS OFFERS IMMIGRATION AMENDMENT TO IRAQ SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., has filed an amendment to the Iraq supplemental spending bill, currently under consideration by the Senate. Sen. Chambliss' amendment, co-authored by Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Az., will provide a new workable guest worker program to meet the needs of agricultural labor, while rejecting the controversial amnesty provisions of the Agricultural Job Opportunities, Benefits, and Security Act of 2005 (AgJOBS). The Chambliss-Kyl measure has been endorsed by the American Farm Bureau. 
   "I do not believe that the Emergency Supplemental appropriations bill to fund the efforts of the men and women working on the front lines of the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan is the appropriate venue for immigration reform," said Chambliss. "However, some Senators have indicated they will move forward with their proposals at this time, and I believe a practical alternative to S. 359, the 'AGJOBS bill,' is needed. The amendment I have offered provides agricultural employers with a stable, legal workforce without providing amnesty to those who came to the United States illegally. While reforms are needed to provide a legal way to meet our agricultural labor needs, we must also remove incentives for illegal immigration and put stricter provisions in place for seasonal workers coming across our borders."
   The Chambliss-Kyl temporary agricultural guest worker program will match willing workers with willing employers and takes a two-pronged approach to providing a stable, legal agricultural workforce. 
   First, it streamlines and modernizes the current H-2A program by replacing the current labor certification process with an attestation. This way farmers no longer have to petition three different Federal agencies to obtain H-2A workers when they cannot find an adequate domestic workforce. The legislation also requires farmers to pay a prevailing wage - one that accurately reflects area wages. 
   Second, it addresses the current illegal population with the creation of the Blue Card program. Instead of granting amnesty with green card status, a new temporary agricultural worker category, referred to as a "blue card," will be created to allow employers to petition for an employee to fill a job that cannot be filled by an American worker. A blue card has no path to citizenship. Any blue card worker who wishes to adjust to a different immigrant or non-immigrant status may do so by revoking his or her blue card and returning to his or her home country for at least one year and applying through the normal process.
   Blue cards holders will be allowed to travel freely between their home country and the United States, allowing the worker to maintain ties with their lives and families at home. Blue cards will be a machine-readable, tamper-resistant documents that contain biometric identifiers so that our immigration officials will be able to confirm that the person holding the blue card is permitted to work in the U.S. and that the card is valid. 
   Chambliss and Kyl filed the amendment on Thursday in the Senate. A vote for the Senate to consider the amendment is expected on Tuesday.
 
 