SENS. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS TOUR IMPERIAL SUGAR FACILITY, MEETS WITH EMPLOYEES, FAMILIES OF WORKERS KILLED IN FEB. 7 EXPLOSION
  U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today met with Imperial Sugar employees as well as the families of workers who died or suffered injuries in the Feb. 7 explosion at the refinery in Savannah, Ga.  
  Isakson and Chambliss also toured the exterior of the facility. U.S. Representative John Barrow, D-Ga., joined the senators on the visit.
  "On my visit this morning, I saw the absolute devastation of the tragic explosion at the Imperial Sugar facility. However, I also saw the unbelievable spirit of family in all the employees of the company and heard many stories of great heroism where employees went back into the plant to rescue their fellow worker after the initial explosion," Isakson said. "We pledged to them our complete support and that of the U.S. government in every way possible on a thorough, precise investigation and then reconstruction of this valuable facility in the greater Chatham County community."
  "The employees and families who have experienced this tragedy are in our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time," said Senator Chambliss. "They need our prayers, our support and our help, and we certainly stand ready to assist in any way we can. We told the folks on the ground this morning that first and foremost we grieve with them, and we are just as committed as they are to rebuilding this facility and supporting the community. We are all extremely grateful to our emergency responders and the many others who demonstrated great courage in the face of this unexpected disaster."
  On Feb. 13, Isakson and Chambliss sent a letter to the U.S. Secretary of Labor and the interim executive of the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, urging them to begin a comprehensive investigation of the Feb. 7 explosion.
  The letter was also signed by Senators Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., Mike Enzi, R-Wyo., and Patty Murray, D-Wash. Isakson and Murray are the Ranking Member and Chairwoman of the Senate Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety, which has jurisdiction over the Occupational Safety and Hazard Administration.
 
 