SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON CO-SPONSOR 'RESERVIST ACCESS TO VETERANS PREFERENCE ACT'
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-GA., co-chairman of the Senate Reserve Caucus and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., joined with Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., to introduce the "Reservist Access to Veterans Preference Act" as an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2006 National Defense Authorization Act. The Senate unanimously passed this amendment today. 
   The "Reservist Access to Veterans Preference Act" would clarify existing law to ensure that reserve component troops who are released from active duty after deploying overseas would be eligible to receive the veteran's preference in federal hiring. 
   Currently, the wording of the law and the Office of Personnel Management's implementing rules are ambiguous, which results in the rules being unevenly applied across federal agencies. The effect of this confusion is that otherwise qualified Reservists are denied veterans preference. 
   The "Reservist Access to Veterans Preference Act" would clarify the law and allow veterans to maintain their service in the Reserves or National Guard and still be eligible for consideration as a veteran when applying for federal employment.
   "As co-chair of the Senate Reserve Caucus, I am pleased to co-sponsor this amendment which will allow deserving members of the Guard and Reserve the same considerations for federal employment as discharged active duty veterans," said Chambliss. "The men and women of the Guard and Reserve sacrifice so much to protect Americans and make sure our nation is secure. We should respect their sacrifice by ensuring that they have access to this important benefit." 
   "Since the tragic terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, our nation has depended on our military Reserves and National Guard like never before in waging the war on terror," said Isakson, a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. "This amendment will help those returning from active duty by making them eligible to receive the veterans' preference in federal hiring."
   The amendment is endorsed by the Reserve Officers Association.
 
 