SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON PRAISE PASSAGE OF PORT SECURITY BILL
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today praised passage of bipartisan legislation to secure our nation's ports. The bill passed unanimously. 
  "Folks in Georgia know and understand first-hand that our ports are centers for trade and prosperity, and they keep our local, state and national economies moving," said Senator Chambliss. "We know that one of the real vulnerabilities we have from a terrorism standpoint is our ports, because a great amount of cargo moves in and out of these facilities daily. I am pleased that port security is receiving the attention needed in this era of new threats, and I believe this bill provides for us to continue our security efforts."
   "Securing our nation's ports is a vital part of protecting our nation from those who would seek to harm us," Isakson said. "This bill is a critical tool in the fight against terror." 
   The legislation requires radiation detectors be used on all cargo entering the United States at all U.S. ports and imposes a deadline for the issuance of identification cards for all workers at U.S. ports. The bill also authorizes an expansion of programs to screen inbound cargo and requires an expansion of incident planning already required under previous legislation.
  The bill also includes an amendment co-sponsored by Isakson and Chambliss that authorizes the creation of a Rural Policing Institute to be administered by the Office of State and Local Training of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, also known as FLETC, in Glynco, Ga. The amendment passed unanimously. 
  The Rural Policing Institute is unique in that experts will be deployed directly to rural communities and provide at-home training on a local level for individuals who may not otherwise have access to specialized training opportunities. The amendment authorizes $10 million for fiscal year 2007 and $5 million for each additional year through 2012.
  "There is no question that our local law enforcement are called upon more and more to provide the nuts and bolts of criminal investigation and law enforcement," said Chambliss. "In many areas, increased crime and the scourge of methamphetamine drug trafficking have placed severe pressures on local law enforcement capabilities. Our proposal will provide important access to training that might not be available otherwise." 
  "By having a program where we can send instructors to these rural police departments, we maximize our training capabilities and ensure that these officers are able to receive on-the-job training without reducing manpower," Isakson said. "This program is a win-win for our law enforcement personnel, for FLETC and for the American taxpayer." 
  The bill also included an amendment by Isakson to address the potential for maritime workers to be exposed to low levels of radiation from the cargo screening machines that are now required at U.S. ports. The amendment requires the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to develop and implement protocols to protect the safety of port workers. Further, the amendment allows the operators of marine terminals nationwide to receive financial reimbursement if their port-based employees become ill due to the low-levels of radiation emitted by machines used to screen cargo.
 
 