SEN. CHAMBLISS PAYS TRIBUTE TO AMERICAN SOLDIERS ON POW MIA REMEMBRANCE DAY
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the US-Russia Joint Commission on POW/MIA's, today released the following statement in honor of the national POW MIA Remembrance Day to be held Friday September 16, 2005.  
   "This is a very special day in our country in which we pause to honor and remember all of our POWs and MIAs. These men and women made tremendous sacrifices on behalf of freedom and liberty for all Americans and we must always honor their memory and take all means possible to locate these individuals and bring them home to their families and loved ones. 
   "I have the distinct honor of serving on the US- Russia Joint Commission on POW MIAs and am proud to co-chair the Viet Nam War working group. In August, I had the opportunity to travel to Russia and meet with my Russian counterpart, General Shamanov. We had a productive dialogue and I look forward to continuing the work of this Commission to make sure that we explore every avenue of searching for every individual who wore the American uniform who did not return from U.S conflicts overseas and who is still missing in action today. 
   "I would also like to take this opportunity to thank every one of the men and women who serve the United States of America in every branch of our armed forces. Throughout the years they have never failed to do a terrific job of protecting our great nation and that's why it's absolutely necessary that we never forget those individuals who paid the ultimate sacrifice and do all we can to bring them home."
   Chambliss is a member of the U.S -Russia Joint Commission on POW MIAs who's objectives include: determining whether American service members are being held against their will on the territory of the former Soviet Union and, if so, working to secure their immediate release and repatriation; locating and returning to the United States the remains of any deceased American servicemen interred in the former Soviet Union, and ascertaining the facts regarding American servicemen who were not repatriated and whose fate remains unresolved.
   For more information on POW MIAs please visit http://www.dtic.mil/dpmo/index.htm
 
 