SEN. CHAMBLISS COMMENTS ON TOBACCO BUYOUT, FDA REGULATION OF TOBACCO
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today delivered the following floor speech to the Senate regarding the tobacco buyout and FDA regulation of tobacco.
   "I thank the Senator from Ohio for yielding me some time to talk a about this bill today. I want to talk about three things. First, with respect to the issue of smoking, all of us know and now understand that smoking is hazardous to one's health. There is simply no question about that. That is not even in debate. Fortunately, I am one who has never smoked in my life, but I come from a part of the country, as does the Presiding Officer, where tobacco has been a mainstay. So I want to talk about the affect of what we are doing today is going to have on tobacco-growing regions of our country. 
   "Tobacco has been a mainstay of the agricultural community since the Indians first inhabited this country. Tobacco has been a product that has been traded and bartered for literally hundreds of years, both in America as well as outside of America. In my part of the country, which is a heavy growing tobacco area, it has been the mainstay and the staple product of small family farms for literally hundreds of years. That is going to be coming to an end, in my opinion, with the passage of this legislation. 
   "The tobacco industry has taken any number of hits over the last two decades, and some of it for the right reasons. We need to educate people about the hazards of smoking tobacco. We need to educate people that if they do smoke, it is likely going to kill them. 
   "The fact is there are a number of individuals in this country who having been educated have still made a conscious decision to use tobacco products. The last thing I think we need for the Federal Government to do is to intrude further into the lives of Americans and say they cannot do this. Now, that is one thing we are doing with this legislation. I think it goes that far. Maybe not saying one absolutely cannot do it but it is pretty well going to limit the number of customers to future tobacco growers and future tobacco manufacturers in this country, which means that jobs in the tobacco industry are going to be moving out of this country and we are going to see a complete overhaul and change in that manufacturing sector, as well as in the growing sector.
   "I can remember very well in my hometown where we had three tobacco markets, and we used to sell all tobacco at the auction market. We would have buyers come in every summer and all of the farmers and their families would go to the tobacco market on opening day. We would literally have an auction bale by bale or pile by pile of tobacco that would be bought by one of the tobacco companies and used in the manufacturing of various tobacco products.
   "As soon as that auction was completed on the sale of the farmer's tobacco, he would take his family downtown in my hometown, and this happened literally across dozen of other communities in the South, and he would buy the family clothes for school that year. The opening day of the tobacco markets was a big deal because that is the product that provided the income for the family farmer for literally hundreds of years in the South. 
   "Today, it still does. Even though over the years with the attacks that have been made on the tobacco industry and we have seen the tobacco quota cut in half, our farmers are generating half the income today with about double the expenses that they were 20 years ago. This is simply because the demand for tobacco has decreased due to Federal regulations and because we are seeing imported tobacco replace domestic tobacco. This is the result of the pr ice that the farmer needs to receive due to the cost of production that he faces each and every year. 
   "What we are doing today to that farmer is we are going to increase the price even more. We are going to make him less competitive and we are, as a practical matter, going to drive the American farmer out of the tobacco-growing business, which is going to be a change in a way of life for many small towns across the South. Is it the right thing to do?
   "Well, I am not sure everything in this bill, outside of the FDA, is perfect, but I do agree with the way we are doing it and the reasons why we are doing it. Now I am going to talk about the FDA for a minute.
   "What we are saying to the tobacco farmer is, look, we gave you a quota that you earned over the years through your growth of tobacco. We know you bought this quota in some instances and in some instances; it was passed down from father to son to grandson. IN some instances, you bought it when you bought the far. But in any event, a price was paid for the ownership of the tobacco quota. Today, we have cut your asset that you bought and paid for by 50 percent just in the last 5 years. We have taken the ability away from you to generate an income sufficient to meet the needs of the quality of life that your family is used to living.
   "So what we are doing is compensating those farmers. We are going to give some money to them for this quota that we have taken away. We are now going to take it all away and, even though we did not compensate them for that 50 percent they have lost in the past 5 years, we are going to compensate them for the remaining quota that they have. I think that is a fair and reasonable thing for us to do. 
   "I have been adamant from the very first day that we engaged in this issue regarding the buyout, and I have been working on this for 4 years now, but we have been very adamant that the taxpayer ought not to fund this buyout.
   "I don't think that is right. I don't think we should use money from other valuable programs to pay for this buyout. I think it can be funded in the right way, by those folks who use tobacco products.
   "Is that going to be injurious to the tobacco industry? You bet it is. But that is the only way it should be funded in a reasonable and rational society in which we live today when you are dealing with such a controversial product. 
   "What this bill does is it provides compensation to the tobacco grower, compensation to the quota holder, and the funding of that compensation to be paid for by those individuals who use tobacco products. That is fair and reasonable, and I support that aspect of this particular amendment wholeheartedly.
   "Last, I want to talk about FDA. I have been very strongly opposed to the inclusion of FDA regulation in any tobacco buyout bill or as a stand-alone with a buyout. However, I intend to support this today because it is the only means by which we going to get this buyout bill done. I support it because I hope that in conference we are going to be able to change some of the provisions that are included in the FDA portion of this amendment. I want to mention some of those specifically. 
   "First of all, what we are granting to the FDA in this amendment is this: It will grant FDA indirect authority to mandate changes in farming practices. This bill places no limits whatsoever on FDA authority to reduce or ban compounds found naturally in tobacco leaf. Many new mandates FDA is likely to adopt will be achievable only through dramatic change sin tobacco farming operations - for example, change in this like types of soils where tobacco may be grown, changes in cultivation practices or even curing techniques. If we think that by passing this bill we are not going to put FDQA on the farm, we are wrong. That is simply going to happen. 
   "Next, the bill would give FDA extremely broad authority to regulate advertising, sale, and promotion of tobacco products, thus giving the bigger tobacco companies a tremendous advantage over smaller tobacco companies. The effect of that is going to be this: Anyone who does smoke - and I encourage everybody to quit smoking - but if you are going to smoke and you are going to buy tobacco products, when you go into the 7-Eleven to buy a pack of cigarettes, they are not going to be visible. The only thing you are going to be able to do is either tell the proprietor of that store, Let me see all of your tobacco products, or you are going to walk in and announce what brand of cigarettes you want to buy. 
   "We all know that name-brand identification is key to the marketing of any product, particularly when it comes to something like tobacco. The bigger companies who have been around for years and years and have made brand names very popular and very identifiable are going to be the successful entrepreneurs and the successful companies at the end of the day. The smaller companies that have come into business in the last several years do not have a chance. We are telling those companies: We are sorry but nobody knows the name of your product, so, in effect, nobody is going to walk up to the counter and say: I want a pack of that cigarette brand that was started just a couple of years ago. That is not going to happen. We are going to put the smaller companies totally out of business, in my opinion, and we are going to make the bigger companies bigger. They are going to still keep marketing tobacco, they are still going to keep selling tobacco, and it will continue to have the same harmful effect it has today. 
   "Again, the FDA should focus on its primary business. It is widely acknowledged that the FDA approval process for new drugs is not as fast as it could or should be. IF the FDA has additional regulations to administer to make cigarette products safe, it will no doubt remove the primary mandate of ensuring a safe food supply and safe effective drugs.
   "IN effect, what we are going to do with the passage of this bill is to put the FDA on the fender of every tractor that is driving across a tobacco field in the South. It is going to be a new day for a lot of us who come from very rural areas where tobacco has been a mainstay of the economy of our particular counties and communities. It is not going to be a very pleasant day. But on that day, if it is going to happen, we need to make sure those individuals who have made it their life's work to grow a legal product and send it to a manufacturer to manufacture in a legal way will get some compensation to offset the negative impact this is going to have on their lives. We need to make sure as we do this we do not get unreasonable with respect to the thousand and thousands of jobs that are dependent upon this industry. 
   "Tobacco products are going to be sold anyway. My guess is it is going to be manufactured by offshore manufacturing facilities in Europe or some other country and shipped into the United States. These jobs are going to be lost here and moved to those facilities. If it is going to happen, we need to make sure that the individuals at the very lowest level, at the grower level, are compensated for the loss they are going to have. 
   "I compliment my friend from Ohio, who has been very open to discuss this issue. I know he feels just as passionately about the amendment and making sure that we strengthen FDA regulations. I respect that. We just happen to disagree on this particular issue.
   "But I say, too, my friends over on the House side - Congressman Richard Burr from North Carolina, Congressman Jack Kingston from my State of Georgia, Congressman Bill Jenkins from Tennessee - that have been real stalwarts in making sure they included the buyout provision in the FSC/ETI bill, thank you for your hard work. We are here today to make sure a buyout is included in the Senate Bill.
   "I am very hopeful in the conference committee, as it moves forward; they will look at the result of this FDA regulation. What we as conservatives need to think about is keeping the Government out of our daily lives on a more regular basis rather than putting the Government on the shoulder of every individual in the tobacco industry, more than they are today. I believe that is wrong. I don't think that is the route we ought to take. But I am going to support this amendment simply because it appears that is the only way we can get a buyout that is going to adequately compensate our tobacco farmers."
   For more information contact the Chambliss press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 