SEN. CHAMBLISS ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING IRAQ
  Statement of Senator Saxby Chambliss
   "Last week, the G-8 Summit was held in Georgia and I had the honor to serve as an official host. Together with President George W. Bush, I had the pleasure of meeting with the heads of state or government from Britain, Canada, Germany, France, Italy, Japan, and Russia. I also had the good fortune to meet other government leaders, including Iraq's new interim president, Ghazi al-Yawer. 
   "I liked what I saw in President al-Yawer. When I shook his hand, I shook the hand of a true Iraqi patriot who is determined to see his country become secure, stable, prosperous and free. He insists on full sovereignty for the Iraqi people, and he is already an eloquent and tough defender of their interests.
   "That is why he has publicly stated, not just one or twice, but repeatedly, that the Iraqi people are grateful for America's sacrifice in freeing them from the tyranny of Saddam Hussein. He thanked us without being gushing, but made it absolutely clear that his new government will continue to need the help of American and other Coalition forces as it regains its strength and fends off efforts by terrorists, thugs, and foreign enemies to strangle Iraq's democracy in its cradle.
   "President al-Yawer has a vision for Iraq, a nation with a history stretching back beyond the storied walls of Babylon to the mists of prehistory. He sees his nation gaining a position of leadership in the Middle East and forming an example of democracy, peace, progress, and prosperity for the entire region.
   "He made it clear to me that Iraq very much sees the United States, the United Kingdom, and the other nations in the Coalition as partners and friends who took risks to free his nation from the tyranny of Saddam Hussein and are now working together to help rebuild Iraq. 
   "President al-Yawer is a strong, pragmatic leader, who wants to put his government on a sound fiscal footing. When it was proposed to destroy the Abu-Ghraib prison and replace it, he made a poignant observation about the symbols of Saddam's barbaric treatment of his own people.
   "He told ABC's "This Week" that Saddam tortured people, not just in prisons, but in the basements of each and every government building and it wouldn't be prudent to destroy all government entities because of what happened in them. President al-Yawer said, "We are people that need every single dollar we have in order to rebuild our country, instead of demolishing and rebuilding."
   "This shows a practical approach to governance which is a very welcome change to the grandiosity and extravagance which, along with cruelty and aggression, marked the reign of Saddam Hussein.
   "I know there is not one Senator in this chamber who would begrudge Iraq, its people, and President al-Yawer the assistance needed to continue the transition to full Iraqi sovereignty and democracy.
   "In Georgia, we know a real friend stays with you the whole way through and does not abandon you when the going gets tough. You don't lead someone half the way home and then abandon him to the wolves.
   "And we know those wolves are baying at the door. Al-Qaeda, the Baathists, and all the enemies of democracy are already stepping up their attacks to drive us from Iraq so they can rip apart this young democracy.
   "Only the cowardly, only those without a vision for a newer, better Middle East would urge us to leave Iraq to its fate. History has left its inscriptions in Iraq from time immemorial, from cuneiform inscriptions on clay tablets, to the stone pillar of Hammurabai. These judgments have been read and pondered by men in the centuries following their inscription. 
   "In the distant future, let no traveler see inscribed in weathered stone, the withering judgment of history that the United States had an opportunity to help democracy take root in the Middle East, but failed to see it through. 
   "Let him read instead: They persevered through trials and defeated the forces of darkness so that the people of Iraq could live in the light.
   "The Senate will surely debate what should be our national policies and priorities as we seek to provide Iraq assistance. We will debate the relative merits of the different ways we can help our friends in Iraq. In fact, that is our job. It is our duty.
   "But I, for one, will not entertain any policy option that would allow the people of Iraq, so recently freed from the horror of despotism, to be submerged again into the darkness by a different set of tyrants. 
   "Now Mr. President, let me touch on some international aspects of the Iraqi situation. In addition to forces from the United States, there are 14 other NATO allies with us in Iraq. Military forces from Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, and the United Kingdom are all there with us. And, we have great support from another 17 countries, such as Australia, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea, and the Ukraine. And now the international support in helping to secure the future of Iraq is growing even more.
   "At the G-8 Summit, President Bush gained the unanimous support of the member states to help Iraq. They agreed to form a "Partnership for Progress and a Common Future with the Region of the Broader Middle East and North Africa," to support political, social, and economic reform in the region. This builds on President Bush's "forward strategy of freedom" that he announced last November.
   "President Bush also secured a UN Security Council resolution supporting the plan for handing sovereignty back to the Iraqi people. On June 8, the Security Council unanimously passed Resolution 1546, which supports free elections and authorizes a Multinational Security Force to help stabilize the security situation in Iraq.
   "The UN has done exactly the right thing in passing Resolution 1546 and I applaud them for taking this important step. However, I would be remiss if I did not mention a subject which hinders the United Nations' effectiveness, not only in Iraq, but in its dealings around the world. By this I mean the oil-for-food scandal.
   "The oil-for-food program, established in 1995, was designed to alleviate the impact of the economic embargo on the people of Iraq, while continuing restrictions on military and technology sales. It was a humanitarian program that was supported by the United States as a way to help average Iraqi citizens get basic food and medical supplies while Saddam Hussein was still in power. 
   "The oil-for-food program was administered by the United Nations Assistant Secretary General, Benon V. Sevan, who oversaw sales of $111 billion worth of Iraqi oil. While under U.N. auspices, the U.S. Government Accounting Organization (GAO) estimates that over $10 billion was stolen from the Iraqi people by Saddam's regime. While children were dying for lack of medicine or food, Saddam was importing Mercedes limousines, weapons, and building his grand palaces. Skimming off this vast amount of money involved kickbacks and bribes to a wide variety of foreign officials and businessmen.
   "When the new Iraqi oil ministry recently published a list of foreign officials receiving bribes, kickbacks, and hidden oil allotments from Saddam, U.N. Assistant Secretary General Sevan's name was in a list, which included 11 French, 46 Russian, and many other names. These recipients of Saddam's largesse were vocal opponents of freeing Iraq from Saddam's chokehold and were also bitter critics of the effect of the embargo on Saddam's regime.
   "It's ironic that so many of the businessmen and officials who helped skim off the money designed to buy food and medicine for the Iraqi people came from countries that complained the loudest about the U.S.-led effort to oust Saddam from power.
   "It is imperative that we monitor the UN investigation of the oil-for-food scandal to make sure it is thorough and transparent. Wrong-doers must be prosecuted, not simply bundled off to retirement. To do any less will greatly compromise the United Nations' ability to operate future programs with the confidence of the world community. Paul Volcker, who was named by Secretary General Kofi Annan to head the investigation into the oil-for-food scandal, must receive sufficient personnel, resources, and access to relevant documents and UN officials to carry out his responsibilities.
   "A failed investigation will be a bitter indictment of the United Nations and it would put it on a path leading to obsolescence and irrelevance. The United Nations can be a unifying force in the world and its resolution on the future of Iraq passed last week is a positive example of this. However, it must also restore its credibility with the people of Iraq who were robbed of over $10 billion in food and medicine while the oil-for-food program was being administered by the U.N.
   "It is a critical time for both the future of Iraq and the future of the U.N. In Iraq, it is time to pull together to make it a successful, stable, and democratic country. At the U.N., it is time to show the world that it can be a transparent, accountable, and efficient organization worthy of its noble charter.
   "We have the unique opportunity to help democracy take root in the Middle East and we are fortunate that President Bush, Prime Minister Blair, and others, have the vision and the courage to recognize this and to do something about it.
   "Likewise, the United Nations has an opportunity to restore our confidence in its ability to play a meaningful role on the world stage. I hope Secretary General Kofi Annan has the necessary courage to carry his investigation of the oil-for-food scandal to its necessary conclusion, regardless of how difficult it might be. 
   "Let future generations see that neither the United States, nor the United Nations and its member nations shrank from the challenges that face us today."
 
 