SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON URGE APPROPRIATORS TO FUND RURAL POLICING INSTITUTE
  U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., along with 17 other Senators, sent a letter yesterday urging members of the Senate Appropriations Committee to provide $5 million in funding for the Rural Policing Institute for Fiscal Year 2009. Last year, Chambliss and Isakson co-sponsored legislation to create a special, rural-focused law enforcement training initiative that would be administered by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, known as FLETC, located in Glynco, Ga. 
   "Rural law enforcement agencies like those in Georgia often face a difficult challenge in receiving up-to-date training, with tight budgets and small staffs frequently forced to make a choice between training opportunities and keeping officers on the street," said Senator Chambliss. "As we continue to call upon our rural law enforcement to do more, we must provide them with access to specialized training where it otherwise would not be available. I urge my colleagues to provide the funding for the Rural Policing Institute which will provide much-needed assistance to our law enforcement personnel, who work each day to keep our communities safe."
   "By having a program where we can send instructors to these rural police departments, we maximize our training capabilities and ensure that these officers are able to receive on-the-job training without reducing manpower," Isakson said. "This program is a win-win for our law enforcement personnel, for FLETC and for the American taxpayer. It is crucial to communities across the nation that we fund this program."
   Rural law enforcement agencies face a difficult challenge in receiving up-to-date training, with tight budgets and small staffs frequently forcing a choice between sending officers to training or keeping officers on the street. With the creation of the Rural Policing Institute, Congress authorized funding of $35 million over six years and $5 million in Fiscal Year 2009. This letter urges appropriators to fulfill that authorization in Fiscal Year 2009.
   If funded, the Rural Policing Institute will assess the challenges confronting rural and tribal law enforcement agencies; develop and provide training programs specific to their needs; and conduct outreach to ensure they are aware of new training opportunities.
 
 