SEN. CHAMBLISS' WEEKLY EMAIL UPDATE
  Chambliss to Appear on CBS Face the Nation Sunday 
   Sunday morning (Dec. 19, 2004) U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss will be a guest on CBS' Face the Nation to discuss the latest in Iraq and the war on terrorism. According to CBS, Face the Nation is one of the longest-running news programs in the history of television, which premiered on November 7, 1954. Chambliss serves as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Senators Chuck Hagel, R-NE., and Jack Reed, D-RI., will join Chambliss on the program. CBS News Chief Washington Correspondent Bob Schieffer will conduct the interview and serve as the moderator. Face the Nation airs Sunday morning on your local CBS station. Check your local listing for the show time in your area or vis! it: http://www.cbsnews.com/sections/ftn/main3460.shtml
   Chambliss Meets with Boys and Girls Clubs of Metro-Atlanta 
   This week, U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss met with executives from the Boys and Girls Clubs of Metro-Atlanta. The purpose of the meeting was to highlight a $300,000 Department of Justice grant that the club received. The grant funds will contribute to many programs already underway at the Boys and Girls Clubs of Metro-Atlanta, which include mentoring programs, programs designed to help children stay out of trouble and many others. For more information about the Boys and Girls Clubs of Metro-Atlanta, please visit: www.bgcma.org
   Chambliss Receives Legislative Excellence Award
   Sen. Chambliss was recognized this week with an Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence from the National Association of Manufacturers. The award is presented to Senators and Congressmen who demonstrate their support of the manufacturing industry in the U.S. by their votes in Congress. NAM officials and NAM members from Georgia were on hand for the presentation at a special reception in Atlanta. 
   Chambliss Meets, Congratulates Javits-Wagner-O'Day Workers
   This week, Sen. Chambliss visited the Bobby Dodd Institute in Atlanta, which provides career services and employment opportunities to people with disabilities. The facility is also a contract site for the Javits-Wagner-O'Day (JWOD) Program, which provides jobs to more than 40,000 people nationwide who are blind or have other disabilities. In Georgia, 976 people with disabilities currently work on JWOD contracts. During the meeting, Chambliss called the workers true American heroes and praised them for their commitment to job training and entering the workforce. Additionally, Chambliss received official recognition as a Congressional Champion of the program.
   Chambliss Speaks to the Gwinnett Chamber of Commerce 
   This week, Sen. Chambliss was the guest speaker at the Gwinnett Chamber of Commerce meeting. Chambliss delivered a congressional legislation update and discussed the latest in Iraq and the war on terrorism. Additionally, Chambliss discussed his recent visit with U.S. and Georgia troops stationed in the Middle East.
 
 