SEN. SAXBY CHAMBLISS RECEIVES FOODSERVICE DISTRIBUTION INDUSTRY'S THOMAS JEFFERSON AWARD
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss has been named as a recipient of the 2006 Thomas Jefferson Award by the International Foodservice Distributors Association (IFDA). The award honors his commitment to our nation's economic prosperity and the free enterprise system. It was presented at a July 12th ceremony on Capitol Hill. 
  At the end of each Congress, IFDA presents the Thomas Jefferson Award to Senators and Members of Congress who demonstrate their commitment to increasing opportunity and reducing government regulation through their votes on issues such as reducing taxes, removing trade barriers as well as workplace issues and other economic matters. Their work in the Congress on these issues has helped to ensure the continued health of our nation's economy. 
  "Throughout the 109th Congress, Senator Chambliss cast crucial votes to stimulate economic growth, to strengthen family businesses and to promote prosperity for the American people. The Thomas Jefferson Awards are our way of recognizing lawmakers who have stood true to the ideals of Thomas Jefferson and have supported policies that strengthen the foodservice distribution industry and our free market system," said IFDA President and CEO Mark S. Allen. "Foodservice distribution is an industry that is fundamental to our economy and touches the life of every American consumer. These awards are our way of acknowledging Members of the 109th Congress who support family-owned businesses, make balanced policy decisions and stand on principles that make our economy stronger."
  Recipients of the award supported IFDA's position on at least 70 percent of 11 Senate votes deemed critical to the Jeffersonian ideals of free enterprise and the foodservice distribution industry. These included votes on the Death Tax Repeal Permanency Act (H.R. 8), the Health Insurance Marketplace Modernization and Affordability Act (S.2611), and the Class Action Fairness Act (S.5) among others. The complete list of votes can be found on the IFDA web site www.ifdaonline.org.
  The program, introduced in 1992, was inspired by Thomas Jefferson, who in his third inaugural address said, "A wise and frugal government ? shall leave men ? free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government."
  The award itself is a custom-crafted replica of Jefferson standing in his Memorial, framed by his four pillars of prosperity: agriculture, manufacturing, commerce and navigation.
 
 