SEN. CHAMBLISS URGES REMOVAL OF AMNESTY PROVISIONS FROM IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today took to the Senate floor to urge his colleagues to vote in support of an amendment, which he cosponsored, to strike the amnesty provisions, including the agriculture amnesty provisions, contained in the Immigration Reform Bill currently being debated by the U.S. Senate. 
  "I think this amendment really crystallizes the whole debate we are having here in the Senate on this bill. It all comes down to the simple question of whether or not you oppose or favor amnesty. My main opposition to amnesty is that it has been tried before and that it does not work." 
  Chambliss, Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, has continuously urged his colleagues to take a hard look at the agriculture title of the Immigration Reform Bill, because the majority of people who come to the United States start out working in agriculture but ultimately move on to less back-breaking occupations. 
  "As Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, my main focus in this debate has been on agricultural workers, and I firmly believe that an amnesty is not in the best interests of agriculture in the United States. I think the requirements for illegal workers to take advantage of the agricultural amnesty are so low that I fear a repeat of what happened and failed in 1986. We should not repeat the mistakes we made before. We know from past experience that agricultural workers do not stay in their agricultural jobs for long, especially when they gain a legal status and have the option to work in less back-breaking occupations." 
  Chambliss also underscored his view that people who have come here illegally should not be able to get in line ahead of those who have worked hard to become a citizen of the United States in the right way. 
  "Several months ago as we were ramping up towards bringing this bill to the floor, I had the opportunity to speak to 135 brand-new American citizens who came from 125 different countries. They were sworn in at the federal building in Atlanta, Georgia. After my comments to them and their swearing in ceremony, I had about two dozen of these individuals who came up to me one at a time and said, 'Senator, whatever you do, please don't allow those folks who came into this country illegally to get a pathway to citizenship that is different from the path that I had to follow.' 
  "In some instances these individuals took five years, in some instances eight, some twelve, and in one instance 22 years. And you can understand why they don't want to have somebody who came into this country illegally get a heads-up on people who are in the position that they were in for so many years trying to earn citizenship. The people I saw at that naturalization ceremony truly did earn their citizenship, and it really means something to them, as it should to everybody who becomes an American citizen. It does not seem fair to me to call the process those newly naturalized citizens followed 'earned citizenship' and also call the provision for illegal agriculture workers in this bill 'earned citizenship.' There's a fundamental difference between the two that should be recognized in the rhetoric of this debate.
  "There's one basic concept in the underlying bill that is baffling to me, and that is, why do we have to connect a pathway to citizenship for folks who are here illegally to meaningful immigration reform? There are a lot of these people, whether it's 11 million or 20 million, whatever the number may be, who came here for the right reasons and that reason being to improve the quality of life for themselves and their families. And we need to show compassion those individuals. 
  "Does that mean that we ought to give them an automatic path to citizenship that they may or may not want? We have no idea how many of these people will actually want to be citizens. So why do we grant that privilege that we so cherish so much and those individuals in Atlanta, Georgia, cherished so much on the day they were sworn in as American citizens?"
 
 