SEN. CHAMBLISS URGES SUPPORT OF GUARD AND RESERVE RETIREMENT LEGISLATION DURING SENATE ARMED SERVICES SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Co-Chairman of the Senate Reserve Caucus, and member of the Senate Guard Caucus, today testified in support of legislation he has introduced in the U.S. Senate, "The National Guard and Reserve Retirement Modernization Act," or S. 648, during a joint hearing of the Personnel and Readiness and Management Support Subcommittees.  
   Currently, National Guard and Reserve members are the only federal retirees who must wait until age 60 to collect retirement pay. Chambliss' legislation would reduce the age for receipt of retirement pay by three months (counting down from age 60) for every 90 days a Guard or Reserve member spends on active duty in support of a contingency operation. The bill would also include time spent on active service for purposes of responding to a national emergency declared by the president or supported by federal funds. The bill would include any duty performed since September 11, 2001. 
   "I can't go anywhere without hearing from folks in our Guard and Reserve that this is the number one issue for them and their families," said Chambliss. "Individuals who sign up to join the Guard and Reserve today do so knowing that they are going to combat. That was not true 15 or even 5 years ago. 
   "Our Guard and Reserve members who we are mobilizing are sacrificing their civilian careers, including their retirement benefit, by being called away from their civilian jobs. We need our citizen soldiers to know that we stand behind them and appreciate the tough challenges they face," Chambliss added. 
   Chambliss' full testimony can be found on the website at www.chambliss.senate.gov under the News Center section. Please select Press Releases. To watch the video of Senator Chambliss' testimony, please select TV Clips.
   Background
   In February, Chambliss held a news conference in his Atlanta office to announce the legislation and was joined by the Adjutant General of Georgia, Lt. Gen. David Poythress and Major General Terry Nesbitt, who is Commander of the Georgia Army National Guard and Georgia's Homeland Security Director. Other members of Georgia's military community attended the event as well.
   Chambliss' legislation has been endorsed by the Military Coalition, which represents more than 5.5 million current and former servicemembers and their families. Additionally, it is supported by the Naval Reserve Association, Reserve Enlisted Association, and the Reserve Officers Association. 
   For a copy of this letter, please contact the Chambliss Press Office at (202) 224-3423.
 
 