G8 SUMMIT INTRODUCED IMPRESSIVE NEW IRAQI LEADER TO THE WORLD
  By Sen. Saxby Chambliss
   Last week, the G8 Summit was held in Georgia and I had the honor to serve as an official host. Together with President George W. Bush, our Governor Sonny Perdue, my colleagues Sen. Zell Miller, and Representatives Jack Kingston and Max Burns, I had the pleasure of meeting with the heads of state attending the summit. The leaders of Britain, Canada, Germany, France, Italy, Japan, and Russia came to Sea Island for the meeting. I also had the good fortune to meet other government leaders, including Iraq's new interim president, Ghazi al-Yawer. 
   I liked what I saw in President al-Yawer. When I shook his hand, I shook the hand of a true Iraqi patriot who is determined to see his country become secure, stable, prosperous and free. He insists on full sovereignty for the Iraqi people, and he is already an eloquent and tough defender of their interests.
   That is why he has publicly stated, not just one or twice, but repeatedly, that the Iraqi people are grateful for America's sacrifice in freeing them from the tyranny of Saddam Hussein. He thanked us without being gushing, but made it absolutely clear that his new government will continue to need the help of American and other Coalition forces as it regains its strength and fends off efforts by terrorists, thugs, and foreign enemies to strangle Iraq's democracy in its cradle.
   President al-Yawer has a vision for Iraq, a nation with a history stretching back beyond the storied walls of Babylon to the mists of prehistory. He sees his nation gaining a position of leadership in the Middle East and forming an example of democracy, peace, progress, and prosperity for the entire region.
   He made it clear to me that Iraq very much sees the United States, the United Kingdom, and the other nations in the Coalition as partners and friends who took risks to free his nation from the tyranny of Saddam Hussein and are now working together to help rebuild Iraq.
   President al-Yawer is a strong, pragmatic leader, who wants to put his government on a sound fiscal footing. When it was proposed to destroy the Abu-Ghraib prison and replace it, he made a poignant observation about the symbols of Saddam's barbaric treatment of his own people.
   He told ABC's "This Week" that Saddam tortured people, not just in prisons, but in the basements of each and every government building and it wouldn't be prudent to destroy all government edifices because of what happened in them. President al-Yawer said, "We are people that need every single dollar we have in order to rebuild our country, instead of demolishing and rebuilding."
   This shows a practical approach to governance which is a very welcome change to the grandiosity and extravagance which, along with cruelty and aggression, marked the reign of Saddam Hussein.
   In Georgia, we know a real friend stays with you the whole way through and does not abandon you when the going gets tough. You don't lead someone half the way home and then abandon him to the wolves.
   And we know those wolves are baying at the door. Al-Qaeda, the Baathists, and all the enemies of democracy are already stepping up their attacks to drive us from Iraq so they can rip apart this young democracy. Only those without a vision for a newer, better Middle East would urge us to leave Iraq to its fate.
   History has left its inscriptions in Iraq from time immemorial, from cuneiform inscriptions on clay tablets, to the stone pillar of Hammurabai. These judgments have been read and pondered by men over the centuries.
   Let no future traveler see inscribed in weathered stone, the withering judgment of history that the United States had an opportunity to help democracy take root in the Middle East, but failed to see it through.
   Let him read instead: They persevered through trials and defeated the forces of darkness so that the people of Iraq could live in the light.
 
 