SEN. CHAMBLISS URGES RENEWAL OF U.S.A. PATRIOT ACT
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., urged the Chairmen of the Judiciary and Select Intelligence Committees to resist efforts to further weaken the agreement previously reached by House-Senate Conferees considering renewal of provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act. 
   House Senate Conferees reached agreement earlier this week and crafted a compromise conference report extending certain provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act which are due to expire this year. The Act was passed in 2001 following the terrorist attacks of 9-11 and represented an overdue modernization of the nation's criminal and intelligence gathering and investigative laws.Importantly, it provide for increased sharing of information between criminal and intelligence investigators.
   Following agreement by the conferees, the Associated Press reported that certain Senators were seeking to make additional changes to the conference report.
   In the attached letter, dated November 17, 2005 letter to Arlen Specter, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee and Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Senator Chambliss noted that the conferees had already made numerous concessions in an effort to forge an agreement, including deletion of numerous death penalty provisions. Senator Chambliss described these concessions as "unwise" and urged the two Chairmen to resist efforts to further weaken the bill.
   Senator Chambliss is currently a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and previously served as a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee which oversaw the implementation of the PATRIOT Act provisions since it's passage.
   According to the Senator's letter to the Chairmen, "The USA PATRIOT Act provisions, which Congress wisely passed following the terrorist attacks on our soil and the callous murder of innocent civilians, have stood the test of time. The Act's provisions have helped to keep us safe and to protect our liberties which were jeopardized, not by expanded governmental authority, by violent attacks against our way of life by terrorists."
   Senator Chambliss expressed his intention to support the Conference Report, stating, "overall, the final language agreed to represents a reaffirmation of the Nation's commitment to modernization of our criminal and intelligence investigative laws and common sense law enforcement."
 
 