SEN. CHAMBLISS: REACH OUT AND READ PROGRAM IMPORTANT FOR GEORGIA'S CHILDREN
  Sen. Chambliss, R-Ga., has joined with a group of his Senate colleagues in supporting a $10 million funding request for the Reach Out and Read program, which seeks to teach the importance of literacy and reading to parents and their children. 
  Specifically, the Reach Out and Read program trains doctors and nurses to advise parents about the importance of reading aloud and gives books to children at pediatric check-ups from six months to five years of age, with a special focus on children growing up in poverty. In Georgia, the Reach Out and Read program operates in 56 clinics, with more than 51,530 children participating. More than 107,906 books have been distributed annually to Georgia children. 
  "In Georgia, the Reach Out and Read program is very successful and running strong," said Chambliss. "I am pleased to support this unique educational program and I will continue working with my colleagues in the United States Senate on its behalf." 
  Chambliss, along with more than 40 Senators, wrote to Senator Arlen Specter, Chairman of the Senate Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations subcommittee requesting that $10 million be included for the program as the Committee drafts the fiscal year 2007 education appropriations bill. 
  "A wide body of evidence demonstrates that when children are exposed to books and reading at an early age, they acquire language skills at an increased rate. They learn to love and appreciate books and are much more likely to learn to read and become successful students," the senators wrote in support of the program.
  "We are grateful to Senator Chambliss and his wife Julianne for their leadership role in support of Reach Out and Read. As a result of their efforts, we have been able to bring books and guidance to millions of children growing up in poverty, both in Georgia, and throughout the country," said Barry S. Zuckerman, MD, the CEO and Chairman of Reach Out and Read.
  Due to the program's success, participating clinics in Georgia rose from 40 to 51 in 2005. The funds Chambliss is requesting would allow for continued expansion. The program already successfully leverages millions of dollars through a national network of programs and coalitions which raised $17 million last year alone.
  Chambliss' wife, Julianne Chambliss, who is a retired school teacher, has visited several Reach Out and Read clinics in Georgia. 
  For more information, contact Chambliss' press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 