SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON ANNOUNCE ADDITIONAL TROOPS COMING TO GEORGIA'S FORT STEWART, FORT BENNING, FORT GORDON
  U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today announced that the United States Army will increase forces at three Georgia Army bases as part of the "Grow the Army" plan. Fort Stewart, Fort Benning and Fort Gordon all will receive additional troops over the next few years. 
  "We need a larger Army and this increase in the Army's end-strength by 74,200 soldiers will allow our soldiers to better meet their obligations and execute the responsibilities that our nation entrusts to them," said Chambliss. "The 'Grow the Army' plan will support our security needs around the world and reduce stress and turbulence on Army soldiers and families. I am pleased that the Army decided to locate two of the new infantry brigades at Fort Stewart. They will be welcomed by a supportive community who loves the Army and shares their Army values."
  "This move illustrates the importance of Georgia's military installations and their future to the Department of Defense and the war on terrorism. We could not be doing what we're doing today in Iraq were it not for Fort Stewart, Fort Benning and Fort Gordon," Isakson said. "All three of these local communities are ready, willing and able to receive these additional troops and their families, and Senator Chambliss and I stand ready to support them in every way we can."
  The "Grow the Army" plan will expand the Army by six combat brigades and eight component support brigades by fiscal year 2013. Fort Stewart will receive two new brigades, one new infantry brigade combat team as well as another infantry brigade combat team which will convert from a heavy brigade combat team currently stationed at Fort Stewart to an infantry brigade combat team. The heavy brigade will convert in fiscal year 2010 and the new infantry brigade will arrive in fiscal year 2011. The total increase at Fort Stewart will be 3,899 soldiers. Including families and other supporting personnel, the total population growth in the Fort Stewart area is expected to be approximately 12,000. Including BRAC-related adjustments, Fort Stewart will grow by approximately 8,000 assigned personnel to a total of 28,470 soldiers by fiscal year 2013.
  Fort Benning will grow by 45 soldiers due to increases in Headquarters personnel assigned to the 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, as well as 21 soldiers assigned to an Explosive Ordinance Detection Company.
  Fort Gordon will receive 192 new soldiers in fiscal year 2008 who will be assigned to US Army Signal Command.
 
 