SEN. CHAMBLISS UNVEILS LEGISLATION TO BENEFIT MEMBERS OF NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Co-Chairman of the Senate Reserve Caucus, and member of the Senate Guard Caucus, today unveiled legislation (S. 648) he has introduced in the U.S. Senate that would benefit members of the National Guard and Reserve by lowering the age at which they can receive retirement pay. 
  Senator Chambliss held a news conference in his Atlanta office to announce the legislation and was joined by the Adjutant General of Georgia, Lt. Gen. David Poythress and Major General Terry Nesbitt, who is Commander of the Georgia Army National Guard and Georgia's Homeland Security Director. Other members of Georgia's military community attended the event as well. 
  "The way we are using the Guard and Reserve has fundamentally changed over the last 15 years," said Chambliss, Georgia's senior U.S. senator. "They are shouldering an increasingly high percentage of our defense burden, and as their roles change it is only appropriate to change the way we compensate and reward them." 
  General Poythress said, "This bill recognizes the fundamental change in the National Guard and Reserve since September 11, 2001. No longer is it a Cold War 'strategic reserve,' but a fully engaged part-time active force. If a person signs up for the Guard or Reserve today they know they are going to combat. This bill recognizes that fact."
  "If we continue to call on the Guard and Reserve as we are today we need to seriously consider ways to equalize their benefits closer to those of active duty service members," said Chambliss. "I do not believe they should be the only federal retirees who must wait until age 60 to collect retirement pay. We need our citizen soldiers to know that we stand behind them and appreciate the tough challenges they face," Chambliss said. 
  "I am concerned that Guard and Reserve members who would otherwise stay in until they reach 20 years of service are going to get out, particularly those who are experiencing repeat deployments. This bill would create an additional incentive for them to stay and continue serving until the 20 year point so that we can take advantage of their experience and appropriately compensate them for their service," Chambliss added.
  Specifically, the Chambliss bill would reduce the age for receipt of retirement pay by three months (counting down from age 60) for every 90 days a Guard or Reserve member spends on active duty in support of a contingency operation. The bill would also include time spent on active service for purposes of responding to a national emergency declared by the president or supported by federal funds. 
  Additional provisions of the legislation include: 
  * The maximum reduction would be down to age 50 
   * Mobilization/deployment to the continental U.S.would count as well as mobilization/deployment to a "contingency zone" 
   * Volunteers would be covered, as well as those involuntarily activated 
   * The provision would be retroactive to 9/11/01 
  Additional participants at today's event included Rear Admiral Casey W. Coane (Navy), Brigadier General Bill Basnett (Air Force), Captain Gordon Austin (Navy), Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Syracuse, and Major Ray Tillery (Army). 
  Chambliss' legislation is supported by the Naval Reserve Association, Reserve Enlisted Association, and the Reserve Officers Association.
 
 