SENS. CHAMBLISS, MILLER HAIL WHITE HOUSE NOMINATION OF DAVID NAHMIAS TO SERVE AS U.S. ATTORNEY
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Zell Miller, D-Ga., hailed today's White House announcement that President Bush has nominated Atlanta native David E. Nahmias to serve as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia. The position will become available on confirmation of William Duffey, who currently serves as the United State Attorney for the Northern District, to an opening on the United States District Court for the Northern District. 
   A native Georgian, Nahmias graduated summa cum laude from Duke University, ranking second in his graduating class, and graduated magna cum laude from Harvard Law School, where he was an editor of the Harvard Law Review. He is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Atlanta and currently serves as counsel to the Assistant United States Attorney General for the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice. 
   "David Nahmias is an individual of high integrity and has given many years of service to Georgia and to the United States," said Chambliss. "His common sense dedication to the rule of law, intellect and experience make him a solid candidate for United States Attorney." 
   "I applaud the President's decision to nominate this highly qualified Georgian as U.S. Attorney. David Nahmias will serve Georgia and this nation extremely well and I wholeheartedly support his nomination," Miller said.
   "When his nomination comes before the United States Senate, David Nahmias can count on my strong support" said Chambliss. "He is the right person for the job." 
   Last year, Chambliss and Miller created a screening panel to review candidates' professional competence and qualifications and make recommendations on nominees to be considered by the White House in filling the vacancy. The screening panel is comprised of Frank C. Jones, a retired partner of King & Spalding in Atlanta, who now resides in Macon; the Honorable H. Arthur (Mac) McLane of Valdosta, Chief Judge of the Superior Courts for the Southern Judicial Circuit of Georgia, and William U. Norwood, III with Pope, McGlamry, Kilpartick, Morrison and Norwood, of Atlanta and Columbus, Georgia. 
   For more information, contact Chambliss' press office 202-224-3423 or Miller's press office at 202-224-7777.
 
 