SEN. CHAMBLISS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS TO U.S. SERVICE ACADEMIES
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., announced today that he is accepting applications through September 30th for nominations to the nation's service academies. Individuals seeking an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado, to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York, to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, or to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York, are strongly encouraged to obtain an application and apply as soon as possible.  
   "It is an honor to nominate qualified young men and women for appointment to our nation's service academies," said Chambliss. "I encourage all interested students to apply."
   Applications can be obtained via Chambliss' website: www.chambliss.senate.gov. All applications must be received in Chambliss' office by 5 p.m. on September 30, 2005 or postmarked by September 30, 2005. Applications received after these deadlines will not be considered, and no exceptions can be made.
   Chambliss said those interested in being considered for a service academy appointment should demonstrate academic achievement in high school, leadership potential, physical fitness, and personal motivation.
   Upon meeting an academy's entrance requirements, the top applicants will then be invited to a personal interview in November, conducted by Senator Chambliss' Service Academy Advisory Board. 
   The academies make the final appointments, but Chambliss' nominations are critical for all Georgia students because candidates cannot be accepted to the academies without a nomination from their senator, congressman or the Vice President or the President. 
   All applicants must be U.S. citizens, legal residents of Georgia, at least 17 years old but not beyond their 22nd birthday on July 1, 2004, and unmarried with no children.
   Theresa Milligan serves as the service academy liaison for Senator Chambliss' office. Please mail all nomination applications t Office of Senator Saxby Chambliss: 2005 Military Academy Board, Post Office Box 724086, Atlanta, GA 31139 or drop off applications at Senator Chambliss' office at 100 Galleria Parkway, Suite 1340 in Atlanta.
 
 