SEN. CHAMBLISS MAKES CASE ON BEHALF OF C-130J TO TOP MILITARY BRASS
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, along with his colleagues on the committee, today received testimony from combatant commanders on their military strategy and operational requirements in review of the Defense Authorization Request for Fiscal Year 2006. 
   Witnesses participating in today's hearing include General James L. Jones, Jr., USMC; Commander, U.S. European Command and Supreme Allied Commander, Europe; 
   General John P. Abizaid, USA; Commander, U.S. Central Command; and General Bryan D. Brown, USA; Commander, United States Special Operations Command. 
   During the hearing, Chambliss questioned the panel specifically regarding the performance and necessity of the C-130J aircraft which the Administration has recommended canceling after fiscal year 2006 funding.
   Following is a transcript of the discussion between Chambliss and General Jones: 
   CHAMBLISS: "General Jones, we are in the midst of the budget process right now particularly relative to the budget for the Department of Defense. One of the items included in the administration's budget is the termination of the C-130J program. I know that in your many years in the military, you have had experience with this program and you're having experience with it in your command now and the termination would have a significant impact particularly on the United States Marine Corps. 
   I wish you would comment on the effectiveness of that weapon system and in particular what it has done for you in your present command." 
   JONES: "The C-130J program was a much needed program while I served as commandant of the Marine Corps because of the age of the C-130s that we had in the fleet particularly during Operation Enduring Freedom. We were flying some remarkable missions but it was the skill of the pilots flying some very, very old aircraft that stimulated me at the time to elevate the C-130J program to the very height of our service acquisition objectives. 
   "I believe that this is a technology that is absolutely needed. This aircraft is not only good for America's forces but also will be well received on the international market, too. 
   "I hope very much- from a military standpoint- that this program will continue. I think it's extremely important particularly when we look at the age on our C-130 fleet and the technology the C-130J can bring to our capabilities." 
   For more information contact the Chambliss press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 