SEN. CHAMBLISS ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING INTELLIGENCE REFORM DEBATE
  Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I rise today, along with my colleague Senator Kyl, in support of amendment No. 3801 which I will describe in a minute. 
   Before I get to that, let me thank the chairman and ranking member of the Governmental Affairs Committee for the great work they have done on this bill. There has been no more delicate situation this body has had to deal with in many years, certainly in the 10 years I have been privileged to be a part of the Congress. Certainly there is no more important issue before us today because this issue involves the safety and security of every American, not just this generation but future generations to come. No two people have the concern of the American people more at heart than do Chairman Collins and Ranking Member Lieberman, both of whom I have tremendous respect for. I appreciate their leadership on this issue.  
   Today I rise along with Senator Kyl in support of amendment No. 3801 to S. 2845. This amendment focuses on intelligence reform relative to the civil liberties provision in the underlying bill. Section 211 of the underlying bill establishes a civil liberties board and gives that board certain powers and authorities. 
   Let me be clear: There is no stronger advocate for civil liberties in the Senate than myself. As a lawyer and a legislator, my entire professional life has been intertwined with the preservation of the liberties we all enjoy as Americans and which are enshrined in our Constitution and our Bill of Rights. The issue we debate today is not whether we support our civil liberties; we all support them as contained in the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. The question is, how best to balance this issue with other rights that form the cornerstone of our Constitution: namely, that among our inalienable rights from our Creator are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. 
   When Islamic terrorists threaten our life and our liberties, we must act to protect ourselves. That is why we are here today debating the reformation of our intelligence community. We know our enemies want to kill us, and we understand that good intelligence will protect us. In our country, we may differ on how to do this, but there is no disagreement on why we need to do it. Our challenge is to increase our intelligence capabilities without undue infringement on our individual liberties. 
   Today our struggle is against an enemy unique in our history. The enemy is not a nation state. Rather, it is a warped philosophy that distorts any rational notion of what a Supreme Being expects of mankind. There are no rules of warfare for our enemy. They feel free and unencumbered to fly civilian airplanes loaded with innocent passengers into buildings, killing thousands of ordinary, hard-working, good citizens of our country. They relish in cutting off the heads of people who have done no harm to them whatsoever, recording it on video and broadcasting their horrific, inhumane actions to the world. 
   One only has to look at one of those tapes or listen to the voices of helpless victims pleading for their lives to grasp how evil and dangerous these Islamic terrorists are and why this Nation must succeed in our fight against them. 
   To win against such an enemy, we need to keep our focus. We need clear, unambiguous, and non-duplicative orders and laws pertaining to our war on terrorism and the protection of our civil liberties. 
   S. 2845 is a bill to strengthen our intelligence capabilities. It is meant to put more teeth into our ability to track, find, and arrest or kill those who wish to murder our people and destroy our way of life. It is not a bill regarding our civil liberties. 
   As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee on the Constitution, Civil Rights, and Property Rights, which has oversight responsibility in this area, I am keenly aware of the safeguards that are already in place to protect our civil liberties from overreaching by the Government. Within the Department of Justice, there is an entire division devoted to protecting our civil rights. This division is responsible for coordinating the civil rights enforcement efforts of Federal agencies and assists in identifying and removing provisions, policies, and programs that violate our individual rights and liberties. 
   Last month, by Executive Order 13353, President Bush created the President's Board on Safeguarding Americans' Civil Liberties. This board is specifically designed to further strengthen the protection of the rights of Americans in the effective performance of national security and homeland security functions. 
   As the President said when he established the board and I quote, AThe United States Government has a solemn obligation, and shall continue fully, to protect the legal rights of all Americans, including freedoms, civil liberties, and information privacy guaranteed by Federal law, in the effective performance of national security and homeland security functions. 
   Our amendment to S. 2845 clearly highlights the importance we all place on civil liberties, but it leaves the power to enforce our laws on this issue where it belongs - with the appropriate Federal agencies that are already equipped and designed for that function. 
   Whenever U.S. officials or U.S. military personnel violate any of our laws, they need to be fully prosecuted. Of course, we have good systems already in place to make sure that happens. For example, as bad as the abuse of some Iraqi prisoners was, our military justice system is handling those soldiers accused in exactly the right way. 
   Let me tell you a little bit about what this board is designed to do and the powers and authorities of this board. I am reading from page 155 of the underlying bill: 
   The Board shall continually review the information sharing practices of the department's agencies, and elements of the executive branch to determine whether they appropriately protect privacy and civil liberties... 
   And so on. 
   Now, further, on page 158, in order to accomplish the provisions set forth in the section I just read, this board has access to information as follows, and I am quoting from page 158, line 21: 
   If determined by the Board to be necessary to carry out its responsibilities under this section, the Board is authorized to... 
   Now I read on page 159, line 12: 
   ...require, by subpoena issued at the direction of a majority of the members of the Board, persons (other than departments, agencies, and elements of the executive branch) to produce any relevant information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other documentary or testimonial evidence. 
   Now, this board has an obligation not to sit back and wait for any complaints to be raised, or any issues to be raised with the board, but an affirmative obligation to go out and review the policies and procedures of the civil organizations underneath the executive department. So what is going to happen, without question, is there will be problems in the intelligence community. We know and understand that. The No. 1 deficiency in the intelligence community is highlighted by every single board; every single committee within this body, or outside committee, that has looked at this issue has agreed that the lack of human intelligence is what the main deficiency has been and continues to be today. 
   The only way we are going to cure that problem is to encourage our spies in the field - and that is exactly what they are - and these spies are absolutely necessary to provide the kind of intelligence our military and civilian authorities need to ensure our national security. 
   This board is going to have the authority to aggressively go out and review any situation relative to a case that is ongoing by any officer of the CIA, wherever in the world that officer may be operating. This board is going to have the ability to take statements from individuals who are Government employees, or people outside the Government, who have information relative to any case they want to look at. 
   This bill goes even further. It says this board has authority by subpoena issued by just a majority of the members of this board, to require individuals or agencies to produce documents, including classified documents, that may be reviewed on any particular case. 
   What is that going to do to every single CIA agent who operates in the field, or to every DIA agent who operates in the field and who shares information with the CIA? I think, without question, what we are doing by the enactment of these particular sections is to create a morale problem at the Central Intelligence Agency and our other intelligence agencies throughout our intelligence community that we will never repair. 
   We are on the back side today, thank goodness, of having repealed the Deutch guidelines that were implemented in 1995. Those guidelines prohibited the expenditure of tax money being paid to individuals providing us intelligence if they had a criminal record or any kind of disparaging record in their past. Well, what that meant was that we could only hire Sunday school teachers to go out and spy on bad guys around the world. Thank goodness this body took affirmative action in the last couple of years to repeal those guidelines. But it was only after the events of September 11 that we were able to accomplish that. 
   In addition to the morale problem that will be created, which I don't think we will ever overcome, one might say this is a board that is going to be appointed by the President, confirmed by the Senate, and they are not to be a political board. Everybody in this body knows what that means. This is going to be a political board. In fact, the legislation itself says that members of the board shall be selected solely on the basis of their professional qualifications, achievements, public stature, expertise in civil liberties and privacy, relevant experience, and without regard to political affiliation. But in no event shall more than three members of the board be members of the same political party. So what we are doing here, in effect, is creating a political board. It makes no difference to me which administration is in office. I think it is bad policy to have our CIA agents, DIA agents, and every other intelligence officer in the field that operates for the sole purpose of gathering intelligence to save and protect Americans from being killed or harmed, having this board look over their shoulder and have the ability not just to investigate the case they are operating on, but to look at any information they have shared with anybody else, or any information that they have received from anybody can also be reviewed and traced back. I think it is bad policy to create a board and give them that kind of power and authority and expect them to operate in any way other than a political manner. 
   Rather than set up another entity with broad powers, including subpoena power, to look over the activities of our intelligence personnel who are fully engaged in important and dangerous activities to protect all of us, I would rather give our support and confidence to those in the Department of Justice who are working on our behalf every day to protect our civil liberties. I want to allow the newly formed President's Board on Safeguarding Americans' Civil Liberties to begin their work. Let us not establish competing and duplicative bureaucracies. 
   Our amendment will strike from section 211 those provisions expanding the powers given to this board to the point of not allowing them to subpoena information, including classified information, from agents around the world and other folks involved in the intelligence community. We need to rapidly improve our intelligence capabilities, and that should be the focus of S. 2845. The protection of our civil liberties is already the focus of the President and the Department of Justice, and they have the resources to do just that. 
   With that, I yield to my friend from Arizona.
 
 