WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  On Wednesday, Senator Chambliss testified in support of his National Guard and Reserve retirement legislation. 
   Dear Friends,
   First and foremost our thoughts and prayers remain with the Virginia Tech community following the tragic shootings that occurred this week. We were all saddened to learn that two of the victims were from Georgia, including 22-year-old Ryan Clark of Martinez, who served as a resident advisor at West Ambler Johnston dormitory where the first shooting occurred, and 35-year-old Christopher "Jamie" Bishop, who grew up in Pine Mountain and was teaching an introductory German class in Norris Hall at the time of the second shooting. 
   It is difficult to fathom how something like this could happen, and words can't fully describe the grief we all feel as the weight of this tragedy settles over our nation. My prayer is that through faith and resolve, our country will emerge from this in unity and strength as together we find healing from this sorrow. It is also my hope that we can all work together and renew our commitment to ensure that our communities and schools are safe from similar future events. Julianne and I pray for the strength of our country during this time.
   LEGISLATIVE UPDATE 
   This past week the Senate considered the 2007 Intelligence Authorization Act and the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007. Neither bill received the necessary 60 votes needed to move forward with debate. 
   As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I am disappointed that senators were not allowed to call up amendments to the intelligence bill and have important debate on measures that are critical to our intelligence community. My amendments would have prevented our enemies from gaining knowledge of our intelligence activities by eliminating the declassification of the intelligence budget. Additionally, they would have honored existing procedures to protect highly sensitive information and ensure that information is not leaked. 
   I voted against proceeding to debate on the Medicare bill because I believe having the government enforce drug prices will have negative consequences for our senior citizens. Do we really believe the federal government can take a private sector program and deliver it more efficiently and at a lower cost? I don't think so. The Senate bill would have interfered with a program that has provided a much-needed benefit for seniors while costing much less than originally anticipated. 
   The average premium for the benefit is only $22, which is 40 percent lower than projected. Seniors are saving an average of $1,200 per year on the costs of medication. The private competition between plans is projected to reduce the program's cost by $50 billion through 2015. 
   While supporters of drug price negotiation say it would significantly lower drug prices, it is important to note that both the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) have consistently said that they do not believe the government could negotiate lower prices than private plans. 
   The Senate will reconvene on Monday and consider the America Competes Act.
   GUARD AND RESERVE RETIREMENT LEGISLATION 
   On Wednesday, I testified before a joint Senate Armed Services Subcommittee hearing to urge support for legislation I have introduced in the U.S. Senate, "The National Guard and Reserve Retirement Modernization Act," or S. 648. 
   Currently, National Guard and Reserve members are the only federal retirees who must wait until age 60 to collect retirement pay. My legislation would reduce the age for receipt of retirement pay by three months (counting down from age 60) for every 90 days a Guard or Reserve member spends on active duty in support of a contingency operation. My bill would also include time spent on active service for purposes of responding to a national emergency declared by the president or supported by federal funds. The bill would include any duty performed since September 11, 2001. 
   I can't go anywhere without hearing from folks in our Guard and Reserve that this is the number one issue for them and their families. Individuals who sign up to join the Guard and Reserve today do so knowing that they are going to combat. That was not true 15 or even 5 years ago. Our Guard and Reserve members who we are mobilizing are sacrificing their civilian careers, including their retirement benefit, by being called away from their civilian jobs. We need our citizen soldiers to know that we stand behind them and appreciate the tough challenges they face.
   To watch my testimony, please visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999952887.30727.321&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2058 and select the April 18 file.
   You can also read my testimony by visiting: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999952887.30727.321&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2062.
   FEDERAL FUNDING FOR SOUTHEAST GEORGIA FIRES
   This past week much of Southeast Georgia was damaged by massive fires and my heartfelt condolences go out to those families who suffered damage and loss. I am pleased that federal funding has been made available through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to assist in the recovery efforts. 
   Our firefighters, forestry officials, rangers, and emergency personnel did a terrific job responding quickly to the fires threatening this treasured area of our state and notifying our citizens of this disaster. I know the people of Georgia also appreciate Governor Perdue's swift action in submitting a request for the assistance, which will be critical in helping folks recover from this situation.
   To read an article about the fires, please visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999952887.30727.321&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2060.
   FARM BILL AND LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY HEARING
   We are in the process of constructing a meaningful and effective farm bill and for the past year, I have been receiving testimony of farmers, producers and other agriculture related organizations. We have had a good dialogue about which provisions of the bill are working well and which provisions need to be fine-tuned. This week, I heard testimony on behalf of competition in the livestock market. 
   Folks in Georgia's agriculture community understand the need for cattle, pork, poultry and other producers to have every fair option at their disposal to market and sell their products. I am hopeful that as we construct a farm bill that will affect the entire livestock industry, we will include the input of all stakeholders including the producers who raise the animals to the retailers who ultimately sell the finished product. 
   Livestock and poultry producers today must compete in an imbalanced international marketplace that often rejects their products for unjustified and unscientific reasons. As we move through the legislative proposals, I urge my colleagues to employ a cautious approach in considering those proposals that would limit the options of producers. I believe it is important that producers are treated fairly and provided an open and competitive marketplace. 
   BAGWELL APPOINTMENT TO GEORGIA FSA COMMITTEE 
   This week Senator Isakson and I announced that William Bagwell, Jr. of Gainesville has been appointed by U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to serve on the Georgia Farm Service Agency State Committee. I believe he will be an outstanding representative, and his diverse farming background and expertise in various agricultural programs will be a tremendous resource for producers in the state. I look forward to working with him in his new capacity as we advance Georgia agriculture.
   The Georgia Farm Service Agency State Committee, headquartered in Athens, oversees the activities of the agency. Committee members are appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture. The Committee hears appeals from local farmers and serves as a resource for area producers on USDA and FSA policy.
   TORNADO SEASON
   Georgia has already been hit hard during this tornado season, and as the season continues through the end of May, I want to remind all Georgians to please be aware of the warning signs of inclement weather and have a plan in place in case a tornado strikes. Please visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999952887.30727.321&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2059 to read a news release issued by the Georgia Emergency Management Agency (GEMA) with more emergency information. Or visit www.gema.state.ga.us for tips on disaster planning.
   IN THE NEWS:
   The Marietta Daily Journal recently ran an editorial about my National Guard and Reserve retirement legislation. Please read the editorial by visiting: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999952887.30727.321&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2064.
   I recently visited the Georgia Farm Bureau in Macon, where I taped a few segments with the Georgia Farm Monitor, which airs across the state. To watch the Georgia Farm Monitor, please check your local listings or visit the following website to watch the web video http://www.farm-monitor.com/webstories.htm
   As always, should you need assistance with a federal agency or any issue, or if I can be of assistance in any way, please do not hesitate to contact my office toll free at 1-800-234-4208.
   May God bless you all and may God bless America.
   Saxby Chambliss
 
 