SEN. CHAMBLISS ADDRESSES GEORGIA LEGISLATURE
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., Georgia's senior senator, today told members of Georgia's General Assembly that all public servants must work together, side by side, from both the federal and state level to tackle the important issues facing Georgians and their families. 
  Chambliss addressed both the state senate and the state house and he addressed a number of important issues including the future of Georgia's military community, immigration reform, and resolving the PeachCare funding shortfall. 
  Below are excerpts from Chambliss' speech.
  PEACHCARE
   "We have the model for everyone in the country to look at and while we have had some bumps in the road we will ensure that the children of our state are healthy children. Healthy children make better citizens and this is a program that simply must continue. 
  "Senator Isakson, Congressman Nathan Deal and I are going to do everything we possibly can, in coordination with all other members of the Georgia delegation in what has truly been a bipartisan effort, to ensure that the children of Georgia who depend on PeachCare will be taken care of through the end of the fiscal year."
  BRAC
   "An important issue that we all worked on very closely together was the recent round of Base Realignment and Closure. At the end of the day, we weren't happy when we learned that four Georgia bases were closing. However, together with the respective communities, we took this news as a challenge and an opportunity and now as we look at what's happening with NAS Atlanta and what's happening in Athens with folks competing to get their hands on that valuable property that will create more jobs in that community, and when we look at what's happening at Fort McPherson and Fort Gillem it's obvious that everyone worked together to make this a positive result coming out of the BRAC process. 
  "And over in Muscogee County at Fort Benning we are literally creating a new city with the addition of 10,000 troops and their families. The contractors that come with them will create some challenges relative to infrastructure and educational challenges, but we look forward to working with you folks to achieve the best opportunities as a result of these changes." 
  IMMIGRATION
   "Let there be no misunderstanding about the fact that immigration reform is not your problem- it's a federal problem. If Congress had enforced the provisions of the 1986 reform bill, we wouldn't be having these problems in the state of Georgia. Johnny and I are working very closely together to make sure as we move into this immigration debate once again, that the needs of Georgians are very well taken care of."
  IRAQ
   "I know this is an issue that is on the minds of all Georgians. Iraq is a complex, complicated issue. I don't like what's been happening over there, but we have a new strategy in place that the Commander in Chief and our new commander on the ground think will work. I think we need to give that new strategy an opportunity to work because we cannot afford to fail in Iraq. The consequences of failure are so dire. We look forward to some positive signs coming out of this new strategy in Iraq."
 
 