SENATE APPROVES SEN. CHAMBLISS AMENDMENT TO BRING FOREIGN CRIMINALS TO JUSTICE
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga, today praised final passage of the Senate appropriations bill for State and Foreign Operations. The bill includes a Chambliss amendment which prohibits funding assistance to a country that refuses to extradite certain individuals to the United States.  
  "If a country refuses to turn in criminal suspects to be brought to justice where the crime occurred in the United States, then that country should not receive any financial aid from the United States under the State and Foreign Operations appropriations legislation," said Chambliss.
  Typically, countries refuse extradition when prosecutors in the United States intend to seek the death penalty. Chambliss' amendment would prohibit any funding under the Foreign Operations Appropriations Act from being used to provide assistance to any country whose government has notified the Department of State of its refusal to extradite an individual who is charged with a crime in the U.S. where the penalty is life in prison without parole or less. 
  "My intent in offering this amendment is not to deny aid to any country but, rather, to provide a substantial incentive for recalcitrant countries to reform their extradition laws so that suspected criminals can be brought to justice in the United States, which I submit to you offers the greatest due process protections to those who stand accused of a crime of any country in the world," said Chambliss. 
  The amendment, which passed the Senate by a vote of 85-13, was inspired by a Georgia family whose son was murdered in 2002 by a foreign national who then fled to his home country and has yet to be tried for this crime before the United States judicial system. 
  On December 21, 2002, Corporal Josiah Ray Fulton of Hampton, Ga., a United States Marine and member of the elite Presidential protection program called "Yankee White," was murdered on the streets of Washington, DC. At the time of his murder, Corporal Fulton was awaiting assignment for service as a guard in the West Wing of the White House. Corporal Fulton's father, David Fulton, hopes this measure will help bring his son's killer to justice. 
   "This is the right thing to do," said David Fulton. "If we stop sending tax payer dollars to these countries and hold their feet to the fire I believe we will see these criminals brought to justice." 
  After an investigation by the District of Columbia police department, a criminal complaint was filed charging a suspect named Carlos Almanza with the murder of Josiah Fulton. Almanza, however, fled the United States to his home country, the Republic of Nicaragua, where that country's constitution prohibits extradition of its citizens. 
  "I pay taxes and my son paid taxes- sure it's a fraction but a percentage of my tax dollars is going to the country that refuses to release the individual who murdered my son," said Fulton. "The murder was captured on video tape so there is no question as to who committed the crime. Justice needs to be served and we need to do the right thing by the American citizens who have been killed before we can expect any other country to do the right thing." 
  Rep. Nathan Deal, R-Ga., offered a similar amendment to the House of Representatives version of the bill. 
  "I applaud the efforts of my colleague Nathan Deal, and others in the House of Representatives for working to pass similar amendments that will deny U.S. aid to countries that refuse to extradite fugitive criminal suspects to the United States," said Chambliss.
  The State and Foreign Operations Appropriations legislation has passed both the Senate and the House of Representative, and now awaits consideration by the Conferees for final approval. 
  For more information contact the Chambliss press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 