SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE APPROVES F-22 MULTI-YEAR PROCUREMENT
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., announced that the fiscal year 2007 Defense Appropriations Bill, which the Senate Appropriations Committee approved today, grants the U.S. Air Force authority to enter into a 3 year multi-year procurement contract the F-22 "Raptor" aircraft. Chambliss secured the same amendment in the Senate version of the fiscal year 2007 Defense Authorization bill. By law, both the Authorizing and Appropriations Committees must provide the multi-year authority.  
   "Approval of the multi-year by the Appropriations Committee indicates that they understand the F-22 meets all requirements for a multi-year contract and will result in substantial savings for the government," said Chambliss. "Almost every time I'm in an Armed Services Committee hearing, someone makes a point that we need to think of ways to do things better, cheaper, and with better acquisition processes in order to use the taxpayers' resources more wisely. That is exactly what this provision does and I commend the Appropriations Committee for including it. It will save almost a quarter of a billion dollars by allowing the Defense Department and the contractor to conduct business better, faster, and cheaper - and that is good government." 
   The Department of Defense has already committed to funding the purchase of 60 additional F-22 aircraft; however, the bill authorizes a multi-year procurement process that can come in the form of a multi-year contract instead of individual yearly contracts. 
   A Congressionally mandated independent study of the F-22, conducted by the Institute of Defense Analyses (IDA), concluded that the aircraft meets all criteria required to enter into a multi-year contract agreement. The study, delivered over three months ago to both the House and Senate Armed Services and Appropriations Committees, estimates that a multi-year contract for F-22 procurement will result in at least $225 million in savings for the Department of Defense. 
   These estimates are comparable to those obtained by previous multi-year contracts. The IDA also found the F-22 to have a stable funding profile, as noted in the most recent Defense Department Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) and fiscal year 2007 budget, and a stable design. Any upgrades to the F-22 will not result in any significant structural changes to the aircraft. And in the event the Defense Department requires additional F-22 aircraft, the multi-year will result in even more savings. 
   The F-22 is a first-of-a-kind multi-mission fighter aircraft that combines stealth, supercruise, advanced maneuverability and integrated avionics to make it the world's most capable combat aircraft. The U.S. Air Force considers the F-22 Raptor its top priority for air dominance, operational access, homeland and cruise missile defense. The Defense Department and independent analysis both indicate that our country needs this weapon system and that it is performing extremely well.
 
 