SEN. CHAMBLISS AUTHORS LEGISLATION TO PROTECT MILITARY FAMILIES FROM PROTESTERS
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., has introduced legislation that would protect military families nationwide from protesters who picket and disrupt the funerals of fallen American soldiers. The Dignity of Military Funerals Act is co-authored by Sen. Evan Bayh, D-Indiana.  
  "Our military men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice deserve to have a funeral with honor and dignity," said Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "It's only right that the family members of our fallen military men and women have peace and respect at this very difficult time." 
  The Chambliss-Bayh bill would limit protesting for one hour before, during and after all funerals for all military funerals. Protestors would be kept at least 300 feet from the funeral. The legislation makes it a felony for people to violate these limits, punishable by at least one year in prison and as many as five. Chambliss said he authored the legislation after being disgusted by the scores of protests that have occurred at military funerals nationwide.
  The National of Military Family Association (NMFA) endorsed the legislation saying: "The National Military Family Association appreciates the efforts of Congress to show proper respect for military families who have made such a great sacrifice and to offer protection for them in their time of grief. It is unfortunate that protection against disruptive behavior needs to be legislated but The Dignity for Military Funerals Act will help with that protection." The NMFA is a national advocacy group dedicated to serving America's military families. 
  "My heart goes out to the military families who have had to endure these protests in the midst of such personal grief," said Senator Bayh. "Our soldiers have made the ultimate sacrifice for their country, and we should make sure their families can say goodbye to them in peace. The Dignity for Military Funerals Act does just that."
 
 