SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON URGE GEORGIANS TO 'DRIVE SAFER SUNDAY'
  U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., earlier this month secured a Senate resolution to designate Sunday, November 25, 2007, as "Drive Safer Sunday." The Senators have introduced similar resolutions in the previous years in honor of Cullum Owings, a Georgia college student who died in a traffic accident on his way back to school after Thanksgiving 2002.  
  Statistics show that the Sunday after Thanksgiving is the busiest highway traffic day of the year. The high volume of vehicles on America's highways and interstates increases the risk for dangerous or fatal accidents. The "Drive Safer Sunday" resolution encourages motorists, trucking firms and law enforcement agencies to work together to make the roads safer for all travelers during the holidays and throughout the year. 
  "As a father and a grandfather, I share the concern families have when their loved ones are traveling on the road," said Chambliss. "My heart goes out to any family, like the Owings family, who has suffered a tragic and untimely loss a result of a traffic accident. It is my hope that this resolution will resonate in the minds of all holiday travelers and result in a significant decrease in vehicle crashes, injuries and fatalities this Sunday after Thanksgiving." 
  "We must do a better job of educating all drivers to be safer on the road, and I am proud to join with Senator Chambliss to designate one of the biggest travel days of the year as 'Drive Safer Sunday,'" Isakson said.
  Cullum Owings' parents, Steve and Susan Owings of Atlanta, founded an organization called Road Safe America in honor of their son to bring awareness of the hazards of highway travel and provide statistics and safety tips to drivers. Its goals include better driver training for all drivers and limiting the top speed for large trucks.
  For more information on driver safety tips and what you can do to improve the safety of America's roadways please visit: www.roadsafeamerica.org.
 
 