SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON ANNOUNCE $375,000 FOR CLARK ATLANTA UNIVERSITY, GEROGIA TECH
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today announced a $375,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Energy to Clark Atlanta University and the Georgia Institute of Technology to establish a collaborative nuclear engineering program.  
   The partnership between Clark Atlanta University in Atlanta, and Georgia Tech, one of the nation's premier engineering universities, will provide new opportunities in nuclear science and engineering for undergraduate students at Clark Atlanta University.
   The grant, awarded over three years through a competitive peer review process, will help Clark Atlanta establish an undergraduate minor in nuclear engineering. It will also allow several outstanding Clark Atlanta students to enroll in the master's and doctoral programs at Georgia Tech. Under this program, the students will learn about the technical and scientific issues associated with nuclear science and engineering and gain the opportunity to enter one of the highest-paying technical careers in the United States.
   "We applaud Clark Atlanta and Georgia Tech for their commitment to educating and preparing the next generation of scientists and engineers," Secretary of Energy Samuel W. Bodman said. "This is the seventh partnership that the department has sponsored between minority-serving institutions and other university nuclear engineering programs. These initiatives are important to empowering our nation's youth to succeed in life." 
   "I am pleased to announce these important funds for Clark Atlanta University and Georgia Tech," said Chambliss. "This partnership will continue to promote opportunities in nuclear engineering and provide the students at Clark Atlanta access to DOE national laboratories, research programs and educational assets."
   "Nuclear engineering is such an important field of study, especially in today's world," said Isakson. "Clark Atlanta and Georgia Tech will contribute greatly to getting more bright students established in the field."
   Additional information on the department's science education initiative is available at www.energy.gov . Information on other DOE nuclear science and engineering educational initiatives that are sponsored by the Office of Nuclear Energy, Science and Technology is available at www.nuclear.gov .
   Related NewsItems:
   Chambliss-Isakson Announce Funds for AIDS Memorial Quilt in Atlanta, can be viewed at: http://chambliss.senate.gov/News/singleNews.cfm?NewsID=432.
  Chambliss-Isakson Announce Funds for Central of Georgia's Gray Building: http://chambliss.senate.gov/News/singleNews.cfm?NewsID=433.
  Chambliss-Isakson Announce Funds for Tubman African American Museum: http://chambliss.senate.gov/News/singleNews.cfm?NewsID=430.
   Related Topics:
  Education: http://chambliss.senate.gov/Issues/singleissue.cfm?IssueID=27.
 
 