SENATE APPROVES SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON RESOLUTION HONORING AUGUSTA'S COMMITMENT, SERVICE TO VETERANS
  The U.S. Senate this week unanimously approved a resolution introduced by U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., commending Augusta's efforts in providing quality health care services to our nation's veterans. The resolution expresses gratitude to the Dwight D. Eisenhower Army Medical Center at Fort Gordon, the Augusta Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Medical College of Georgia, and local health care personnel for their collaborative efforts to provide the best support and resources to our wounded warriors. The resolution also encourages continued collaboration between the Army and the Department of Veterans Affairs in treating America's wounded warriors, and when appropriate and available, additional support and resources for the development of such collaborations. 
   The Senate agreed unanimously to include the resolution by Chambliss and Isakson in the Department of Defense Authorization bill that is being debated on the Senate floor this week. A time for a vote on final passage of the defense bill has not been set.
   "Georgians are very proud of the great commitment, hard work, and critical services being provided to our veterans by countless people in the Augusta area," said Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "We are grateful for the support we have received from our Senate colleagues in unanimously approving this resolution, because it sends a strong message to our military personnel and their families that their service and sacrifice is not taken for granted. I also appreciate Senator Isakson's work on the Veterans Affairs Committee and the efforts he has made to highlight our state's commitment to our veterans. We will continue working together to ensure that our veterans have a strong voice in Washington."
   "What's happening in Augusta is a great story about how collaboration and coordination and the idea of a seamless transition from the Department of Defense to Veterans' Affairs can work," said Senator Isakson, who recently chaired a Veterans Affairs Committee field hearing in Augusta to examine the collaboration between the Augusta VA and Eisenhower. "We want to see to it that the treatment of every veteran and active duty soldier is the best that it can be. Initiatives such as the partnership between Augusta VA Medical Center and Eisenhower Army Medical Center will help us achieve that goal."
   Specifically, medical staff from the Eisenhower Army Medical Center and the Augusta Department of Veterans Affairs have routinely met to discuss future patient cases for the Active Duty Rehabilitation Unit. The Active Duty Rehabilitation Unit and the Polytrauma Centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs provide rehabilitation for members of the Armed Forces on active duty. Since 2004, more than 1,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines have received rehabilitation services at the Augusta facility. The Army Medical Center and the Augusta Department of Veterans Affairs have also combined their neurosurgery programs and coordinate efforts for treating critical brain injury and psychiatric care.
 
 