SEN. CHAMBLISS URGES RESTORATION OF BYRNE/JAG GRANT FUNDING FOR CRUCIAL LAW ENFORCEMENT RESOURCES
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss is urging the Senate Appropriations Committee to include $900 million in federal funding for the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program when it crafts the Fiscal Year 2007 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill. 
  Chambliss has been a strong advocate of the program, which is designed to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime and improve the criminal justice system. As part of the Senate-passed budget earlier this year, Chambliss successfully offered an amendment to restore the $900 million in funding to the program. 
  "I have heard first-hand from Georgia's law enforcement community that this funding is critical to their efforts in fighting crime and drugs and keeping our citizens in both rural and urban communities safe," said Chambliss. "In many areas, increased crime and the scourge of methamphetamine drug trafficking have placed severe pressures on local law enforcement capabilities." 
  Chambliss and Senator Mark Dayton, (D-MN), along with 30 Senate colleagues, wrote U.S. Senator Richard Shelby, Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, to urge support of the funding request. The lawmakers noted that during the past four years, Byrne/JAG funding has been reduced by more than 50 percent to just $416 million for Fiscal Year 2006. At the same time, Congress and the Administration have called upon local and state law enforcement to do more to prepare for possible terrorist threats. 
  "If we're going to call upon folks to do more, then we have to provide the resources they need to carry out their duties," said Chambliss, who attended the Annual Law Enforcement Appreciation Barbeque in Glennville, Georgia last week. "It gives me great pride to look these folks in the eye and thank them for their service. Each day they leave their homes and their families and put themselves in harm's way, so every bit of support we can provide is critical."
  Read what members of Georgia's law enforcement community are saying about Chambliss' effort to restore funds to the 
  Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program
  Friday, April 21, 2006
  "The Georgia Association of Chiefs of Police applauds the efforts of Senator Chambliss. With homeland security being of paramount importance and law enforcement having the task of being first responders in most cases of a threat, it has placed a greater strain on resources. There have also been challenges in the sophistication of domestic crime involving the methamphetamine wave polluting both our rural and urban communities. As we seek to improve operations through training, self-assessment, intelligence, and networking, it becomes necessary to have funding to meet those objectives. Restoration of funding to the JAG program is the most positive step in the right direction to assist law enforcement in this most critical area. Thank you, Senator Chambliss, for being sensitive to these most dire needs of the law enforcement community." - Frank V. Rotondo, Executive Director, Georgia Association of Chiefs of Police
  "The National Sheriffs' Association, the International Association of the Chiefs of Police, and all other major law enforcement associations are going to be greatly appreciative of Senator Chambliss' efforts on our behalf. The Byrne grants are important to all law enforcement, because it is how we fund our regional narcotics taskforces as well as our major efforts to fight drugs, particularly methamphetamine." - Sheriff John Cary Bittick, Monroe County, Current Chairman, National Sheriffs' Association Congressional Affairs Committee, Past President, National Sheriffs' Association 
  "I applaud the efforts of Senator Chambliss on behalf of local law enforcement. For several years, my agency has received funding through the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant program for a multi-jurisdictional drug task force. The dedicated officers on this task force are on the front lines fighting the battle against illegal drugs. Like Senator Chambliss, we are greatly concerned about the proliferation of methamphetamine, especially in the rural areas of our state. Local governments are under greater pressure to do more with a limited amount of revenue. We are proud to have Senators Chambliss and Dayton stand beside us as we continue to work to remove the plague of drug trafficking from our neighborhood streets." - Sheriff Jerry Modena, Bibb County 
  "We have always been able to talk to Saxby, and it is important to know that law enforcement can depend on him. Without these Byrne grants, we would certainly be at a disadvantage and unable to perform many important tasks to fight crime in our communities. We appreciate our Senator's help and the fact that he is going to bat for us." - Sheriff Al Whittington, Colquitt County
  "Criminals pay no attention to city limits and county lines. Through funding under the Byrne grants, we have been able to establish a Forensic Fingerprint Laboratory, which serves 29 Southwest Georgia counties on a continuous basis. Since its inception in 1996, additional Byrne grants have made the addition of other advanced forensic fingerprint technologies possible. Without Byrne grants, more than 100 different local, state and federal law enforcement agencies would be without this critical forensic investigative technology. The Byrne grants ensure that rural Georgia continues have the right tools we need to fight crime." - Sheriff Jamil Saba, Dougherty County 
  "Senator Chambliss has again demonstrated his support of law enforcement in the fight against illegal drugs and in reducing violent crime by authoring an amendment to restore funds for the Byrne Grant Program. The result of Senator Chambliss' actions will help not only the larger law enforcement agencies, but it will also help the smaller agencies who struggle for funding. Without such aid, many of the smaller agencies do not have the resources to adequately address the ever increasing drug problem that is so pervasive." - Sheriff Wayne V. Bennett, Glynn County
  "The Byrne grants are important to law enforcement, especially in rural Georgia. We are appreciative that Senator Chambliss is leading the fight for this important program to law enforcement. I can't emphasize enough just how important the Byrne grant program is to our efforts to prevent crime. Without these grants, we would not have the resources to prevent drug trafficking." - Sheriff Donnie Haralson, Crisp County
  "Being strategically located and one of the largest law enforcement agencies within our region, we see first-hand the importance of the federal Byrne grants. These grants have been instrumental in preparing and equipping this agency to serve our region in the event of any catastrophic event. Most recently, these grants are helping to increase technology needed to keep pace with an ever changing and evolving criminal element. Senator Chambliss has been a strong supporter of local law enforcement and a true partner to those of us who provide for the public safety of our citizens. We are indebted to him for his past efforts and stand in support of him with his current efforts. " - Sheriff Steve Cronic, Hall County 
   "Thank you, Senator Chambliss, for all you do and have done for local law enforcement. The men and women who serve so well providing local law enforcement services to our citizens all stand together with me in giving you our appreciation for not forgetting the locals." - Bobby D. Moody, Chief, Marietta Police Department
  "Byrne grants provide a great compliment to already strained local budgets to fight crime." - Sheriff Butch Conway, Gwinnett County
  "Byrne grants are invaluable to our efforts to fight crime in our community. These grants are especially important to our educational and crime prevention efforts." - Sheriff Ashley Paulk, Lowndes County.
 
 