SEN. CHAMBLISS ANNOUNCES SENATE CONFIRMATION OF GOV. JOHANNS TO SERVE AS AGRICULTURE SECRETARY
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, in his first major action as Chairman, today announced the Senate confirmation of Nebraska Governor Michael Johanns to serve as the Secretary of Agriculture - the first of President Bush's cabinet nominees to be confirmed this term. 
   Chambliss delivered the following statement preceeding today's vote:
   Mr. President, I urge my Senate colleagues to support the President's nomination of Governor Michael Johanns of Nebraska to serve as the Secretary of Agriculture. 
   Governor Johanns is extraordinarily well-prepared and qualified for this new challenge. He grew up on a dairy farm in Iowa. He has served two terms as Mayor of Lincoln, Nebraska, and is in his second term as Governor of that state. He has shown outstanding leadership during his tenure as Governor which will serve him well in managing the diverse and important activities of the Department of Agriculture. 
   As leader of a major agricultural state, the Governor is obviously familiar with the issues that are important to farmers and ranchers. He has been a leader in the Western Governors' Association on drought issues and has led five trade missions to expand overseas markets for American agricultural products.
   He has also been a leader on other issues that are critical to the very diverse mission of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. He has been a strong voice for rural economic development. He is a past-Chairman of the Governors' Ethanol Coalition and knows the potential of value-added agriculture. He serves as Chairman of the Governors' Biotechnology Partnership and has fostered electronic-government and technology applications in his state. 
   Mr. President, on January 6th Governor Johanns appeared for his nomination hearing before the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, which I have the privilege to chair. For nearly three hours he answered questions on a wide range of subjects and made a clear and positive impression on the entire Committee. His compassion and understanding of the issues was so evident that Committee Members voted to approve his nomination that same day by a unanimous 20 to 0 vote.
   Mr. President, I congratulate the President on his choice to lead the Department of Agriculture for the next four years. I appreciate Governor Johanns' commitment to continue an outstanding record of public service and I recommend to my colleagues that they all support his nomination. 
   For more information contact the Chambliss press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 