SEN. CHAMBLISS, BIPARTISAN GROUP OF SENATORS LAUNCH MANUFACTURING CAUCUS
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss and a dozen Senate colleagues have launched a bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus to spearhead congressional efforts to address issues and concerns important to our nation's manufacturing industry.  
   "Our manufacturing sector is the backbone of nation's economy and an important sector for Georgia," said Chambliss. "Manufacturing jobs are found in every corner of our state, provide good paying jobs, and important to our local communities. This new caucus will lead efforts on Capitol Hill to address many of the concerns and challenges for this important industry." 
   The caucus will identify strategies to address the causes and concerns facing American manufacturing. Manufacturing leads every other sector of our economy in productivity growth, leading to higher wages, higher profits and lower prices. The average manufacturing job pays about $5 per hour more than jobs in the service sector and manufacturing jobs have a multiplier effect - for every manufacturing job created in the United States, there are four jobs created that depend on that manufacturing job. 
   "Senator Chambliss is a great advocate for manufacturing," said John Engler, President of the National Association of Manufacturers. "We know we can rely on him to support manufacturing on key issues, and encourage his fellow Senators to do the same."
   The caucus will bring together business and labor leaders, economists, and other individuals; commission academic studies and other inquiries and champion legislation to address challenges facing our country's manufacturing sector. 
   In addition to Chambliss, caucus members include Senators Lindsey Graham, (R-SC), Hillary Clinton, (D-NY), Evan Bayh (D-IN), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Kent Conrad (D-ND), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Mike DeWine (R-OH), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Barack Obama (D-IL), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Arlen Specter (R-PA), and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI). 
   FACTS ON AMERICAN AND GEORGIA MANUFACTURING
   * 14.3 million Americans are employed in the manufacturing sector. 
   * In Georgia, more than 10,001 manufacturing firms employ more than 439,000 workers, with an annual salary of $39,546. (According to 2004 Bureau of Labor Statistics.)
 
 