SEN. CHAMBLISS CALLS FOR IMPROVED INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION, ANALYSIS
  Today, Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga, member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, delivered the following statement to the Senate regarding: the collection, analysis, and dissemination of intelligence; the potential for creating a new position of Director of National Intelligence; and establishing a Unified Combatant Command for Intelligence in the Department of Defense.
   "On the 7th of July, Chairman Roberts and Vice Chairman Rockefeller released the report on the U.S. Intelligence Community's prewar intelligence assessments on Iraq prepared by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. This 511 page report is a highly critical account of our intelligence analysis and collection capabilities, especially in the field of human intelligence or HUMINT.  
   "Yesterday, the Senate Intelligence Committee began a series of hearings on intelligence reform and we heard from our colleague, Senator Feinstein, about her proposal to create a new position of Director of National Intelligence to oversee the entire Intelligence Community. We also heard from three prominent experts, former Deputy Secretary of Defense Hamre, former Director of Central Intelligence Woolsey, and Lt. General Odom, former Director of the National Security Agency, on how best to structure the Intelligence Community to meet the needs of the threats we face today and will face tomorrow. 
   "Tomorrow, we expect the 9/11 Commission to release its report on events leading up to the most significant attack ever on the American mainland. There is no doubt that the Intelligence Community will also come under heavy criticism in that report.
   "These various reports and hearings are getting wide coverage in the media, and I'm glad they are because it is important for our debate on reforming intelligence to be as inclusive as possible. Intelligence reform is a bipartisan issue and the problems we have uncovered span more than a decade under both Republican and Democratic Administrations and Republican and Democratic controlled Congresses. The fact is that the systemic changes and reforms to the Intelligence Community, which would have made if more difficult for terrorists to strike us on 9/11 or to have more accurate information on Iraq's WMD capabilities simply did not take place.
   "As more and more information gets into the public domain, especially in this highly charged political year, there will surely be attempts to politicize the complex issues of intelligence failures and intelligence reform. What I would like to do Mr. President, is to put some clarity on this for the American people.
   "First, there is only one principle to follow on intelligence reform; intelligence is our first line of defense against terrorism and we must improve the collection capabilities and analysis of intelligence to protect the security of the United States and its allies. 
   "We should beware of anyone who tries to twist this principle in a political fashion. The truth is that our country, our people, our liberties, and our way of life are under attack by radical Islamist terrorists who kill and destroy in the name of religion. 
   "The security of the United States, which is so dependent on having accurate and timely intelligence, is not a Republican or a Democratic issue; it is the responsibility of all us in the Congress to make sure we legislate and appropriate monies so we have the best possible Intelligence Community.
   "Second, let's be clear about our task ahead. We are talking about amending the National Security Act of 1947, which has been the cornerstone of our security and intelligence structure for over a half century. While change is needed, it should be deliberate. It should also be substantive, even radical if necessary. 
   "The first comprehensive report detailing critical shortfalls within the United States Intelligence Community's performance was conducted by the House Subcommittee on Terrorism and Homeland Security. As the Chairman of that Subcommittee, I released its report on July 17, 2002. Following this, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence conducted a Joint Inquiry into the Intelligence Communities activities before and after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and issued its report in December 2002. 
   "The Senate Intelligence report released on July 7th reflects my deep concern that a number of issues identified both by the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Joint Inquiry have not yet been acted upon. For example, the Subcommittee identified that information sharing among intelligence agencies was abysmal and the Joint Inquiry Report pointed out that the CIA was too heavily reliant on foreign liaison reporting, and that it had not taken the steps necessary to penetrate hard targets such as the inner circle of al-Qaida. These issues have not yet been corrected to my satisfaction.
   "Third, as we address the question of how to reform the Intelligence Community, including the possible creation of a Director of National Intelligence , there are five important objectives for us to focus on:
   1. Coordination and information sharing throughout the Intelligence Community must be improved. 
   2. HUMINT capabilities must be increased and we must be willing to accept the risks associated with aggressive HUMINT operations.
   3. Analytical competition needs to be preserved. 
   4. Our counter-intelligence capabilities need improvement, and
   5. The role and scope of the military's position in the Intelligence Community should be reviewed.
   "I included this last point because I want to ensure that the military's ability to support the intelligence requirements of our Unified Combatant Commanders is maintained in any reformation of the intelligence community. 
   "The scope of the military's direct involvement in intelligence is enormous and it needs to have a proper role in the Intelligence Community. Eight of the fifteen members of the Intelligence Community belong to the Department of Defense. In the current structure, each one of these eight DoD elements acts more or less independently, representing just one small segment of the overall intelligence interests of our military. The creation of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence has helped somewhat to bring a common intelligence policy to DoD, but we should also consider the creation of a single DoD intelligence command as part of any extensive and meaningful intelligence reform.
   "The Congress directed the establishment of the Unified Combatant Command for Special Operations (SOCOM) over the objections of the Department of Defense because our colleagues had the vision to foresee the requirement. At the time, DoD and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff objected, but in hindsight, the creation of SOCOM was the correct path. The rational for establishing a Unified Combatant Command for Intelligence, INTCOM, is very much the same and I believe now is the proper time to explore this idea.
   "As we found in our review of the Intelligence on Iraq, the Intelligence Community is made up of hard working, dedicated men and women, and Chairman Roberts in his statement referred to giving them an Intelligence Community worthy of their efforts. And so I welcome the proposal of Senator Feinstein for establishing a Director of National Intelligence as one of several ideas and issues for us to address. 
   "One final point, as President Bush has said many times, he is determined to make sure that American intelligence is as accurate as possible for every challenge we face. America's enemies are secretive, they are ruthless, and they are resourceful. That is why he supports intelligence reform as much as we do in the Congress.
   "In the coming months, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence will solicit a broad range of views on reforming the Intelligence Community and we will vigorously debate each intelligence reform measure that comes before us. I look forward to this challenge. I will do everything in my power to ensure that the United States has the intelligence collection and analytical capabilities necessary to protect our lives, our property, our way of life, and our liberties."
   For more information contact the Chambliss press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 