SEN. CHAMBLISS ENCOURAGES MORE STATE SUPPORT FOR MILITARY FAMILIES
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, delivered the following remarks today in a hearing to explore how states can support military families and what progress has been made by the Department of Defense in addressing family issues that have been identified since the beginning of the War on Terror. 
   Today's hearing was co-chaired by Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Subcommittee on Children and Families; and is one in a series of joint hearings designed to help meet the needs of military families during times of deployment as well as families of National Guard and Reservists who are called up for extended service. 
   Witnesses testifying before today's joint hearing are The Honorable Jeb Bush, Governor of Florida; The Honorable Joseph Kernan, Governor of Indiana; Raymond Scheppach, Executive Director, National Governors' Association; Charles S. Abell, Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness; General Dennis J. Reimer (Ret.), Advisory Board and Co-Founder, Military Child Education Coalition and Mrs. Holly Petraeus, wife of Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, Chief, Iraq Security Transition.
   "Good afternoon Senator Alexander, and to all of our witnesses, and a special welcome to my good friend, the Honorable Jeb Bush, Governor of Florida. Governor Kernan, it is a pleasure to welcome you. I want to acknowledge your military service to our country as a naval flight officer during the Vietnam era, including eleven months as a prisoner of war. We welcome you. 
   I want to add my thanks to all of you participating in today's joint hearing on the issues facing military families. As we begin our discussions today, over 319,000 soldiers in our nation's Army are deployed to 120 countries around the world in the cause of freedom, as are nearly 70,000 sailors and marines, and nearly 30,000 airmen. These brave men and women serve in every corner of the globe, to secure not only our peace and freedom, but peace and freedom for the whole world. 150,000 men and women are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan today, of whom more than 40 percent are members of the Reserve and Guard. As co-chair with Senator Zell Miller of the Senate's Reserve Caucus, I am particularly concerned about the well being of our nation's Guardsmen and Reservists who have been relied on so heavily over the last several years. We commend the families of our military personnel for their service and for the sacrifices they have endured.
   The Subcommittee on Personnel of the Committee on Armed Services has the privilege of working in a strong bipartisan spirit to authorize appropriate pay and compensation and benefits for the greatest military force in the world. The Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005, which passed the Senate unanimously on June 23, 2005, represents our continuing, bipartisan commitment to military personnel and their families. 
   This hearing demonstrates that each of us has a role to play in support of military families; that no one branch or agency of government can do it alone. It is deeply gratifying to learn of the many achievements and "best practices" of the States in ensuring that military members, both active and reserve, are not penalized for their service to freedom, and in fact are rewarded for that service. 
   Many States, as we will hear today, are setting unprecedented standards for support to military families. I am proud that in my own State of Georgia, all public school systems serving military bases have signed memoranda of agreement joining them with schools in 24 States to ease school transition for students in military families. Our State also offers pay to reserve members who are State employees when they serve on active duty, and continues health benefits for their families when serving on active duty. Georgia also gives priority for tuition assistance for National Guard members returning from deployment, and has taken steps to protect military families from pay-day lending.
   I also want to acknowledge the accomplishments of the Department of Defense. Clearly the Department has answered the call of military families, especially since the last Gulf war, with the establishment of 700 family assistance centers, greatly improved communications, and assistance to students and schools. 
   These are but a few examples of the initiatives throughout our government and our great country - which together illustrate the depth of our patriotism, commitment and support for our men and women in uniform, at all levels of government and in both the public and private sectors. And yet we know there is much more to do.
   Governors Bush and Kernan, Secretary Abell, Mr. Sheppack, General Reimer and Mrs. Petraeus, we are grateful for your work and advocacy on behalf of military families, and look forward to your statements before this joint Subcommittee hearing.
   Thank you, Senator Alexander, and let me not fail to acknowledge your leadership and dedication to military families as we proceed with this hearing today."
   For more information contact the Chambliss press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 