MEMORIAL DAY IS A DAY TO REMEMBER OUR VETERANS
  By Sen. Saxby Chambliss
   It is no surprise that Memorial Day was conceived after the most savage, bloody war ever fought by Americans, the conflict which pitted brother against brother, as the North and South waged a long and bitter war. When the smoke had cleared, and mothers mourned their dead sons, brothers and husbands, women from both the North and South began to honor the valiant dead. 
   In Northern cities, and throughout the South, statues were erected to the men who fought so gallantly in such fierce battles and who would never return home again. The first official Memorial Day as such, was proclaimed by General John Logan on May 5, 1868, when wreathes were laid on the graves of Union and Confederate soldiers at Arlington National Cemetery.
   After World War I, Memorial Day was extended to include not just Civil War dead, but American military personnel who died in every war. The tradition, which arose from the ashes of a war which split this nation asunder, has now become a day to remember and reflect on the sacrifices which have helped create and defend this nation.
   Memorial Day is not only an appropriate day to remember those men and women who gave their lives in battle, but those who survived, some of whom suffered lasting wounds from combat. Georgia, with its military traditions and 13 military installations, is home to 700,000 veterans.
   The latest news for Georgia veterans is good. The Department of Veterans Affairs recently conducted a nationwide review of medical structure to address projected changes in the nation's veteran population over the next 20 years, as part of the process known as Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services, (CARES).
   Last year, in a direct response to hearing from Georgia veterans about the need to keep services at their local veterans facilities, we communicated with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony Principi. We stressed that Georgia's veterans need a strong and viable network of veterans health clinics, whether they live in Dublin, Augusta or elsewhere across the state of Georgia.
   The result of hearing Georgia concerns was positive. The new CARES report calls for the creation of 156 new outpatient clinics nationwide by 2012, of which 8 new clinics will be created in Georgia. These new clinics will be created in Milledgeville, Brunswick, Perry, Athens, Stockbridge, Newnan, Hinesville and Camden. Additionally the CARES Report also maintained that services at the two veteran's affairs clinics in Augusta would not be consolidated. Georgia's veterans were heard in Washington and the Administration took notice.
   We hear our veterans because they speak with a voice that echoes from the founding of our nation. They speak the language of those who have taken up arms to defend their country. They speak with the voice of veterans past, and those veterans of the future, many of whom are currently battling a merciless foe in Afghanistan, Iraq, and elsewhere across this globe. We need to hear their voice and remember all our servicemen and women past and present this Memorial Day as we reflect on how much they have given for us all.
 
 