SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON WORK TO SECURE FUNDING FOR SENIOR HOUSING IN ATLANTA
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today announced that the Senate has approved $200,000 in funding for the Nelson McGhee Retirement Complex that is sponsored by the Intergenerational Resource Center, Inc., the oldest nonprofit organization in metro-Atlanta offering a social-health model through adult day care to seniors and physically challenged adults. 
   Chambliss and Isakson worked with Senate appropriators to secure these important funds for Georgia as part of the fiscal year 2006 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. 
   "This new Center will provide our seniors with the quality care they deserve," said Chambliss. "I commend my friends at the Intergenerational Resource Center and Ebenezer Baptist Church for their dedication to the elderly members of our community."
   "I am pleased to announce these important funds for the Nelson McGhee Retirement Complex," Isakson said. "These valuable funds will greatly aid seniors in Fulton County by providing them with an affordable and dignified place to call home."
   "This project will assist the agency in fulfilling its mission of ensuring that seniors have access to decent and affordable housing in which they can age in place in an environment among their peers," said Brenda E. Sanford, the center's Executive Director.
   Founded in 1976 by the historic Ebenezer Baptist Church, the Center established a Community Development Housing Corporation in 1999, to ensure that seniors have decent and affordable housing. The Nelson McGhee Jr. Retirement Complex, named in honor of the late Dr. Nelson McGhee Jr., a pioneer member and chairman of the IRC Board of directors and former president of the Morehouse School of Medicine, is a public-private partnership with the Fulton County Board of Commissioners. 
   The complex will consist of 29 ranch-style condominiums to be located on Old National Highway in South Fulton County, Georgia. The Fulton County Board of Commissioners provided grant funds for the purchase of the 8.3 acres of land on which the homes will be built and additional financing is provided by BB&T Bank.
 
 