SEN. CHAMBLISS MEETS TROOPS IN IRAQ
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today remarked on his visits with Georgia troops serving in the Army's 3rd Infantry Division and the 48th Brigade of the Georgia National Guard. Sen. Chambliss led a Congressional delegation to meet with American soldiers stationed in the Middle East.  
   "The highlight of my trip is having dinner with members of Georgia's 48th Brigade and members of the 3rd Infantry Division - to look them in the eye and tell them how much the people of Georgia and the people of America appreciate their hard work. 
   "These are difficult times in the war or terrorism, but the morale of the soldiers we have seen while we are here is extremely high and they are very proud of the work they are doing. Our service men and women know they are here for the right reason and are carrying out their missions in a positive and professional manner. 
   "It's been a tough thirty days for the 48th Brigade. They have gone through some extremely difficult times that have once again brought home to us in Georgia the mean and nasty business of war. We mourn those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice to ensure that America is safe and secure and our prayers are with their families.
   "But as we all know the price of freedom and democracy is not cheap. As we engage in this war on terrorism, causalities are inevitable. Al-Qaeda is composed of the meanest nastiest killers this world has ever known. They are murderers whose sole purpose is to kill and harm Americans. 
   "But today I am honored to have the opportunity to look our troops in the eye and tell them what a great job they are doing to rid the world of terrorism once and for all and how very much they are appreciated back home in Georgia and all around the world. It's because of their brave sacrifice that America remains safe and secure. These are the men and women who make America the great country that it is and I couldn't be prouder of their dedication to accomplishing this mission. I know they are going to continue to be the professional soldiers that they are until we ultimately prevail in the war on terrorism."
 
 