USDA DECLARES DISASTER IN 155 GEORGIA COUNTIES; FARMERS ELIGIBLE FOR LOW INTEREST LOANS DUE TO PRODUCTION LOSSES
  Georgia farmers received welcome news today as the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) granted a primary disaster designation for 155 counties based on production losses due to drought and excessive temperatures.  
  "Governor Perdue's approved disaster designation by Secretary Johanns immediately triggers federal low-interest FSA emergency loans to eligible producers in all Georgia counties," said Senator Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "Georgia has the second-highest number of disaster designated counties of all the states and this widespread, damaging drought and high temperatures have taken a toll on Georgia's crops." 
  "Drought conditions are devastating to farmers and farming communities," said Governor Sonny Perdue. "Georgia farmers have sustained significant economic losses due to the dry conditions in Georgia, and I'm pleased that financial relief will now be available to them." On August 9, 2006, Georgia Governor Perdue requested a disaster declaration for the 155 counties. 
  "This declaration gives the opportunity for producers to take advantage of low-interest emergency loans now,' said Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga. "This is the first step in the process for disaster assistance should Congress approve a disaster package when we reconvene next month."
  "Georgia is not alone in facing disaster conditions and as I have traveled the country over the past month, more and more producers everywhere are experiencing drought conditions. We will continue to closely monitor these disaster conditions," Chambliss added. 
  USDA named four counties contiguous disaster counties. These counties include Fannin, Gilmer, Towns and Union counties. The disaster designation allows farm operators in both primary and contiguous counties to be eligible for low-interest emergency loans from the Farm Services Agency (FSA), provided eligibility requirements are met. FSA will consider each application for a loan on the basis of the extent of agricultural production loss.
 
 