SEN. CHAMBLISS SAYS 9-11 COMMISSION REPORT WILL HELP CONGRESS IMPROVE INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., welcomed today's release of the 9-11 Commission's report and said it will help Congress as it looks at improvements in the anti-terrorist capabilities of America's intelligence system.  
   "There were not a lot of new revelations in this report," Chambliss said. "I think that this commission is emphasizing the issue that not only was Congress not prepared for 9 - 11 to happen, the United States and our citizens were not prepared, either."
   Chambliss said this report, along with reports from the House and Senate intelligence committees, has pointed out intelligence failures which need to be corrected. "There was a renewed emphasis on the fact that there were a number of intelligence failures in the intelligence community all across the world leading up to 9 - 11. We made some of the corrections that we needed to make in the intelligence community but there are a number of others that we have not made. We need to continue working to make sure that our intelligence community does a better job of gathering, analyzing, and sharing intelligence with the appropriate individuals."
   Chambliss lauded the bipartisan results of the Commission's investigation. "One of the more significant things in the report is it appears that the Bush administration did everything in its power to prevent this attack, but there were some lapses in the intelligence community leading up to 9-11 that were outside of the control of the administration," he said. "I don't think this is a bad reflection on any administration."
   "We were not prepared for the 9-11 attacks to happen from an intelligence standpoint or a law enforcement standpoint," Chambliss said. "Today we are much better prepared. Tomorrow we will be even better prepared. Now it is up to us as members of Congress to move ahead in a bipartisan way to shore up the deficiencies that once again were pointed out in this commission report so we can make sure America is a safer place tomorrow than it is today."  
   For more information contact the Chambliss press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 