SEN. CHAMBLISS URGES STATE DEPARTMENT TO ADDRESS DELAYS IN PASSPORT PROCESSING
  U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., this week urged U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to take immediate action to remedy the current passport backlog at the State Department. Chambliss said he has been contacted by an overwhelming number of his constituents who have been seeking help with the long processing delays.  
   The demand for passports increased substantially due to the recent implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI), which requires passports for entry into Canada, Mexico, Bermuda and the Caribbean. Currently, there are 2 million pending passports and processing time has increased from 6 weeks to an unanticipated three months, causing many travelers to delay or cancel their travel plans altogether because they have not received their passports in time. 
   "It is unacceptable that Georgians must suffer the consequences because the State Department did not fully anticipate the increase in passport applications and take appropriate action to increase processing resources," said Senator Chambliss. "Not only have Georgians had to change their plans or cancel them altogether but in many cases, individuals and families have suffered considerable financial losses. My office has been working tirelessly to assist folks through this unfortunate situation and I hope the Department will take immediate action to resolve this."
   In a letter to Rice, Chambliss and 55 senators urged the Department to take the following action: 
   1) Immediately cease to charge unwarranted fees for expediting and delivering passports whose issuance is delayed by the Department's failure to plan for the increased volume of passport applications;
   2) Immediately take further action to return processing time for passports to normal, pre-WHTI timeframes for those traveling to countries for which passports are still required; and,
   3) Develop and share with the Congress a plan (including any additional statutory authority or resources you may require) to ensure that similar problems do not recur either when the WHTI air travel requirements again take effect after September 30 or when the land border and sea travel provisions of the WHTI requirements take effect.
 
 