SEN. CHAMBLISS AMENDMENT ADDRESSES WAGE FAIRNESS FOR FARMERS, EMPLOYEES
  The Senate is considering an amendment offered by Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, to make wages fairer for farmers and employees. The Chambliss amendment is being considered as part of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006. A vote is scheduled within the half hour. 
  Chambliss said that without allowing a local, occupation-specific wage for all agricultural workers, the proposed Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act will continue an unfair discrepancy of agricultural workers that will continue to fuel illegal immigration. Chambliss pointedly told his colleagues during debate that his amendment would allow a prevailing wage coverage standard by the U.S. Labor Department, rather than the generalized survey of wages by the U.S. Department of Agriculture that fails to reflect local wages or occupations. 
  "Those who have flaunted the rule of law by refusing to utilize the temporary worker program for agriculture - the H-2A program - have gained a tremendous economic advantage over their counterparts who have adhered to the laws on the books today," said Chambliss. "We know from past experience that once farm workers are legalized through an amnesty, they leave farm work. 
  "This means that the farmers who use an illegal workforce today and plan to legalize their workers with the blue card program in this bill will be faced with the reality that the H-2A program will be the only avenue for legal workers when they cannot find others to do the jobs they need in the near future. They can't compete with the illegal workforce and they won't be able to compete with employers of blue card workers. 
  "My amendment eliminates some of the hardships this bill levies on those agricultural employers who have been and will continue to utilize the legal program we have in place for temporary agricultural workers," Chambliss added.
  While a farmer who currently utilizes H-2A workers in an occupation will have to pay all workers in that occupation the Adverse Effect Wage Rate, those farmers who have been using an illegal workforce and are allowed to continue to use that same workforce, which is legalized through the immigration reform bill, will only be bound by the applicable minimum wage. The Chambliss wage amendment will provide additional worker protections for all agricultural workers, including those receiving a blue card, as well as mandated wages established by the U.S. Department of Labor that reflect geographic location, occupation, and skill level, unlike under current law and in the immigration reform bill.
 
 