SEN. CHAMBLISS SAYS SEPARATE FACT FROM FICTION WHEN JUDING PROGRESS IN IRAQ
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., member if the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the Senate Armed Services Committee today delivered a speech to the Senate regarding the current situation in Iraq. 
   Chambliss urged the American people to judge President George W. Bush's policy in Iraq, "not by the rhetoric of his detractors but by those who know the facts." 
   Following is a transcript of Chambliss' speech as delivered to the Senate.
   "I raise today to help frame the issue of Iraq. The American people deserve straight forward answers on issues of war and national security; especially when their lives are directly threatened and our military forces are engaged around the world in the war on terrorism. And it is not just our military forces that are at risk; our diplomats, intelligence professionals, and ordinary civilians working in war zones all face enormous danger from a very treacherous and barbaric enemy. 
   "The recent, brutally grotesque beheadings of innocent Americans Eugene Armstrong on Monday and Jack Hensley yesterday are just two of many examples of the kind of evil that we face and why it must be eradicated.
   "Ambiguity is something we probably should expect in a heated political campaign, but anything less than total candor on national security issues is not acceptable.
   "The junior senator from Massachusetts has accused President Bush of "colossal failures of judgment" on his plan for Iraq. He then went on to lay out his own four-point plan for handling the conflict in Iraq:
   1. Get more help from other nations
   2. Provide better training for Iraqi security forces
   3. Provide benefits to the Iraqi people
   4. Ensure democratic elections can be held next year as promised
   "Mr. President, I have no problem with this plan because it is exactly the short-term and long- term plan now in place by the Bush Administration. Our President has consistently and assiduously worked with our allies to get more help in Iraq. 
   "Sure, we would like to get more countries on board with us, but this is tough business and it takes bold, visionary leader - like those we see in Great Britain, Italy, Poland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, and dozens of our closest allies. To imply, as some of my colleagues have, that the United States is not getting help from our international friends is simply untrue. As terrorism spreads to other countries, as it did recently in Russia, we should expect - and provide - even more help.
   "And let me point out the obvious about some allies, like France, who have not been supportive of our policies in Iraq. Their foreign policy decisions are based on internal political considerations and not on the personality of the President of the United States. For some of my colleagues to imply that some countries will change their policies toward Iraq if we change our President is ludicrous and misleading. 
   "The French will change their foreign policy when they change their President, not when we change ours. I have a great deal of trust and confidence in the common sense of the American people and I'm sure they will understand exactly what I'm saying.
   "The junior senator from Massachusetts has also called for better training for Iraqi security forces. I'm glad that he also agrees with President Bush on this point. Training Iraqi security forces is a high priority of this Administration. 
   "Let's look at the facts
   The Iraqi Army has more than 62,000 members. Of these, about 46,000 have been trained and another 16,000 are currently in training. 
  All 27 battalions of the Iraqi Army will be operational by January 2005.
  "Speaking at New York University recently, the Democratic Presidential candidate said, "Of the 35,000 police now in uniform, not one, not one, has completed a 24-week field training program." Just yesterday, however, The Washington Post reported that the head of strategic plans and policy for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Lt.Gen. Walter Sharp, said that Kerry's accusation was simply not accurate. According to Gen. Sharp, who is in a position to know, basic training for new Iraqi police officers is eight weeks, followed 26 weeks of "on-the-job" field training.
   "The Post article went on to say that Gen. Casey, the top US commander in Iraq, estimates that Iraqi security forces will be in 'local control' of the majority of Iraq by the end of December, which is just three months away. 
   "Gen. Casey went on to define 'local control' as a combination of having Iraqi security forces in place, plus an assessment of the ability of local political leaders to govern and to manage economic reconstruction efforts. 
   "Others have criticized the President for not getting NATO involved in Iraq. Too bad they didn't read yesterday's London Financial Times. If they had, they would have read that, "NATO is close to a deal to establish a military training academy in Iraq. The academy, which would have a staff of about 300, is intended to give substance to a decision by a NATO summit in June to provide training to the war-torn country as it seeks to build up its institutions." I hasten to add, Mr. President, that this NATO initiative was put forward by our President and his Administration. So getting NATO involved is another area where the Democratic Presidential candidate agrees with the Bush Administration's policy in Iraq. Let me also add that 15 of 26 NATO member states are sharing the military burden on the ground with us in Iraq.
   "Charles Colton's famous quotation, "Imitation is the sincerest of flattery," certainly applies to my colleague, Mr. Kerry. His four-point plan is not new and it certainly is not original. A careful review of President Bush's policies in Iraq clearly shows that this Administration has been implementing all the points addressed by Senator Kerry well before he even articulated them.
   "We need to judge the President's policy in Iraq, not by the rhetoric of his detractors, but by those who know the facts. Tomorrow, Mr. President, the Congress will welcome, in Joint-Session, the interim Prime Minister of Iraq, Dr. Allawi. 
   "Let's hear from him how things are going in Iraq. Let's listen to him to find out what the Iraqi people think of our policies and programs for restoring security and getting the Iraqi economy going. 
   "Mr. President, let me close by quoting from President Bush's speech, which he gave at the United Nations yesterday. I believe it clearly shows why we are in Iraq, something that others do not seem to grasp.
   "Our security is not merely found in spheres of influence, or some balance of power. The security of our world is found in the advancing rights of mankind. These rights are advancing across the world -- and across the world, the enemies of human rights are responding with violence. Terrorists and their allies believe the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the American Bill of Rights, and every charter of liberty ever written, are lies, to be burned and destroyed and forgotten." He went on to say, "We are determined to destroy terror networks wherever they operate, and the United States is grateful to every nation that is helping to seize terrorist assets, track down their operatives, and disrupt their plans."
   "The Acting Secretary of the Army, The Honorable Les Brownlee, has eloquently framed why Iraq is important in the war on terrorism when he said, "This is not simply a fight against terror - terror is a tactic. This is not simply a fight against al Qaeda, its affiliates and adherents - they are foot soldiers. This is not simply a fight to bring democracy to the Middle East - that is a strategic objective. This is a fight for the very ideas at the foundation of our society, the way of life those ideas enable, and the freedoms we enjoy."
 
 