SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON HAIL MILITARY FUNDS FOR ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today praised the Senate's passage of the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill, which provides important funds for military construction at Georgia's Bases and for the Department of Veterans Affairs. The Bill includes $2 million for key military construction funds for Robins Air Force Base. 
   Specifically, Robins Air Force Base will receive $2 million for Approach Lighting System.
   "All the hard working men and women at Robins Air Force Base play such an important role in the national security of the United States," said Chambliss. "These important funds will make much needed improvements to the base's runway to ensure the safety of or military men and women working at the base." 
   "This investment at Robins Air Force Base is very good news for Georgia," Isakson said. "Robins Air Force Base plays a key role in the security of our nation, and I am very pleased to see such a strong commitment to them from Washington."
   Additionally, the bill includes over $70.7 billion in funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs, including key funds for the health care needs for America's Veterans.
  "I can think of no higher priority than caring for our nation's Veterans who were wounded in their service to our Nation," said Chambliss. "America's Veterans have made great sacrifices to ensure that we call live in a safe and secure America and for the Freedom we all enjoy. It's only right that we do all we can for our Veterans." 
   "As a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, one of my top priorities is to make sure we take care of the veterans who have dedicated their lives to serving our country. This VA funding reflects the strong commitment we must make to the men and women who have served so ably," said Isakson.
   Now that the bill has passed the senate, the legislation will now move to a joint House-Senate Conference Committee, where differences between the two chamber's versions will be ironed out.
 
 