BIPARTISAN CAMPAIGN REFORM ACT
  By Mr. CHAMBLISS (for himself, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. ALLEN, and Mr. LOTT): 
   S. 2702. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to repeal the requirement that persons making disbursements for electioneering communications file reports on such disbursements with the Federal Election Commission and the prohibition against the making of disbursements for electioneering communications by corporations and labor organizations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Rules and Administration.  
   Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the First Amendment Restoration Act of 2004, a companion bill to H.R. 3801, which was introduced earlier this year in the House by my former colleague, Congressman Roscoe Bartlett. In the last few years, we've seen some remarkable restrictions placed on the ability of organizations to exercise their first amendment rights with respect to campaign contributions. One particular example is the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, or BCRA, which contains some provisions that have always troubled me. Although in McConnell v. FEC, the Supreme Court upheld BCRA's restrictions as constitutional, this is not the first time that I've disagreed with the Court's conclusions on what kind of conduct I think is or is not constitutionally protected. 
   Specifically, I am concerned with the provisions of BCRA that limit the ways in which some organizations can contribute funds within certain time frames before an election. Under BCRA, labor unions and corporations, which include trade associations and interest groups as diverse as the ACLU and the NRA, are limited to only contributing PAC funds within 30 days of a primary and 60 days of a general election. These limitations apply to contributions for what are know as ``electioneering communications,'' which are any broadcast, cable, or satellite communications that refer to a clearly identified Federal candidate and that reach 50,000 or more people in the relevant district or State.
   I believe that Congress can go beyond what the Supreme Court's decision in McConnell v. FEC envisions as what is constitutionally protected speech and that Congress should provide further first amendment protections for organizations wanting to make political contributions. This is why today I am introducing the First Amendment Restoration Act. This bill would repeal those provisions of BCRA that limit corporations and labor unions from making any other contributions than those run through political action committees within the 30- and 60-day periods set out in the act. I am proud to say that Senators JIM INHOFE, GEORGE ALLEN, and TRENT LOTT have agreed to cosponsor this bill. I look forward to the debate on the First Amendment Restoration Act and on issues of campaign-finance reform in general, as we see how the restrictions we place on speech really play out in the real world.
 
 