SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON PRAISE SENATE APPROVAL OF LEGISLATION TO RENAME POST OFFICES IN HONOR OF FALLEN SOLDIERS
  U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today praised Senate approval of legislation to rename several U.S. Post Offices in Georgia in honor of fallen soldiers. 
   The U.S. Post Office located at 3035 Stone Mountain Street in Lithonia, Ga., will be renamed the "Specialist Jamaal RaShard Addison Post Office Building." The U.S. Post Office located at 5815 McLeod Street in Lula, Ga., will be renamed the ``Private Johnathon Millican Lula Post Office.'' The U.S. Post Office located at 116 Helen Highway in Cleveland, Ga., will be renamed the ``Sgt. Jason Harkins Post Office Building''.
   "These men are true heroes who made the ultimate sacrifice for freedom and democracy," said Chambliss. "This is such a special way to honor their service and sacrifice to our country."
   "These men served without desire for credit, but on behalf of their country and everything that we stand for," Isakson said. "Naming this post office after them is one small way to honor the sacrifices they made to make the United States and Georgia a better place."
   Specialist Jamaal R. Addison
   Addison was a member of the 507th Maintenance Company, and was part of the initial invasion of Iraq. He was the first soldier from Georgia to make the ultimate sacrifice. Addison, a longtime resident of Lithonia, graduated from Lakeside High School in Decatur, Ga., before joining the United States Army in 2000. He spent a year in Korea before he was sent to the Middle East in the first days of the Iraqi war. On March 23, 2003, Addison was traveling with the 507th Maintenance Company when the convoy was ambushed. Addison is survived by his parents and his 6-year-old son, Jamaal Rashard Addison, II.
   Private First Class Johnathon Millican
   Millican served in the 377th Parachute Field Artillery Regiment from Fort Richardson, Alaska. Millican, a Hall County native, was killed by insurgents in Iraq while conducting an operation in Karbala on January 20, 2007. Millican was off duty in a communications room talking with his wife when the attackers fired several rounds into the room with an AK-47 and tossed in a concussion grenade. Millican covered the grenade with his body, attempting to protect his comrades from the enemy intrusion. Private First Class Johnathon Millican was later awarded the Silver Star Medal of Honor for his courage, valor and dedication for his fellow soldiers. Millican is survived by his wife, Shannon, his parents and sisters.
   Sergeant Jason Harkins
   Harkins served in the Army's 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division out of Fort Lewis, Wash. Harkins, a Clarkesville native, was serving his second tour of duty in Iraq when he died of wounds sustained from an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) that detonated near his vehicle during combat operations in Baqubah on March 6, 2007. Harkins served over three years in the U.S. Army Reserves and is a recipient of the Bronze Star of Valor and the Purple Heart. Harkins is survived by his wife, Emily Renee Cook Harkins, his parents and his brothers and sisters.
 
 