SEN. CHAMBLISS SECURES AMENDMENT TO LOWER RETIREMENT AGE FOR GUARD, RESERVE
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today secured an amendment to the fiscal year 2007 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would lower the retirement age for members of the United States National Guard and Reserve based on the number of days the member is called to active duty.  
  Chambliss successfully secured a similar measure to last year's NDAA that reduced the Guard and Reserve retirement age requirement by 3 months for every 90 days of active service a Reservist performs in support of a contingency operation, or war zone, in a fiscal year, retroactive to September 2001, and sets the minimum age to collected retired pay at 50.
  This new amendment expands the time frame to include any call to active duty as a result of a Presidential recall or a full or partial mobilization of the reserve components, rather than limiting the time only to service in a war zone. 
  "Whether they are defending freedom in Iraq and Afghanistan, securing our borders from illegal entry or serving at the Pentagon, members of the National Guard and Reserve play a critical role in our national defense," said Chambliss. "We depend on these men and woman like never before and as their roles change; we need to consider changing the way we compensate them for extended times of active duty service." 
  The amendment also includes a measure to expand TRICARE eligibility to members of the Selected Reserve. Spearheaded by Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-SC, the added language improves the current three-tiered health care benefit for members who agree to continue to serve in the Selected Reserve by improving the co-payment for tier 3 from an 85/15 cost share to 75/25, and including members who are employed by a small business as eligible for coverage under tier 2 (50-50).
  The Reserve Officers Association of America, the National Guard Association of the United States, and the Reserve Enlisted Association also support this amendment and see it as an important, responsible step forward in support of our guardsmen and reservists.
  "We need our soldiers to know that we stand behind them and honor the great sacrifices they make on behalf of our county," said Chambliss. "This amendment will improve the quality of life for many of our American soldiers and I can think of no higher priority for this bill than ensuring our Guardsmen and Reservists are able to collect their retirement pay just a little earlier." 
  Chambliss is Co-chairman of the Senate Reserve Caucus and a member of the Guard Caucus.
 
 