SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON EXPRESS ALARM OVER LAKE LANIER WATER RELEASE
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., sent the following letter to The Honorable Francis J. Harvey, Secretary of the Army, expressing their alarm regarding the news that a calibration error caused excessive water release from Lake Lanier and affirming Governor Perdue's decision to file a temporary restraining order on water release from Lake Lanier to the Apalachicola River. 
  June 20, 2006 
   The Honorable Francis J. Harvey
  Secretary of the Army
  The Pentagon
  Washington, DC 20301
  Dear Secretary Harvey:
  We are writing to echo the grave concerns we expressed to you in our meeting last week regarding the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' operations of the reservoirs in the Apalachicola--Chattahoochee--Flint (ACF) River Basin. We were extremely disturbed to hear the latest announcement by the Corps of Engineers that, due to a calibration error, the Corps released 650 cubic feet per second in excess water over a 52 day period, totaling about 22 billion gallons of excess water released from Lake Lanier.
  While the announcement in and of itself is troubling, we were most disturbed to learn that the Corps likely knew of this over-draw on the day before the announcement and failed to inform our staff when they called the Corps headquarters in D.C. to inquire about a possible announcement. Due to an inquiry from the Atlanta Journal Constitution regarding an impending announcement from the Corps of Engineers, we directed our staffers to contact the Corps of Engineers on the afternoon of Friday, June 16, 2006 to see if any announcement was to be forthcoming and to see if there was any update regarding the basin. Our staffers were unequivocally informed that no such announcement was pending. 
  However, on Saturday, June 17, 2006 we received an email that was sent from the Corps of Engineers to a group of interested parties in the level of Lake Lanier and staff at the Georgia Department of Natural Resources informing them that the Corps of Engineers discovered that the water level was 1.9 feet lower than what was being reported on Friday, June 16. Understandably, the current credibility deficit between us and the Corps of Engineers has deepened as a result of this incident. 
  As we said to you in our meeting last week, we understand that you have a war to run, but ensuring the water needs of Georgia are met is critical to our state and its citizens and therefore remains a top priority for us. The Corps of Engineers has a duty to properly manage this basin and we believe this latest incident is further evidence of their failure to do so. Even more upsetting is our belief that the lines of communication between us and the Corps of Engineers was not as frank and open as it should have been.
   While we are pleased that you agreed to extend the Section 7 consultation period between the Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to allow for sound scientific data to be incorporated into the Endangered Species Act determination, we renew our request for you to proceed immediately with the process of updating the water control manuals for this basin. 
  Having a plan in place to meet all the needs of this basin will ensure that water is properly allocated. Until that process begins, we will stand firmly behind Governor Perdue in his decision to file a temporary restraining order on the Corps to allow only the minimum necessary flow in the Apalachicola River at Chattahoochee, Florida.
  We appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to your response.
  Very truly yours,
   Saxby Chambliss 
  United States Senate 
   Johnny Isakson
  United States Senate
 
 