WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Macon's 25th Annual Cherry Blossom Parade
   Dear Friends,
   This week, the Senate debated the annual budget resolution. I voted against the budget because it includes the largest tax increase in history. Raising taxes on the backs of hard-working Georgians and Americans is not the right approach for this country and it would stifle economic growth. In addition, the budget fails to reign in federal spending, address entitlement reform, and ensure the long term solvency of Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.
   Before this week's work began in Washington, I participated in two of Georgia's great traditions, the annual St. Patrick's Day parade in Savannah and the Macon Cherry Blossom Festival. Additionally, I was privileged to address members of the Dublin Rotary and Kiwanis Clubs during their annual combined luncheon last Friday. Maintaining a dialogue with our local civic leaders is very important to me. To read more about my visit to Dublin, click here.
   IMMIGRATION UPDATE 
   Many of you have contacted my office recently asking for an update on where the immigration debate currently stands in Congress. Rest assured, I continue to meet with my colleagues on a regular basis as we move forward in addressing the need for border security and immigration reform. It is likely that the Senate will address this issue in the near future. We have a serious problem with illegal immigrants crossing our borders and Congress needs to find a solution. First and foremost, we must secure the borders of this country, because if we don't secure the borders we've accomplished nothing.
   Second, I want you to know that I am absolutely opposed to any form of amnesty, and that's why I opposed the immigration bill passed by the U.S. Senate in 2006. In my view, that bill put a greater emphasis on providing a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants than it did on border security, and that is simply not the right approach. Congress approved amnesty once before back in 1986, and since then the illegal population has more than doubled. I don't believe we should repeat the mistakes of the past, mistakes that would have far-reaching implications on future generations.
   Securing our borders is a matter of national security and that's why must get it right.
   SIDING WITH FARMERS, SENATORS WITHDRAW PLAN TO UNDERFUND AGRICULTURE
   Many senators from farm states, including myself and Senator Isakson, took to the Senate floor this week during the budget debate to oppose a measure that would shift funds out of agriculture in the proposed budget resolution for fiscal years 2008 through 2012. Fortunately, our objections to limit farm support were heard and the amendment was withdrawn. In my view, it is the Agriculture Committee's responsibility to address proposed farm program payment limitations along with other critical agriculture policy issues during the farm bill reauthorization process coming up later this year. I believe policy affecting farmers should be fully debated in the appropriate forum - the 2007 farm bill - not during the budget debate.
   To watch my Senate floor speech during this debate, click here.
   FOCUS ON TRADE PROMOTION AND FOOD AID PROGRAMS
   This week, I received testimony during a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing to examine the performance of U.S. trade and food aid programs that are going to be considered for the 2007 farm bill. The hearing was helpful in identifying key components necessary to better target resources, expand agriculture exports, and more efficiently utilize precious resources in our food aid programs. Trade has always been an essential part of agriculture policy and the future profitability of farmers and ranchers continues to rely upon strong export markets. During a time of ongoing free trade negotiations with South Korea and other countries, and the negotiations in the World Trade Organization are taking place, the importance of trade will only grow in the future. Additionally, American food aid programs are a cornerstone of U.S. foreign policy and along with the domestic feeding programs, provide much needed food assistance at home and aboard.
   To read more of my thoughts on this issue, please click here.
   SENATE FAILS TO APPROVE CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE AMENDMENT
   I was very disappointed with the Senate's failure to approve an amendment that Senator Isakson and I offered to the budget resolution that would have ensured that funding used for adults under the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) would have been used for children instead. Our amendment failed by vote of 44-55. I believe our proposal was fair and put children first in the way that the State Children's Health Insurance Program intended. Additionally, it would have also saved the taxpayers an estimated $400 million over five years and $900 million over ten years.
   To read more about our amendment, click here.
   FUNDING FOR GEORGIA WAR VETERANS' HOME ANNOUNCED
   I was pleased to join my colleague, Senator Isakson, in announcing funds for improvements to be made at the Georgia War Veterans' Home in Milledgeville. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs will distribute this funding, which is to be used for upgrading the sprinkler systems in the Russell and Vinson buildings. This funding will go a long way toward upgrading the infrastructure of the facility, which provides important health care services for our Georgia veterans. We must do all that we can to ensure that our veterans receive the very best care possible in a safe environment.
   FUNDING FOR REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT CENTERS ANNOUNCED
   I was also pleased to join Senator Isakson in announcing that several grants have been awarded to Regional Development Centers (RDC) throughout Georgia. The Economic Development Administration will distribute the funding as part of an initiative to support long-term regional and economic development planning efforts within our communities. The following RDC's have been awarded grants thus far:
   * Northeast Georgia RDC, which includes Barrow, Clarke, Elbert, Greene, Jackson, Jasper, Madison, Morgan, Newton, Oconee, Oglethorpe, and Walton Counties.
   * McIntosh Trail RDC, which includes Butts, Lamar, Pike, Spalding, and Upson Counties.
   * Central Savannah River RDC, which includes Wilkes, Lincoln, Taliaferro, Warren, McDuffie, Columbia, Richmond, Burke, Jefferson, Glascock, Jenkins, Washington, and Hancock Counties.
   * Georgia Mountains RDC, which includes Banks, Dawson, Forsyth, Franklin, Habersham, Hall, Hart, Lumpkin, Rabun, Stephens, Towns, Union, and White Counties.
   * Heart of Georgia Altamaha RDC, which includes Appling, Bleckley, Candler, Dodge, Emanuel, Evans, Jeff Davis, Johnson, Laurens, Montgomery, Tattnall, Telfair, Toombs, Treutlen, Wayne, Wheeler, and Wilcox Counties.
   * Middle Georgia RDC, which includes Baldwin, Bibb, Crawford, Houston, Jones, Monroe, Peach, Pulaski, Putnam, Twiggs, and Wilkinson Counties.
   * North Georgia RDC, which includes Fannin, Gilmer, Murray, Pickens, and Whitfield Counties.
   * Atlanta Regional Commission, which includes Cherokee, Clayton, Cobb, DeKalb, Douglas, Fayette, Fulton, Gwinnett, Henry and Rockdale Counties.
   IN THE NEWS?.
   I recently had an opinion piece published in The Hill regarding my thoughts on funding U.S. farm policy. Please visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999955626.29817.63&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1611 to read my column.
   A recent editorial in the Rome News-Tribune highlighted my effort to reduce the retirement age for members of the National Guard and Reserve based on their amount of active duty service in support of contingency operations. To read the editorial, "More than applause for the National Guard," please visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999955626.29817.63&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1613.
   As always, anyone needing assistance with a federal agency is encouraged to contact one of my offices toll free at 1-800-234-4208. One of my caseworkers stands ready to assist you.
 
 