SEN. CHAMBLISS DISAPPOINTED WITH DEMOCRATS' PARTY LINE VOTE ON STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM AMENDMENT
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today expressed disappointment in the Senate's failure to approve an amendment he and Sen. Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., offered to the budget resolution that would have ensured funding used for adults under the State Children's Health Insurance Program, also known as SCHIP, would have been used for children instead. The amendment failed by vote of 44-55. 
   Chambliss said, "I'm disappointed that the Majority Leader was able to convince a number of Democratic senators to turn this into a party line vote when I believe we had the support to get this amendment approved. Our proposal was fair and put children first in the way that the State Children's Health Insurance Program intended. Additionally, it would have also saved the taxpayers an estimated $400 million over five years and $900 million over ten years. I appreciated Republican Leader McConnell and Ranking Finance Member Grassley for their support during this effort."
   Specifically, the amendment would have prohibited states from receiving an enhanced SCHIP match rate for adults who are covered under the program. States that continue to insure adults with SCHIP funds would receive a lower federal Medicaid match instead. The new lower match rate would free up funding that would be used to create a reserve fund to provide dental and mental health benefits for children. 
   There are currently 12 states that offer benefits to adults through the SCHIP program and will spend up to $807 million of the taxpayers' dollars this year alone, to fund more than $671,000 adults in a program intended for children. The state of Georgia does not fund adults. "The increased federal match was created as an incentive for states to cover children, not adults," said Chambliss. "Parents know and understand that routine dental care is critically important to children's overall health. We must do better for our kids, and today's vote was extremely disappointing."
 
 