SEN. CHAMBLISS ISSUES STATEMENT ON DOD SCHOOLS
  Mr. Chambliss: Mr. President, I rise today in support of the 2nd degree amendment offered by the Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, the Senator from Virginia. I first want to commend the Senator from New York for raising an extremely important issue that is of central importance to not just people serving in the military, but everyone in our country who is a parent, and that is the education of our children. 
   The Department of Defense operates schools in several states as well as on military installations overseas. These schools were founded to provide an educational environment for children of military families that meets their unique needs and circumstances. The Department of Defense is currently in the process of reviewing DoD schools in the United States and deciding whether or not to keep those schools open. Over the past several months the Department has conducted town hall meetings with military families to discuss this issue. The overwhelming feedback from these families, whether they're from Fort Benning, Fort Bragg, Fort Campbell, or West Point, is that they want their children educated in military schools. The preference of these families corroborates those of military spouses I have met over the past several months during a course of hearings across the nation and in Washington on issues affecting military families and their children.
   There are 10 DoD schools in my home state of Georgia. When military families in Georgia hear about the possibility of their base schools being closed, they don't write me letters or call my office, they talk about marching on Washington - that is how strongly they feel about this subject. This is because they know that educating children in military schools provides the best environment for children experiencing the unique circumstances and stresses that come with being part of a military family. I appreciate and support the Department of Defense's goals for greater efficiency and cost savings across the Department. However, these savings should be achieved in a way that does not adversely impact the education of military children.
   However, while I echo strongly the concerns that the Senator from New York raises with her amendment and the effects closure of schools, commissaries, and MWR facilities may have on the quality of life of military members, I do not think that the Congress should go as far as legislating that these facilities cannot be closed. However, I believe that we need to send a very strong message to the Department of Defense that they better not close these facilities without thoroughly reviewing and understanding the impact closure will have on the people affected by these closures. And as I have watched the Department proceed on this issue, I don't get the impression that they are taking this issue as seriously as they need to. I believe the 2nd degree amendment by the Chairman will put some necessary checks in place which will require the Department of Defense to explain their rationale prior to moving forward to close a school, commissary, or exchange facility. I think the Chairman's amendment represents the absolute minimum requirement on behalf of DoD, and as Chairman of the Personnel Subcommittee of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I expect to be fully consulted as the Department moves through the process of considering closuring these facilities.
   We need strong Congressional oversight and involvement in these areas which are central to the morale and quality of life of our men and women in uniform, and their families. Closing these facilities will cause hardship, and Congress needs to send a signal that closing these facilities should not be taken lightly and that the welfare of our military members needs to be of paramount importance as DoD proceeds to consider closing schools, commissaries, or exchanges.
   I commend both the Senator from New York and the Senator from Virginia for their involvement and concern about this issue.
   Thank you Mr. President, I yield the floor.
 
 