SEN. CHAMBLISS ISSUES STATEMENT ON BRACHYTHERAPY
  Mr. President: I rise today to introduce legislation, along with my colleague Senator Miller of Georgia that would amend the Medicare portion of the Social Security Act to exclude brachytherapy devices from the prospective payment system for outpatient hospital services under the Medicare Program. Currently, the number of devices reimbursed by Medicare is one set number and non-specific to the prostate cancer patient. 
    Prostate cancer accounts for 43% of all cancers found in men - more than triple the rate of lung cancer. The American Cancer Society estimates that nearly 221,000 men in the United States will be diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2003 and approximately 27,000 of these men will die as a result. The American Cancer Society also estimates that about 5,700 men diagnosed will be from Georgia and nearly 700 of them may die. This legislation will help some of these men fight and survive this indiscriminate killer. Over 130,000 men and their sons nationwide have been treated with brachytherapy Theraseeds to date.
   Brachytherapy is an important form of radiation treatment for prostate cancer in which radioactive "seeds" are implanted into the patient. While there are several ways to treat prostate cancer, patients need the freedom to choose the treatment that best suits them and their situation. Tremendous variations exist that may effect the clinical requirements for cancer patients using brachytherapy theraseeds, including variations in the types of radioactive isotopes, as well as the number and radioactive intensity of the seeds. The brachytherapy community indicates that these variations result in considerable differences in total brachytherapy costs among patients, varying from several hundred dollars to over $10,000 per patient.
   Prostate brachytherapy is different from many other clinical interventions because of the dramatic variability in the type, number and radioactivity of brachytherapy seeds needed to treat each patient. This variability is due to differences in the clinical presentation from patient to patient, including the type, staging, and size of a patient's cancer. This variability also results in a broad range of costs per patient. This legislation will allow a more fair reimbursement for physicians who are using brachytherapy to treat prostate cancer patients. This bill will also allow Medicare patients to receive another type of therapy when making decisions and dealing with the reality of being diagnosed with prostate cancer.
   I encourage all of my colleagues to support this piece of legislation so that men suffering with prostate cancer will have more coverage under Medicare should they choose brachytherapy for their treatment. Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.
 
 