SEN. CHAMBLISS: REP. GOSS IS BEST CHOICE TO LEAD OUR INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., member of the Senate Select Committee on intelligence, delivered a statement to the Senate regarding the nomination of Rep. Porter Goss, R-Fl., to be the new Director of Central Intelligence position. Goss was confirmed by the Senate by a 77-17 vote.
   As a member of the House of Representative, Chambliss served alongside Goss as a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. 
   Following is a transcript of Chambliss' statement:
   "I rise today in support of the nomination of Porter Goss to be the Director of Central Intelligence. There is no more important time in the history of our country, from an intelligence perspective, than we are in today. Porter Goss has been nominated by the President to be the chief intelligence officer for the United States. Porter Goss brings to the office an unparalleled wealth of experience and knowledge relative to intelligence matters. Porter Goss has been a friend of mine for 10 years, and I bring to this argument and this debate a little bit different perspective than any other Member of this body because I served in the House of Representatives for 8 years with Porter Goss, the last 2 as a member of the House Intelligence Committee under the chairmanship of Porter Goss.
   "During the last 2 years as a Member of the Senate and as a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I have continued a relationship with Porter Goss in the intelligence community. Both before September 11 and subsequent to September 11, I have seen Porter Goss in the trenches doing the kind of work that lawmakers have to do relative to their day-to-day jobs. Nobody has provided stronger leadership on the issue of intelligence than Porter Goss has, both before September 11 as well as after September 11, and more significantly after.
   "As I think about the arguments that have been brought forth in the public hearings over the last couple of weeks regarding Mr. Goss, the primary thrust of the negative arguments have been that he is too partisan and too political to carry out the job of the DCI.
   "Well, I will say this about this man for whom I have so much respect: I have seen him in an atmosphere of committee work. I have seen him in an atmosphere of social work. I have seen him in an atmosphere of operating on the floor of the House of Representatives. Certainly, there is nobody who is a stronger advocate for his position on any issue than Porter Goss. He is very direct. He is very plain spoken, and it is pretty obvious which side of the issue he is on. But he always does his arguing in a very respectful way, and in a way which advocates his position but does not get into personalities. Unfortunately, that is where the partisanship occurs in both this body and the body across the U.S. Capitol.
   "Porter Goss has conducted himself in a professional and nonpartisan way as chairman of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, as well as a member of the Rules Committee and otherwise in the U.S. House. He is a strong advocate for his positions but he is not a partisan person.
   "I will discuss very quickly why I feel so strongly about his background and what it brings to the table relative to his confirmation. Porter Goss started out early in his career as a military intelligence officer in the U.S. Army. He then moved into the realm of the Central Intelligence Agency and was a clandestine officer for the CIA in two different overseas posts. He knows the people within the CIA. A number of individuals who he served with during his CIA years are still employees at the CIA. He knows not only the organization, but he knows the personalities, and he knows the kinds of people who are led, and the kinds of people who need to lead at the Central Intelligence Agency.
   "Porter Goss followed his time as an Intelligence Officer in the field with 8 years as chairman of the House Select Committee on Intelligence. He has covered the spectrum from an intelligence perspective. He has been on the ground as an Army intelligence Officer, and the Department of Defense is the largest customer of the CIA. He has been at the ground level of the CIA, where the real work is done and where the real intelligence is gathered, by being a clandestine officer within the CIA. Then in his years as chairman of the House Select Committee on Intelligence he has been in a position to provide oversight for the work that not only he did as an active member of the intelligence community but following, particularly, post-September 11 he has provided the oversight and been critical where he needed to be critical, and yet complimentary where he needed to compliment the intelligence community relative to the work they were doing.
   "I don't know of anyone else who has the same diversified background as a soldier, a clandestine case officer, and a legislator as does Porter. It is pretty obvious that his background and vast experience are two of the main reasons why the President selected Mr. Goss to be the next Director of Central Intelligence.
   "Porter Goss is a personal friend and he is somebody for whom I have great respect. I know what kind of family man he is, I know the strength of his character, and I know his dedication to duty, which is why he accepted the nomination to become our next DCI. I also know the wealth of intelligence background he will bring to the table as our next DCI.
   "The main point I want to conclude with is the fact that we are in a very complex world. We are in a world where intelligence matters. We are in a world where we need to have the cooperation of our allies around the world to collect intelligence against common enemies and common threats.
   "I have been with Porter Goss when he has had meetings with numerous - too many to detail - heads of the intelligence communities of our allies, both abroad as well as here in Washington. I have seen the rapport and the relationship he enjoys with these individuals. I have been to other countries around the world to meet with the heads of their intelligence agencies, and the first question they will ask is not how am I doing but, "How is my friend Porter Goss doing?" He has an unparalleled relationship with the intelligence community around the world - not because he is just a good guy but because they respect him for the work he has done and they respect him for the knowledge and the experience he brings to the table relative to the intelligence community.
   "I strongly support the nomination of Porter Goss to be the next Director of Central Intelligence. I ask my colleagues to review the record on Mr. Goss, listen to the debates, but, at the end of the day, I hope we will send a resounding message to the President, and that is: You have picked the right man. Let's confirm Porter Goss as Director of Central Intelligence and move forward."
   For more information contact the Chambliss press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 