SEN. CHAMBLISS STAFFER HONORED BY UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA CHAPTER OF THE NATIONAL FOOTBALL FOUNDATION AND COLLEGE HALL
  U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today announced that long-time staffer and former University of Georgia football player, Marisa Simpson, was presented with a post-graduate achievement award this week by the University of Georgia Chapter of the National Football Foundation & College Hall of Fame. Post-Graduate Achievement Awards recognize former UGA athletes who have distinguished themselves in their chosen careers. Simpson, who played collegiate football from 1992-1996, serves as Chambliss' Regional Representative for the Atlanta-area. 
   "It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Marisa on being recognized for his outstanding collegiate and professional achievements," said Chambliss. "The same drive and hard work that guided him on the football field has transcended into a strong work ethic and has made him a tremendous asset as a long-time member of my staff. Marisa has a genuine personality and sense of humor and he's truly a great individual. This award is well-deserved."
   Six additional former UGA student-athletes also received awards during the spring banquet, including Buck Bradberry, Bob West, Ed Greenway, Rusty Epperson, Chris Hammond, and Jim Curington. Georgia head football coach Mark Richt recognized UGA scholar-athletes and Georgia high school scholar-athletes during this event.
   Born in Norcross, Georgia, Simpson attended Norcross High School and played football and ran track for the Blue Devils. While in high school, Simpson was named to the Gwinnett County All County Track and Football teams his junior and senior year. He participated in the North/South All Star Game, and was included in the Macon Telegraph's "Sweet 16." Simpson was listed in the Atlanta Journal Constitution as the 22nd best athlete in the State of Georgia for his senior class.
   Simpson attended the University of Georgia from 1992-1996 and lettered in football from 1994-1996. He was honored with the Most Outstanding Award for the scout team in 1992. His greatest moment between the hedges occurred when he was on the receiving end of a five-yard touchdown pass from Eric Zeier that set the all time SEC Passing record. Off the field, Simpson was a model student, garnering multiple dean's list honors.
   After Simpson left the university, he has worked with multiple charities and volunteer organizations throughout his life. Simpson has been a member of Chambliss' staff since 1997. He and his wife, Aimee, live in Tucker, Georgia.
 
 