SEN. CHAMBLISS: MARINE CORP LOGISTICS BASE TO CONTINUE PLAYING IMPORTANT ROLE IN U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., issued the following statement today regarding the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission's vote to maintain a recommendation by the Department of Defense that would add additional resources, missions and personnel at the Marine Corp Logistics Base in Albany.  
   "All the hard working men and women at MCLB play a very important role in the national security of the United States. By upholding DoD's recommendation to realign the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Barstow, CA, and move missions and personnel to MCLB Albany, the Commission is reaffirming what we have known all along - the base plays a significant role in the national security of the United States and will continue to do so for sometime to come. As the only Marine Corps logistics center east of the Mississippi, MCLB has distinguished itself time and time again. This has been especially evident in the work that MCLB personnel performed to manufacture superior vehicle armor kits to protect our Soldiers and Marines fighting on the front lines in the war on terror in Iraq right now."
   "Today's good news also can also be credited to the outstanding support from members of the entire Southwest Georgia community - including the Southwest Georgia Alliance for Progress - who continue to support the base and our military men and women and their families." 
   MCLB consists of a depot maintenance complex that provides worldwide expeditionary logistics and maintenance support to the Fleet Marine Force (FMF) as well as other forces and agencies. MCLB is also headquarters for the Marines' Logistics Command. 
   The BRAC Commission's final recommendation regarding this issue will be included in a list of recommendations nationwide that will be sent by September 8, 2005, to President Bush for his approval. President Bush will then have until September 23, 2005, to accept or reject the recommendation in its totality - without the ability to change pieces of the recommendation. If accepted, Congress will have 45 legislative days to reject the recommendation in its entirety or it becomes binding.
 
 