SEN. CHAMBLISS ANNOUNCES PLAN TO BOOST CELLULOSIC ETHANOL PRODUCTION
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today announced he has introduced legislation to increase the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) from 7.5 billion gallons in 2012 to 30 billion gallons in 2030. Sen. Chambliss' plan, the Cellulosic Ethanol Incentive Act of 2007, calls for a set-aside to accelerate and increase commercialization of cellulosic ethanol. Sen. Chambliss, a strong supporter of renewable fuels, said the legislation would help diversify commodities used to make biofuels while increasing America's energy security.  
   "Agriculture and energy policy are converging and unlike anytime in the past, farmers and ranchers are producing food, fiber and fuel," said Sen. Chambliss, Ranking Republican Member on the Senate Agriculture Committee. "As the country recognizes the danger of relying on imported oil, we need to develop an energy policy that is aggressive while at the same time thoughtful. This legislation takes into account the need to continue to support the biofuels sector, but also do it in a way that has the least disruption on existing markets as possible."
   Sen. Chambliss' Cellulosic Ethanol Incentive Act would promote regional diversity in the production of biofuels. The plan requires a minimum level of consumption within a particular region to accelerate the production of cellulosic ethanol from a variety of resources such as wood chips in Southeast to wheat straw on the Great Plains. The legislation would also accelerate the minimum quantity derived from cellulosic biomass in the RFS, currently 250 million gallons, from 2013 to 2010.
   "This legislation will help to ensure federal policy does not erode the profitability of the U.S. livestock sector by encouraging additional competition for available corn," said Sen. Chambliss. "We find ourselves in the position of encouraging an industry that directly competes with another that is important in all our states. Ever since the founding of our great country, farmers and ranchers have been an integral part in growing the safest, most affordable food supply in the world. Now we can build upon their success and we ask them to help grow an abundant source of energy."
   The current RFS requires a phase-in for renewable fuel over 7 years, beginning with 4 billion gallons by 2006 and ending at 7.5 billion gallons in 2012. Since the RFS went into effect on January 1, 2006, the U.S. has used more than 5 billion gallons of ethanol, outpacing RFS requirements by more than 25 percent. By 2008, it is estimated that new capacity will exceed the minimum level as called for in the RFS.
 
 