SEN. CHAMBLISS SAYS GEORGIA WILL BENEFIT FROM DEFENSE BILL
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Personnel, today praised the final passage of the FY 2005 Defense Authorization bill, which the Senate approved Wednesday by a vote of 97-0. Highlights of the bill include $147 million in new projects for Georgia that will help our troops win the war on terror. 
   Key provisions effecting Georgia include $3.4 billion for up to 24 F/A-22 aircraft, $320 million for four KC-130J aircraft and $939 million for 11 C-130J aircraft.
   "Our defense industry in Georgia plays a huge role in the development and construction of critical military equipment being used right now to fight the war on terrorism," said Chambliss. "If we are serious about protecting Americans and defeating terrorist regimes, we must equip our soldiers with top-of-the line equipment and resources to complete their missions." 
   Chambliss worked alongside Senate colleagues to secure seven additional projects to bolster our national defense including $30 million for the C-5 aircraft avionics modernization program, $53 million for an additional Navy C-37 aircraft, $23 million to expand the Amphibious Assault Vehicle Upgrades program, $10 million for the E-STRIKE radar program, $14.7 million for the PLAID radar, $13.3 million for the XM8 program, and $3 million for the Combat Arms Training System.
   Chambliss also helped ensure three amendments were included in the bill which will improve the quality of life for service members and their families including expanded benefits for families of deceased service members, guidelines to protect against the closure of Department of Defense dependent schools and commissaries, and authorization of the deployment of fulltime National Guardsmen to carry out homeland security activities in support of Federal agencies. 
   The bill also includes pay raises for service members, extensions of active duty special pay and bonuses, permanent increases in family separation allowance - from $100 per month to $250 per month, and increases in hostile fire and imminent danger pay - from $100 per month to $225 per month. 
   For more information, contact Chambliss' press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 