SENATORS URGE DOE TO KEEP SAVANNAH RIVER ECOLOGY LAB OPERATIONAL
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., Lindsey Graham, R-SC, and Jim DeMint, R-SC, are urging the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Samuel Bodman to do everything in his power to ensure the Savannah River Ecology Lab (SREL) at the Savannah River Site (SRS) remains operational. Otherwise, the senators said, the facility will have to close its doors. 
   Currently, the Department of Energy and the University of Georgia (UGA) have a cooperative agreement that reduces the amount of money the Department provides to SREL and requires it to compete for additional funds based upon scientific merit. The senators said they support the arrangement because they believe the University of Georgia has been taking the steps necessary to make SREL more competitive while continuing their important missions. 
   "The Department must honor its commitment," said Senator Chambliss. "The Savannah River Ecology Lab is critical to the region and we are proud to support it."
   "Senator Chambliss and I are working to see to it that the Department of Energy honors its commitment to the Savannah River Ecology Lab," Senator Isakson said. "The Ecology Lab has played a vital role at the Savannah River, and the Department of Energy needs comply with its agreement to fund the lab through FY07."
   In a letter to U.S. Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman, the senators said, "we are particularly concerned that DOE's Savannah River office made a commitment to UGA to fund SREL for FY07 and that this commitment is not being honored. Internal issues at DOE should not force SREL to close prematurely. We would ask you honor the cooperative agreement between DOE and UGA and the commitments made by your field offices for FY07 funding. We also highly encourage DOE to sit down with UGA to ensure there is no miscommunication between DOE and UGA going forward.
   "Over the decades, SREL has proven invaluable to DOE, the work done at SRS, the local communities, and the region's environment. We understand the budgetary constraints DOE is operating under due to the FY07 Continuing Resolution, but this resolution has also provided you with some flexibility to honor the commitments that have been made by DOE."
   "We hope that DOE will honor its 56-year history with SREL by fulfilling its FY07 agreement," said David Lee, Vice President for Research at UGA.
 
 