WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Dear Friends: 
  On Monday, the Senate is expected to vote on passage of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) Conference Report (H.R. 1496). This bill includes funding for critical water infrastructure projects in Georgia. Last week the Senate debated the Defense Authorization Bill (H.R. 1585) and we will likely return to consideration of that bill this week as well. 
   SHARE THE STORY WITH MARTHA ZOLLER
  Last Monday, I participated in Share the Story, a special radio broadcast hosted by Martha Zoller of WDUN 550 in Gainesville. A live satellite feed with troops in Baghdad allowed Georgians serving in Iraq to share their experiences with people at home. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I have traveled to Iraq five times, and I always enjoy the chance to hear directly from our men and women in theater and express my gratitude for their hard work and sacrifice. I was also pleased to join the families of those soldiers who were in attendance at the Share the Story event. I appreciate Martha Zoller's hard work in bringing these stories directly to her listeners. Additionally, I appreciate all the folks at Gainesville State College for hosting the broadcast on their campus.
   GENERAL PETRAEUS, TROOPS DESERVE CONTINUED SUPPORT
  Last week, General David Petraeus, Commander of Multi-National Force Iraq, and U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker testified before Congress. The purpose of their testimony was to provide a report on how the recent troop increase has impacted the security environment, and I appreciated their straightforward and honest assessment. While the situation continues to be complex, our military has worked relentlessly under the direction of General Petraeus to pursue the enemy, disrupt al-Qaeda and uncover hidden weapons. When I traveled to Iraq in May, I saw firsthand the work our troops have done to improve security, particularly in areas like al-Anbar Province, which was once an al-Qaeda stronghold. However, to sustain the progress that has been made and continue improving security and political reconciliation, we need to give our full support to our service members in the field and General Petraeus. 
  Six years ago, the September 11th terrorist attacks completely altered our concept of war and the ways in which we address the threats facing our nation. Georgians are still very much concerned about their safety and security, and we can't afford to take our homeland security for granted. Our men and women who wear the uniform of the United States of America are true heroes, and it is because of their efforts and those of intelligence and homeland security personnel that we have not suffered another attack on U.S. domestic soil since that day in 2001. We must continue to support them every day and show our appreciation for their sacrifice.
   SENATE APPROVES LEGISLATION TO CREATE GUARD REINTEGRATION PROGRAM
  Last week the Senate unanimously approved legislation I introduced with my colleague, Senator Isakson, to create a reintegration program for National Guard personnel returning from combat. This program ensures that service members and their families receive the training and assistance they need in order to successfully transition from the battlefield back to civilian life. 
  The bipartisan legislation is modeled after the Minnesota National Guard's "Beyond the Yellow Ribbon" program and is also co-sponsored by Senators Norm Coleman and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. The Minnesota program is a great model we can use to create a national program to help our returning Guardsmen and women. In this era of new threats, they are being called upon more and more, away from their families and their civilian employment for extended periods of time to defend and protect our nation. Our bill also encourages the employment of wounded service members and returning combat veterans.
   $1.1 MILLION SECURED FOR GEORGIA FARMERS AND RANCHERS 
  The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded nearly $1.1 million in new Value-Added Producer Grants to help Georgia farmers and ranchers add value to their agriculture products. This is good news for Georgia's producers. They will be able to use these funds to help create jobs and spur economic growth in Georgia's agriculture sector. 
   SENATE APPROVES RESOLUTION HONORING AUGUSTA'S COMMITMENT AND SERVICE TO VETERANS
  Last week the Senate unanimously approved a resolution I introduced with Senator Isakson commending Augusta's efforts in providing quality health care services to our nation's veterans. The resolution expresses gratitude to the Dwight D. Eisenhower Army Medical Center at Fort Gordon, the Augusta Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Medical College of Georgia, and local health care personnel for their collaborative efforts to provide the best support and resources to our wounded warriors. The resolution also encourages continued collaboration between the Army and the Department of Veterans Affairs in treating America's wounded warriors, and when appropriate and available, additional support and resources for the development of such collaborations. 
  Georgians are very proud of the great commitment, hard work, and critical services being provided to our veterans by countless people in the Augusta area. We are grateful for the support we have received from our Senate colleagues in unanimously approving this resolution, because it sends a strong message to our military personnel and their families that their service and sacrifice is not taken for granted.
 
 