SEN. CHAMBLISS INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO EXPEDITE INFORMATION SHARING BETWEEN FEDERAL, LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., introduced legislation that will allow the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to streamline the process by which counter-terrorism related information is disseminated throughout all appropriate law enforcement agencies.  
   Chambliss, along with co-sponsor Sen. Jon Kyl, R-AZ, introduced the bill titled, "The Information Sharing Improvement Act of 2004" (ISIA). The ISIA refines the process by which the FBI and Federal prosecutors acquire and disseminate counter terrorism intelligence with Federal, State, and local agencies that need it to protect the public from terrorism.
   "Local law enforcement is our first line of defense against terror attacks," said Chambliss. "They are likely to be the first officials to come into contact with terrorists, but they can do nothing if they are not made aware of suspects or information regarding possible attacks.
   "This common sense legislation will make our neighborhoods and communities safer and enhance the ability of local law enforcement to protect our families." 
   The current process requires the FBI to obtain information by submitting a National Security Letter (NSL) which function is similar to that of a subpoena. NSLs generally require that the requested information be relevant to an investigation of international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities, and prohibit investigations based solely on First Amendment-protected activities of United States persons (U.S. citizens and permanent resident aliens). Several different statutes govern the circumstances under which the Bureau may disseminate this information to other agencies. 
   Chambliss' legislation would amend these statutes to allow the dissemination of information obtained through NSLs to be consistent guidelines developed by the Attorney General. The ISIA also amends a statute that authorizes sharing of national security-related investigative information with relevant Federal, State, and local officials.
   Finally, the ISIA would restore Homeland Security Act amendments that broaden the sharing of federal grand jury information concerning threatened terrorist attacks with State and local authorities.
   "Unless we allow Federal, local and state governments to share their information on terrorists we will continue to allow them under our radar," said Chambliss. "This legislation will enhance our efforts to best protect American citizens."
   For more information contact the Chambliss press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 