TERRORIST INFORMATION STILL NEEDS TO BE SHARED
  By Sen. Saxby Chambliss
   When Attorney General John Ashcroft and FBI Director Robert Mueller recently held a press conference about the domestic terror threat, they did the country a service. They published the photographs and descriptions of seven persons wanted for involvement with terrorist activities. The American people got their first glimpses of many of these people, which means our law enforcement and intelligence services will benefit from tens of thousands of additional eyes and ears as they search for the suspects. 
   That was the good news. The bad news is that many of the law enforcement agencies in the United States got their first real look at these suspects from television, and not from the FBI directly. On May 20, before the Judiciary Committee on which I serve, Mr. Mueller testified that the FBI has put together a comprehensive list of terrorist suspects, but it still has not found a way to make this list available online to other law enforcement agencies.
   Local law enforcement is our first line of defense against terror attacks. They are likely to be the first officials to come into contact with terrorists, but they can do nothing if they are not made aware of suspects or information regarding possible attacks. This became painfully clear on the fateful day of September 11, 2001. Several of the suicide hijackers were actually stopped for traffic violations and released by local police, who were unaware of their terrorist connections. The CIA was looking for two of the hijackers, but the FBI was unaware of both their presence and the CIA's interest in them.
   To guard against a repeat of this tragic breakdown, I have introduced the Information Sharing Improvement Act of 2004 (ISIA). Existing Federal law authorizes the FBI to obtain certain records and information, such as telephone records, bank records, and consumer credit records, in investigations of terrorist activities. One of the tools that the FBI uses for this purpose is the National Security Letter (NSL) - in effect, a limited type of administrative subpoena - directed to the institutions that have these records. The statutes authorizing the use of NSLs generally require that the requested information be relevant to an investigation of international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities, and prohibit investigations based solely on First Amendment-protected activities of United States persons (U.S. citizens and permanent resident aliens). 
   When the FBI receives records or information in response to NSLs, however, several different statutes govern the circumstances under which the Bureau may disseminate this information to other agencies. The standards differ from statute to statute - complicating the sharing of the information with other agencies that may need it for counterterrorism purposes - and a number of these provisions curiously are more restrictive concerning information sharing with other Federal agencies than with non?Federal agencies. The ISIA would amend these statutes to allow the dissemination of information obtained through NSLs in conformity with consistent guidelines developed by the Attorney General. 
   The ISIA also amends a statute that authorizes sharing of national security-related investigative information with relevant Federal, State, and local officials, to make it clear that the statute applies regardless of whether the investigation in which the information was obtained is characterized as a "criminal" investigation or a "national security" investigation.
   Finally, the ISIA would restore Homeland Security Act amendments that broaden the sharing of federal grand jury information concerning threatened terrorist attacks with State and local authorities.
   The ISIA does not expand the powers of the FBI or Federal prosecutors to acquire records or information, but it will improve their ability to share information - obtained under existing authorities - with Federal, State, and local agencies that need it to protect the public from terrorism.
   We are involved in a war against foes who are tough, clever, ruthless, and absolutely determined to kill and harm Americans using any weapon or tool they can devise. Our enemies are also working, as Mr. Ashcroft pointed out in the press conference, on recruiting Americans to help in carrying out their attacks. We cannot fight this evolving threat using the old tactics of separate bureaucratic turfs. This effort will take all of us working together, and the best way we can ensure that our intelligence and law enforcement officials are all pulling together is to ensure they are sharing information effectively.
 
 