SEN. CHAMBLISS APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF WOUNDED WARRIOR BILL, PAY RAISE FOR SERVICEMEN, WOMEN
  U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, R-Georgia, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today applauded unanimous passage of the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act (S.1606) by the United States Senate. The legislation was voted out of the Armed Services Committee on June 14 and then adopted as an amendment to the annual defense authorization bill. Consideration of the defense authorization bill stalled in the Senate last week, and as a result the Senate leadership chose today to pass the legislation as a stand-alone bill, along with a 3.5% pay raise for all uniformed military personnel. 
   The Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act incorporates various pieces of legislation introduced in the U.S. Senate into one bill, including provisions from the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act introduced by Chambliss and Senator Mark Pryor, D-Arkansas, on May 3. The legislation is in response to shortcomings identified recently in the treatment of wounded servicemembers at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and other locations. 
   "Our wounded warriors deserve the very best in medical care," said Chambliss. "I was pleased to work with Senator Pryor on the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act. Addressing the needs of our military personnel is a bipartisan issue, and I applaud today's movement by the Senate leadership to call up and pass this important legislation so that improved care of our wounded warriors as well as a much-deserved pay raise for our troops will not be delayed any longer." 
   Chambliss offered the following provision during Committee consideration of the bill which was unanimously accepted. The provision would build upon a study being conducted at Emory University for the treatment of Traumatic Brain injury. 
   Traumatic Brain Injury: Directs the Department of Defense to review recent findings regarding progesterone and the treatment of Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). It also directs the Department of Defense to collaborate with other federal agencies regarding research and clinical trials related to TBI. 
   Additionally, Chambliss offered provisions during Committee consideration of the bill which would improve the management of medical care, expand hiring practices of medical personnel, and address quality of life issues for members of the Armed Forces. Senator Pryor cosponsored the following provisions which were unanimously agreed to:
   Expanded hiring authorities for all recipients of military medical healthcare: Builds upon the bill presented by the committee by expanding the additional authorities available to hire medical personnel. This applies to personnel caring for all recipients of military medical healthcare, without limiting it to those caring for wounded warriors.
   Communication of recruitment strategy: Requires the Secretaries of the military departments to develop a strategy that incorporates the best practices for recruiting, hiring, and retaining medical and health care personnel. This will reduce the time required to fill vacancies and will inform and educate personnel responsible for recruiting medical and health care professionals 
   Expansion of study on mental health care shortages: Expands upon the bill presented by the Committee, which requires a study and report on personnel shortages in the mental health field, to incorporate a study on shortages across the entire health care profession. 
   Leased facilities: Adds leased space to the list of facilities that must meet the established standards for military facilities in which health care is provided, as well as military facilities in which patients are housed. The issues regarding Walter Reed initially surfaced when the conditions at Building 18, which was at one point leased (and later purchased) by the Department of Defense to house wounded soldiers, were reported in the Washington Post. 
   Chambliss also cosponsored several amendments offered by Senator Pryor during Committee consideration of the bill which address the following issues:
   Ombudsman Office: Establishes a Defense-wide Ombudsman Office to provide oversight and guidance, assistance to families and accountability standards in regard to concerns arising during treatment, evaluation, and recovery of wounded soldiers. 
   Disability Severance Pay: Expands the population that is eligible for the enhancement of disability severance pay to include injuries incurred during performance of duty in support of combat operations. The original bill limits disability severance pay to disability incurred in the line of duty in a combat zone. 
   Chambliss and Senator Pryor also cosponsored the following amendment in Committee which was offered by Senator Evan Bayh, D-Indiana, and addresses the following issue: 
   Temporary Disability Retirement List: Expands those who are covered by the new policy required in the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act to include service members on the Temporary Disability Retirement List.
 
 