ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE ACCEPTS SEN. CHAMBLISS' NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE RETIREMENT LEGISLATION AS PART OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today praised the Committee's inclusion of his National Guard and Reserve retirement legislation as part of the 2008 National Defense Authorization Act. The Committee met this week to craft the defense authorization bill, which is crafted each year to authorize funding and policies for the Department of Defense and other defense programs. Chambliss offered his bill as an amendment to the defense authorization bill. The amendment was cosponsored by Sen. Mark Pryor, D-Arkansas.
   Chambliss' legislation, "The National Guard and Reserve Retirement Modernization Act," would reduce the age for receipt of retirement pay by three months (counting down from age 60) for every 90 days a Guard or Reserve member spends on active duty in support of a contingency operation. It would also include time spent on active service for purposes of responding to a national emergency declared by the president or supported by federal funds. Currently, National Guard and Reserve members are the only federal retirees who must wait until age 60 to collect retirement pay.  
   "I am extremely pleased to have received support from my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee," said Chambliss, who also serves as Co-Chairman of the Senate Reserve Caucus and a member of the Senate National Guard Caucus. "We must do all we can for our citizen soldiers who are shouldering an increasingly high percentage of our defense burden and are serving as an active force that is fully engaged in virtually every operation our military undertakes. My legislation recognizes members of the Guard and Reserve for their continued sacrifice for our country, provides them an additional incentive to continue serving, and will update our defense policies in ways that will help retain service members and enhance our country's military readiness." 
   Additionally, Chambliss offered an amendment to the defense authorization bill to raise the amount of leave a service member can carry over from 60 days (as is currently allowed), to 90 days. The amendment increases the time available to use carry over leave from 3 years to 4 years for service members who have deployed in support of a contingency operation, and allows those who serve in support of a contingency operation, but did not deploy, to carry over leave above 90 days for up to 2 years. The provision also allows enlisted service members who have accrued over 120 days of leave to sell back up to 30 days of leave at one other time during their career in addition to what they can sell back at retirement or re-enlistment. 
   "This specific provision keeps our troops from losing leave they have rightly earned, yet have been unable to take due to increased deployments," said Chambliss. "By allowing our troops to accumulate and use additional leave, they will be able to spend more quality time with their families before their next call of duty. We need to send a message that we appreciate our Armed Forces and recognize the sacrifices the members of our military and their families are making." Both of Senator Chambliss' amendments were accepted unanimously.
   Senator Chambliss originally introduced the "The National Guard and Reserve Retirement Modernization Act," (S. 648), as a stand alone bill in February of this year. On April 18, Chambliss testified on behalf of his legislation during a joint hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee's Personnel and Readiness and Management Support Subcommittees.
 
 