SEN. CHAMBLISS RECEIVES 2008 CONGRESSIONAL PARTNERSHIP AWARD FOR SUPPORT OF COMMUNITY, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS
  U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today was honored with a 2008 Congressional Partnership Award from the National Association of Development Organizations (NADO) for outstanding leadership in promoting federal community, economic and infrastructure development programs. Members from the Chattahoochee-Flint, Georgia Mountains, South Georgia and Southwest Georgia Regional Development Centers joined NADO in presenting the award to Chambliss. 
   "The federal government must continue to invest in our local communities so we can create jobs and improve quality of life in areas of need," said Chambliss. "Georgia is one of the fastest growing states in the country, and I am proud to advocate for our state at the federal level."
   NADO President Leanne Mazer said, "Senator Chambliss is a true leader who has displayed an unwavering commitment to providing new economic opportunities for our nation's local communities. Most importantly, Senator Chambliss understands that federal programs for basic infrastructure, small business development, job creation and comprehensive economic development planning are essential for the long-term competitiveness of our local communities."
   The biennial awards program recognizes members of Congress that have displayed strong support of regional development polices. Winners were selected based on their support of NADO's national legislative priorities, such as increased funding for the Economic Development Administration (EDA) and other federal community and economic development programs, strengthening the role of rural local officials in transportation planning, as well as supporting the work of regional development organizations at the local level.
   The National Association of Development Organizations (NADO) serves as the national voice of regional development organizations. The association is an advocate for federal community and economic development programs and policies that help local communities improve their local economy and quality of life.
 
 