WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Dear Friends,
   This week was a busy one on Capitol Hill, and I was pleased to see a number of Georgians who traveled to Washington with their local Chambers of Commerce as well as the various school groups who got a firsthand look at how our federal government works. 
   We are all very concerned about the fires that continue to spread across Southeast Georgia. Our firefighters, forestry personnel, and many others have been working relentlessly to contain the fires against challenging weather conditions. Their heroic efforts have been instrumental in saving lives and residences over the past week and a half, and they deserve our gratitude. For situation reports you may visit the Georgia Emergency Management Agency (GEMA) website at http://www.gema.state.ga.us
   On April 18, federal funding was authorized to respond to the fires near Waycross in Ware County and the Okefenokee Swamp that have affected more than 60,000 acres of federal, state and private land. Funding was made available through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and the authorization includes a 75 percent federal cost share to be applied to all fire management assistance grants. 
   I am also pleased that federal funding has been authorized to respond to another wildfire near Nahunta in Brantley County. Governor Sonny Perdue made the request Thursday, and funding has been made available through FEMA. The fire is threatening 150 homes as well as 75 businesses and critical infrastructure. As a result, more than 400 individuals have been displaced. More than 100 firefighters are battling the blaze, using equipment including state tractors and state and U.S. Forest Service aircraft.
   Our thoughts and prayers will continue to be with those who have suffered loss and have been displaced by this situation.
   LEGISLATIVE UPDATE
   This past week the Senate passed the America COMPETES (Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education and Science) Act, which addresses many of the challenges facing Georgia and our nation during a time of increasing global competitiveness. 
   I was a cosponsor of this legislation, which ensures that the United States will be able to sustain a vigorous economy, an unrivaled national defense, a first-rate healthcare and education system, a healthy environment, and a hopeful and prosperous future for generations to come. 
   In order for us to keep our competitive edge and maintain our dominance in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, it is imperative that we make a long-term investment in our future scientists, professors, and engineers. We can do so by improving science and mathematics education and by providing schools, universities, and research centers throughout the country with necessary funding. 
   In fact, the Georgia Academy of Mathematics, Engineering and Science (GAMES) at Middle Georgia College is a great example of what funding for science and mathematics can accomplish. This program allows top-performing high school juniors and seniors to obtain high school and college credit simultaneously while enrolled in full-time college courses. Most students in the GAMES program major in mathematics, science, or engineering. 
   On Monday, the Senate will begin consideration of the FDA Authorization Bill.
   IRAQ WAR FUNDING BILL
   The Senate also passed the Iraq war funding bill, which I voted against because it included a timeline for withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. The consequences of withdrawing forces from Iraq would be disastrous, and further violence would erupt across the region. General David Petraeus, who was confirmed unanimously by the U.S. Senate to lead the new strategy in Iraq, came to Capitol Hill this week. While he made it clear that the situation in Iraq is extremely difficult and challenging, he reported that there have been encouraging signs that the new strategy has begun to work. For example, the level of violence in Baghdad, the focal point of the new strategy, has decreased to two-thirds of what it was in January. 
   It is important to keep in mind that we are only in the beginning stages of this new security strategy, and there have certainly been setbacks. However, I believe we must give General Petraeus and our men and women in uniform our support without imposing a deadline and without tying their hands, which is unfortunately what the Iraq war funding bill does and why the President has said he will veto it.
   Georgia is home to the Third Infantry Division of the United States Army, and today, members of the Third ID are on their third tour in Iraq. The men and women of the Third ID do not believe that "the war is lost" as some have asserted, and neither do I. We should not tell the enemy that they have won and we have lost. I can't think of a worse message to send to our troops who are fighting valiantly.
   I am very concerned that if we fail in Iraq, the terrorists will follow us home, and that is why we must give our troops the funding they need to carry out the new strategy without strings attached.
   To watch my comments during a news conference following the vote, please visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999952047.30197.381&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2149 and select the April 26 file.
   FARM BILL HEARING
   This week the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, and Nutrition, of which I am the Ranking Republican Member, heard testimony from various commodity groups regarding their priorities in the next farm bill. I was pleased that Bill Brim, producer and President of the Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, was one of several witnesses testifying before the Committee. As many folks are aware, fruit and vegetable production is one of the most profitable sectors of Georgia's agriculture economy. 
   To listen to my questioning during the hearing, please visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999952047.30197.381&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2147.
   SCHOOL NUTRITION HEARING
   This week the Agriculture Committee also welcomed input from the Institute of Medicine's (IOM) report titled "Nutritional Standards for Foods in Schools." As the Committee continues to review ways to improve the nutrition environment in schools, we need to make certain any recommendations are based on sound science, comply with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, and incorporate the important messages of both nutrition and physical activity. However, I am pleased to say that many of the guidelines developed by the Alliance for a Healthier Generation are already being voluntarily implemented in schools across the board, and I hope they continue their proactive efforts to address the issue of school nutrition and wellness.
   USDA WILL AWARD OKEFENOKEE RURAL ELECTRIC LOANS
   I'm pleased to announce that USDA will loan more than $33 million to the Okefenokee Rural Electric Membership Corporation (EMC) to build new distribution lines and make system improvements. It is important that USDA continues to aid our expanding communities to ensure that citizens in our state receive access to critical services. This funding will enhance their future potential for growth and success.
   USDA Rural Development works to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life of rural residents. For more information on rural programs please visit USDA's web site at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov
   IN THE NEWS:
   The Red and Black recently highlighted the proposed National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility that could be potentially located in Athens. I have advocated on behalf of this effort. Please read the article by visiting: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999952047.30197.381&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2148.
   The Army Times recently wrote about my National Guard and Reserve retirement legislation. Please read about it at: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999952047.30197.381&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2151.
   On Friday morning I appeared on Fox News Live to discuss the Iraq funding bill. To read more about it, please visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999952047.30197.381&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2150.
   As always, should you need assistance with a federal agency or any issue, or if I can be of assistance in any way, please do not hesitate to contact my office toll free at 1-800-234-4208.
   May God bless you all and may God bless America.
   Saxby Chambliss
 
 