SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON PRAISE PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION NAMING ARABIA MOUNTAIN NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., announced that legislation to designate Arabia Mountain in DeKalb County as a National Heritage Area passed the Senate this week by unanimous consent. The measure was included in a package of heritage bills called S. 203. Sens. Chambliss and Isakson introduced the bill earlier this year. 
   "This recent Senate action means we're one step closer to making this a reality for the citizens of Georgia," said Chambliss. "Arabia Mountain is a true Georgia treasure and I am pleased to see the United States Senate recognized this important designation for the people of Georgia. With increased development around Arabia Mountain, it's only right we protect and preserve this special place from urban sprawl for future generations to enjoy." 
   "Designating Arabia Mountain as a National Heritage Area is a wise investment in the future of our great state," said Isakson. "We are proud to try to help preserve this wonderful natural resource from urban sprawl."
   According to the National Park Service, a National Heritage Area is a place "designated by the United States Congress, where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a cohesive, nationally distinctive landscape arising from patterns of human activity shaped by geography." The designation would include a large portion of eastern DeKalb, western Rockdale and northern Henry counties. In DeKalb, the area includes Davidson-Arabia Mountain Nature Preserve, Miners Creek Preserve, and Arabia Lake and Stephenson Creek. 
   The designation has broad support from key governmental and community leaders. 
   "The Alliance congratulates Senators Chambliss and Isakson for the successful passage, once again, of this legislation in the Senate," said Kelly Jordan, the chair, of the nonprofit Arabia Mountain Heritage Area Alliance. "And we look forward to their leadership in achieving a successful outcome by working with their colleagues in the House of Representative this year, so that this National Heritage Area will finally be realized." 
   "I appreciate Senators Chambliss and Isakson's support to designate Arabia Mountain as a National Heritage Area," said DeKalb Chief Executive Officer Vernon Jones. "This important legislation not only benefits Georgia, but the entire Southeast."
 
 