SEN. CHAMBLISS STATEMENT ON VOTE TO RATIFY IRAQI CONSTITUTION
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement regarding the referendum to ratify the Iraqi Constitution.  
   "Today the Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq (IECI) released their preliminary vote count from the October 15 Constitution referendum indicating that Iraqi voters ratified the Constitution. Over 9.8 million individuals voted with close to 79% voting to approve the Constitution. To defeat the Constitution, three provinces had to reject the Constitution by a 2/3rd majority vote. Two provinces, Anbar and Salah Ad Din rejected the Constitution by a 2/3's margin. A majority of voters in a third province, Ninewa, rejected the Constitution but not by a 2/3rd majority. Of Iraq's 18 provinces, twelve provinces in which over 94% of the voters approved the Constitution.
   "Successful ratification of the Iraqi Constitution is a great step forward towards freedom and democracy for the people of Iraq and the entire Middle East region, a key indicator that Iraq is moving forward, and a testament to the continued development of the country's democratic and constitutional processes. The results validate the hard work and great sacrifices of America's military men and women who are working hard to help stabilize Iraq, train Iraqi security personnel, defeat the insurgents within this nation, and bring freedom to the Iraqi people. The result also sends a powerful signal to the terrorists around the world and within Iraq - freedom-loving people will never be defeated."
   Turnout appears to have been strong nationwide, and much higher in Sunni-majority provinces than occurred for the National Assembly elections in January. A significantly higher turnout in Sunni areas is further indication that Sunnis are joining the political process. This is an important change and a tribute to our political strategy, including continual outreach to Sunni leaders during the Constitutional drafting process.
   The draft constitution contains protections for fundamental human freedoms including religion, assembly, conscience and expression; vests sovereignty in the Iraqi people to be expressed by secret ballot and regular elections; and declares that all Iraqis are equal before the law without regard to gender, ethnicity or religion. 
   The next step in the Iraqis' march to freedom and self-government will elections for a permanent government that will be held December 15, with the new government assuming office no later than December 31, 2005.
 
 