SEN. CHAMBLISS ANNOUNCES FUNDS FOR GEORGIA'S FIRST CELLULOSIC ETHANOL PLANT
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today announced that the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) will invest up to $76 million in federal funds for Georgia's first wood-based ethanol plant over the next four years. Range Fuels, Inc., a Colorado-based cellulosic ethanol company, announced the plans in Soperton earlier this month. In January, Sens. Chambliss and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) sent a letter the DOE requesting consideration of the Georgia plant, one of six projects selected receive funding.  
  "I am pleased to announce this funding for Georgia's first cellulosic ethanol plant in Soperton," said Sen. Chambliss. "With projects like this one in Treutlen County we are getting one step closer to gaining energy independence from foreign sources for our fuel, which is a matter of national security. Today's announcement is also a great boost for economic growth and job creation. I thank Secretary Bodman for recognizing the tremendous potential of the new biorefinerey to produce clean and efficient fuel." 
  The proposed plant will produce about 40 million gallons of ethanol per year and 9 million gallons per year of methanol. As feedstock, the plant will use 1,200 tons per day of wood residues and wood based energy crops. Range Fuels investors: Merrick and Company, PRAJ Industries Ltd., Western Research Institute, Georgia Forestry Commission, Yeomans Wood and Timber, Truetlen County Development Authority, BioConversion Technology, Khosla Ventures, CH2MHill, Gillis Ag and Timber.
  Last month, Sen. Chambliss introduced the Cellulosic Ethanol Incentive Act, which would promote regional diversity in the production of biofuels. The plan requires a minimum level of production within a particular region to accelerate the production of cellulosic ethanol from a variety of resources such as wood chips in Southeast to wheat straw on the Great Plains. The legislation would also accelerate the minimum quantity derived from cellulosic biomass in the Renewable Fuels Standard, currently 250 million gallons, from 2013 to 2010.
 
 