SEN. CHAMBLISS REACTS TO PRESIDENT BUSH'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., tonight made the following statement regarding President Bush's State of the Union Address:
   "Overall, I know this was an important moment for President Bush to make a final push for his agenda and at the same time use the opportunity to push for new ideas. I think it was appropriate that the theme of his speech underscore the importance of trust, because Americans continue to lose faith in their government's ability to get anything done - particularly in the area of border security. The reality is, we are in the midst of a 2008 presidential contest and while that will hinder the president's ability to a certain extent, it should not obscure the simple fact that Georgians are looking for action and results on the issues they care about: economic security, border security, national security, health care, and education."
   ISSUES OF INTEREST: 
   THE ECONOMY
   I am pleased the president asked Congress to make the tax cuts permanent. This is a policy Georgians support and we need to ensure that this becomes a reality. Otherwise, hard-working Georgians will be stung with a tax increase once they expire. American families are being squeezed by the high price of gasoline, rising health care costs, and the housing slump. Congress should quickly take action to help by enacting a stimulus package, and I am in support of a stimulus package to jumpstart the economy as long as it helps those who need it the most, does not raise taxes and does not increase the size of government. We need to create and protect more American jobs by helping our small business community and the American manufacturing sector. Further, if we don't implement policies to reduce our energy dependence then future generations will suffer the consequences.
   BORDER SECURITY
   Senator Isakson and I made repeated calls last year for the president to send an emergency supplemental to Congress to fund border security. I'm pleased the president highlighted some of the steps the administration has taken on this issue, but we still have a problem and it needs to be solved - beginning first and foremost by securing the border - because that is where the problem of illegal immigration begins and where it has to be halted. Georgians made it clear last year that they do not trust the federal government when it comes to this issue.
   HEALTH CARE
   This morning I had the opportunity to visit two hospitals in the Atlanta area and have a frank discussion with the administration and professionals at those facilities. Health care is indeed the most important domestic issue facing America today, and I believe we must protect the right of patients to choose their own doctors and the hospitals they prefer. I am pleased the president highlighted the current problems that exist with the tax code, and we've got to have in the ultimate health care solution some type of tax credit for individuals. Our overall health care situation is critical. We must not fail, and we must get it right to maintain the best health care system in the world.
   EDUCATION
   We need to reauthorize No Child Left Behind, but I want to make sure Georgia's teachers know that we are listening to what is going on in the classroom and assure them that we will address the problems the legislation has presented and make the necessary changes. We must enact policies that will prepare our young people for the demands of the 21st Century and allow them to compete for the high skilled jobs of the future. Most importantly, however, local control must remain a top priority.
   WAR ON TERRORISM
   I support the president's call to fully fund our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, and I echo his call for Congress to pass legislation to close the gaps in our foreign intelligence collection process. As we continue the war on terrorism, it is critical that Congress amend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act in order for us to ensure that our intelligence community has the tools and the legal framework necessary to protect our country and collect vital information.
   Since September 11, 2001, we have been fortunate not to have suffered another attack on domestic soil, but threats continue to exist. While the war in Iraq has invoked a protracted, partisan debate for several years, it is difficult for anyone to dispute the fact that since this time last year, shortly after the troop increase was announced, the security environment on the ground there has dramatically improved. I have seen this progress firsthand in my three trips to Iraq this past year.
 
 