SEN. CHAMBLISS-ISAKSON SCREENING PANEL NOW ACCEPTING APPLICANTS FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT COURT VACANCY
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today announced that their judicial screening panel is now accepting applications for an expected vacancy on the federal bench in the Southern District of Georgia when the Honorable B. Avant Edenfield takes senior status on August 2, 2006.  
   Per the request of the President, Chambliss and Isakson intend to recommend Georgians who are eligible to serve as the next Federal District Judge in Georgia's Southern District and have formed a screening panel to help oversee the process. It is customary for the President to ask for Senators' recommendations for appointments in their state; however, it is ultimately the President's responsibility to nominate a candidate to be confirmed by the Senate. 
   "Our screening panel consistently provides a fair analysis of the applicants and continues to serve us well in this capacity," said Chambliss. 'We take this nomination process very seriously and look forward to receiving the recommendations from our screening panel." 
   "Filling vacancies on the federal bench with qualified, respected and principled individuals is an extremely important job," Isakson said. "It is essential that we find the most qualified attorneys for the President to consider, and I am confident our panel will do an excellent job evaluating each judicial nominee's application." 
   Applicants who are interested in applying for the expected vacancy in the Southern District of Georgia should request a questionnaire from Frank C. Jones c/o Dianne Smith, 1180 Peachtree Street, N.E. Atlanta 30309-3521, before August 18, 2006. Only written correspondence from the applicants will be accepted. Letter writing campaigns and telephone calls to Senator Chambliss, Senator Isakson, and/or to the members of the screening panel are strongly discouraged. The panel may wish to interview applicants. 
   "Our charge is to look for and recommend only those potential nominees who have established a record of professional competence, integrity, and the proper temperament for judicial service," said Frank Jones who leads the panel.
 
 