SEN. CHAMBLISS SAYS STAY THE COURSE IN IRAQ
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga, issued the following statement in response President Bush's address to the nation regarding our progress in the war on terrorism.  
   "Tonight, President Bush reminded us that freedom isn't cheap. The price paid by our forefathers and all of our nation's veterans came by way of tremendous bloodshed and sacrifice. The war we are in today is no different, and it's now our duty to stay the course and let our troops know that we support their fight for freedom. 
   "The Iraqi people have made tremendous progress as a sovereign state. They have held their own democratic elections and are operating within a representative government. Iraqi citizens are volunteering to serve their country in their own military and police forces. Children are attending school, and women have unprecedented opportunity for personal growth.
   "We cannot praise the many successes of the Iraqi people without recognizing the tireless efforts of the United States military to help the Iraqis achieve their goals. We have the biggest most powerful military in the world comprised of America's best and brightest men and women. 
   "Our service members are making the ultimate sacrifice in the name of freedom and liberty for all people and they need our support now more than ever."
   "The war on terrorism is a war that's unlike any other. Most wars are fought on a conventional battlefield. The war on terrorism takes place in the back alleys of Baghdad, Kandahar, and Mosul. Terrorists hate freedom. They thrive on oppression and have no regard for human life. They want nothing less than to kill and harm law abiding Iraqi citizens and our American soldiers."
   "We have a president who is committed to employing all necessary means to defeat this enemy. But most importantly, we have thousands of brave men and women who are fighting in Iraq today who are absolutely committed to doing whatever it takes to accomplish their missions. Their passion is inspiring and they deserve our total support."
 
 