G8 SUMMIT TO DISCUSS WORLD PROBLEMS, SHOWCASE GEORGIA
  By: Sen. Saxby Chambliss
   In a few short weeks, from June 8 to June 10, the world's eye will be on Sea Island. The heads of many of the world's most important industrialized countries will gather in Georgia for the G8 Summit. The heads of state of the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, Italy, Russia, Germany, Canada and France, as well as the European Union, will gather to discuss the world's economies, combating crime and fighting terrorism. 
   The summit is the 30th held by the G8 or its predecessor, the G7. Like previous G8 summits, the Sea Island meeting will be, by world standards, relatively informal. The G8 has no charter or standing bureaucracy, so the summit leaders can establish their own agenda, even during the summits themselves. Because of this, the leaders are free to discuss world problems and develop a consensus more freely than is possible at most other venues.
   Developing a consensus this year will not be easy. During last year's summit at Evian, France, the G8 was divided over Iraq. This year President Bush wants the group to discuss his proposed Greater Middle East Initiative (GMEI). This initiative would involve members of the group in improving the standards of governance and economics for the entire Middle East from Morocco in the West, to Pakistan in the East. People living in these countries suffer from authoritarian governments and state-control of their economies. President Bush believes that a prosperous and free Middle East may open doors to solving long-standing conflicts.
   Another international topic likely to command summit attention is Africa. Inefficient and corrupt governments, coupled with the HIV/AIDS epidemic, are causing hardship for millions of Africans. President Bush, who has allocated more funds for fighting and preventing HIV/AIDS in Africa than any other president and wants the G8 to develop a coordinated strategy to help the people of that continent.
   The Sea Island G8 Summit can get the ball rolling on many pressing issues. We can also be sure that the summit will give Georgia a chance to show off our friendly, southern way of life and our beautiful and historic coastal region. Thousands are coming to Georgia for the summit, either as participants, journalists, or protestors. I know that Georgia will make them feel as welcome as possible.
   I want to thank those who are making the G8 summit possible. The Sea Island Summit Planning Organization has trained more than 300 Georgians who are volunteering to help at the summit. Governor Sonny Perdue, state and local officials have done all they can to prepare a gracious welcome to our guests. The members of Georgia's congressional delegation helped provide $25 million to help cover the costs of providing security and support for the summit. An additional $16 million was raised from private and corporate donors to help cover the costs.
   With all of these efforts, I am hoping that the summit will be a great success. Georgia stands to gain more than an estimated $250 million to $500 million in publicity and revenues from hosting the event. It will also reinforce our reputation as a good site for international ventures and organizations, which can only mean more jobs and more prosperity for Georgia in the future.
 
 