SEN. CHAMBLISS WRAPS UP PARTICIPATION IN WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today made the following statement upon concluding his participation in the World Economic Forum. This was Chambliss' fourth invitation to participate in the forum, which was held in Davos, Switzerland and was widely attended by world leaders.  
  "I appreciated the invitation to again participate in this tremendous event and represent our country. This year was a particularly powerful weekend with numerous world leaders in attendance. It is important that the views and ideas of Americans are shared with members of the international community and that a dialogue on these issues continues in the future." 
  Among the highlights, Chambliss participated in a discussion on the future of the World Trade Organization, which included trade ministers from every major nation involved in the Doha Round. 
  "One of the most important issues facing our nation, particularly our agriculture community, is the issue of trade. It is critical for our farmers to have a strong voice during trade negotiations. As the Ranking Member on the Senate Agriculture Committee, I was pleased to participate in this discussion and extend my support to our chief negotiator, U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab." 
  Chambliss also participated in a debate on climate change. Among the attendees was British Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
  "The issue of climate change is an issue that should continue to be on the table, and we need to continue to review the science. It is an issue that is open for debate and people need to understand that this issue is out there. Because this is a world-wide concern, all nations should contribute to its solution." 
  Additionally, Chambliss met with Dr. Ahmed Nazif, Prime Minister of Egypt, and upon travel back to the U.S. visited Athens, Greece, where he met with Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis and Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis. The meeting included a discussion on terrorism issues and trade relations. 
  Chambliss is Georgia's senior U.S. Senator. He is Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition and served as chairman during the 109th Congress. He is also a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Select Committee on Intelligence.
 
 