WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Dear Friends: 
   Thank you for your continued dialogue with me on the issue of immigration reform. I appreciate the many calls, emails and letters I have received on this pressing matter. This past Thursday, I voted against a procedural motion to cut off debate on the immigration bill. 60 votes were required to move the bill forward. The motion failed by a vote of 46-53; therefore, the bill has been removed from consideration by the Senate.
   A lot of people have asked me why I became involved in this process initially, and there is a very simple answer: folks in Georgia sent me to Washington to engage in the issues that are important to America, and if we don't secure the border and fix our broken immigration system our children and grandchildren will suffer the consequences of our failure to act.
   Senator Isakson and I participated in the process early on because we wanted to ensure that our views and concerns were expressed and that, first and foremost, the border security triggers were included in the bill. I believe our contribution to the process was critical in strengthening key components of the legislation. While it wasn't incumbent that everybody agree with the overall bill presented to the American people, it was important that we have a meeting of the minds to allow a full and fair debate on this critical issue. Unfortunately, the parameters that the Majority Leader set for this historic debate did not allow all senators the opportunity to offer and vote on amendments to the legislation. I believe this is too important an issue to restrict the rights of senators and the voices of their constituents. 
   Too often politicians talk and don't listen. Georgians made their voices heard loud and clear and we have listened. The resounding opinion we heard was: we do not trust the federal government to enforce the laws in this new legislation because it has never enforced our immigration laws in the past; we need to secure the border the first and then deal with the collateral issues. Due to the tremendous response from Georgians, Senator Isakson and I communicated to President Bush that Congress must pass, and he should sign, a supplemental appropriations bill to fully fund the necessary expenditures to secure our borders first and separately from larger immigration reform legislation.
   The debate must continue, because the status quo is not working. I will continue fighting for border security and I will continue to oppose amnesty for those who have broken our laws. Georgians demand no less than our fullest commitment to this critical issue. 
   Please visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999944208.30204.212&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2364, to see the June 28th roll call votes on the motion to invoke cloture on S.1639.
   Please visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999944208.30204.212&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2366, to see the June 26th roll call votes on the motion to proceed to consider S.1639.
   PASSPORTS
   Last week I sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging immediate action to remedy the current passport backlog at the State Department. My office has been working tirelessly to assist folks through this unfortunate situation and I hope the Department will take immediate action to resolve this.
   * For more information, visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999944208.30204.212&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2365. 
   COMING UP?
   The Senate will be in recess next week in observance of July 4th. As we celebrate our nation's independence, Julianne and I want to extend our sincere appreciation to our men and women in uniform and their families. Georgia is a strong and proud military state, and we are all grateful for our dedicated and professional service members and their sacrifice. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, it is an honor and a privilege to work on their behalf every single day. 
   When the Senate convenes on Monday, July 9, we will begin consideration of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008.
 
 