SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON PRAISE $15 MILLION FOR BRUNSWICK HARBOR DEEPENING PROJECT
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today praised the Senate Appropriations Committee's passage of legislation that includes $15 million for the deepening of the Brunswick Harbor channel, a project that is critical to the Brunswick port and to the entire state of Georgia.  
  The funds will be used to continue deepening the Brunswick Harbor from 30 feet to 36 feet, allowing the Port of Brunswick to accommodate larger cargo carriers and attract new business. The deepening of the harbor, along with the completion three years ago of the Sidney Lanier Bridge over the harbor, is projected to bring $400 million annually in new sales, 1,000 new jobs and $15.8 million in additional tax revenue to Georgia.
  "I am very pleased to see this crucial commitment to the Brunswick Harbor deepening project. It is one of the most important projects to our entire state and critical to the state's economic future," Isakson said. "These funds will only help the Harbor improve its position as a gateway for business to Georgia."
  "We recognize that this project is vital to meeting the current and future requirements of port customers, and will be a powerful factor in the continued growth of employment opportunities in Brunswick, Glynn County and the entire region," said Chambliss. 
  The funds are part of the fiscal year 2007 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill, which the Senate Appropriations Committee approved today. The bill now goes to the Senate floor for consideration. 
  "Senators Chambliss and Isakson have been decisive in making the case that completion of the Brunswick deepening project is highly cost effective and will pay major dividends for the taxpayers of Georgia and throughout the nation," said former U.S. Senator Mack Mattingly, Chairman of the Georgia Ports Authority. "Completion of the channel deepening will open the door to major new efficiencies in international trade at Brunswick and stimulate new employment opportunities throughout our area."
 
 