NEW DEFENSE COMMAND WOULD MAKE OUR INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MORE EFFECTIVE
  By Sen. Saxby Chambliss
   One of the great strengths of our republic is that we do not shy away from serious debate on critical issues; indeed, we welcome it. The vigorous national debate now under way on reforming our intelligence community is certainly one of the most important and pressing ones we have ever had, and we need to get it right because the enemy is at our doorstep.  
   Although the public is generally unaware of this fact, of the 15 recognized members of the U.S. intelligence community, eight are in the Department of Defense. And the Defense Department is not only the largest user of intelligence; it is the largest collector as well. These are realities that won't appreciably change, regardless of how we reform our intelligence community. 
   Let's be clear about our tasks ahead. We need to amend the National Security Act of 1947, which has been the cornerstone of our security and intelligence structure for over half a century. Change should be deliberate and substantive, even radical if necessary, to improve our collection and analysis of critical information about our enemies. 
   This is why I will introduce an amendment to establish a unified combatant command for military intelligence within the Department of Defense. This amendment is designed to complement the intelligence reform legislation introduced by the Senate Government Affairs Committee, which calls for the creation of a national intelligence director who will oversee our intelligence community and be separate from the position of director of the Central Intelligence Agency. This new director will need a single point of contact when dealing with the military. 
   The essence of my amendment is to bridge the gap between the national intelligence director and the array of military intelligence entities that he or she will have to deal with, either through coordination or direct budget authority. My goals are to make the national intelligence director as effective as possible, ensure our military men and women discover the best intelligence available while they are risking their lives, and better integrate our military and civilian intelligence officials into one team. The 9/11 Commission has recently endorsed a range of recommendations on intelligence reform, some of which are fully supported by the Congress and President Bush, while others need further analysis. In the Congress, we have begun a wide range of hearings to assist us in crafting legislation that will enrich our intelligence community's capabilities. 
   During this process, we have been guided by the principle that intelligence is our first line of defense against terrorism and needs to be as effective as possible to make America safe and secure. 
   The centerpiece of almost all intelligence reform legislation is the creation of a national intelligence director, as proposed by the 9/11 Commission and endorsed by President Bush. In order to make the national intelligence director truly effective and to make our intelligence community more responsive, the vast intelligence elements and capabilities within the military need to be brought together under a single command. The national intelligence director needs one point of contact in the military, not eight. 
   That's why I want to give the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and our unified commanders one person to turn to for their military intelligence needs. I want the military services to staff and support a unified command for intelligence in the same way they are supporting other functional commands, such as our Special Operations Command and the Transportation Command. 
   Some of the main provisions of this amendment as they pertain to the military intelligence command, and especially as they relate to the national intelligence director, would call for the military intelligence commander t 
   Represent the Department of Defense in the intelligence community under the direction of the national intelligence director. 
   Carry out intelligence collection and analysis activities in response to requests from the national intelligence director. 
   Prepare and submit to the Secretary of Defense and the national intelligence director recommendations and budget proposals for military intelligence forces and activities. 
   Establish priorities for military intelligence in harmony with national priorities established by the national intelligence director and approved by the president. 
   Ensure the interoperability of intelligence sharing within the Department of Defense and within the intelligence community as a whole, as directed by the national intelligence director. 
   Respond to intelligence requirements levied by the national intelligence director. Intelligence is our first line of defense against terrorism. 
   The Department of Defense needs to embrace our new intelligence team, headed by the national intelligence director, not as eight separate members, but as one. Creating a unified command for military intelligence will be good for the military, good for the national intelligence director, and good for our country.
 
 