SEN. CHAMBLISS SECURES VICTORY FOR F-22
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a conferee for the fiscal year 2007 Department of Defense Authorization bill, today announced final authorization of authority for a 3 year multi-year procurement contract for the U.S. Air Force to acquire 60 additional F-22 aircraft. The Department of Defense appropriations conference report also provides this authority.  
  "This is a huge victory for the Air Force and for the American taxpayer," said Chambliss. "Through several months of negotiations and a lot of hard work I am pleased to announce that the multi-year agreement received strong bi-partisan support from the Conferees and we were able to come to an agreement on this common-sense, cost-saving proposal." 
  "The F-22 meets all requirements for a multi-year contract and will result in substantial savings for the government. Almost every time I'm in an Armed Services Committee hearing, someone makes a point that we need to think of ways to do things better, cheaper, and with better acquisition processes in order to use the taxpayers' resources more wisely. That is exactly what this provision does by securing a quarter of a billion dollars savings by allowing the Defense Department and the contractor to conduct business better, faster, and cheaper - and that is good government," 
  The Department of Defense is committed to funding the purchase of 60 additional F-22 aircraft and the authorization bill secures a procurement process that provides for 3 year multi-year contract rather than individual yearly contracts. 
  Background
   An independent cost estimate of the F-22 multi-year, conducted by the Institute of Defense Analyses (IDA), concluded that the aircraft meets all criteria required to enter into a multi-year contract agreement. The study, delivered in May to both the House and Senate Armed Services and Appropriations Committees, estimates that a multi-year contract for F-22 procurement will result in at least $225 million in savings for the Department of Defense. 
  These estimates are comparable to cost savings obtained under previous multi-year contracts. IDA also found the F-22 to have a stable funding profile, as noted in the most recent Defense Department Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) and fiscal year 2007 budget, and a stable design. Any upgrades to the F-22 will not result in any significant structural changes to the aircraft. And in the event the Defense Department requires additional F-22 aircraft, the multi-year will result in even more savings. 
  The F-22 is a first-of-a-kind multi-mission fighter aircraft that combines stealth, supercruise, advanced maneuverability and integrated avionics to make it the world's most capable combat aircraft. The U.S. Air Force considers the F-22 Raptor its top priority for air dominance, operational access, homeland and cruise missile defense. The Defense Department and the independent IDA analysis both indicate that our country needs this weapon system and that it is performing extremely well.
 
 