SEN. CHAMBLISS, REP. MARSHALL SECURE FUNDING FOR SOFTWARE SUPPORT FACILITY AT WARNER ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE
  U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Jim Marshall, D-Ga., announced today that the Senate and House Appropriations Committees have approved a Department of Defense request for $21 million for construction of a much-needed software support facility at the Warner Robins Air Logistics Center. The funding has been a top priority for both members. 
   "This was a great team effort, and I am very pleased that Congress has agreed to provide this funding to meet a critical need at Robins," said Senator Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "We know this is important to the personnel at the base and we should break ground on this project as soon as possible." 
   "This is incredibly good news for Robins. Saxby and I have fought long and hard to get funding for construction of the software support facility. I'm proud that we have been able to help Robins get this extremely important funding," said Representative Marshall, a member of the House Armed Services Committee and co-Chair of the House Air Force Caucus. I look forward to seeing Robins become more than the Electronic Warfare Center of Excellence for the Air Force. I hope to see Robins become the Electronic Warfare Center of Excellence for all military branches," said Marshall.
   Currently, the software facilities at Robins are at full capacity, with no room for the anticipated future workload. The addition of a new software support facility will add 80,000 square feet of new floor space and will accommodate an expected 30-40% increase in software workload through FY09. Furthermore, the additional space afforded by the new facility will enable Warner Robins ALC to quickly expand to meet the mission requirements for the Air Force, including software work for the new F-22 Raptor.
   Background
   The 109th Congress did not complete the Fiscal Year 2007 Military Construction Appropriations bill, which included $21 million obtained by Chambliss and Marshall for construction of the software support facility. In February 2007, the President signed a Joint Funding Resolution to complete the FY07 appropriations bills. Unfortunately, because the Joint Funding Resolution eliminated all projects not requested in the President's budget, the Resolution did not include the Chambliss/Marshall funds for the software support facility.
 
 