SEN. CHAMBLISS WELCOMES GEORGIA JUNIOR ACHIEVERS TO CAPITOL HILL
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga, today hosted two Georgia students on Capitol Hill for Junior Achievement of Georgia's National Groundhog Job Shadow Day. Junior Achievement of Georgia is the state's largest economic education organization that offers students an inside look at a wide range of businesses, public offices, and organizations. Junior Achievement helps students observe business communities and connects them with real world education. 
  Kyle Denson, a senior at Tri Cities High School in Alpharetta, and David Kaszycki, a sophomore at Wesleyan High School in Atlanta, together visited with Senator Chambliss one-on-one, and accompanied Chambliss to a national press conference in the Senate Radio-TV gallery. After the press conference both students shadowed Chambliss as he delivered a speech to a visiting school group from Georgia. 
  "Kyle and David are energetic and enthusiastic young men with bright futures ahead of them," said Chambliss. "I'm proud of their interest in public service public service and know they will grow up to become strong leaders for Georgia. I commend the Junior Achievement program for providing students in Georgia and across the nation with and birds-eye view of how we operate on Capitol Hill" 
  "The best thing about shadowing the Georgia Senators is that it is an opportunity to experience and understand what goes on holistically in the government," said Denson. "It's a chance to find out if you have aspirations to work in the government. I've enjoyed the learning about the government and the history."
  "I think that this is an amazing opportunity that Junior Achievement has given me. It's a once in a lifetime chance to get an inside look at what the government and politicians are like," said Kaszycki. "I learned what each person does and saw the knowledge they have to have to perform their jobs."
  Junior Achievement of Georgia is headquartered in Atlanta. For more information visit http://georgia.ja.org.
 
 