WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Dear Friends,
   This week, Georgia and our neighbors in Alabama were hit hard by severe weather and tornadoes, and our thoughts and prayers are with those who lost loved ones during this devastating situation. My staff and I have been in constant communication with folks on the ground, and I applaud each and every one of our citizens and emergency personnel who responded quickly to help those in need.
   Following Senate votes on Friday morning I headed to Georgia, and on Saturday I will join President Bush during his visit to our state to view the damage first-hand.
   Last week during the Presidents' Day work period, I visited the Georgia State Capitol where I met with members of the legislature. Please take a moment to review the highlights below from the last two weeks and please stay in touch. I stand ready to assist you and your family if you are having problems with a federal agency or any matter, so please do not hesitate to contact my office at 1-800-234-4208. 
   ADDRESS TO GEORGIA LEGISLATURE
   I always enjoy having the chance to engage in direct dialogue with our state legislators as we tackle the important issues facing Georgians and their families. I believe that by working side by side, at both the state and federal level, we can effectively address issues like the PeachCare funding shortfall, immigration reform and the future of Georgia's military community.
   LEGISLATION TO BENEFIT MEMBERS OF NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE
   Last week I introduced legislation that would benefit members of the National Guard and Reserve by lowering the age at which they can receive retirement pay. I unveiled the legislation during a news conference at my Atlanta office where I was joined by the Adjutant General of Georgia, Lt. Gen. David Poythress, as well as Major General Terry Nesbitt, who is Commander of the Georgia Army National Guard and Georgia's Homeland Security Director. Other members of Georgia's military community participated in the event as well.
   As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Co-Chairman of the Senate Reserve Caucus, and member of the Senate Guard Caucus, I have heard the concerns of our National Guard and Reserve. The way we are using the Guard and Reserve has fundamentally changed over the last 15 years. They are shouldering an increasingly high percentage of our defense burden, and as their roles change, it is only appropriate to change the way we compensate and reward them.
   I am concerned that Guard and Reserve members who would otherwise stay in until they reach 20 years of service are going to get out, particularly those who are experiencing repeat deployments. My legislation is supported by the Naval Reserve Association, Reserve Enlisted Association, and the Reserve Officers Association.
   To read more on the story, visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999958050.29904.114&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1323.
   To read an editorial in The Macon Telegraph about my legislation, visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999958050.29904.114&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1326.
   NATIONAL GUARD YOUTH FOUNDATION AWARD
   This week I was humbled and honored to receive the 2007 Challenge Champions Award during a banquet held by the National Guard Youth Foundation. I was given the award for my commitment to the National Guard Youth Foundation's work.
   The NGYF implements the National Guard Youth Challenge Program, a preventive program for at-risk youth. It targets unemployed, drug-free, and law-abiding high school dropouts 16 to18 years old, and its seventeen-month curriculum emphasizes life-coping skills, service to community, academic excellence, job skills training, and citizenship. Since 1993, over 62,000 students in 24 states have graduated from the program. I have been proud to support two NGYC Programs launched in Georgia at Fort Gordon and Fort Stewart. Georgia's Challenge Programs have graduated nearly 6,000 students.
   HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT TO DELAY IMPLEMENTATION OF REAL ID ACT WHICH WILL HELP STATES MEET CONSTRAINTS
   I was very pleased with the announcement from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) this week that it has agreed to delay implementation of the Real ID Act by two years because of constraints the legislation has put on states. I was a co-sponsor of a bipartisan amendment introduced by Senator Susan Collins, R-Maine, to delay implementation. We introduced the amendment to the Improving America's Security Act of 2007, a bill currently being considered by the U.S. Senate. Our action resulted in the announcement from DHS and the amendment was withdrawn.
   I believe it is important to move forward with the intent of the law while at the same time being reasonable and responsive to the implementation and funding constraints placed on states. When I was home last week visiting with members of the legislature, this issue was one of their top concerns. I am in favor of the substantive portion of Real ID. We know there are issues out there that need to be addressed in order to ensure that folks like the 9-11 hijackers do not get hold of the various forms of identification like they did. At the same time, imposing an unfunded mandate on states is not right.
   When we ask our states to partner with us, we need to ensure that we do it in the right way that meets the needs of our folks at home and now every state is going to be able to continue to participate in fighting the war on terrorism and at the same time get assistance from the federal government.
   To watch the news conference visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999958050.29904.114&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1324 and select the "Press Conference on Real ID Act" link.
   SENATE APPROVES AMENDMENT TO HELP RURAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
   I was extremely pleased that on Friday the Senate overwhelmingly approved an amendment I co-sponsored to the Improving America's Security Act of 2007 that would assist law enforcement personnel by creating a special, rural-focused law enforcement training institute. It would be administered by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) located in Glynco, Ga.
   My colleague, Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and I sponsored a similar measure during the last Congress and successfully amended the Port Security Bill to include the creation of this Rural Policing Institute.
   As we continue to call upon our rural law enforcement to do more, we must provide them with access to specialized training where it otherwise would not be available. In many areas, increased crime and the scourge of methamphetamine drug trafficking have placed increased pressure on these dedicated and hard-working professionals. Additionally, they must prepare for different types of threats in our changing security environment. Therefore, we must help them by bringing the training directly to their communities. I believe this fulfills a great need in rural America.
   To view my floor speech on this amendment visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999958050.29904.114&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1324 and select the "Chambliss urges colleagues to support needs of Rural Law Enforcement community" link.
   LEGISLATION TO ALLEVIATE POVERY IN GEORGIA INTRODUCED
   I have cosponsored legislation to assist economically distressed areas of Georgia and the Southeast. The bipartisan legislation, the Southeast Crescent Authority (SECA) Act, would authorize $40 million in funding over the next five years to spur economic development, establish priorities in development planning, support local development districts and encourage private investment in the region.
   Georgia is one of the fastest growing states in the country, but unfortunately, there are areas in great need of economic support. We must continue to invest in our communities so that we can create jobs, opportunity, and improve access to health care and education for future generations of Georgians. There are numerous counties across our state whose citizens stand to benefit if this proposed program could become a reality.
   The legislation, introduced by U.S. Senator Elizabeth Dole, R-NC., would establish a program similar to the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), which has helped alleviate chronic and severe economic distress in the Appalachian counties of the United States.
   FOCUS ON BIOFUELS IN NEXT FARM BILL
   This week I addressed members of the Governors' Ethanol Coalition at their annual meeting in Washington, D.C. As a strong supporter of renewable fuels, I outlined my work to promote regional diversity of commodities used to make biofuels while increasing America's energy security.
   One of the greatest successes of renewable energy production has been ethanol. The industry has experienced tremendous growth over the past year and production is outpacing requirements under the Renewable Fuels Standard. As the Agriculture Committee begins work on the Energy Title in the next farm bill, we will focus our efforts on expanding research and development of new technologies like cellulosic ethanol. Our future depends on promoting homegrown renewable energy and decreasing our dependence on foreign sources of fuel.
   Last month, I introduced The Cellulosic Ethanol Incentive Act, which would promote regional diversity in the production of biofuels. The plan requires a minimum level of production within a particular region to accelerate the production of cellulosic ethanol from a variety of resources such as wood chips in the Southeast to wheat straw on the Great Plains. The legislation would also accelerate the minimum quantity derived from cellulosic biomass in the Renewable Fuels Standard, currently 250 million gallons, from 2013 to 2010.
   Plans are underway to build Georgia's first wood-based ethanol plant in Treutlen County. Range Fuels, Inc., a Colorado-based cellulosic ethanol company, made the announcement earlier this month and it will have the capacity to create nearly 70 new jobs. This week the U.S. Department of Energy announced it will invest up to $76 million in federal funds over the next four years for the plant.
   LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE FOOD STAMP PROGRAM
   I recently introduced legislation that would help food stamp beneficiaries become financially independent. The measure, which is called the Food Stamp Savings and Investment Act of 2007, would help America's needy families to achieve independence and self-sufficiency by providing food and emergency aid. In the ten years since welfare reform was passed by Congress and signed by President Clinton, fewer families receive cash welfare, and more welfare families are working. Many families have transitioned from welfare to work, and the Food Stamp Program should do more to encourage this continuing transition.
   For the past 20 years, the allowable household limit for liquid assets has gone unchanged and needs to be updated. Reforming food stamp asset limits has the potential to help needy families break the cycle of poverty and achieve long-term financial independence. This legislation will modernize the program and I hope my colleagues in the Senate it.
   COMING UP NEXT WEEK?.
   On Monday I am looking forward to joining Randy and Spiff of 640 WGST Radio Atlanta on the air during the 8:00 a.m hour. You can listen live online at www.wgst.com!
 
 