SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON PRAISE PASSAGE OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL
  U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, today praised the final passage of the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act, which authorizes funding for our military men and women and their families, critical military construction projects at Georgia bases and Georgia-made weapons systems. The measure passed by a vote of 92 to 3.
   "This bill will greatly improve the quality of life for our military personnel and their families, who continue to make great sacrifices for our nation," said Chambliss. "I am proud that in my capacity as a member of the Armed Services Committee, I am able to serve as a strong voice for Georgia's military communities."
   "Georgia is a big winner in this Defense Authorization bill, thanks in large part to the work of Senator Chambliss on the Committee," Isakson said. "This legislation sets the priorities for our nation's military needs and I am proud of the strong commitment it shows to Georgia." 
   The bill provides $648.8 billion in funding, including $130 billion in war-related Global War on Terrorism funding. It provides a 3.5 percent raise for all military personnel across the board, includes $4 billion for mine resistant vehicles to protect our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan from Improvised Explosive Devices (IED), and many provisions to improve compensation and quality of life for the men and women in uniform.
   The FY 08 National Defense Authorization Act also authorizes the projects included in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill. The bill also authorizes $481 million for construction at military bases in Georgia, which is the sixth largest amount in the nation.
   The bill authorizes the following military construction projects in Georgia:
   Fort Benning: (Military Construction)
  Modified Record Fire Range: $5.8 M
  Reception Station, PH 1: $51 M
  Simulations Training Facility: $56 M
  Trainee Barracks Complex: $73 M
   ($185.5 M total)
   (Special Operations Command)
  SOF Battalion Complex: $21 M
  SOF HQ Building Addition: $5 M
  SOF Tactical Equipment Shop:$9 M
   ($35 M total)
   Fort Stewart: (Military Construction)
  Barracks Complex: $36 M
  Brigade Complex-Headquarters $26 M
  Fire Station: $5.5M
  Barracks: $25M
  Unit Operations Facility: $15M
   ($107.5M total)
   Hunter Army Airfield: (Military Construction)
  Unit Operations Facility: $16M
  SOF Support Company Facility $13.8 M
   Robins Air Force Base:
  Aircraft Component Repair Facility $14.7 M
   Georgia Air National Guard
  Savannah International Airport - Troop Quarters $9M
   Fort Gordon
  Regional Security Operation Center $100 M
   The bill authorizes funds for the following Georgia made-weapon systems:
   20 F-22A's aircraft: $3.7 B
  9 C-130J's: $800 M
  C-5 modernization: $400 M
  6 Joint Strike Fighters: $1.1B
  4 KC-130J's: $268M
  Utility Fixed Wing Aircraft (Joint Cargo Aircraft) $157M
  42 UH-60 Blackhawk Helicopters for the Army $773M
  An additional $495M for 7 KC-130J's and $888M for 13 C-130J's is funded in the war-related Global War on Terrorism request.
   The bill authorizes funding for the development of the following Georgia-related programs:
   $1.5M for Advanced Bio-engineering for Enhancement of Soldier Survivability
  $4M for Advanced Surface to Air Missile Simulator Development
  $5M for the Focus Center Research Program
  $8M for Joint Threat Emitters for the Georgia Air National Guard
  $2M for Complex-Shaped Armor for Soldier Torso and Extremity Protection
  $2.5M for the Intelligence Surveillance and Detection Sensor Suite
  $2M for Deployable Fuel Cell Processors
   Chambliss and Isakson co-sponsored the following amendments to the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act:
   A resolution to commend Augusta's efforts in providing quality health care services to our nation's veterans. The resolution expresses gratitude to the Dwight D. Eisenhower Army Medical Center at Fort Gordon, the Augusta Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Medical College of Georgia, and local health care personnel for their collaborative efforts to provide the best support and resources to our wounded warriors. The resolution also encourages continued collaboration between the Army and the Department of Veterans Affairs in treating America's wounded warriors, and when appropriate and available, additional support and resources for the development of such collaborations.
   Addresses housing delays at Moody Air Force Base. This legislation directs the Comptroller General to submit a report to Congress on any housing privatization transactions that are behind schedule or in default, as well as remedies available to the federal government to restore the transaction to schedule or completion. This provision stems from a housing privatization at Moody Air Force Base in Valdosta which is far behind schedule, over cost, and resulting in un-paid expenses for several local companies.
   Renames Augusta VA in honor of the late Congressman Charlie Norwood. The legislation authorizes the renaming of the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Augusta as the "Charlie Norwood Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center," in honor of Norwood's many years of service to our nation and to our veterans.
   Physicians and Health Care Professionals Comparability Allowances This provision increases Physicians Comparability Allowance from $14,000 to $25,000 for government physicians who have served as government physicians for up to 24 months, and increases the maximum amount from $30,000 to $40,000 for government physicians with more than 2 years of service as a government physician.
   The provision also expands the Physicians Comparability Allowance to include healthcare professionals such as psychologists, nurses, nurse anesthetists, physician assistants and social workers. The provision provides bonuses to health care professionals in return for a service agreement with the Department of Defense, recognizes the shortage of health care professionals in the Department of Defense, and underscores the need for a focus on behavior health to support our men and women in uniform and ensure that they receive timely and critical care when they need it and by the best providers.
   In addition, Chambliss co-sponsored the following:
   Emergency funding for schools. The legislation authorizes assistance to school districts serving large numbers or percentages of military dependent children affected by the war in Iraq or Afghanistan, or by other Department of Defense decisions. This assistance would include additional education, counseling, and other needs of military dependent children who are affected by war-related action. The assistance may also go toward tutoring, after-school and drop-out prevention activities, professional development of educators and counselors on the needs of military dependent children with a parent who has been impacted by war-related actions, and for counseling and other support services.
 
 