WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Georgia Students Visit Capitol Hill
   Dear Friends,
   This week, the Senate debated the emergency supplemental spending bill. I voted against final passage of the bill, because it contains a timeline for withdrawal from Iraq. Congress does not need to micromanage the war, and funding for our troops should not be delivered with strings attached. The continuous efforts to set a surrender date undermine our military and are contradictory to the Senate's unanimous support of General David Petraeus, who is currently executing the new strategy in Iraq. We need to give that strategy a chance to work without tying the hands of those who are carrying out that strategy. A surrender date will simply embolden the enemy.
   I also believe it is unfortunate that the Democratic majority refused to allow me to call up the bill I introduced Thursday morning to provide immediate funding for the State Children's Health Insurance Program funding shortfall. They are well aware that the President intends to veto the supplemental spending bill, and the time to address the shortfall is now. It is unfortunate that they continue to delay funding for our children. Senator Johnny Isakson is a co-sponsor of thelegislation.
   GROUNDBREAKING CEREMONY AT FORT GORDON 
   On Monday, I participated in the National Security Agency/Central Security Service (NSA/CSS) groundbreaking ceremony at Fort Gordon. The intelligence technology at NSA/CSS is excellent and the new facility will provide sophisticated equipment to help disseminate intelligence information more quickly and accurately. Success in our fight against terrorism is dependent upon the people who work these systems. The men and women at Fort Gordon are doing excellent work and I commend them for their dedication and service to our country.
   ADDITIONAL COUNTIES ELIGIBLE FOR TORNADO DISASTER ASSISTANCE
   I was pleased to learn that after further evaluation of last month's tornado damage, four additional counties have been added to FEMA's list of those eligible to receive disaster assistance. Residents and businesses in many areas suffered extensive damage and it is critical that they are provided recovery assistance. The additional counties include Dougherty, Warren, Worth, and Hancock Counties.
   Those who suffered damage during the storms are encouraged to register with FEMA at www.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 before the May 2 registration deadline. For more information on Georgia disaster recovery, visit www.gema.state.ga.us
   GRANT WRITING WORKSHOP TO BE HELD APRIL 11 IN MACON
   Federal funding is critical to jump-starting local projects and enhancing economic development. I am pleased to announce that the U.S. Department of Agriculture will hold a free grant writing workshop for alternative energy and agriculture-related projects.
   The workshop will be held at the Georgia Farm Bureau at 1620 Bass Road in Macon on Wednesday, April 11th from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. For more information, please visit http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/ga/workshop.htm or call (770) 267-1413.
   Registration prior to the event is encouraged.
   APPLICATION PERIOD FOR ASSISTANCE TO FIREFIGHTERS GRANTS NOW OPEN
   I am pleased to announce that the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is now accepting applications for grant awards. This program helps to improve the effectiveness of rescue operations as well as the safety and health of our local firefighters and emergency responders. These brave citizens provide our first defense to accidents, natural disasters and terrorist attacks, and we must ensure they have the tools and training to do their jobs safely and efficiently.
   The application period ends at 5:00 p.m. on Friday, May 4, 2007. If you have any questions about the nomination process, please contact my Special Projects Coordinator at (770) 763-9090. The application kit can be found at www.firegrantsupport.com
   TUSKEGEE AIRMEN RECEIVE CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL
   During a ceremony at the U.S. Capitol this week the Tuskegee Airmen received the highest civilian award, the Congressional Gold Medal. The Tuskegee Airmen, America's first African-American military fliers during World War II, served patriotically and selflessly during a time when our country was in great need. I was a co-sponsor of the bill authorizing the President to award the gold medal on behalf of Congress, and I am pleased that the Tuskegee Airmen have received recognition for their duty and sacrifices.
   EFFORT TO RENAME AUGUSTA VA HOSPITAL IN HONOR OF LATE CONGRESSMAN CHARLIE NORWOOD
   My colleagues, U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson and U.S. Representative Jack Kingston, and I have introduced legislation in both houses of Congress that would rename the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Augusta in honor of the late U.S. Rep. Charlie Norwood, who passed away February 13, 2007. Many members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation have joined us in supporting this legislation. Charlie Norwood was truly an honest and selfless public servant and he worked tirelessly on behalf of our country's veterans. His unceasing passion and integrity earned him the respect of countless colleagues, Georgians, and service members. Dedicating the Augusta VA to his memory recognizes his years of service and his unique legacy to our country.
   SUPPORT GROWING FOR THE FAIRTAX!
   With April 15 approaching, folks are reminded that our current federal tax code is burdensome and complicated. That's why we need a system that is simple and fair. Support continues to grow for the FairTax, and I am proud to be the sponsor of this legislation in the U.S. Senate. I will be holding a news conference and rally in support of this legislation this coming Tuesday, April 3 in Atlanta. U.S. Rep. John Linder, who is the sponsor of the FairTax in the U.S. House, will join me in leading this event as well as U.S. Rep. Tom Price and Ken Hoagland of Americans for FairTax.
   I will also join radio host Neal Boortz of The Neal Boortz Show in the studio Tuesday morning at 9:30 a.m. to discuss the FairTax legislation. Tune in locally to AM 750 WSB Radio or listen online by going to http://wsbradio.com/ and clicking the 'listen live' link.
   For more details visit my website at www.chambliss.senate.gov.
   IN THE NEWS?.
   A recent story in The Brunswick News highlights my effort to improve the Troops to Teachers program. Read about it at: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999954885.30134.279&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1664.
   The Savannah Morning News recently had an editorial about my legislation to reduce the retirement age for members of our National Guard and Reserve. Please take a look at the article by visiting: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999954885.30134.279&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1663.
   Thank you for staying in touch and letting me know your thoughts on the issues. If you are having problems with a federal agency or any issue, please do not hesitate to let me know by calling my office toll free at 1-800-234-4208. One of my caseworkers stands ready to assist you.
   May God bless you and may God bless America.
   Saxby Chambliss
 
 