IMPROVING BENEFITS FOR NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE
  By: Sen. Saxby Chambliss
   Members of the National Guard and Reserve are making unprecedented sacrifices in the war on terrorism. These men and women are unique because they are your neighborhood farmers, bankers, and everyday professionals who volunteer a period of their time for active duty military service. As the Department of Defense continues to activate more units for longer tours of duty, Congress needs to seriously consider improving the benefits for these men and women and ensure that they are well compensated for their sacrifice to our county.  
   As Co-Chairman of the Reserve Caucus and member of the National Guard Caucus, I am working to secure an amendment to the fiscal year 2006 Defense Authorization bill that would lower the age for receiving retirement pay for those individuals who are serving for extended periods of time. 
   Currently, members of the National Guard and Reserve can begin receiving retired pay when they reach age 60. My proposal would reduce the age requirement by one year for every 179 consecutive days of mobilization, retroactive to September 2001, and sets the minimum age to collected retired pay at 50. If passed, Guard and Reservists currently fighting the war on terror would be eligible for earlier retirement pay, based on the duration of their service. 
   We have been successful in some respects relative to Guard and Reserve benefits. For example, we extended commissary access to off-duty Guard and Reservists in the fiscal year 2004 Defense Authorization bill. This had a huge impact on the families of those who serve who, before, only had access to commissaries when the military family member was on active duty. They now have full time access to this service. Those who are close to military installations have the availability of services they simply did not have before, and it has been a huge morale booster for our Guard and Reserve members. 
   In August, I had the privilege of visiting members of the Georgia National Guard's 48th Brigade Combat Team currently station in Iraq. The team is comprised of approximately 3000 Georgians and an additional 1,300 soldiers from other states and is expected to serve in Iraq for one year. They are professional soldiers committed to winning the war on terrorism and they are doing an outstanding job on behalf of our country. 
   My amendment was drafted with these individuals in mind. They put their careers and their families on hold and volunteered their time to the American Armed Forces. As we continue to rely on these men and women's brave willingness to serve, we need to reexamine the personnel policies by which they are managed and work to improve the quality of life for America's citizen soldiers.
 
 