SEN. CHAMBLISS NAMED "HERO OF THE TAXPAYER"
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss has been named a "Hero of the Taxpayer" by Americans for Tax Reform (ATR). The taxpayer advocacy organization presents the awards to members of both houses of Congress who vote along with taxpayers on 85 percent of the issues tracked by the ATR government relations team for that purpose. 
   "These key votes were the most critical for taxpayers in the second session of the 108th Congress," said Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform and prominent D.C.-based activist. "Looking at these votes taxpayers back home can tell if they have a friend or an enemy in Washington. As far as Saxby Chambliss is concerned, they have a friend."
   Votes rated by ATR this year included votes on tort reform, free trade, spending control, and overtime regulation reform. In the rating for the House, the taxpayer group double-rated a vote to protect taxpayers from the march of the Alternative Minimum Tax, a "bad idea" forcing a tax increase on more and more families every year, and burdening them with onerous paperwork requirements. In the Senate, ATR double-rated a vote on keeping the Internet tax-free.
   "During election season, every candidate is apt to allege that he or she will be a friend of taxpayers once in Washington," Norquist said. "But the proof is in their votes. Constituents deserve to know who has worked for taxpayers' interests, and not the special interests. Saxby Chambliss is squarely on the side of taxpayers, and Americans for Tax Reform offers its thanks and congratulations."
   In addition to votes on legislation, ATR counts its "Taxpayer Protection Pledge" as two votes in the group's annual rating. The Pledge is a written promise offered to every incumbent and candidate opposing "any and all tax increases." To date, the President, Vice President, 217 members of the House of Representatives, and 42 Senators have signed the Pledge.
   Americans for Tax Reform (ATR) is a non-partisan coalition of taxpayers and taxpayer groups who oppose all federal, state and local tax increases. For more information or to arrange an interview, please contact Christopher Butler at (202) 785-0266 or at cbutler@atr.org.
 
 