SEN. CHAMBLISS HONORED BY SENIOR CITIZEN GROUP
  In a statement issued this week, 60 Plus Association President Jim Martin said, "It's a distinct honor to bestow the Benjamin Franklin Award upon Senator Saxby Chambliss for his efforts to abolish one of the most confiscatory of all taxes."  
   The 11-year-old senior citizen advocacy group which relies on 4.5 million seniors for support, presents the Franklin award to deserving members of the House and Senate, having begun the practice nearly seven years ago.
   Martin said his group was looking for ways to recognize those members who wanted to 'bury the death tax... kill it, not wound it.'
   "We decided on Ben Franklin because it was Franklin who famously said there were 'two certainties to occur in life, taxes and death.' "But because of the estate tax, applied after death, for 88 years there has been a third certainty to occur.
   "Thanks to efforts by Senator Chambliss and others, there is now a majority in Congress in favor of getting rid of this third certainty, 275 members of the House and 56 in the Senate have voted to abolish this job-robbing, negative-revenue producing tax.
   "President Bush has promised to sign the bill. Unfortunately, because of Senator Tom Daschle (D-SD) it takes 60 votes in that body to repeal.
   "In 1999, the House also voted by a substantial margin to repeal but President Clinton vetoed the bill, calling it 'a windfall for the wealthy, a tax cut for the rich' - to which I replied that was a con job and Mr. Clinton knew it; the rich set up foundations to avoid the tax. A few come to mind: the Turner Foundation and the Gates Foundation among others...ever heard of the Heinz Foundation? Instead, it's small businesses, farmers and senior citizens that are hurt because they don't have the hundreds of thousands to pay accountants and lawyers."
   Martin has been credited with popularizing the term 'death tax' by Grover Norquist on the right and Bill Gates, Sr. on the left (in his new book, 'Wealth and Our Commonwealth: Why America Should Tax Accumulated Fortunes').
   "Some 75 to 80% of the American public favors abolishing this tax, citing the unfairness of a tax triggered only by death. That's why our battle cry at 60 Plus has become 'dying should not be a taxable event.'
   "Besides the Franklin Award, Chambliss has already earned the 60 Plus Association's top honor, the Guardian of Seniors' Rights Award, for Chambliss' efforts to protect Social Security and Medicare and his work to abolish the 1993 tax on seniors' Social Security benefits."
 
 