NATIONAL SHERIFFS' ASSOCIATION ENDORSES SEN. CHAMBLISS' EXTRADITION AMENDMENT
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., announced today that the National Sheriffs Association, who represents over 22,000 members nationwide, has endorsed the extradition provision that he successfully included in the annual foreign operations funding bill. House and Senate Conferees are currently finalizing the bill before it can receive final congressional approval. 
   Chambliss' extradition provision would prevent funds from being made available to any country which has refused to extradite certain individuals to the United States. The provision was inspired by Corporal Josiah Ray Fulton of Hampton, Ga., a United States Marine, who was murdered on the streets of Washington, D.C. and whose killer fled to his home nation of Nicaragua. 
   "I am honored to receive the National Sheriffs' Association endorsement of this important provision," said Chambliss. "Law enforcement officers put their lives on the line everyday to ensure our communities are safe and secure. We must send a strong message to potential criminals that if you commit crimes in this country, you will not be able to take refuge in another country."
   Below are excerpts of the National Sheriffs' Association letter to Chambliss endorsing his extradition provision. 
   "The National Sheriffs' Association is pleased to see that this Amendment has passed both houses of the United States Congress and is extremely hopeful that it will be included in the final bill. We commend you, Rep. Nathan Deal, and the United States Congress for recognizing the importance of this issue, for Congress' support of law enforcement, and for wisely excluding those funds dedicated to law enforcement and drug control." 
   "Countries that accept foreign aid from the United States need to understand that those who commit criminal offenses in the United States must be apprehended and brought to justice! We cannot tolerate, nor should we reward, foreign governments' refusals to extradite our criminals. By failing to turn over wanted individuals, these countries show a lack of respect for our criminal justice system, for the suffering of crime victims, and for the difficult job of our nation's law enforcement agencies!"
   "The Nation's 3,087 sheriffs stand in resolute support of Amendment No. 1271 and strongly encourage the House and Senate Conferees to make sure it is included in the final bill."
 
 