SEN. CHAMBLISS: NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS TO REMAIN IMPORTANT PART OF FARM BILL
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today received testimony during a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing that focused on food assistance programs serving American families. In his opening remarks, Sen. Chambliss stressed the importance of retaining nutrition assistance programs that help millions of Americans each year. Bill Bolling, Founder and Executive Director of the Atlanta Community Food Bank, was one of several witnesses testifying before the committee. 
  "Our nutrition assistance programs play a key role in ensuring that needy Americans have access to the food they need to lead healthy, productive lives," said Sen. Chambliss, Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "We've seen how the food stamp program not only helps America's needy families on their path to independence and self-sufficiency, but also emergency response missions during hurricanes Katrina and Rita." 
  During the hearing, Sen. Chambliss offered suggestions to the food stamp program to help Americans achieve financial independence and eventually end their need to receive food stamps. One proposed change is to increase the allowable household asset limit, which has gone unchanged for over 25 years. Sen. Chambliss said that by increasing the assets limit, American families would be encouraged to save for their future. He also suggested exploring ways welfare beneficiaries can utilize modern savings programs for retirement and higher education. 
  "Understanding that we will be faced with budgetary challenges for the farm bill, we need to work together to address these important issue, particularly asset limits," said Sen. Chambliss. "Reforming food stamp asset limits has the potential to help needy families break the cycle of poverty and achieve long-term financial independence."
  As part of the 1996 welfare reform, Congress called on American families receiving welfare benefits to join the work force. Since then, there has been a decline in beneficiaries receiving cash welfare and more welfare families at work. From 1996 to 2005, the number of food stamp households with children who received cash welfare payments decreased by 57 percent, and the number who reported earned income increased 41 percent.
 
 