SEN. CHAMBLISS URGES SENATE TO APPROVE LEGISLATION TO UPDATE ANTI-TERRORISM TOOL BEFORE CONGRESS ADJOURNS FOR AUGUST RECESS
  U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today urged members of the Senate to pass legislation to update the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) before the Congress adjourns for the August recess. On Wednesday, the Republican Leader, U.S. Sen. Mitch McConnell, and U.S. Senator Christopher Bond, Ranking Member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, introduced a bill to modernize the surveillance law. The Director of National Intelligence reported this week that as a result of this outdated law the U.S. is missing a significant amount of foreign intelligence needed to protect the country. 
   "Our intelligence community is hamstrung unless we update this crucial surveillance law," said Chambliss. "In my view this is just common sense. The country is facing a very real threat right now. It would be irresponsible not to give our intelligence community tools to gather information from those overseas who are making plans to carry out an attack against the United States, our interests or our allies. This is truly one of those times we need to come together in a bipartisan way. This is not a partisan issue; it is an American issue because modernization of this act will provide for continued protection of the American people so we do not suffer another attack on American soil," Chambliss added. 
   Chambliss said it is necessary to bring FISA in line with the technology that is available today which was not available at the time the original statute was implemented. Technology has rapidly changed since 1978, but FISA has not. When FISA was enacted, it was not meant to cover overseas surveillance activities, but because of changes in technology this surveillance has fallen subject to approval from the U.S. courts. Chambliss further noted that this modernization would only apply to surveillance directed at individuals who are outside of the United States. 
   The recent National Intelligence Estimate, The Terrorist Threat to the U.S. Homeland, stated that al-Qaeda has regenerated its capabilities, and, as a result, the U.S. is currently in a heightened threat environment.
 
 