WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Dear Friends:
   The U.S. Senate returns to session this Monday, December 3, 2007, following the Thanksgiving recess. 
  Thanksgiving in Iraq
  During the break, I traveled to Iraq where I had Thanksgiving dinner with our troops who are serving courageously. This was my sixth trip to Iraq and my second Thanksgiving there, and it is always an honor and privilege to visit with our men and women in uniform from Georgia. They are true professionals and we are all proud of their service and sacrifice, and their hard work has resulted in improved security conditions on the ground.
  Upon arrival, our congressional delegation met with General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker for a briefing on new developments and progress in the region. Additionally, we met with Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and Vice President Adel Abdulmahdi, Iraqi police, Iraqi security forces and constituents in Kirkuk.  
  To read about my Thanksgiving in Iraq in the Albany Herald, click here.
  Visit to Moody Air Force Base
  On Wednesday, I visited Moody Air Force Base in South Georgia, where I received an update on issues affecting the base. Additionally, I joined one of my Senate Armed Services Committee colleagues, U.S. Sen. Mark Pryor, D-Arkansas, in calling on the Air Force to take action to resolve the situation with stalled housing projects at Moody and Little Rock Air Force Base in Arkansas. New personnel are expected to arrive at Moody in 2009, and failure to resolve this problem will hinder the base's ability to meet their needs.
  To read more about my visit to Moody Air Force base as well as the privatized housing issue in the Valdosta Daily Times, please click here. 
  2007 Farm Bill 
  When the Senate returns to work this week, I am hopeful we will resume consideration of the Food and Energy Security Act of 2007, which is also known as the farm bill. This bill is a five-year authorization and impacts both rural and urban communities. As Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, and co-author of this bill, I have worked closely with all members of the committee to craft comprehensive policy to address our farming and nutritional interests. 
  We must ensure a strong safety net for our agriculture community and we must make certain that low income families and individuals have access to nutritional assistance programs. If we become as dependent on foreign nations for our food as for fuel, we will leave our food supply and the security of our country to the political whims of foreign nations, and we can't let that happen. The people we represent are depending on us as policy makers to get our work done, and I am hopeful that we can get a bill done in the near future. 
  I am disappointed that prior to the Thanksgiving break, the Majority shut down debate on the farm bill before it even began. I believe that both parties should be able to offer amendments to this legislation and allow a fair debate as we have in the past. Unfortunately, that was not the case, but I am hopeful we will be able to work together on a bipartisan basis to pass the farm bill as soon as possible. 
  To listen to additional excerpts from my floor speech on this issue, please click
  here and select the November 16 link. 
  To read my floor speech on this issue prior to a procedural vote to cut off debate, please click here.
  Thank you for staying in touch with me on the issues concerning you and your family. Should you have a question or concern with a federal agency or any other matter, please do not hesitate to contact my office toll free at 1-800-234-4208. 
  Additionally, if you are planning a trip to Washington and would like a U.S. Capitol tour, or need information on the various tourist and historical attractions, please call my office or visit here for more information.
 
 