SEN. CHAMBLISS COMMENTS ON MAD COW DISEASE
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, delivered the following opening statement before the hearing on Bovine Sponigifirm Encephalopathy (BSE).
   "The purpose of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry's hearing today is to hear testimony regarding the impacts of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy ("BSE") on trade in cattle and beef products, in North America as well as the rest of the world. 
   "We are honored to have the Honorable Mike Johanns, our new Secretary of Agriculture, here to testify today. It was less than a month ago that this Committee held a hearing on the Secretary's nomination and favorably reported his nomination to the full Senate. Welcome today, Mr. Secretary. 
   "We are pleased to have the Secretary here, and look forward to hearing his testimony on this important matter. I cannot emphasize enough how important this complex issue is to our livestock industry. I would like to briefly mention three issues that I believe are involved with this situation.
   "First, jobs: Having the border closed with Canada for the past year has already cost our country job losses in slaughtering facilities in Iowa, Nebraska, Ohio, Mississippi, and Idaho. If the border continues to remain closed for too much longer, we will be seeing many more permanent job losses in other states including my state, Georgia, and at least a dozen more. Many of these jobs have moved to Canada; more will likely follow if a satisfactory resolution cannot be reached soon.
   "Second, export demand: Having our export markets in Japan and elsewhere closed to US beef will certainly be a negative impact on our market here in the U.S. Japan was importing over a billion dollars worth of US beef annually prior to our first domestic case of BSE, and having trade resumed with Japan is critical to the long term economic success of our beef producers and processors.
   "Lastly, sound science: It has never been more important to use sound science to guide decision making. As we have learned all too often, when countries stray from sound science as a basis for making decisions that affect trade, we end up with arbitrary, artificial barriers that are even harder to overcome. Many countries have used bogus claims to prevent US poultry products from being imported. Usually it is done under the guise of protecting their domestic poultry supply or protecting consumer food safety, but it ends up being an artificial barrier to trade usually designed to protect a domestic producer group from our exports. So, we have to be very careful about having legitimate, sound science as the foundation for all the decisions in this area if we want to be credible regarding our commitment to sound science in the international trade world.
   "Before I recognize our Ranking Member, my friend Senator Harkin, for his comments, I would like to add one other thing: While we hope today's hearing will be as comprehensive and helpful as possible, I do not expect Secretary Johanns to be able to answer every question about every issue because I know that there are some issues that are not quite ripe enough for final answers today. For instance, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) will soon be completing its follow-up review of the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) feed ban implementation; the FDA itself has a pending rulemaking akin to these matters; USDA's Office of Inspector General will be releasing a report later this month pertaining to some of USDA's administrative actions with respect to beef imports; and currently, 2 lawsuits are pending against USDA regarding this situation. I only mention these to show that I see a need for this committee to probably have a subsequent hearing or briefings on some of these matters as they become timely."
 
 