SEN. CHAMBLISS SEEKS MAJOR IMPROVEMENTS IN MEDICAL CARE FOR WOUNDED WARRIORS
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Georgia., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today introduced legislation to ensure the medical needs of wounded servicemen and women are properly met and that bureaucracy does not interfere with their progress. Chambliss introduced the bipartisan legislation with Sen. Mark Pryor, D-Arkansas. Chambliss' floor remarks on the legislation will be available on the website later this afternoon and can be viewed at www.chambliss.senate.gov. Please select the News Center section, followed by TV Clips. 
   "Our service members need and deserve the best medical care and attention we can offer them, and this bill will help provide that," said Senator Chambliss. "They do not need to be disadvantaged by an out-dated, bureaucratic process that adds more stress to their recovery. This legislation is a step in the right direction to reform and modernize the out-patient treatment process, and it will increase the morale and welfare of our recovering service members. They deserve our fullest support. We are committed to meeting their needs, and this bill will accomplish that," said Chambliss.
   The legislation, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act of 2007 requires case managers for outpatients to handle no more than 17 cases and review each case once a week; creates a system of patient advocates; increases funding to hire additional physicians, increases training for health care professionals, medical case managers and patient advocates with an emphasis on identifying and treating Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injuries; establishes a toll-free hotline for patients and their families to report problems with medical facilities or patient care; creates an independent advocate to counsel service members appearing before medical evaluation boards and establishes a pilot program to improve the transition from military to civilian life for wounded combat veterans. Similar legislation, H.R.1538, was passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 426-0 in late March.
 
 