MEDICARE DRUG DISCOUNT CARDS WILL HELP SENIORS
  By Sen. Saxby Chambliss
   This May, Georgia's seniors are going to get their first chance to enroll in a program that could lead to major savings on prescription drugs. This program, the Medicare-approved drug discount card program, provides qualified seniors with drug discount cards which can save them at least 20 to 25% on drug costs. Some estimates say they will save even more. The cards offered by each company will contain varied prices for different drugs. Seniors will need to evaluate their drug needs and choose the plan that best accommodates their individual needs. The card program was part of the Medicare reform bill passed by Congress last year. 
   The cards are available to everyone on Medicare who is not also receiving Medicaid drug coverage. Those who are single, with an income of $12,569 or less, or who are married with an income of $16,862 or less, may also qualify for a $600 drug credit.
   This program is exciting, because it can lead quickly to savings. This is why I believe it is important to get the word out as soon as possible. Enrollment for the cards begins in May. Seniors can benefit from the savings starting in June. Seniors can enroll in only one of the plans at a time and must pay an enrollment fee of up to $30. Those who qualify for the $600 credit do not have to pay the fee.
   Seniors should be careful in deciding which plan to join. Only legitimate cards carry the Medicare Seal to ensure that it is a genuine plan. It also is important to remember that the different plans will offer different mixes of drugs and discounts, so it is absolutely necessary to match one's drug needs with the drugs and prices offered by the individual plans in order to receive the most favorable discount. Finally, seniors should check with their local pharmacies to find out if they participate with the plan of their choice. Different pharmacies may participate in some, but not all plans, so before choosing, remember to make sure you will still have access at your pharmacy.
   Finally, be wary of drug card scams. Please remember that only legitimate cards will have the Medicare seal. Never share personal information such as a bank account number, social security number, health insurance card number or Medicare number with any individual who calls on the phone, sends an email, or comes to the door claiming to sell any Medicare-related product. If fraud is suspected, call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227), or the fraud hotline at 1-800-447-8477. To learn more about the drug discount card program, seniors should call 1-800-MEDICARE or go to the website: www.medicare.gov.
   I urge all seniors in Georgia who qualify for these cards to check out the new drug card to see if it is the best plan for you. There is no reason not to look at the options and then select the card plan which best suits your healthcare needs. The savings are available - all you have to do is participate.
 
 