SEN. CHAMBLISS CO-SPONSORS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FUNDING BILL
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, co-sponsored a bill today which would appropriate money to fund military construction projects already authorized in the FY07 National Defense Authorization Act. This bill is necessary since the FY07 military construction appropriations bill has not been passed into law. 
  "The Senate needs to act on this bill immediately so that much needed funding can be delivered to our military communities," said Chambliss. "A funding delay will hinder the implementation of crucial modernization projects across Georgia, postpone development of a long term master plan for Georgia's military installations, hinder our ability to sustain readiness, and postpone critical housing and privatization projects."
  Specifically, Chambliss warned that not passing this bill and appropriating FY07 military construction funds would:
   * Threaten the maintenance and repair of airfields, runways, and taxiways. 
   * Postpone funding for housing and privatization projects on more than 8,000 homes on Navy and Marine Corps installations locally in Georgia and across the country. 
   * Hinder Georgia's ability to sustain readiness of the Air Force's C-17's. 
   * Cause setbacks in realigning pilot training from Moody Air Force Base that could cost the Air Force an entire year of pilot production. 
   * Delay completion of facilities that are designed to better train and adequately maintain forces. 
   * Result in an additional 5-10% increase in across-the board project costs, in part due to inflationary labor costs. 
   "Our military has been asked to adapt to the new types of threats confronting us in the Global War on Terrorism, and this funding will continue our ability to create a more modular and easily deployable force as well as take care of the people who are supporting and defending our country in this global war," Chambliss added. 
   BACKGROUND
   The Fiscal Year 2007 Military Construction and Quality of Life Appropriations Bill was not passed into law. The existing Continuing Resolution does not allow the Department of Defense to proceed with over $17 billion in new construction and BRAC projects authorized by Congress in the 2007 National Defense Authorization Act. 
   Within Georgia, the FY07 authorized and pending projects have a value of $535 million and include:
   FORT BENNING
   Child Development Center   
   Trainee Barracks Complex 1  
   Training Brigade Complex   
   Fire and Movement Range   
   Modified Record Fire Range  
   Initial Entry Training (IET) Brigade Headquarters Building   
   Trainee Barracks Complex 2  
   Stationary Gunnery Range   
   FORT GILLEM
   Forensic Lab  
   FORT STEWART
   Digital Multipurpose Range Complex  
   Combined Arms Collective Training Facility   
   Brigade Complex   
   Child Development Center   
   KINGS BAY 
   Reaction Force Facility Auxiliary Support 
   Waterfront Security Force Facility
   ROBINS AFB
   Advanced Metal Finishing Facility
   Depot Maintenance Support Hangar 
   Consolidated Containerization Point
   Software support facility
   GA NATIONAL GUARD  
   Replace Operations/Training/Security Forces Complex 
   Troop Dorms
   MARINE CORPS LOGISTICS BASE, ALBANY 
   Combat vehicle warehouse
 
 