SEN. CHAMBLISS SAYS EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL BILL LOADED DOWN WITH UNNECESSARY SPENDING; VOTES AGAINST FINAL PASSAGE
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss today released the following statement following Senate passage of the Fiscal Year 2006 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act: 
  "During my twelve years in Congress, no one has been a stronger, more consistent, more vocal advocate on behalf of our men and women in uniform. Our troops perform with courage and professionalism each and every day and they make us proud. Having visited with our troops in Iraq four different times, I understand that we must provide the funding necessary for our ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and the resources our military personnel need to get the job done. 
  "But what we shouldn't do is load this critical bill down with spending that is absolutely unrelated to our efforts to fight and win the war on terrorism. I am very concerned that during the course of considering this bill the Senate lost focus, spent money on issues totally unrelated to the war and hurricane matters, and increased the price tag of this bill by enormous measures. Virtually none of the increases above the President's request were offset with reductions in spending. Therefore, I could not support passage of the bill. 
  "When the people of Georgia sent me to the United States Senate, I gave them a commitment that one of my top priorities would be to ensure that Congress is fiscally responsible. We should not pass financial burdens on to our children and grandchildren. The taxpayers of this country expect nothing less than our full commitment to spend their money wisely, and we've got to stay committed to that. We can provide for our troops while at the same time exercising fiscal discipline. 
  "We need to send a strong message to the Conferees who will be negotiating the final version and spending amount of this bill that anything other than absolute focus on funding for our troops, border security, and recovery from natural disasters has no place in this bill, and I urge the House and Senate Conferees to focus on what is right and what is necessary."
 
 