WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  CHAMBLISS PROPOSAL TO CUT $3 BILLION IN FEDERAL SPENDING WINS SENATE APPROVAL
   The Senate approved a massive deficit reduction bill designed to save the American taxpayers $34.7 billion over the next five years. As the Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Senator Saxby Chambliss played a key role in this deficit reduction process by proposing over $3 billion cuts in federal spending over the next 5-years.  
   CHAMBLISS COSPONSORS MEASURE TO CUT FEDERAL SPENDING
   Senator Saxby Chambliss co-sponsored and voted for an amendment to a Deficit Reduction bill (S.1932) that would freeze federal discretionary spending. "Congress is spending way too much money and we must act now to reduce the national deficit," said Senator Chambliss. "This amendment would have allowed for significant fiscal constraint and I will continue to support measures to curb spending and balance the budget." Specifically, the amendment Chambliss supported would have limited all non-defense, non-trust-fund spending to the previous year's level, beginning in fiscal year 2007, unless 2/3 of the Senate votes to waive the cap. http://www.chambliss.senate.gov/News/singleNews.cfm?NewsID=461
   CHAMBLISS PRAISES AMERICA'S VETERANS
   In advance of Veterans Day, Senator Chambliss issued a weekly column praising America's veterans for their many sacrifices. Additionally, Chambliss provided a brief congressional update. To read Chambliss' column, click here: http://www.chambliss.senate.gov/News/singleNews.cfm?NewsID=468
   CHAMBLISS SUPPORTS LEGISLATION TO HELP VETERANS
   Senator Chambliss supported legislation that would help disabled veterans move home from medical facilities by expanding eligibility guidelines for specially adaptive housing assistance grants. The "Specially Adapted Housing Grants Improvement Act" would create a five-year pilot program that would allow disabled veterans who live with their families to qualify for up to $10,000 in home! adaptation assistance. Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs program only allows assistance for disabled veterans who are at least part owners of their residences. The measure is supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion and the Paralyzed Veterans of America. To read more, click here: http://www.chambliss.senate.gov/News/singleNews.cfm?NewsID=467
   Agriculture funds to help Georgia The United States Senate gave final congressional approval for an important annual agriculture funding bill. The bill included funds for several key Georgia projects. To read more, visit: www.chambliss.senate.gov.
 
 