HONORING AMERICA'S VETERANS
  Throughout our nation's history, America's veterans have made great sacrifices for the freedom we all enjoy. Right now in Iraq, America's military men and women are working hard to continue defeating the terrorists so that America will remain safe and secure for our children and grandchildren.  
   And as Veterans Day approaches, it's important to say a special thank you to America's veterans for their patriotic service to our nation. This is also a perfect time of the year to share some important news regarding Congress' efforts to ensure America's veterans receive the very best, most efficient and effective care possible. After all, America's veterans have sacrificed for us, and it is only right that we do all we can for them. 
   That's why I am pleased to report that Congress voted to increase money available for veterans benefits and services by $450 million above the nearly $71 billion that President Bush proposed for veterans benefits in 2006. Additionally, Congress has rejected calls for enrollment fees, additional co-pays for medication, and reduced per diem payments to State Veterans Homes for the vast majority of patients in these homes. The Congress also approved and President Bush signed into law $1.5 million in emergency funds in 2005 to meet the healthcare needs of our service men and women returning from fighting in the global war on terror. 
   All of these funds will ensure that we spend an additional $100 million for mental health services; spend an additional $100 million for prosthetics; and increase the staff at the Department of Veterans Affairs who handle disability claims to reduce the processing time and backlog of claims.
   While these are only a few of Congress' efforts to fund the important needs of our nation's veterans, more must still be done. America's veterans have earned their benefits through their service to our nation. These benefits for veterans and their families are important, and it is one of my highest priorities to keep our government's promises to those who served to defend this country and preserve our freedom. 
   That's why I have also supported efforts to allow retired military personnel to receive their military pension and disability compensation concurrently, to provide Federal civilian and military retirees with the option to pay health insurance premiums on a pretax basis, and to allow a tax deduction for TRICARE supplemental premiums. Additionally, I co-sponsored the "Veterans Prescription Drugs Assistance Act," which would create a program to allow Medicare-eligible veterans to obtain outpatient prescription medications from the Department of Veterans Affairs on the order of any licensed physician. 
   The United States Senate will consider several other veterans issues during the remainder of this Session, including legislation on the Survivor Benefit Plan and VA Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) program, changes to the current Concurrent Receipt legislation, and continued funding and improvements for Veterans Health Care. 
   We must not neglect the needs of the men and women who put their lives on the line to preserve our freedom and way of life. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will continue working to ensure that veterans' issues are a high priority in the United States Senate and that our veterans receive the benefits they earned. 
   Lastly, let me once again say thank you from the bottom of my heart to all of America's veterans. It's because of you that our children and grandchildren will live in a safe and secure America. Thank you.
 
 