SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON ANNOUNCE $195 MILLION FOR ELECTRIC LOAN
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today announced that the Georgia Transmission Corporation (GTC) will receive a $195,442,000 loan to make modifications and upgrades to existing generation facilities to counties across Georgia.  
   The loan will be distributed through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Initiative. GTC's substation on loading data shows that numerous substations and transmission lines are near capacity and will exceed their rated loading within the next few years. Recommended projects include construction of 199.97 miles of transmission lines, 31 new substations with a combined capacity of 1,915.3 MVA, 2 new switching stations, and various upgrades to lines and other substations.
   "I am pleased that Georgia Transmission Corporation has received this loan to help continue efforts to provide reliable sources of power across the state of Georgia," Chambliss said. "I appreciate the work of USDA Rural Development for their assistance in securing this funding." 
   "USDA Rural Development funds are so important to many areas across Georgia, and the counties served by the Georgia Transmission Corporation will benefit greatly from this latest loan," Isakson said.
   The counties affected by the grant are: Appling, Atkinson, Baker, Baldwin, Banks, Barrow, Bartow, Ben Hill, Berrien, Bibb, Bleckley, Bartley, Brooks, Bryan, Bulloch, Burke, Butts, Calhoun, Camden, Candler, Carroll, Charlton, Chatham, Chattahoochee, Cherokee, Clarke, Clay, Clayton, Clinch, Cobb, Coffee, Colquitt, Columbia, Cook, Coweta, Crawford, Dawson, Decatur, DeKalb, Dodge, Dooly, Daugherty, Douglas, Early, Echols, Effingham, Elbert, Emanuel, Evans, Fayette, Floyd, Forsyth, Franklin, Fulton, Gilmer, Glascock, Glynn, Gordon, Grady, Greene, Gwinnett, Habersham, Hall, Hancock, Haralson, Harris, Hart, Heard, Henry, Houston, Irwin, Jackson, Jasper, Jeff Davis, Jefferson, Jenkins, Johnson, Jones, Lamar, Lanier, Laurens, Lee, Liberty, Lincoln, Long, Lowndes, Lumpkin, Macon, Madison, Marion, McDuffie, McIntosh, Meriwether, Miller, Mitchell, Monroe, Montgomery, Morgan, Murray, Muscogee, Nelson, Newton, Oconee, Oglethorpe, Paulding, Peach, Pickens, Pierce, Pike, Polk, Pulaski, Putman, Quitman, Rabun, Randolph, Richmond, Rockdale, Schely, Screven, Seminole, Spaulding, Stephens, Stewart, Sumter, Talbot, Taliaferro, Tattnall, Taylor, Telfair, Terrell, Thomas, Tift, Toombs, Treutlen, Troup, Turner, Twiggs, Upson, Walton, Ware, Warren, Washington, Wayne, Webster, Wheeler, White, Wilcox, Wile, Wilkinson, and Worth.
 
 