SEN. CHAMBLISS: DEMOCRATS OBSTRUCT BORDER SECURITY
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss today made the following statement on the Senate floor after attempting to have one of his amendments to the Border Security Bill called up. Chambliss, Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, has filed a number of amendments that would address the agriculture portion of the Senate Judiciary Committee's bill. 
  Mr. President:
  I am disappointed that my colleagues across the aisle will not let those of us who have good faith amendments to call them up, debate them, and have a vote on them. This is most troubling because, while I disagree with many of the provisions in the bill, the border security provisions are absolutely critical. The majority of Americans consider border security to be one of the most important priorities considered by Congress. In holding up the amendment process, the Democrats are holding up the chance to move forward on these critical border security issues. This legislation is too important to fall victim to politics as usual. 
  Now, as I said, I strongly disagree with this legislation in its current form. I think the provisions relative to agriculture are not in the best interests of farmers and agribusiness people. I can't tell you how many phone calls and letters and emails I have received from my constituents in Georgia as well as from farmers across the nation voicing their objection to many pieces of the Judiciary Committee bill and encouraging me in my efforts to make some important changes.
  So I was astounded to hear the Minority Leader yesterday suggest that the Judiciary Committee's bill is good enough for him and therefore should be accepted without any amendments or any consideration of alternatives by the Senate. That is not the way the Senate works. This body is based on the concept of debate. To suggest that this legislation should reflect the will of the 18 members of Judiciary Committee and ignore the will of the full Senate is to belittle the enormous implications that will result from whatever legislation the Senate passes. 
  I recognize that a number of pending amendments are going to require the Senate to make some difficult votes. But we cannot try to avoid these votes for political expediency. The American people deserve to know where their Senators stand on these critical issues. And every Senator has the right to try to shape this legislation and make it better. 
  The folks on the other side of the aisle need to stop playing politics as usual - which is obstruct, obstruct, obstruct. This bill is too important and their antics are going to prevent us from having a bill that actually means something and isn't just a repeat of the past. Georgians and the American people deserve more than politics as usual - they deserve a thoughtful and thorough debate.
 
 