SEN. CHAMBLISS TO SERVE AS CHAIRMAN OF SENATE AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., has been selected by his colleagues to serve as the Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.  
   "I am very humbled to have been selected to serve as Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. It is a prestigious honor and I look forward to working with my colleagues on the many important issues our committee will address," said Chambliss. "With this new leadership position the voices of Georgians will only be strengthened as Congress works to provide an effective farm safety net for America's farmers, ranchers, and all of those men and women working in agribusiness, which is such a critical component of our economy. Even more importantly, Congress will begin preparation for reviewing and rewriting federal farm programs that expire in 2007." 
   As Chairman, Chambliss will lead the key panel with broad jurisdiction affecting our national agriculture policy, such as, agriculture economics and research; agriculture extension services; agriculture production and commodities; animal industry and disease; crop insurance; soil and water conservation; farm credit and security; forestry issues; inspection of livestock, meat and agriculture products, and pests; pesticides; rural development and electrification; and many others. 
   "Agriculture is vital to Georgia's economy, producing valuable exports of peanuts, peaches, cotton, pecans, tobacco and a wide variety of vegetables and other crops," said Chambliss. "As chairman of this committee, I'm excited about the opportunity to positively impact and shape agriculture policy for generations to come."
   Senator Saxby Chambliss has been involved with agriculture for over 30 years - including serving 8 years on the Committee on Agriculture in U.S. House of Representatives. During his time in the House, Chambliss was intricately involved with rewriting the 1996 and 2002 farm bill, helped author sweeping reforms to crop insurance, and served as the Chairman of the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee. 
   The last Georgian to chair this panel was Senator Herman Talmadge from 1977 to 1981. Chambliss will replace U.S. Senator Thad Cochran, R-Miss., who will serve as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations in the 109th Congress.
 
 