SEN. CHAMBLISS URGES CONTINUED BIPARTISAN SUPPORT AS SENATE BEGINS FARM BILL DEBATE
  U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today took to the Senate floor urging his colleagues to support the bipartisan Food and Energy Security Act of 2007. Sen. Chambliss worked closely with Committee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) to craft policy that will strengthen American agriculture. The bill was overwhelmingly reported out of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry last month with all but one member voting in favor of passage.  
  "Our entire Committee worked in a bipartisan fashion and to a large extent was able to accommodate the interests and priorities of almost every member of the Agriculture Committee," said Sen. Chambliss. "It is my sincere hope that the Senate will agree with our committee and support this farm bill that will strengthen the nation's food security, protect the livelihood of our farmers and ranchers, preserve our efforts to remain good stewards of the environment, and enhance our nation's energy security efforts."
  A Senate Finance Committee bill resulted in $3 billion in savings to the farm bill that helped increase spending on specialty crops, nutrition, conservation and energy programs. The nutrition title received the largest funding increase, totaling over $5 billion. Sen. Chambliss noted that the increase was no small accomplishment and additional resources were made available by reductions in the commodity and crop insurance programs. 
  "I understand that several members have an interest in offering amendments to further limit payments to the hard-working farmers and ranchers in this country," said Sen. Chambliss. "However, I want the Senate to realize that the committee-reported bill includes the most significant reforms to payment limitations in the history of American farm policy. Any amendment that attempts to make draconian reforms will be met with my strong opposition. I urge my colleagues to compare this bill with current law and recognize the dramatic changes."
 
 