THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE SPOKEN
  With the results of the recent congressional and presidential elections, the American people delivered an overwhelming response that the country should continue its move in the same direction.  
   For Senate Republicans, the election was a validation of our many hard fought achievements, such as passing tax relief for all Americans, delivering a prescription drug benefit for our nation's neediest seniors, reforming America's intelligence community, and working to implement many of the 9/11 Commission recommendations to make America safer and more secure. 
   Throughout the campaign, President Bush laid out an ambitious agenda for his second term and I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to accomplish the goals of this agenda for all Americans. With respect to making America safer and more secure, there is still much we can do to fight and win the war on terror and to bolster our nation's homeland security.  
   Additionally, the President has stated many times that reforming the current federal tax code will be a focus of this second term - and I couldn't be more pleased. The current federal tax code is burdensome, complex, and counter-productive to our economy. And it is in dire need of reform. I look forward to working with the President to reform the current tax code to one that is simple, fair and consistent. 
   Moreover, President Bush has said he wants to look at strengthening Social Security for today's seniors and improving the current system for tomorrow's retirees. I am also optimistic that the President and the Congress will continue working to improve education so every American child can reach their learning potential.
   Lastly, through the results of this past election, the American people made it especially clear they want the obstructionism to end. Previously, Democrats obstructionism, prevented the Senate from confirming many of President Bush's highly qualified judicial nominees and from Congress passing a comprehensive energy plan that has the potential to create nearly one million jobs. Numerous pieces of reform legislation, including meaningful limits on frivolous and unnecessary lawsuits, establishing a solution for asbestos litigation that affects hundreds of Georgia businesses, bankruptcy reform, welfare reform, and class action reform was also blocked by obstructionist tactics.
   Now that the American people have spoken - and spoken overwhelmingly - Congress and the President can begin to really work for the good of the American people.
 
 