WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Dear Friends: 
  This week the Senate passed the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1585). The bill authorizes funding for military needs and many military construction projects throughout Georgia. 
  Over the past few days many Georgia Chambers of Commerce visited Washington, including the Cobb County Chamber, the Cordele-Crisp Chamber, the North Fulton Chamber, and many others. I always appreciate the opportunity to see folks from home and dialogue with them about our communities' needs and receive their input on legislation. 
   DEFENSE FUNDING APPROVED 
  The Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act authorizes funding for our military men and women and their families, critical military construction projects at Georgia bases and Georgia-made weapons systems. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I am proud to have a role in helping to craft this legislation each year and serve as a strong voice for Georgia's military communities. A conference committee consisting of members of the House and Senate must now iron out differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill.
  * To see the list of Georgia projects and other measures included in the bill, visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999931398.29774.12&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2719. 
  Additionally, I am pleased the bill included an amendment offered by Senator Isakson and me to rename the Augusta Veterans Affairs facility as the "Charlie Norwood Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center," in honor of the late U.S. Rep. Charlie Norwood, R-Ga., who passed away on February 13, 2007. 
  Charlie Norwood represented Georgia's 10th Congressional District for 12 years. He was a selfless public servant, and he was beloved by his constituents. Even as he faced personal adversity, Charlie worked tirelessly on behalf of our country's veterans. 
   STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM (SCHIP)
  Last week the Senate approved a Continuing Resolution to fund government operations while the respective appropriations bills continue to go through the legislative process. The Continuing Resolution included a 45-day extension of the current State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) which funds Georgia's PeachCare program. 
  There has been a great deal of debate over how exactly to expand SCHIP. First and foremost, I support an expansion of the program so low-income children, for whom this program was created, can have access to health care coverage. However, some folks in Congress have tried to use this program to create a massive government-run health care system by allowing states to cover adults with their SCHIP funds, and in some cases families making as much as $80,000 a year. 
  Additionally, this massive $35 billion expansion would be funded through a tax increase. The people of Georgia sent me to Washington to be a good steward of their tax dollars. To that end, I do not believe the taxpayers of Georgia should foot the bill for adults in other states. Georgia's PeachCare program does not cover adults. For these reasons, I voted against the bill approved by Congress and vetoed by the president.
  Senator Isakson and I support an alternative proposal to expand SCHIP by $9.5 billion over the next five years. Additionally, we are co-sponsoring another alternative proposal to reauthorize and fully fund the existing SCHIP program for an additional 18 months. We believe the extension would allow Congress time to steer the SCHIP program back to its original intent of access to healthcare for low-income children while giving the states a significant funding commitment in order to make sound decisions regarding the future of their programs. 
   APPROVAL OF FUNDS TO SECURE U.S. BORDER
  This week the Senate approved another defense spending bill. The legislation, the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, included a provision to immediately pay for some of the manpower and technology necessary to secure the U.S. border. I was a co-sponsor of this provision and my Georgia colleague, Senator Isakson, was as well. A few months ago we had a very heated immigration debate in which we heard overwhelmingly from Georgians and the American public that border security is their number one concern. We once again have an opportunity to show the nation that we are serious about securing our borders and I believe this amendment was a good step.
  Major provisions of the amendment, which was authored by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, include 
  1) Establishes full operational control over 100 percent of the U.S.-Mexico land border; 
   2) Provides funding to procure unmanned aerial vehicles, ground sensors and vehicle barriers; 
   3) Provides funding to construct 700 miles of border fencing; and
   4) Increases the ability to detain illegal immigrants caught within U.S. borders. 
   5) The amendment provides $60 million to improve the nation's employment verification system.
   CORPS OF ENGINEERS SHOULD HONOR ITS PLEDGE TO UPDATE WATER CONTROL PLAN FOR RIVER BASINS SERVING GEORGIA, ALABAMA, FLORIDA
  Last year Senator Isakson and I held field hearings around the state and we continue to be engaged in the dialogue about our state's water resources. The ongoing drought in Georgia is placing great strain on many of our resources, households, and businesses, and steps need to be taken to responsibly manage our water basins. Last Friday Senator Isakson and I sent a letter to the Secretary of the Army, Pete Geren, strongly urging him to honor his pledge to update the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' outdated water control plan for the two river basins that serve Georgia, Alabama and Florida. 
  To read about our letter to Secretary Geren, visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999931398.29774.12&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2723. 
   MOODY AIR FORCE BASE HOUSING DELAYS
  Since it came to light that Moody Air Force Base has experienced significant housing delays that will hinder the base's ability to accommodate some 1,000 personnel expected to arrive in 2009, I have been urging the U.S. Air Force to take action to resolve this situation. At least three other Air Force bases across the country have similar contracting delays with privatized housing projects associated with the same contractor. This is unacceptable.
  Recently the U.S. Senate approved legislation I introduced along with Senator Isakson directing the Comptroller General to submit a report to Congress on any housing privatization transactions that are behind schedule or in default, as well as remedies available to the federal government to restore the transaction to schedule or completion. Our legislation was included as part of the National Defense Authorization Act.
  We need to take a good look at this situation and get to the bottom of the factors and decisions that contributed to the Air Force awarding this contract to ensure it does not happen again. The problem extends beyond the situation here in Georgia, and we need to ensure that it is resolved as quickly as possible. 
  To read an editorial in the Valdosta Daily Times about the housing issue, visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999931398.29774.12&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2721. 
  FUNDING FOR WATER INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS IN GEORGIA
  Last week the Senate passed legislation that authorizes funding for critical water infrastructure projects in numerous urban and rural communities across Georgia. This is an important investment in the future of our state as we protect against storm damage and flooding, protect our environment, and enhance commerce through navigation. The Water Resources Development Act is supposed to be authorized every two years; however, Congress has not re-authorized the legislation since 2000. The actual funding for the projects would be provided later during the appropriations process. 
  To see the Georgia projects included in the legislation, visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999931398.29774.12&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2720. 
  SOFTWARE SUPPORT FACILITY AT ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE
  Robins Air Force Base plays a critical role in enhancing our national security, and it is an economic engine for Middle Georgia. Currently, the software facilities at Robins are at full capacity, with no room for the anticipated future workload. 
  Congressman Jim Marshall and I worked together to secure funding for a new software facility that will add 80,000 square feet of new floor space and will accommodate an expected 30-40% increase in software workload through Fiscal Year 2009. Furthermore, the additional space afforded by the new facility will enable Warner Robins ALC to quickly expand to meet the mission requirements for the Air Force, including software work for the new F-22 Raptor. 
  Construction is expected to begin later this month and the estimated project completion date is October 2009. The Air Force recently signed a $21 million contract with McKnight Construction Company of Augusta to construct the facility. 
  With this project Robins will become an even more capable center for maintaining and improving the performance of Air Force weapon systems. 
  To read an article about this project in the Macon Telegraph, visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999931398.29774.12&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2722. 
   GEORGIA DESERVES REPRESENTATION ON TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY BOARD
  Some 123,000 households in North Georgia are served by the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), including those in Catoosa, Chattooga, Fannin, Floyd, Gordon, Murray, Towns, Union, Walker, and Whitfield Counties.
  I am hopeful that soon a Georgian will serve on the TVA board of directors. This week the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee held a hearing on the nomination of Thomas Gilliland of Blairsville to serve in this capacity. I was pleased to have the opportunity to join Senator Isakson in introducing him at the hearing and underscore my strong support of his nomination. 
   Next week the Senate will be in recess in observance of Columbus Day. We will reconvene October 15 and begin consideration of the Department of Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Act (H.R. 3093). 
  Thank you for staying in touch with me on the issues concerning you and your family. Should you have a question or concern with a federal agency or any other matter, please do not hesitate to contact my office toll free at 1-800-234-4208. 
  Additionally, if you are planning a trip to Washington and would like a U.S. Capitol tour, or need assistance with directions to a memorial or museum, please call my office or visit here for more information.
 
 