SEN. CHAMBLISS: WALTER REED SITUATION IS SYMPTOM OF LARGER PROBLEM THAT MUST BE ADDRESSED
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today said that the recent revelations about the conditions of Building 18 at Walter Reed Army Medical Center are symptomatic of a larger problem and questioned whether lessons learned from previous similar situations are actually being implemented. This morning, the Armed Services Committee heard testimony regarding the care, living conditions, and administration of outpatients at the facility. 
  "It's inexcusable for something like this to take place," said Chambliss. "A failure on the battlefield brings disastrous results and here we're seeing a failure off the battlefield that brought about disastrous results that none of us are happy about. For the level of complaints that must have existed, and however the breakdown occurred, we need to make sure it is fixed. It concerns me greatly that we have seen this problem before and, apparently, folks didn't learn from it enough to stay ahead of the issue."
  Chambliss cited a previous 2003 situation at Fort Stewart, Georgia, when Guard and Reserve soldiers in the medical holdover unit were waiting months for follow-up treatment in poor conditions. Chambliss said that in that situation, once problems were brought to light, steps were taken to fix the problem. 
  "At the time, although we were horrified at how our heroes were being treated, the Army was very responsive and implemented changes. I have to wonder, however, what the Army actually did learn and take away from the situation at Fort Stewart. I think this is clearly a symptom of a larger problem that must be addressed, and we need to actively engage our veterans and their families as well as the personnel at facilities nationwide to ensure that if shortfalls exist they are resolved quickly."
  Chambliss noted that the current medical hold and hold-over process is cumbersome, bureaucratic, and difficult to maneuver, and he said that a clear and seamless transition is greatly needed between the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs when soldiers are retired or separated from the military and enter the VA Health Care system. Additionally, the medical hold and medical hold-over process must be improved and streamlined through the use of more adequately trained personnel, better administrative procedures, and better facilities to house our wounded and recovering service members. 
  "I am pleased that the Defense Department has acknowledged that their processes need substantial improvement and I will work closely with the Department and my colleagues to ensure that these changes are implemented correctly," Chambliss added.
  Chambliss also said Tuesday that he is pleased that President Bush appointed a bipartisan commission led by former U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-Kansas) and former Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala to conduct a comprehensive review of the services America is providing to wounded military personnel returning from war.
 
 