SEN. CHAMBLISS TRAVELS TO VIETNAM; URGES COOPERATION IN ACCOUNTING FOR AMERICAN POW/MIAS
  U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, has returned from leading a recent trip to Vietnam where he met with national leaders and urged expanded efforts to account for American POW/MIAs and to provide the US access to relevant Vietnam War-era documents. Chambliss is a member of the US-Russia Joint Commission on POW/MIA Affairs and is co-chairman of the Vietnam War working group. 
   During visits with State President Nguyen Minh Triet, Defense Vice Minister Nguyen Huy Hieu, and Ministry of Public Security Vice Minister Nguyen Van Huong, Senator Chambliss urged increased cooperation in accounting for POW/MIAs from the Vietnam War. The Vietnamese officials expressed understanding of the US priority on this humanitarian problem and promised further assistance. Defense Vice Minister Hieu promised to spare nothing to obtain answers on those still missing. The Vietnamese have agreed in principal to using a US Navy ship for underwater accounting efforts in Vietnamese waters. 
   "I was pleased to have the opportunity to travel to Vietnam during the August congressional recess and highlight this important issue," said Chambliss. "So many men and women made tremendous sacrifices on behalf of freedom and liberty for all Americans, and we must always honor their memory and pursue all means possible to locate our personnel who wore the American uniform and who did not return home, including 34 from my home State of Georgia. We had a productive dialogue in Vietnam, and I look forward to continuing the work of the Commission."
   Ann Mills Griffiths, executive director of the National League of POW/MIA Families, commended the effort, stating "We deeply appreciate Senator Chambliss' willingness to lead this delegation to Hanoi. He and his colleagues visibly helped demonstrate America's commitment and determination to obtain answers on our missing men. They also signaled US personnel serving today in Iraq and Afghanistan that they will not be forgotten if captured or missing." 
   Senator Chambliss also met National Assembly Vice Chairman Uong Chu Luu. In addition to discussing POW/MIA issues, the delegation discussed US relations with Vietnam, including trade, economic development, military assistance and human rights concerns. 
   September 21, 2007 is National POW/MIA Recognition Day. Over the past several years, local ceremonies have been held across the country with a national ceremony held in Washington, DC as well.
 
 