SEN. CHAMBLISS URGES AIR FORCE TO TAKE ACTION TO RESOLVE CONTRACT ISSUE WITH MOODY AIR FORCE BASE HOUSING
  U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, is urging the U.S. Air Force to take action to resolve the privatized housing situation at Moody Air Force Base. Chambliss highlighted the issue on the floor of the Senate Wednesday evening, saying he is disappointed with the responses he has received thus far from the Air Force to inquiries regarding the delay. Chambliss also spoke directly with the Secretary of the Air Force, Michael Wynne, on Thursday morning. 
   Chambliss, who noted that the Air Force has had ample opportunity to take action on this issue, sent a letter to the Air Force on March 29, 2007, and received a response on April 17, 2007. Additionally, Chambliss sent a joint letter with his colleague, U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., on August 3, 2007. The most recent response was received on August 20, 2007. Neither of the responses effectively addressed the issue, which led to Senator Chambliss' actions yesterday and today.
   "After four years on this contract and millions of dollars spent, exactly two houses have been built," Chambliss said. "This is unacceptable. This delay will hinder the base's ability to meet the needs of some 1,000 new personnel expected to arrive in 2009. This is an Air Force contract. Air Force personnel are suffering because of the poor performance of the contractor, and the Air Force's response to my request for an intended plan of action has been insufficient. I am pleased that Secretary Wynne acknowledged that the Air Force should have handled this situation more effectively, and I will work closely with him to ensure it is resolved expeditiously." 
   In response to Chambliss' inquiries, the Air Force has said that because it has no legal agreements with the contractor, issues of non-payment between the contractor and sub-contractors must be resolved through the legal system. During his remarks on the Senate floor, Chambliss disagreed and said the Air Force must respond to the following unanswered questions:
   1) What were the factors contributing to the decision to award this contract given previous known defaults and bankruptcy declarations? 
   2) Is the Air Force currently taking steps to terminate this contract? If so, what steps are they taking? If not, why not?
   3) What is the plan for housing the incoming Air Force personnel slated to live in the new quarters which have yet to be built?
   "The Air Force should have been more proactive to fix this problem before it got to this point," Chambliss said. "In my opinion, this issue is also ripe for an Inspector General investigation to figure out what went wrong, why the contractor was awarded a $3.3 billion contract for privatized housing, covering five states, work on all of which has been halted." 
   The estimated cost of the project has exceeded available funding by $25 million, and the project lenders stopped funding in March 2007 to prevent all funds from being expended. At least three other Air Force bases across the country have similar contracting delays with privatized housing projects associated with this contractor.
 
 