SENATE APPROVES SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON RESOLUTION HONORING WARNER ROBINS TEAM ON 2007 LITTLE LEAGUE WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP VICTORY
  U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today applauded passage of a Senate Resolution they introduced honoring the members of the Warner Robins American Little League team from Warner Robins, Ga. The Senate unanimously approved the resolution Wednesday evening. 
   The Warner Robins team defeated the Tokyo Kitasuna Little League team of Tokyo, Japan, on August 26, 2007, to win the 61st Annual Little League Baseball World Series Championship. The final score was 3-2.
   "This team's talent, tremendous dedication, and sportsmanship allowed them to become the third team from the State of Georgia to win the Little League World Series, and in doing so they captured the hearts of people across Georgia and in many parts of the nation who love the game of baseball," said Chambliss. "As a former Little League coach, I am so proud to see Georgia youth secure this international distinction." 
   "These fine young men played wonderful baseball all the way through the tournament, but in those final two games against Texas and Japan, they played like true professionals," Isakson said. "This team brought great pride to our state, great pride to their parents and great pride to the city of Warner Robins." 
   Warner Robins is the third Georgia team to win the Little League Baseball World Series in the 61-year history of the series. Last year Columbus Northern Little League claimed the World Series title and East Marietta defeated Japan for the title in 1983. Georgia is only the fourth state to produce back-to-back champions and the first state to win back-to-back titles since 1992-1993. 
   Players for Warner Robins include: Keaton Allen; Dalton Carriker; Zane Conlon; Hunter Jackson; Taylor Lay; Nick Martens; Payton Purvis; Kendall Scott; Hunt Smith; David Umphreyville: Micah Wells; and Clint Wynn. The team is managed by Mickey Lay and coached by Mike Conlon, Tommy Morris, and Mike Smith.
 
 