SEN. CHAMBLISS PAYS SPECIAL TRIBUTE TO PAUL COVERDELL ON SENATE FLOOR
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today paid a special tribute to the late Sen. Paul Coverdell during a speech on the Senate floor. Due to the Senate voting schedule, Chambliss was unable to attend the dedication ceremony of the Paul D. Coverdell Center for Biomedical and Health Sciences building at the University of Georgia in Athens. Below are excerpts of Chambliss' floor speech:  
  "Mr. President, I rise today with a little bit of sadness in my voice, but also with a lot of happiness about an occasion that is going to be taking place in about 30 minutes at the University of Georgia in Athens, where I had hoped to be today. 
  "Today at two o'clock there will be a dedication for the Paul Coverdell Center for Biomedical and Health Sciences building at the University of Georgia in Athens. This building is going to be named for a man who was not only a close friend of mine, but he was a close political ally. He was a man who served in the Georgia legislature for almost two decades, and who served in the United Senate for eight years from 1992 to 2000 when, unfortunately, he died much too early as a result of a very sudden illness that he developed. 
  "Paul Coverdell was a man of great vision and he was one of hardest working individuals that I have ever known in my life and a man who truly believed in what was best for this country. He was a man who not only served in the United States Senate here in Washington, but he also served in the Peace Corps. Paul Coverdell really took the Peace Corps to a different level. 
  "Paul had a great vision for biomedical science as well as research, and I think it is only fitting that today the building at the University of Georgia be named for him.
  "It is sad for us to think that Paul is no longer with us. Yet, for him to be remembered, as he is being remembered today on the campus of the University of Georgia, which is my alma mater, gives me a great feeling about carrying on the life, vision and the hope that Paul Coverdell had for our country.
  "His wife, Nancy, was very active in Paul's political life and she continues to be a very vivacious lady today. She happens to serve as the chairman of my military academy appointments committee and she does a terrific job. She is a great lady and Paul Coverdell was a special person. 
  "He was a man that always gave me a great feeling about life and about the direction of our country. 
  "It is a great pleasure that we are once again honoring the name and the memory of Paul Coverdell with the dedication of the building on the campus of the University of Georgia."
 
 