SEN. CHAMBLISS: U.S. MUST CONTINUE INVESTING IN AGRICULTURE RESEARCH
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today received testimony during a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing that focused on the investment of America's future through agriculture research. Sen. Chambliss noted that agriculture research funding should be an important part of the next farm bill to make certain America's producers have a competitive edge in the global marketplace. 
   "The U.S. investment in agricultural research, extension and education programs has been one of the primary reasons for the great productivity of our farmers and ranchers over the past century," said Sen. Saxby Chambliss, Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "This investment also has helped farmers protect and enhance the natural resource base of our country. We need to continue to invest in our research institutions and programs to ensure U.S. farmers and ranchers can meet the growing demand for food, fuel, and fiber, while also protecting the environment."
   U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) research is organized under four agencies: Agriculture Research Service, which is USDA's in-house research agency; Cooperative State Research Education and Extension Service, which supports the land-grant universities; Economic Research Service, which primarily focuses on agriculture economics; and the U.S. Forest Service's research and development programs. Agriculture research receives about $2.6 billion in total annual appropriations.
   "Some believe we are at a crossroads for the U.S. agricultural research system," Sen. Chambliss said. "Stakeholders are asking if the current structure and funding mechanisms will work as well for us in the future as they have in the past. I thank those who have made recommendations; their proposals cover a wide range of policy options. I understand the time and effort it takes to develop a serious proposal and realize that by suggesting something new, criticism can follow. I appreciate that this discussion is taking place and encourage all stakeholders to engage in this issue and work with this committee to ensure our agricultural research system can meet the needs of the 21st century."
 
 