WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Dear Friends:
   The Senate has convened following the August recess.
  Next week the Senate will proceed to consideration of the Transportation/HUD Appropriations bill (H.R. 3074).
   URGES COOPERATION IN ACCOUNTING FOR US POW/MIAS IN VIETNAM 
  During the final week of the August recess, I led a congressional trip to Vietnam to meet with national leaders on the issues of POW/MIAs, trade, economic development, military assistance and human rights concerns. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I urged expanded efforts to account for American POW/MIAs and to provide the US access to relevant Vietnam War-era documents. 
  So many men and women made tremendous sacrifices on behalf of freedom and liberty for all Americans, and we must always honor their memory and pursue all means possible to locate our personnel who wore the American uniform and who did not return home, including 34 from our home State of Georgia. We had a productive dialogue in Vietnam, and I look forward to continuing the work of the Commission.
  September 21, 2007 is National POW/MIA Recognition Day.
  MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS BILL ALLOCATES $481 MILLION IN MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR GEORGIA 
  This week the Senate passed the Fiscal Year 2008 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill, which provides important funds for construction at the nation's military bases and for the Department of Veterans Affairs. I'm pleased that the legislation includes $481 million for construction at military bases in Georgia, which is the sixth largest amount in the nation.
  Additionally, the bill includes $89.9 billion in funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs, including key funds for the health care needs of America's veterans. Caring for our nation's veterans must remain a top priority, and this bill provides much-needed funding to meet their needs.
  To view the Georgia projects included in the bill, visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999935244.30231.140&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2583.
  AIR FORCE NEEDS TO TAKE ACTION TO RESOLVE CONTRACT ISSUE WITH MOODY AIR FORCE BASE HOUSING
  This week, I spoke on the Senate floor to urge the U.S. Air Force to resolve the privatized housing situation at Moody Air Force Base. Additionally, I spoke to the Secretary of the Air Force, Michael Wynne, about this situation. I am disappointed with the responses I have received from the Air Force regarding my inquiries concerning the delay. 
  After four years on this contract and millions of dollars spent, exactly two houses have been built. This is unacceptable. This delay will hinder the base's ability to meet the needs of some 1,000 new personnel expected to arrive in 2009. This is an Air Force contract. Air Force personnel are suffering because of the poor performance of the contractor, and the Air Force's response to my request for an intended plan of action has been insufficient. I am pleased that Secretary Wynne acknowledged that the Air Force should have handled this situation more effectively, and I will work closely with him to ensure it is resolved expeditiously. 
  The Air Force should have been more proactive to fix this problem before it got to this point. In my opinion, this issue is also ripe for an Inspector General investigation to figure out what went wrong, why the contractor was awarded a $3.3 billion contract for privatized housing, covering five states, work on all of which has been halted.
  To watch my floor speech on this issue, visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999935244.30231.140&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2585.
   CONGRATULATIONS TO WARNER ROBINS AS THE 2007 LITTLE LEAGUE WORLD CHAMPIONS!
  This week Senator Isakson and I offered a Senate resolution to honor the Warner Robins American Little League team for their talent, tremendous dedication, and sportsmanship which allowed them to become the third team from the State of Georgia to win the Little League World Series. As a former Little League coach, I am so proud to see Georgia youth secure this international distinction.
  The Warner Robins team defeated the Tokyo Kitasuna Little League team of Tokyo, Japan, on August 26, 2007, to win the 61st Annual Little League Baseball World Series Championship. The final score was 3-2.
  To watch my floor speech, visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999935244.30231.140&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2585. 
  LAW ENFORCEMENT GRANTS 
  This week Senator Isakson and I announced several law enforcement grants for areas of the state, including Cartersville, Cobb County, Newton County, Savannah, Newnan, Griffin, Dublin, Quitman County, Forsyth County, Gwinnett County, Swainsboro, Carroll County, Wayne County, and Troup County. 
  This funding is critical to Georgia's law enforcement efforts in fighting crime and keeping our citizens in both rural and urban communities safe. I'm pleased to assist our state in meeting the law enforcement needs of the communities, and I will keep you updated as our office is notified of additional grants.
   GRANTS TO ESTABLISH NEW HEALTH CENTERS 
  As I traveled around the state over the past few weeks, I heard directly from Georgians that access to health care is one of their top concerns. I'm pleased to be able to announce that the Health Resources and Services Administration has granted several of our expanding communities $5.9 million in funding to provide critical health care services for areas throughout the state.
  To read more about these grants, please visit: http://chambliss.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999935244.30231.140&gen=1&mailing_linkid=2584.
 
 