WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Sen. Chambliss and Sen. Isakson break ground on the site where First United Ethanol, LLC will build Georgia's first ethanol plant.
   Dear Friends,
   Happy New Year to each and every one of you! The 110th Congress has officially commenced, and we are continuing to work hard on behalf of the people of Georgia. Below are some highlights from the past week:
   CONSTRUCTION BEGINS ON SOUTHWEST GEORGIA ETHANOL PLANT 
   On January 3rd, I attended the groundbreaking ceremony for the site of First United Ethanol, LLC (FUEL). This is the first ethanol plant in Georgia, and I am confident that they will make great strides in producing alternative fuels and creating jobs for the area. The construction of domestic alternative fuel plants is crucial for decreasing our dependence on foreign oil, and I commend the folks in Georgia who have worked hard to make the FUEL plant in Camilla a reality.
   To read more on the groundbreaking, visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999963408.30694.902&gen=1&mailing_linkid=969
   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FUNDING BILL NEEDED
   As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I am proud to be a strong voice for Georgia's military installations. One of my top priorities is providing funding for military construction projects that will enhance readiness and quality of life for our troops. To that end, I recently co-sponsored legislation to provide funding for projects that are authorized in the FY07 National Defense Authorization Act. This bill is critical, because the FY07 military construction appropriations bill was not passed into law last year. A funding delay will hinder the implementation of crucial modernization projects across Georgia, hinder our ability to sustain readiness, postpone development of a long term master plan for Georgia's military installations, and postpone critical housing and privatization projects.
   Our military has been asked to adapt to the new types of threats confronting us in the Global War on Terrorism, and this funding will continue our ability to create a more modular and easily deployable force as well as take care of the people who are supporting and defending our country in this global war.
   Within Georgia, the FY07 authorized and pending projects have a value of $535 million. Specifically, not passing this bill and appropriating the FY07 military construction funds would:
   * Threaten the maintenance and repair of airfields, runways, and taxiways.
   * Postpone funding for housing and privatization projects on more than 8,000 homes on Navy and Marine Corps installations locally in Georgia and across the country.
   * Hinder Georgia's ability to sustain readiness of the Air Force's C-17's.
   * Cause setbacks in realigning pilot training from Moody Air Force Base that could cost the Air Force an entire year of pilot production.
   * Delay completion of facilities that are designed to better train and adequately maintain forces.
   * Result in an additional 5-10% increase in across-the board project costs, in part due to inflationary labor costs.
   Read the editorial in the Macon Telegraph at: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999963408.30694.902&gen=1&mailing_linkid=970
   GEORGIA NEEDS REPRESENTATION ON THE TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY BOARD
   On January 4th, I joined fellow Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., in re-introducing legislation to expand the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) board from nine members to 13 members. The measure includes a requirement that each state served by TVA have at least one seat on the board.
   TVA is the largest government utility in the country and it is crucial that each participating state has a voice on the board of directors. The TVA service area includes Georgia, Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia. However, the current TVA board of directors only includes individuals from Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi and Kentucky. I believe that expanding the size of the board from nine members to thirteen will bring balance on behalf of the seven states that benefit from this service.
   TVA delivers power to approximately 123,000 households in northern Georgia, but there has never been a Georgian nominated to serve on the TVA governing board.
   PRESIDENT NOMINATES NEW DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
   On December 5th, President Bush announced his nomination of Vice Admiral (retired) Mike McConnell to assume the role of Director of National Intelligence. If confirmed he would succeed John Negroponte, who the president has nominated to serve as Deputy Secretary of State.
   I believe the President's selection of Mike McConnell to replace Ambassador Negroponte is a good choice. He brings an extraordinary amount of experience to this position from both the military and industry. Our nation must have a strong intelligence community with a focused, strategic vision. This is vital as we fight the war on terrorism, combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, protect our vital information from foreign intelligence services, and guard against current and emerging threats. Our intelligence community is stronger when it functions as a coordinated whole, and not as one that is fragmented by parochialism. As we continue to improve our intelligence capabilities, I look forward to discussing these issues with Admiral McConnell. We appreciate John Negroponte's service as the Director if National Intelligence and look forward to both nominations being brought before the Senate.
   McConnell is a former director of the National Security Agency. Both nominations require U.S. Senate confirmation.
   NEW FARM SERVICE AGENCY EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NAMED FOR GEORGIA
   I was pleased to hear that Monticello Mayor Susan Dykes Holmes was appointed to serve as the state of Georgia's executive director for Farm Service Agency (FSA). The announcement came Friday afternoon from U.S. Department of Agriculture FSA Administrator Teresa Lasseter. Senator Isakson and I both recommended Holmes for the post. She is the first woman elected mayor of Monticello and is serving her third term.
   I have known Susan personally for a number of years and believe her knowledge and leadership abilities will serve Georgia's agriculture community well. Susan's service to her city, county, and the entire state in various leadership capacities made her a strong candidate for this post. As the Ranking member on the Senate Agriculture Committee, I look forward to working with her as we continue to represent the interests of rural America.
   The Farm Service Agency ensures the well-being of American agriculture, the environment and the American public through efficient and equitable administration of numerous farm programs. Its farm programs include commodity programs; farm ownership, operating and emergency loans; conservation and environmental programs; emergency and disaster assistance; domestic and international food assistance and international export credit programs.
 
 