SEN. CHAMBLISS: ONE STEP CLOSER TO LOWERING RETIREMENT AGE FOR GUARD, RESERVE PERSONNEL
  The Senate approved an amendment offered by Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., member of the Senate Armed Services Committee that would lower the retirement age for members of the United States National Guard and Reserve. The amendment passed by a 99-00 vote. 
   "The way we are using the Guard and Reserve has fundamentally changed," said Chambliss. "Based on this fact, I think it is only appropriate to consider that the way we compensate and reward our guardsmen and reservists also needs to change." 
   Currently, after 20 years of service members of the National Guard and Reserve can begin receiving retired pay when they reach age 60. Chambliss' amendment reduces the age requirement by 3 months for every 90 days of active service a Reservist performs in support of a contingency operation in a fiscal year, retroactive to September 2001, and sets the minimum age to collected retired pay at 50. This amendment makes Guardsmen and Reservists, currently fighting the war on terror, eligible for earlier retirement pay based on the amount of time they spend activated in support of a contingency operation. 
    "When we are a nation at war, as we are right now, there is no more important legislation than that which works to improve quality of life issues for all of our American soldiers," said Chambliss. "Whether its pay raises, looking after their families, or making sure they have better than adequate housing, we need our soldiers to know that we stand behind them and honor the great sacrifices they make on behalf of our county. We will continue to provide them with the best weapons and training available in the world today to make sure that the United States Armed Forces remain the strongest military in the world. 
   The Senate defeated an alternative amendment by Senator Durbin by a vote of 59-40 which would have simply rewarded reservists for staying in the Reserve longer but done nothing for our Guard and Reserve soldiers who have deployed for extended periods of time in support of the Global War on Terrorism. The alternative amendment was also 10 times more expensive than the Chambliss amendment.
   The Reserve Officers Association of America, the National Guard Association of the United States, and the Reserve Enlisted Association also support this amendment and see it as an important, responsible step forward in support of our guardsmen and reservists.
   Chambliss is Co-chairman of the Senate Reserve Caucus and a member of the Guard Caucus.
 
 