SEN. CHAMBLISS SAYS BILL WILL AID GEORGIA FARMERS
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., today praised Senate passage of an important bill that will allow eligible Georgia farmers to receive federal disaster assistance. The bill provides $2.9 billion in aid for farmers and ranchers who have suffered from hurricanes and drought.  
   "Georgia farmers have been hit hard by severe storms and several hurricanes," said Chambliss. "Drenching rain and heavy winds have caused considerable crop losses and this important bill will ensure our farmers and producers receive the assistance they need."
   The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) will administer the programs and determine eligibility; however, all Georgia farmers living in counties that have received a Presidential Declaration for disasters are eligible to apply for assistance. Other eligibility requirements for crop assistance are that farmers must prove at least a 35 percent crop loss of quality and quantity. The loss must have been sustained in either 2003 or 2004, but not both crop years. Farmers can also seek assistance through the Livestock Assistance Program. 
   Specifically, the bill provides $15 million for the Tree Assistance Program (TAP) which also includes assistance for eligible forest landowners. This is the first time since 1994 that timber losses have been eligible for assistance under the TAP. The bill also includes $50 million for the Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) to clean up damages to fields, orchards, and other agricultural property as a result of a disaster. 
   Additionally, the bill provides $10 million for dairy farmers who have suffered a losses due to spoilage, $10 million for cotton seed assistance, $10 million for timber assistance for eligible private landowners who own no more than 5,000 acres, and $8.5 million for pecan producers for pruning, rehabilitation and other activities determined by the U.S. Agriculture Secretary. 
   Additionally, the bill includes $4 million for the Farm Service Agency to administer these disaster payments at the county level. 
   This $2.9 billion aid package was offset from funds for the Conservation Security Program, a new program created in the 2003 farm bill. The disaster aid provisions were added to the annual funding bill for military construction needs nationwide, which was approved today by the Senate.
   For more information, contact Chambliss' press office at 202-224-8368.
 
 