SEN. CHAMBLISS: GEORGIA WILL BENEFIT FROM DEFENSE BILL
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Personnel, today praised senate passage of the Ronald W. Reagan Defense Authorization Act for the Fiscal Year 2005. 
   The bill authorizes funding for the Department of Defense (DOD) and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. The bill also authorizes important funds for weapon systems built or partially built in Georgia and funds for Georgia's military bases.
   Chambliss helped secure the following Georgia provisions included in the bill: $4.1 billion for 24 F/A-22 aircraft, $320 million for four KC-130J aircraft and $939 million for 11 C-130J aircraft built by Lockheed Martin in Marietta. The bill also authorizes $53.3 million for a second C-37 aircraft to be built by Gulfstream in Savannah, for a total of 2 aircraft and $106.6 million total. The bill includes $2.9 billion for the procurement of 14 C-17 airlift aircraft built partially by Boeing in Macon and $46 million for the Amphibious Assault Vehicle 7A1 product improvement program being conducted by employees at the Marine Corp Logistics Base in Albany. The bill authorizes $103.1 million for C-5 modifications, including avionics modernization program kits designed by Lockheed-Martin in Marietta which will replace unreliable and unsupported engine flight instruments and flight system components.
   "Georgia plays a major role in the national security of the United States," said Chambliss. "Not only do our military installations contribute to our strong nation defense, but we also play a key role building the best weapon systems that help our men and women in the armed forces fight and win wars. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the subcommittee on Personnel, I am pleased to help secure many of these important quality of life benefits for our troops and these important funds for weapons systems built in Georgia."
   Additionally, Chambliss secured language in the bill encouraging the Department of Defense to re-examine their plan to retain inefficient, aging engines for the Joint STARS aircraft. The bill notes that retaining these engines is the most expensive option and encourages the Department to re-evaluate their plan to retain these engines rather than re-engine the Joint STARS fleet stationed at Robins AFB.
   Ft. Benning provision: Upon enactment, the bill removes existing funding limitations on the military housing privatization authorities, which will allow military services to continue partnering with the private sector to provide the highest quality housing for military members and their families in the shortest amount of time. Specifically, this provision will allow $400 million to be used to construct 4,000 military family houses at Ft. Benning. 
   Savannah River Site: The bill also authorizes $29.8 million for research and development of a Modern Pit facility for the Department of Energy (DOE). DOE's Savannah River Site, located on the Georgia/South Carolina border, is one of the possible locations for construction of the modern pit facility.
   As Chairman of the Armed Services Personnel Subcommittee, Chambliss secured authorization for the following quality of improvements for service members, retirees and their families:
   * A permanent increase in special pay of $225.00 a month for duty subject to hostile fire or imminent danger, and a permanent increase in the family separation allowance of $250.00 a month.
  * Increase in special pays for members of the National Guard and Reserve 
   * promulgation of uniform DOD policy on prevention of and response to sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces.
   Chambliss also secured a provision establishing a Commission to study the roles and mission of the National Guard and Reserve.
   The bill also provides authority for the Secretary of Defense to approve deployment of National Guard units and personnel under the authority of State governors for up to 180 days to perform homeland defense activities. 
   Importantly for veterans, the bill authorizes immediate concurrent receipt, without phase in, of military retired pay and veterans' disability compensation for retirees who are rated at 100 percent disabled. 
   The bill modifies the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process by ensuring that realignment and closure decisions support the long-term strategic interests of the United States. Specifically, the bill amends and clarifies the criteria used by the Secretary of Defense to make recommendations for base realignments and closures to ensure that the Secretary considers the ability of military infrastructure to accommodate surge requirements of the armed forces; and requires the approval of 7 of the 9 BRAC commissioners to close a base not recommended for closure by the Secretary of Defense, realign a base not recommended for realignment or closure by the Secretary, or increase the extent of a realignment of a base recommended for realignment by the Secretary. This provision will ensure that bases that the DoD determines are vital to national defense are not closed or realigned without a supermajority of BRAC commissioners supporting such a decision. 
   Additionally, the bill allows for a pilot program to allow Army installations to enter into agreements with off-base municipalities for the providing of services such as utilities and refuse collection. This pilot program will examine the cost savings and efficiencies that could result from allowing military installations to take advantage of such services that are already provided by local cities or counties for the surrounding, off-base community.
   Quality of Life Provisions Highlights: The bill authorizes a 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for all uniformed service personnel, authorizes increases in active-duty end strength of 20,000 for the Army and 3,000 for the Marine Corps, authorizes an increase in the Survivor Benefit Plan annuity, improves eligibility for TRICARE coverage for Reserve members and their families prior to mobilization, allows post-activation TRICARE coverage for Reservists and their families based on the length of activation, makes permanent health care benefits after separation from active duty, authorizes a new program of educational assistance to members of the Selected Reserve, and improves tuition assistance for reserve officers on active duty. 
   For more information, contact Chambliss' press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 