REMOVING SADDAM FROM POWER WAS RIGHT THING TO DO
  Saddam Hussein's regime raped, maimed, killed and tortured the Iraqi people.
   In 1980, he precipitated an eight-year war with Iran that resulted in the death of 600,000 Iranians and 400,000 Iraqis. Saddam invaded Kuwait in 1990, which resulted in the U.S.-led Operation Desert Storm to free Kuwait in 1991. He had and used weapons of mass destruction against his own people and against a neighboring country. 
   Saddam was one of the very few leaders in the world who had both the means to acquire WMD and, more importantly, the proclivity to use them. There is no doubt that America, our allies, the region and the Iraqi people are safer and more secure with Saddam out of power and his brutal regime destroyed.
   Since the start of Operation Iraqi Freedom, there has been much debate about whether Saddam had WMD. Of course he had them; the whole world knows Saddam used them in the late '80s against the Kurds, against the Iranians during the war he started with that country, and during the Shi'a uprisings in his own country after the Gulf War in 1991.
   It was widely accepted within the international community that he was working to reconstitute his capabilities to produce, store and use or sell them. 
   A recently released report regarding Saddam's intent to develop and deploy WMD delivers more validity to the fact that removing the dictator from power was the right thing to do. Perhaps the report's most telling conclusion is that Saddam had every intention to start up his WMD weapons programs after sanctions were lifted - and his attempts to erode sanctions were improving.
   Additionally, the report reveals that many Iraqi scientists and senior members of his regime truly believed that their weapons programs would begin once sanctions ended.Just this week, the report's author, Charles Duelfer, told Congress that if Saddam were still in power, he would be attempting to acquire weapons of mass of destruction.
   We know one of the most important lessons learned from Sept. 11 is emerging terrorist threats must be confronted before they reach our border and harm our people. President Bush's policy to aggressively hunt down terrorists and eliminate their threats is the right approach to fighting and winning the war on terror.
 
 