SEN. CHAMBLISS ISSUES STATEMENT ON SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE'S IRAQ INTELLIGENCE PHASE II REPORTS
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, today made the following statement regarding release of the Iraq Intelligence Phase II reports by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence: 
  "Unfortunately, the conclusions reached in this series of reports do little to provide a useful guide for the intelligence community or improve our intelligence capabilities. Misleading and partisan conclusions not only misrepresent the facts, but fail to address, for example, how inaccurate intelligence assessments might be avoided in the future. 
  "The Democrats knowingly distorted and misrepresented the Committee's findings and the intelligence in an effort to prove that the Administration distorted and mischaracterized the intelligence. I voted against adopting the reports, and our Additional Views highlight the partisan nature of this report and clarify that what the Democrats allege is not true. 
  "While postwar information supports our 2004 finding that prewar assessments were wrong, the statements made by policymakers on both sides of the aisle were substantiated by the large body of intelligence analysis that was available at the time. Additionally, the Democrats suggest that the Iraqi National Congress (INC) intentionally provided false information to the Intelligence Community and that the Intelligence Community used that information to support key judgments about Iraq's WMD programs and links to terrorism. In reality, the Committee found no evidence to suggest that the INC deliberately provided fictitious information, and concluded that INC information played only a minimal role in the Intelligence Community's prewar assessments. 
  "We must conduct forward-looking oversight and press for continued enhancements to our intelligence capabilities. In the current threat environment where we are at war with terrorists who are intent on killing Americans and obtaining weapons of mass destruction, we cannot afford to sacrifice opportunities to improve our ability to protect and defend American interests for the sake of partisan politics." 
  BACKGROUND
  In order to improve the nation's intelligence capabilities, the Committee conducted the 2002 Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Community Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001; and the 2004 report on the US Intelligence Community's Prewar Intelligence Assessments on Iraq. That oversight produced results, such as the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, and drove necessary improvements within the intelligence community, such as the creation of the Director of National Intelligence, the National Counterterrorism Center, and the National Counterproliferation Center.
  In 2004, the Committee concluded that much of the analysis concerning Iraq's Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) programs either overstated, or were not supported by, the underlying intelligence reporting. The findings in the report, Postwar Findings About Iraq's WMD Programs and Links to Terrorism and How they Compare with Prewar Assessments, support the conclusion that the majority of the prewar intelligence assessments were based upon flawed analysis.
  Additionally, the Minority suggests in the report, The Use by the Intelligence Community of Information Provided by the Iraqi National Congress (INC), that the INC intentionally provided false information to the Intelligence Community and that the Intelligence Community used that information to support key judgments about Iraq's WMD programs and links to terrorism. In reality, the Committee found no evidence to suggest that the INC deliberately provided fictitious information, and concluded that INC information played only a minimal role in the Intelligence Community's prewar assessments.
 
 