WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  Rob Keck, CEO of the National Wild Turkey Federation meets with Chambliss in Washington, D.C.
   Dear Friends,
   This past week was full of activity on Capitol Hill. Please take a moment to review the highlights below and please stay in touch. If I can ever be of assistance or if you are having problems with a federal agency, please do not hesitate to contact my office at 1-800-234-4208.
   NEW VETERANS' CENTER WILL OPEN IN 2008 IN MACON
   This week, the Department of Veterans Affairs informed my office that plans for a new veterans' clinic in the Macon area are currently underway. This is extremely good news for our veterans in Middle Georgia, particularly those who have recently returned from the Global War on Terror. It is important that we do all we can to ensure that the men and women who have sacrificed for our freedom have access to the important services provided by veterans' clinics. 
   The Macon veterans' clinic will serve combat veterans and their families and will provide community-based services such as mental health and employment counseling, services on family issues and education, as well as bereavement and outreach assistance. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will continue working to ensure that our men and women who have made significant contributions to our country receive the resources they need.
   FIRST WOOD-BASED ETHANOL PLANT TO BE BUILT IN TREUTLEN COUNTY
   I was pleased to hear the announcement that Range Fuels, Inc., a Colorado-based cellulosic ethanol company, will build the first wood-based ethanol plant in Treutlen County. Renewable fuels are at the heart of America's energy security, economic growth and job production. Georgians will now have a key role in securing our national fuel supply.
   There is no question that we must reduce our dependence on foreign sources of oil and look for ways to provide Americans with affordable and abundant sources of energy. I am proud that my state continues to seize upon opportunities to be a leader in producing alternative fuels.
   Additionally, I have introduced the Cellulosic Ethanol Incentive Act, which would promote regional diversity in the production of biofuels. The plan requires a minimum level of production within a particular region to accelerate the production of cellulosic ethanol from a variety of resources such as wood chips in Southeast to wheat straw on the Great Plains. The legislation would also accelerate the minimum quantity derived from cellulosic biomass in the Renewable Fuels Standard, currently 250 million gallons, from 2013 to 2010.
   To read more about the story, visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999960453.30377.111&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1152.
   SENATE APPROVES ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF
   This past week, the U.S. Senate confirmed General George Casey to serve as Chief of Staff of the Army. I did not agree with confirming General Casey to this position and therefore I joined some of my Senate colleagues in voting against the confirmation. During his testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee, I do not believe General Casey did a very good job of answering my questions and explaining what he will bring to the table as we move forward with a new strategy in Iraq. In order to be successful in Iraq, I believe we need new ideas, not old ideas. I believe we need new leadership to join the new leader on the ground in Iraq, General David Petraeus, who will be carrying out the new strategy. To read more of my thoughts on the Casey nomination, please visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999960453.30377.111&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1154.
   FARM BILL UPDATE
   The farm bill is an important issue for Georgia's agricultural community, which is an economic backbone for our state. One out of every six jobs in Georgia is agriculture related. In my capacity as Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee during the last Congress, I held regional farm bill hearings and received important feedback from folks about what is working and in what areas we can improve.
   This week past, the Senate Agriculture Committee heard testimony from U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns regarding the Administration's specific farm bill proposals. While I value the Secretary's recommendations, ultimately it is up to Congress to write comprehensive farm policy and to set the final spending limits in the farm bill.
   Certainly there are a lot of challenges ahead of us as we work to complete the farm bill before portions of it expire. But I trust that Congress can work together to reach a consensus that will prove beneficial for each of our states and constituencies.
   To read more about the hearing, visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999960453.30377.111&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1153.
   THOUGHTS AND PRAYERS FOR A TRUE GEORGIA PATRIOT: CONGRESSMAN CHARLIE NORWOOD
   This week we received word that our colleague in the Georgia Congressional Delegation, Congressman Charlie Norwood, has decided to forgo further hospital treatment and head home to Augusta after battling non-small cell lung cancer since mid-November. I was privileged to be elected to Congress along with Congressman Norwood in 1994 and he has been a dear friend for many years. He has shown tremendous strength and courage during this battle, and he is an inspiration to us all. Even as he has faced this personal adversity, he has continued to stand up for his beliefs and be the outspoken and candid public servant that his constituents love. We all want him to know that he and his wife, Gloria, and his entire family continue to be in our thoughts and prayers. 
   COMING UP NEXT WEEK
   Please tune in to WMAC NewsTalk 940 AM in Macon on Monday morning. I'll join my friends Kenny B. and Jami G. on the air around 7:30 a.m. to discuss the latest and greatest from Capitol Hill.
   Also on Monday, I will attend and make brief remarks at a rollout ceremony of the first F-22 Raptor fighter aircraft to be stationed in Alaska. The Lockheed Martin facility in Marietta manufactures the F-22 Raptor air dominance fighters as well as the C-130J Hercules. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I have been proud to be an advocate for the employees at Lockheed Martin's Marietta facility.
   Additionally, I will speak to adult and youth leaders from across the state, primarily from Georgia's 4-H programs, at the Georgia Rural Development Council 2007 Leadership Day. The Georgia Department of Community Affairs and the Fanning Institute at the University of Georgia provide support to the Council for this program and other efforts. I am proud to have been an active member in 4-H from an early age. In fact, my very first public speech was made at a 4-H contest many years ago!
 
 