SEN. CHAMBLISS COMMENTS ON PRE-WAR INTELLIGENCE REPORT
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., member of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today released the following statement regarding the committee's report on pre-war intelligence about Iraq.  
   "Today the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released its review of the pre-war intelligence on Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, links to terrorism, human rights abuses, and threats to regional stability. This report is the culmination of a year of research and careful evaluation of the intelligence reporting that supported the Intelligence Community's assessments in the lead up to the war against Saddam's regime. The report released today is only the beginning of the Intelligence Committee's task; now we start the crucial debate on intelligence reform.
   "The first comprehensive report detailing critical shortfalls within the United States Intelligence Community's performance was conducted by the House Subcommittee on Terrorism and Homeland Security. As the Chairman of that Subcommittee, I released its report on July 17, 2002. Following this, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence conducted a Joint Inquiry into the Intelligence Communities activities before and after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and issued its report in December 2002. 
   "The report released today reflects my deep concern that a number of issues identified both by the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Joint Inquiry have not yet been acted upon. For example, the Subcommittee identified that information sharing among intelligence agencies was abysmal and the Joint Inquiry Report pointed out that the CIA was too heavily reliant on foreign liaison reporting, and that it had not taken the steps necessary to penetrate hard targets such as the inner circle of al-Qaida. These issues have not yet been corrected to my satisfaction.
   "Today's report highlights the failure of the Intelligence Community to adequately address the criticisms and recommendations of both the Senate and House Intelligence Committees. The leadership of the Intelligence Community has not heard mine or my colleagues repeated calls for improvement. In no way should this be seen as criticizing the dedicated men and women who toil every day to collect the intelligence and make the assessments necessary to defend our national security. They are dedicated professionals who deserve our appreciation and support. 
   "It is the responsibility of the Congress to make sure the Intelligence Community is not constrained by its own structure and bureaucracy. And if it is, we will legislate whatever reforms are needed. This is a responsibility that I take very seriously.
   "In the coming months, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence will solicit a broad range of views on reforming the Intelligence Community and we will vigorously debate each intelligence reform measure that comes before us. I look forward to this challenge. I will do everything in my power to ensure that the United States has the intelligence collection and analytical capabilities necessary to protect our lives, our property, our way of life, and our liberties."
   For more information contact the Chambliss press office at 202-224-3423.
 
 