SEN. CHAMBLISS COMMENDS GEORGIA VETERANS FOR SERVICE DURING STATE CONVENTION IN MACON
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today expressed his strong appreciation to Georgia veterans as they gathered for the Veterans of Foreign Wars 64th Annual Georgia State Convention at the Macon Conference Center.  
  Chambliss addressed issues including veterans' health care, disability, and early retirement for members of the National Guard and Reserve. Chambliss addressed the recent incident of data stolen from a Veterans Administration employee that contained personal identifying information, as well as the Defense Authorization Bill the U.S. Senate will be considering next week which provides critical funding for our men and women in uniform. Chambliss also received strong applause for his support of legislation to prevent protesters from disrupting military funerals. 
  Highlights of Chambliss' remarks are below. Audio will be available on the website this afternoon at www.chambliss.senate.gov:
  Each of you are special Americans, and all of you are heroes to me for one reason, and that is because you wore the uniform of the United States to serve your country. Each of you have been involved in military conflicts where you saw military plans being made and have seen military plans carried out. 
  Well let me tell you, the military plan that was devised to take out al-Zarqawi yesterday was carried out to perfection. It resulted in the death of a person responsible for the deaths of thousands of innocent people. This was a huge military success and I could not be more proud of our military men and women who are serving in Iraq today. 
  Each of you fought a war on a foreign land to protect freedom and democracy, to protect your family, my family, and all Americans from having to worry about fighting that war on U.S. soil. You were successful then and we're being successful today in Iraq. We would not be successful in Iraq today if it were not for each and every one of you who have gone before the current generation of men and women in the United States military, and for that I'm thankful. All Americans are beneficiaries of your service.
  I always enjoy coming to this event. I enjoy coming to Macon to rub elbows with the greatest Americans living today, our veterans. Every time I have the opportunity to be around you, I take great pride in the fact that you are what's good about America. You're what makes America the great country that it is and you are what makes America the safe and secure country that it is. On behalf of my family and every family in America, we say 'thank you' for your service to our country. Thank you for what you did and thank you for what you do. May God continue to bless you and this great country.
  Chambliss is the senior U.S. Senator from Georgia.
 
 