WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CHAMBLISS
  President George W. Bush tours the tornado damage in Americus, Georgia and is accompanied by Senators Chambliss (right) and Isakson (left).
   Dear Friends,
   This past Saturday I toured the damage in South Georgia that occurred after severe storms and tornadoes swept through the area. I was pleased that President Bush came to Georgia to see firsthand how those storms devastated some of our local communities. You simply cannot comprehend the magnitude of what Mother Nature can do to communities until you see the devastation on the ground and visit with those affected by it. I stand ready to assist our Georgians in need and I applaud those who continue working tirelessly to move forward through this process.
   I am particularly pleased that the President heard our call for assistance and approved a Federal Disaster Declaration to include all nine Georgia counties affected. Those counties include Baker, Clay, Crawford, McDuffie, Mitchell, Muscogee, Stewart, Sumter and Taylor, and the declaration makes those counties eligible to receive federal assistance to help with their recovery efforts.
   Anyone needing assistance with a federal agency is always encouraged to contact one of my offices toll free at 1-800-234-4208. One of my caseworkers stands ready to assist you. 
   FEMA FIELD OFFICE OPENS IN CORDELE
   The State of Georgia and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) have begun operations in a Joint Field Office located at 1101 16th Avenue in Cordele. This is an administrative facility established to jointly coordinate recovery efforts for those who were affected by the storms.
   It is important that everyone register with FEMA regardless of whether or not you are in a declared disaster county. If you have an inquiry that is not related to the recent storm disaster, FEMA has a regional office in Atlanta.
   The following websites also provide helpful information following disasters:
   American Red Cross
  http://www.redcross.org/
   Federal Emergency Management Agency
  http://www.fema.gov/assistance/index.shtm
   The Salvation Army
  www.salvationarmyusa.org
   WALTER REED SITUATION IS SYMPTOM OF LARGER PROBLEM THAT MUST BE ADDRESSED
   This week, I attended a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing regarding the care, living conditions, and administration of outpatients at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. I also visited with Georgia veterans who were visiting Washington.
   Recent revelations about the conditions of Building 18 where soldiers were receiving medical care rightfully unleashed a firestorm of disbelief and anger in Washington and across the country, and I share the strong concerns expressed by Georgians who have called my offices in light of these reports.
   Unfortunately, I believe the Walter Reed situation is symptomatic of a larger problem that needs to be addressed. The current medical hold and hold-over process is cumbersome, bureaucratic, and difficult to maneuver, and a clear and seamless transition is greatly needed between the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs when soldiers are retired or separated from the military and enter the VA Health Care system.
   We need to actively engage our veterans and their families as well as the personnel at facilities nationwide to ensure that if shortfalls exist they are fixed. I appreciate the wisdom and counsel of Georgia veterans with whom I have discussed these issues, and it is imperative that we continue that dialogue.
   In the near future, both the Armed Services Committee and Veterans Affairs Committee will hold joint hearings on this matter. We must have a system that matches the immense pride we all have for our brave warriors who deserve nothing less.
   To read an editorial in the Savannah Morning News about this issue, visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999957405.29794.49&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1514.
   FOCUSING ON CHILD NUTRITION
   This week the Senate Agriculture Committee held a hearing that focused on child nutrition and the school setting. I believe that school nutrition programs are good for families, good for farmers and good for the future of America.
   Good nutrition is not only important for good heath but also for proper cognitive development in our children, and our school nutrition programs are a key component in our efforts to provide healthy, nutritious meals to our nation's school children. We certainly appreciate the efforts of our school nutrition professionals, some of whom were in attendance at our committee hearing this week, for the jobs they perform to ensure that our young people have a healthy start on life.
   Members of the Georgia School Nutrition Association (GSNA) were present at this week's hearing. The organization is headquartered in Tucker, Georgia, with over 7,000 members statewide.
   For more information on this hearing, visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999957405.29794.49&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1516.
   U.S. MUST CONTINUE INVESTING IN AGRICULTURE RESEARCH
   The Senate Agriculture Committee also held a hearing this week that focused on the importance of agriculture research. Agriculture research funding should be a part of the next farm bill in order to ensure that America's producers have a competitive edge in the global marketplace.
   The United States' investment in agricultural research has been one of the primary reasons for the great productivity of our farmers and ranchers over the past century. This investment also has helped farmers protect and enhance the natural resource base of our country. We need to continue to invest in our research institutions and programs to ensure that farmers and ranchers can meet the growing demand for food, fuel, and fiber, while also protecting the environment.
   To read more about this issue, visit: http://gw_senatorsaxbychambliss_senatorsaxbychambliss.psinternal.net/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=clickthru&gpiv=1999957405.29794.49&gen=1&mailing_linkid=1519.
   SENATE CONSIDERS 9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS
   This week, the Senate considered legislation to implement the remaining recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. I expressed my support for a package of amendments introduced by my colleague, Senator John Cornyn of Texas. The amendments would have enhanced the government's ability to remove suspected terrorists whose visas have been revoked based on terrorism grounds, allowed the government to retain custody of dangerous criminal aliens until they can be properly deported, and created new criminal statutes for recruiting terrorists and providing financial support to the families of terrorists. I was disappointed that this package of amendments was not accepted. The Senate will continue its debate on this legislation next week.
   FIREFIGHTER GRANTS ANNOUNCED
   This week I was proud to join my colleague, Senator Johnny Isakson, in announcing that several grants have been awarded as part of the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. They include grants to the Stockton Volunteer Fire Department in Lakeland, the Alamo Volunteer Fire Department, and the Dawson Fire Department.
   Local firefighters and emergency workers provide our first defense to natural disasters, accidents and terrorist attacks, and it is because these brave men and women are often the first on the scene of any incident that we must continue to ensure they have the tools and training they need to do their jobs safely and efficiently. I look forward to continuing to work with local fire departments and emergency responders across the state to ensure they have the resources they need.
   For more information, visit www.firegrantsupport.com.
 
 