SEN. CHAMBLISS HEARS SUGGESTIONS FOR IMPROVING USDA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today received testimony during a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing on energy and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) rural development programs. Sen. Chambliss said the hearing was an opportunity to gather suggestions for consideration in the upcoming farm bill debate. Mr. Jimmy Mathews, representing the Georgia Rural Water Association, testified before the committee on behalf of the National Rural Water Association.  
   "Since 1930, the United States Department of Agriculture has partnered with organizations such as the Georgia Rural Water Association and the Rural Electric Cooperatives to provide some of America's most remote and disadvantaged communities access to basic services," said Sen. Chambliss, Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "Today, the Rural Development mission area has expanded to over 40 programs that assist rural families, businesses, communities, and nonprofit organizations. While many of these programs are designed to ensure that business development and technology are available in rural America, the proper establishment and maintenance of utility systems is the most basic function of USDA's rural development portfolio."
   Sen. Chambliss also noted the Committee has a critical role in promoting the production of renewable fuels during the farm bill reauthorization process. He said the energy title is part of a larger effort in the Congress to address energy security and lessen our dependence on imported oil.
   "We need a balanced yet aggressive approach," said Sen. Chambliss. "I have mentioned in the past, we must develop policy that not only addresses the production challenges of growing fuel on our farms but at the same time hold harmless as much as possible other sectors of the agriculture economy. Much depends on technological innovations not yet realized and we need to be mindful of our needed ability to adapt to changing circumstances should things not work out as we assume."
   Sen. Chambliss has introduced legislation that requires a minimum level of production within a particular region to accelerate the production of cellulosic ethanol from a variety of resources such as wood chips in Southeast to wheat straw on the Great Plains. The measure would also accelerate the minimum quantity derived from cellulosic biomass in the Renewable Fuels Standard, currently 250 million gallons, from 2013 to 2010.
 
 