SEN. CHAMBLISS, AT VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS, ACCEPTS PETITION SIGNED BY SERVICE MEMBERS URGING CONGRESS TO SUPPORT IRAQ MISSION
  Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) who recently returned from a visit to Iraq, today joined Members of Congress and the Executive Director of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) in receiving a petition in support of finishing the mission in Iraq. "The Appeal for Courage" was started by two U.S. service members in February and signed by more than 2,700 in support of finishing the mission in Iraq. A full 60 percent of the petition signers have previously served or are now serving in that country. 
   "I just returned from my fifth trip to Iraq," said Senator Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "I had the opportunity to visit with members of the Third Infantry Division who are on their third tour there. The message I heard, not just from the generals and the colonels, but also from the privates and the corporals and other enlisted personnel was 'Senator, we know why we're here, we're here for the right reason, we're here to protect freedom,' and this comes from brave men and women wearing the uniform of the United States whether they have been in the military for 3 years or 30 years.
   "They're there because they know they are doing the right thing, and they don't believe, as some have asserted, that the war is lost. Time and time again, what I hear and what I heard again this weekend is that failure in Iraq is not an option, because we know that the terrorists are waiting to follow us to America." Chambliss added.
   During a news conference at the VFW headquarters in Washington, Chambliss joined U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina), Jon Kyl (R-Arizona) House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio), Chief Deputy Whip Eric Cantor (R-Virginia) and U.S. Rep. Adam Putnam (R-Florida) in accepting the petition from Bob Wallace, Executive Director of the VFW.
   The petition states:
   "As an American currently serving my nation in uniform, I respectfully urge my political leaders in Congress to fully support our mission in Iraq and halt any calls for retreat. I also respectfully urge my political leaders to actively oppose media efforts which embolden my enemy while demoralizing American support at home. The War in Iraq is a necessary and just effort to bring freedom to the Middle East and protect America from further attack."
   The online petition can be found at www.appealforcourage.com.
 
 