STATUS OF WYOMING AIR SERVICE TOPIC OF SEN. THOMAS KEYNOTE ADDRESS
  Citing the need the strengthen the partnership between public and private airline industries, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) gave the keynote address for the 2nd Annual Jackson Hole Airline Rendezvous. The conference brought together decision makers from within the airline industry and government representatives.  
   "Wyoming has very unique circumstances with regard to our airline service. We have ten commercial airports, and we must continue to do what we can to bring carriers to our state. I Communities across the state understand that having a viable air service is crucial to economic vitality. Commercial and general aviation are responsible for more than one billion dollars being circulated in our state's economy," Thomas said 
   Thomas noted that Wyoming is unique because of the location of the Jackson Hole Airport. Jackson, which services more than half of all the air traffic in Wyoming, is the only airport in the nation located within a National Park. Thomas, who is the Chairman of the Senate National Parks Subcommittee, has worked to address the special needs of the Jackson Hole Airport, including noise reductions. 
   Continuing to forge a partnership with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) will be crucial to the future of Wyoming's air service, Thomas said. The Essential Air Service Program and the Small Community Air Service Development Program are two effective ways to provide grants for rural areas. The DOT requires that communities display a commitment to improving the quality of air services before they disperse the funds available in these programs. 
   "Wyoming citizens, businesses, communities, airports and local governments have proven that they are willing to work together to improve our services. But, we are not finished. I am confident that we can make significant strides to bring more dollars to our state. The air service industry has the potential to foster economic growth for folks in Wyoming, and you can bet that I will do whatever I can to make sure that this happens," Thomas said. 
   In 2003, Wyoming's airports had 365,000 deplanements and 369,000 enplanements.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 