GRIZZLY CONTINUES TRUDGE TOWARD DELISTING
  During a hearing Tuesday night to seek public comment on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's proposal to remove the Yellowstone Area population of the grizzly from the endangered species list, Sen. Thomas announced the following letter:  
   January 10, 2006 
   Chris Servheen 
  Grizzly Bear Recovery Coordinator 
  U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service 
  University Hall 309 
  University of Montana, 
  Missoula, Montana 59812 
   Dear Chris: 
   I am pleased the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has finally released a proposal to remove grizzly bears from the threatened and endangered species list. While a delisting proposal is certainly good news, it is important to point out that the delisting of the bear is long overdue. The grizzly bear population in the Greater Yellowstone region has been recovered and ready for delisting for ten years. The process has been too long and difficult for everyone involved, and unfortunately, is not yet over. 
   The difficulties faced by federal and state agencies, private land owners, and local communities in bringing about a grizzly bear delisting proposal demonstrate the many problems with the current Endangered Species Act (ESA). Much of this difficulty could have been avoided if the law required a recovery plan to be established at the time a species is listed. Allowing everyone to know from the beginning the recovery goals required to delist a species is a change that is long overdue. Changes to the ESA are needed, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to bring about meaningful ESA reform. 
   Once again, I would like to thank the public for participating in this process. I believe very strongly the time has come to delist the grizzly bear. Together we can make the delisting a reality. 
   Sincerely, 
  Craig Thomas 
  United States Senator 
   Senator Thomas' office also fostered additional public comment by advocating for extended time to listen to folks concerns at the hearing. The letter is also attached for your convenience.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 