SEN. THOMAS' BILL TO LIMIT FEDERAL LAND OWNERSHIP
  Sen. Craig Thomas, R-Wyo., introduced the "No-Net-Loss of Private Lands," S. 591, legislation this week as part of his common sense plan for federal land acquisitions in the public land states.  
   "The federal government continues to acquire greater amounts of land throughout the nation," Thomas said Thursday. "In almost every state, officials are saying it is time to address existing public lands' needs before we swell the size of the federal government," he said. 
   "Since 50 percent of Wyoming, and much of the West is already owned by the government, I'm concerned about adding more federally owned land to our state that might be restricted for specific uses," said Wyoming's senior senator. 
   "It's time for Congress to protect the rights of private property owners and instill some common sense into federal land acquisitions - No-Net-Loss of Private Lands will provide that discipline. 
   "The federal government has not always been a good neighbor to the people of the West. Federal land management agencies continue to lock up public lands throughout the West and restrict access to areas for multiple-use purposes. This creates great hardship for local communities, destroying jobs and depressing the economy in many areas around the West," said Thomas. 
   To view this press release online go to: http://thomas.senate.gov and check out "Recent Stories" or "Press Releases." Any pertinent Web sites will also be listed. 
   How "No Net Loss" Works 
   * This bill will limit the amount of private land the federal government could acquire in states where 25 percent or more of the land is federally owned. 
   * When the government purchases 100 acres or more, it would be required to sell back into private ownership land of equal value in the same state. 
   * This amendment would do nothing to limit our ability to acquire pristine and special areas in the future. 
   * The federal government continues to acquire more land including many areas which don't contribute to our natural resource heritage. 
   * Many of these acquisitions simply lock-up areas that should remain private and productive. 
   * The time has come to curb the federal government's insatiable appetite for additional land in the United States. 
   * "No-Net-Loss of Private Lands" is a reasonable approach to acquiring lands in the west and helps minimize the negative impacts of the ever-increasing growth of federal land ownership. 
   Percentage of Federal Ownership In Wyoming Counties 
   Teton County - 96 percent 
   Park County - 82 percent 
   Big Horn County - 80 percent 
   Sublette County - 75 percent 
   Lincoln County - 72 percent 
   Sweetwater County - 68 percent 
   Washakie County 67 percent 
   Carbon County - 53 percent 
   Fremont - 51 percent
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 