SEN. THOMAS LOOKS FOR ANSWERS ON GROUNDING OF FIREFIGHTING AIRCRAFT
  At a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing today, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) questioned the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and the Department of the Interior (DOI) decision yesterday to ground all 33 large contract firefighting air tankers, a decision which affects a Wyoming aerial firefighting business.  
   The grounding recommendation was made based on a report released by the National Transportation Safety Board in April after an investigation into the air tanker crashes in 2002. The report said that the USFS and DOI cannot adequately provide safety oversight to assure the safety of large contract air tankers. 
   The two agencies are planning to replace the heavy tankers with National Guard aircraft, helicopters, single-engine air tankers, and contracted aircraft from Canada. Thomas pointed out that Hawkins & Powers Aviation of Greybull, Wyoming, had their only two remaining heavy air tankers grounded yesterday with this ruling. 
   "This will be devastating to Hawkins and Powers. They have already invested hundreds of thousands of dollars this year preparing the two planes for the fire season, and have already used one plane to fight fires this year. They do not think the federal government will compensate them for expenses to prepare their planes for the fire season," Thomas said. Thomas also questioned the Administration witnesses if they are planning to help small businesses like Hawkins and Powers to deal with this new ruling. 
   Mark Rey, the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment, United States Department of Agriculture said in his testimony today, "The NTSB report stated that 'it was apparent that no effective mechanism currently exists to ensure the continuing airworthiness of these firefighting aircraft.' The report also concluded that the Forest Service and the Department of the Interior were responsible for ensuring the safety of firefighting aircraft. To continue to use these contract large air tankers when no mechanism exists to ensure their airworthiness, presents an unacceptable level of risk to aviators, the firefighters on the ground and the communities we serve." 
   The Thomas questioning came at an Energy Committee Hearing regarding the impact of the 2003 fire season and assessed state of readiness for the 2004 wildfire season. Members of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today urged the USFS and the DOI to ramp-up its efforts to treat western forests left dry and vulnerable to wildfires in the wake of extended drought and bug infestation.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 