SENATE PASSES CRUCIAL JOBS CREATION BILL
  Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) voted today with his Senate colleagues to pass the Jumpstart Our Business Strength (JOBS) Act, S.1637. The vote was 92-5.  
   "For more than two years, Congress has been aware the manufacturing export subsidy provided U.S. companies was illegal, and U.S. exporters faced penalties if the subsidy was not repealed. Those penalties took effect in March, and will continue until the subsidy is eliminated. I am pleased the Senate has acted to rectify the situation," Thomas said. "Tariffs on U.S. exports to the European Union were initiated at five percent beginning in March of 2004, and will increase by one percent per month until the tariff reaches seventeen percent next year." 
   The bill would: 
   * Enhance the ability of U.S. based companies to compete in international markets 
   * Provide a lower tax rate on manufacturing that brings the tax burden of U.S. manufacturers closer to that of major international competitors 
   * Enhances the financial strength of U.S. companies creating incentives for them to invest capital in workers, facilities and their communities
   "The intent of this bill is to help U.S. manufacturers remain competitive in the global market, and to put into place policies that will create and maintain jobs in America," Thomas said. Our nation has struggled over the past four years with a variety of challenges. This bill will provide a boost to many sectors of our economy and I hope we can move this proposal through the legislative process quickly." 
   Thomas was particularly pleased with three provisions he added to the package prior to it reaching the floor. Thomas' first amendment would allow producers, forced to sell livestock on account of drought, additional time to replace their herd(s) and defer taxes on the sale of the herd. Thomas' second amendment modifies the definition of qualified manufacturers eligible for industrial revenue bond financing. The proposal expands on legislation Senator Thomas introduced last year to help small manufacturers obtain critical financing. A third amendment provides tax exemptions for National Health Service Corps (NHSC) loan-repayments and stipends. The NHSC provides scholarships, loan-repayments, and stipends for clinicians who agree to serve in nationally designated underserved urban and rural communities. 
   Also included in the legislation is an energy tax incentive package that targets development of renewable and non-renewable energy resources, as well as transmission infrastructure in the United States. The package also contains provisions that encourage conservation and improved energy efficiencies. With a mineral based economy, Wyoming's industries and workers will see tremendous benefits from this package. 
   The bill will be held in the Senate awaiting House action on a similar measure.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 