SENATE PASSES JOBS ACT DURING EXTENDED WEEKEND SESSION
  At the end of a long weekend of heated debate, the Senate passed the JOBS Act 69-17. Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.), who served in conference to reconcile the Senate and House versions of the bill, voted Monday in favor of H.R. 4520.  
   The purpose of the JOBS bill was to settle a World Trade Organization dispute with the European Union by changing U.S. tax law to comply with international law. However, the effort expanded to include a number of other tax priorities, many of which help strengthen Wyoming's job growth and economy.
   Thomas played a key role in ensuring many of these provisions were included in the final bill. Among the broader provisions included a deduction for state and local sales tax and a domestic manufacturing and production credit which will help the state's numerous energy activities.
   "In order to sustain our state's economic growth we must support those areas vital to Wyoming, like energy and small business," Thomas said of the provisions in the bill.
   The first part of Thomas' work included an amendment to provide a tax credit for marginal wells. Marginal wells account for about 20 percent of oil, and 10 percent of natural gas, domestic production, an amount roughly equal to the historic oil imports from Saudi Arabia.
   The senior republican senator also penned changes to the current IRS code which extend the time period a rancher has to replace livestock sold because of drought, flood, or other weather-related condition.
   Thomas also worked to ensure that rural healthcare providers are not liable for income taxes on loan forgiveness through the National Health Service Corps. "This provides an incentive for qualified professionals to practice in rural areas," Thomas said.
   In addition, his work in committee resulted in an increase in the project bond cap from $10 million to $20 million for Industrial Development Bonds (IDBs). This will give Wyoming small manufacturers increased access to low-cost investment capital. "The $10 million cap set in 1978 just wasn't adequate, especially considering the capital intensive nature of manufacturing," Thomas explained. "Industrial development bonds are often the lowest cost capital available for small business." 
   According to the Small Business Administration, small businesses employ half of all private sector employees and they account for more than 44 percent of the private sector's payroll. 
   "While it would have been beneficial to conclude our business prior to the targeted end of session last Friday, it was important for us not to leave without finishing this bill. I'm pleased that while resolving a seven-year dispute with the European Union, we were able to accomplish a number of significant priorities for Wyoming at the same time."
 
 