SEN. THOMAS HOLDS NATIONAL MALL OVERSIGHT HEARING
  Sen. Craig Thomas, held an oversight hearing today to receive testimony about the future development of the National Mall.  
   The Chairman of the National Parks Committee is using the hearing to gather information and develop a plan for the Mall as the Park Service heads toward their Centennial in 2016. 
   "I'm concerned about the continuing trend of development on the Mall taking away from the integrity of this special place. I put together a group of witnesses to talk about the history, current construction projects, security efforts, and future development on the Mall," Thomas said. 
   "Without a doubt, the National Mall is a special place to this country and its government. It serves as a gathering place for special events and as a place to commemorate the history of our nation, its struggles and its leaders," Thomas said in his opening statement. 
   "Each morning as I drive to work, I admire the beauty of the Mall and the monuments, memorials, and museums that symbolize the major events and people of this nation. During the last few years, however, we have had several substantial additions and changes to the Mall - the FDR, Korean War and World War II memorials as well as the Vietnam Memorial Visitors' Center and the American Indian Museum. I believe the Mall has reached capacity. To continue to make additions would only degrade the integrity of this special place," Thomas said. 
   "We need to plan for growth with the understanding that filling every nook and cranny is not part of our goal to ensure the National Mall remains a place of national significance. We need to allow for the consideration and creation of future memorials elsewhere in the Capital area. As we look forward to the 2016 National Park Service centennial, I intend to discuss how we could prepare for the next century of memorial needs," Thomas said. 
   Some of the questions being addressed at the hearing include security issues since 9/11, closure of parking lots at the Washington Monument and Jefferson Memorial, and restricted access at several Mall locations. 
   One of the important considerations will be whether Congress needs to establish a planning group similar to the McMillan Commission of 1902 to look at where the National Mall should be over the next 100 years. 
   "I'm looking forward to receiving the testimony and working toward a plan of action that maintains the integrity of this incredible part of the park system," Thomas said. 
   The National Mall is one of the most heavily visited and photographed places in the world. It serves as a high-profile platform to commemorate presidents, honor the courage and sacrifice of veterans, celebrate our country's commitment to freedom, and offers unique architecture, vistas, and a renowned natural landscape.
 
 