LAW REFORM GIVES AMERICAN INDIANS MORE CHOICES
  After many years of struggle in the pursuit of probate reform for American Indian reservations, Congress recently passed monumental legislation that will benefit Indian tribes across the nation. Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) was a co-sponsor of S.1721, the American Indian Probate Reform Act of 2004. Sen. Ben Nighthorse Campbell (R-Colo.) was the lead sponsor. The legislation now heads to the President for his signature.  
   "We have been working on this legislation for many years, and I am so pleased that we have finally sent it to the President's desk. It makes no sense to deny American Indian land owners the opportunity to pass their land on to future generations. We have given American Indians an important estate planning option. I am pleased that the folks on the Wind River Reservation can continue down the path to economic stability and provide for their families."
   This legislation allows individual Indian landowners to will their land to non-Indian heirs. The land will remain tax exempt so long as it is held in trust or restricted status. The land may also be divvied up however a landowner wishes, and the landowner now has a choice of how the land is passed down to future generations.
   In Wyoming, many Indian land-owners have non-Indian spouses, and it is important to allow them to maintain ownership in their families. Currently, direct descendents who are not eligible for tribal membership cannot inherit anything more than a life estate, meaning that they cannot pass the land on to future generations.
   In the past, Ben O'Neal, a member of the Eastern Shoshone Tribe and the Shoshone Business Council, has testified before the Senate Indian Affairs Committee on probate reform. In his testimony from May 7, 2003, O'Neal said, "We should be able to determine to whom we leave our land. Indian landowners should have the same right as others within our country to keep property within our families for as long as we choose to do so. This right should not be based upon race or political distinction, just as it should not be based upon religion, or any other similar factor. I support passive trust provisions because they allow me, and all others like me, to ensure that property stays within our families for a duration of our choosing."
   "Problems with current probate law on American Indian lands have a long history that began over 120 years ago," Thomas said. "Identifying a perfect solution after so many years is unrealistic, but I believe this bill takes a positive step toward addressing many of the concerns for the folks on the Wind River Reservation."
 
 