SEN. THOMAS BATTLES FOR DRUG PREVENTION FUNDING
  In response to the continued drug traffic permeating our nation and Wyoming, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) has signed on to fight for High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) funding. HIDTA funding is slated to be cut in the President's Fiscal Year 2006 budget; Wyoming would lose about $1 million in HIDTA funding for the upcoming fiscal year.  
   "I have been working on this issue for years and each year, we are facing more of a challenge. I have worked with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure that we obtain all the funding we can," Thomas said. "The proposed cuts to the HIDTA program would seriously undermine what we are trying to do to curb drug trafficking. We are fighting an uphill battle as it is, and if we lose more funding, it puts more people at risk. Frankly, that is something I'm not going to allow. I will not sit idly by and watch as the money we use to fight drugs is stripped from the budget," Thomas said. 
   "Kurt Dobbs and the DCI need this funding to continue their drug interdiction work. Addressing the influx of methamphetamine in Wyoming is a huge task, and one that deserves the proper resources - both state and federal," Thomas said. 
   Thomas joined with Senators Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Max Baucus (D-Mont.), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee, in requesting the restoration of HIDTA funding. In a letter to the Senate Appropriations Committee, Thomas and his colleagues outlined the damage a cut to HIDTA funding would cause to the fight against drug trafficking. Most of the 28 individual HIDTAs would most likely be eliminated or severely scaled-back. This will cause a significant gap in drug enforcement coverage, particularly in rural areas, that state and local law enforcement will need to fill. 
   "When it comes down to it, Wyoming is facing a serious challenge as we try to combat the proliferation of methamphetamines and other drugs that are available in our society. We have one of the highest drug-use rates in the nation and we must all work together to ensure that our future is one that is not clouded by the ill effects of drugs," Thomas said. "We can accomplish this through partnerships between the federal, state, and local entities." 
   If HIDTA funding is cut, Wyoming's program could see 15 positions eliminated. Nationally, the program would stand to lose $128 million.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 