SEN. THOMAS SAYS CHINA TRADE TALKS ENCOURAGING
  At the news of China making its first significant movement on U.S. trade concerns Tuesday, Sen. Craig Thomas is encouraged by the forward progress being made so early in the trade meetings - particularly with opening their border to U.S. beef.  
   "It's always better to encourage economic activity, rather than enforce sanctions on a country. We need to assert our needs and strive for fair and open trade. It seems we're heading in the right direction in our talks with China." 
   China made several concessions Tuesday, agreeing to start the process to lift its ban on U.S. beef imports. 
   "China could prove to be a huge market for U.S. beef - the best beef in the world," Thomas said. "I'm pleased to see progress being made during the vice premier's visit this week." 
   Thomas, the Chairman of the International Trade Subcommittee, sent a letter to Chinese Vice Premier Wu Yi in hopes the leader would remedy several trade imbalances which have a significant impact on the U.S. economy. 
  Thomas' letter made his concerns known just ahead of Wu Yi's visit to the U.S. and meetings with a U.S. team including U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez and U.S. Trade Representative Rob Portman. 
   "One of the more significant issues between Wyoming and China is their ban on U.S. beef," Thomas said. "Opening up markets to beef trade is tremendously important to our producers. We've come a long way in opening other Asian markets recently and it's only right that China should have a policy consistent with our other trading partners." 
   China made a number of trade concessions Tuesday in an effort to avoid sanctions and provide relief from growing anger among Americans about their past practices. 
   In addition, China started the process to open up its mobile phone and medical devices market and crack down on software and music piracy. 
   The moves, announced after a meeting with senior United States and Chinese trade officials, comes a week in advance of the first visit by Hu Jintao, the Chinese president to Washington. 
   Wyoming's senior senator has been leading the charge to open Asian markets to U.S. beef. Thomas continues to assert that the U.S. must take a firm, but fair approach to our trade considerations.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 