SEN. THOMAS: 9/11 RECOMMENDATIONS BILL WAY OFF TRACK
  Sen. Craig Thomas today said the 9/11 Recommendations bill went off track when Democrats failed to consider a series of real security amendments; sought amendments that hurt or otherwise undercut rural states; and openly sought to repay unions for political favors. Sen. Craig Thomas voted against the bill, which passed the Senate 60-38.  
   Thomas led the charge to protect rural America during the 9/11 recommendations bill debate by pressing senators about the need for baseline homeland security funding in rural states. 
   He also led his Senate colleagues in turning away an effort to route hazardous materials through rural areas sought by Sen. Joe Biden (D-Del.). The Senate tabled that measure 73-25 after Thomas's insistence that this was shifting risk to areas not as well equipped at handling hazardous material emergencies. 
   "Just last week Republican Leader McConnell requested that Senate vote on a package of security related amendments. But the Democrats decided to filibuster that package. Instead of having an honest debate on amendments to improve the bill, Democrats have tried to have it both ways by including a provision to give the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) screeners collective bargaining rights," Thomas said. "I was very troubled by the inclusion of that provision. And I know many other members felt the same way." 
   "When 9/11 family members asked Congress to exclude items from this bill that were not recommended by the 9/11 Commission, I was hopeful we could abide by that request. But, I'm quite certain that union collective bargaining is not a recommendation by the 9/11 Commission." 
   "I keep hearing mixed messages from the other side - somehow they think it's OK to include provisions that are political favors, but not to include provisions that will provide greater security." 
   "You cannot have it both ways when it comes to securing our nation. We cannot compromise national security at the same time we seek to improve it. TSA was created to be a nimble agency and has proven its ability to respond quickly when the need arises," Thomas said. "But that ability to be flexible goes away when you have to seek the approval of a union boss." 
   "The President has repeatedly said that he will veto this bill if it includes collective bargaining - and he should." 
   "Clearly the other side has no intention of improving our national security and that's why I opposed the bill. I will support a Presidential veto."
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 