NATIONAL DAY OF THE AMERICAN COWBOY RIDES AGAIN
  After a year of celebrations for our country's cowboys and cowgirls, Sen. Craig Thomas will introduce a resolution today to recognize the second "National Day of the American Cowboy."  
   "Folks love the National Day of the American Cowboy - that's for sure," Thomas said. "We're excited to once again recognize our country's cowboys and cowgirls for their important contributions to our nation's history." 
   A Senate resolution to recognize the second-ever "National Day of the American Cowboy" will slate July 22, 2006 as the day of celebration. The hope is that the fourth Saturday of July will continue to be celebrated as part of the history of our nation. 
   "I was very pleased to be able to deliver President Bush's statement of support for the National Day of the American Cowboy during Cheyenne Frontier Days last year. And I'm pleased to see how it's grown both nationally and internationally since then." 
   "While the national day came and went, the celebration certainly didn't end. The effects of the first National Day of the American Cowboy have been felt across our nation and the world," Thomas said. 
   Here is a sample of various way people have chosen to recognize the day: 
   U.S. Senator Craig Thomas read the statement of support from President Bush last year at the Cheyenne Frontier Days and rode in the opening of the rodeo there with the National Day of the American Cowboy flag. 
   Arizona's Governor, Janet Napolitano, recently issued an official proclamation declaring July 22, 2006 as the Second Annual National Day of the Cowboy in Arizona. 
   TJ Casey, a country musician and cowboy poet from Montana, is helping to promote the National Day of the Cowboy by carrying his flag on tour with him. 
   Pro Rodeo Hall of Fame Executive Director Larry McCormack and his staff are planning a National Day of the Cowboy flag presentation during their upcoming annual induction ceremony on July 15, 2006. 
   The Desert Cowboys, a group made up of men and women in the United States Military and Department of Defense civilians arrived in Iraq in late December and marked their turf by planting their National Day of the Cowboy flag on their roof. 
   U.S. Senator Ken Salazar, D-Colo., recently presented a National Day of the Cowboy flag to both the National Western Stock Show and to the Martin Luther King Rodeo Association. 
   National Day of the Cowboy Organization was incorporated on June 3, 2005 and was awarded nonprofit status by the IRS on December 7, 2005.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 