SEN. THOMAS CALLS FOR PASSAGE OF CRUCIAL SODA ASH LEGISLATION
  At a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) continued his pursuit to ensure global competitiveness for Wyoming soda ash. Sen. Thomas called for the passage of S. 2317, legislation he authored that would limit the royalty on soda ash. The bill would reduce an excessive tax on natural American soda ash for five years. Wyoming produces more than 85 percent of the natural soda ash manufactured in the United States.  
   "This legislation is about jobs. It's about keeping jobs here in Wyoming and maintaining a strong and financially sound manufacturing base in this country. The soda ash industry is crucial to the economic stability of Wyoming and we must do whatever we can to help this industry. This legislation will help the domestic soda ash industry remain competitive in global markets," Thomas said. 
   The current six percent royalty on each ton of soda ash was imposed in 1995 at a time when exports were rising to record levels. It was a windfall tax that recognized the industry's significant expansion and future outlook. Over the last decade, the export growth that created the windfall in the 1990s was severely curtailed, as several trading partners erected barriers to US soda ash, often to protect their own less efficient domestic producers. 
   The Thomas legislation restores the original royalty the federal government imposed on soda ash in the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920. The bill reduces the tax to two percent which would allow U.S exports to compete in important global markets. Since 1997, the industry in Wyoming has seen a 30 percent decline in employment which has been devastating to the economy of southwestern Wyoming. 
   "As we look to the future, we must solidify Wyoming's economic base. Now that the soda ash industry is fighting for its survival, the federal government has the opportunity to be a responsible partner and ease its tax burden so the industry remains strong and provides thousands of jobs that are so important to Wyoming. In the past five years, we have lost over 700 jobs. These are good paying jobs filled by the hardworking citizens of our state. With all the talk in Washington promoting U.S. jobs, S. 2317 provides an excellent opportunity for Congress to ensure job creation," Thomas said. 
   In April, Senator Thomas held a field hearing in Rock Springs to discuss the impact of international trade barriers on the Wyoming soda ash industry. Thomas noted at that hearing that Wyoming's soda ash industry has taken a hit because of severe trade barriers for Wyoming's soda ash.
   Contact: Carry Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 