SEN. THOMAS: WYO CAN DOMINATE ENERGY RESEARCH EFFORTS
  Sen. Craig Thomas walked University of Wyoming leaders and students through a strategy session today for taking full advantage of burgeoning research and development opportunities contained in the recently passed Energy Policy Act of 2005.  
   Thomas made it clear during the meeting in Old Main on the Laramie campus that the University and the State must act now to dominate the energy sector and integrate the next generations of Wyoming students and the current workforce into the expanding energy economy. 
   "It's Wyoming's table - and we've worked hard to set it for Wyoming's youth and our workers for future high quality jobs," Thomas said. 
   Thomas, a member of the Senate Energy Committee, spearheaded Wyoming specific efforts last year in passing the energy law for Powder River Basin coal research, demonstration projects for oil/gas permitting, and research into gasification technology, among other provisions. 
   "Wyoming's economy and families are the focus of today's energy summit. I want UW to be competitive and lead the efforts in research and technology. Our young people will become part of the Wyoming economy through the research and development that emerges from the energy policy," Thomas said today. 
   "Wyoming workers can become part of our state's growing energy economy by creating and developing some of the emerging energy technologies outlined in the Energy Policy Act of 2005," he said. 
   Thomas brought together the University of Wyoming's top deans, administrators, department heads and key graduate students to his strategy session Thursday. 
   "I'm meeting today with UW students and educators to talk about specific opportunities to be part of the future, for example, in developing clean coal technologies, gasification research, and mercury removal from coal, just to name a few. There are many ways for students to be involved in cutting edge technologies relevant to Wyoming coal and electricity generation." 
   Thomas cited FutureGen, a zero-emissions coal research facility, as the kind of intensive investment of $1 billion that will produce jobs in Wyoming. 
   "I see this as a competition between UW and surrounding universities in Colorado, Utah, Montana and other places around the country who want to be in front on this research. I want Wyoming to lead the race. UW is my alma mater and I want to see UW succeed on behalf of students. I want our young people to be on the front lines in developing new ways to produce energy and refine the ways we use our vast resources in Wyoming. Student researchers should look into clean uses for coal, coal to wire technologies, and frankly, other cutting edge energy applications that will come about." 
   "UW, and other educational institutions in Wyoming, can help students prepare for careers in research and development. While I'm focusing on higher education, there is a need to improve math and science skills in our young people to prepare them for the rigors of becoming research specialists in college. Now we have a way to connect the Wyoming workforce with Wyoming industries to develop energy for our nation's consumers. I look forward to seeing the partnerships that are created and the way people will become involved in our state's economy," Thomas said.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 