SEN. THOMAS TOUTS RECOVERY PLANS IN ESA REFORM
  Sen. Craig Thomas announced that his top priority for the Senate legislation to reform the Endangered Species Act - Recovery Plans - is the framework for the reform which was introduced today in the Senate.  
   "I believe we've met our goal to modernize the act to meet its original purpose - recovering species. With recovery plans in place at a time a species is listed we will now have a strong roadmap for how to move forward," Thomas said. 
   "This act will be better for landowners, better for states, and better for the species in question." 
   "I've received tremendous input through hearings and meetings in Wyoming over the past several years. I believe our bill will represent Wyoming folks' concerns about how this legislation is implemented on the ground," Thomas said. 
   "When we implement recovery actions there should be a collaborative effort between government, private land owners, and stakeholders. This cooperative effort is a page right out of my playbook - you have to maintain solid cooperation to carry out substantive change." 
   "My focus in this effort was the recovery title. This framework, along with the other provisions in the bill, will help us achieve a proactive approach to species recovery," Thomas said. 
   "As locals and states put forth their own conservation efforts it makes it easier for them to get their work done, while providing more protection and compensation for private property owners," Thomas said. "If we attract more people to conservation and make it easier for them to accomplish, only good can result." 
   The Collaboration Recovery of Endangered Species Act (CRESA) looks to do three main things: 
   1. Set priority for listing and recovery goals 
  2. Increase states' roles in listing decisions 
  3. Create incentives for species recovery 
   Thomas lead the working group in authoring the recovery title to the ESA reform bill. The focus was on reform with respect to species recovery. Thomas and Sen. Mike Crapo, (R-Idaho), were the original organizers of the working group. Sens. Crapo, Blanche Lincoln, (D-Ark.), and Wayne Allard (R-Colo.) are all sponsors of the bill. 
   Thomas sponsored an ESA reform bill in the last Congress, called the Endangered Species Listing and Delisting Process Reform Act of 2003. It would have required a detailed recovery plan, set minimum requirements for listing petitions, require the use of sound science for listing decisions, require greater notification and consultation with states on listing decisions, and require sufficient biological evidence exists to support a recovery program before listing.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 