SEN. THOMAS CHAIRS ELECTRICITY RELIABILITY HEARING
  Sen. Craig Thomas highlighted the progress being made and the challenges facing our nation's electricity infrastructure during today's full Energy Committee hearing on electricity reliability standards.  
   "The reliability of our electric grid is a very important part of our overall energy policy. While I am pleased with the progress being made by FERC, several issues remain, such as accounting for regional differences on the grid." 
   "We also need to build more transmission lines. The Energy Policy Act gave us the right tools to get our needed infrastructure in place. It is reassuring to see the FERC working with the private and public sectors to ensure that this is done quickly and effectively," Thomas said. 
   Thomas has introduced a bill, S. 2755, calling for the use of tax-exempt bonding to promote construction of electricity transmission lines. 
   In current law, there is a private-use restriction on the use of tax-exempt bonding. What that means is that a government can't issue tax-exempt bonds for a project that will exceed a certain percentage of private use, in this case, investor-owned utilities using transmission capacity. What the Thomas bill does is to establish an exception to the private-use restriction for certain energy infrastructure (electric transmission lines and pipelines) so that the government can issue tax-exempt bonds to finance its construction. 
   The committee's hearing today emphasized the strong progress the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the North American Electricity Reliability Council are making in implementing the reliability provisions in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   FERC has met all of the deadlines Congress set in the EPACT 05 and is moving forward to certify NERC as the single Electricity Reliability Organization. NERC, in its turn, has begun an open and inclusive process for establishing mandatory reliability standards that will strengthen regional electricity grids without putting an undue burden on small utilities or consumers. 
   NERC is compiling a comprehensive list of owners, operators and users who actions or omission can impact the system, as required by the energy bill. They have drafted proposed reliability standards and are proactively seeking broad input. FERC plans to assist in that effort by hosting a technical conference and launching a formal rulemaking process. 
   Once certification of NERC is complete, NERC will begin to delegate authority to regional entities. All delegation agreements will be approved by FERC.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 