SENATE DEMOCRATS WALK OUT ON ENERGY HEARING
  Democratic members of the Senate Energy Committee today walked out of a hearing, stopping proceedings and discussions on several important energy and land measures, including trona royalty legislation and an Abandoned Mine Lands (AML) bill offered by Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.). The Democratic walk-out prevented Senate Republicans from obtaining a quorum and moving forward with the day's business.  
   "I have never seen anything like what happened today. Partisan politics has reached an all time low, and the actions of the Democrats are unprecedented. Their behavior has made it impossible to move forward with essential legislation; legislation that would have benefited many of their own constituents. I've seen election year politics, but this is ridiculous," Thomas said. 
   Among the bills to be debated and considered were Senator Thomas' AML legislation and soda ash royalty reduction legislation. The AML program was created by the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA) of 1977 and is funded through fees collected from coal mined in the United States. The program is funded through a fee collected on every ton of coal mined in the U.S. Authority to collect AML fees expires on September 30, 2004. Thomas hoped to pass the soda ash legislation to reduce federal royalties to two percent in an effort to enhance the global competitiveness of U.S. soda ash producers- -which primarily operate in Sweetwater County. 
   In a related matter, the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee took the unusual step to extend the AML authorization for nine months. AML reauthorization is the jurisdiction of the Senate Energy Committee. In response to the Appropriation Committee's action, Senator Thomas said, "We have known the fee was going to expire at the end of this month. This is not news. I have been working with folks for the past year or so. It is unfortunate that the Appropriations Committee got involved in this issue. This policy is under the jurisdiction of the Energy Committee and that's where the concerns should be addressed. I do believe we can work towards reforming AML within this nine month extension. I am hopeful we can complete the reauthorization by next spring."
 
 