SEN. THOMAS' PUBLIC SCHEDULE FOR NEXT EIGHT DAYS
  Sen. Craig Thomas' public schedule for the next eight days includes visits to Cheyenne, Casper, Pine Bluffs, Laramie, Camp Guernsey, Lingle and Evansville.  
   Friday, February 17 
  Cheyenne 
  10 - 11:15 a.m. 
  Wyoming State Capitol 
  Vice Presidential Address to Wyoming State Legislature 
   Senator Thomas will join the Wyoming State Legislature in welcoming Vice President Cheney home to Wyoming. The Vice President will address the legislature. 
   11:30 a.m. 
  Hitching Post Inn 
  Lunch Speaker 
  1700 West Lincolnway 
   Senator Thomas will speak at a lunch welcoming the Air Mobility Command and new C130 planes/personnel to F.E. Warren Air Force Base. 
   Saturday, February 18 
  Casper 
  11 a.m. 
  Casper Events Center 
  Attendee, API Chili Cookoff 
  One Events Drive 
   Senator Thomas will attend the 14th annual cook-off. The theme of this year's festivities is "Rockin' Mardi Gras." 
   Monday, February 20 
  Cheyenne 
  8 - 8:45 a.m. 
  Laramie County Community College, Room Arp 128 
  Speaker 
   Senator Thomas will speak and hold an informal question and answer session with LCCC students. 
   Pine Bluffs 
  Noon 
  Pine Bluffs Community Center 
  Participant, "No-Host" Issues Lunch 
  708 Lawson 
   Senator Thomas will hold a town meeting with the town of Pine Bluffs. The "No-Host" format is a low-key town meeting format to allow folks to engage in conversation about issues facing Wyoming and the nation. 
   Laramie 
  5:30 a.m. 
  University of Wyoming, Student Union, Second Floor 
  Speaker 
   Senator Thomas will speak to members of the UW Natural Resource and Environmental Law Club. Thomas will discuss how the recently passed energy bill will have a positive impact on Wyoming, as well as reforms to the Endangered Species Act. A question and answer session will follow. 
   Wednesday, February 22 
  Guernsey 
  11:30 a.m. 
  Camp Guernsey 
  Visitor and Lunch Guest 
   Senator Thomas will use his stop at Camp Guernsey to tour the site and visit with the commanding officers of the program. 
   Thursday, February 23 
  Lingle 
  9:30 - 10:30 a.m. 
  Lingle Stage Coach Inn Restaurant 
  Town Meeting/Coffee 
   Senator Thomas will speak and hold an informal question and answer session at this no-host coffee discussion. 
   Friday, February 24 
  Casper 
  6 p.m. (exact time subject to change) 
  Casper College Women's Basketball Game 
  Halftime Speaker 
  T-Bird Gymnasium 
   Senator Thomas will speak with Chris Crossen, the T-Bird announcer. It is the final home game of the season for the women's basketball team. 
   Saturday, February 25 
  Evansville 
  12:30 p.m. 
  Army Reserve Center 
  5141 Reserve Drive 
  Speaker, Welcome Home Ceremony 
   Senator Thomas will speak in honor of soldiers who have returned from operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 