COAL PROJECTIONS UNDERSCORE SEN. THOMAS CONCERNS
  During a hearing today to discuss the Energy Information Administration's (EIA) 25-year energy outlook, Sen. Craig Thomas asserted that coal research efforts need to match up with the report's coal projections.  
   "It seems to me that if 59 percent of the coal will be coming from the Western United States by 2030 we need to ensure that our infrastructure and technology is in place. We need to take action now for our nation's energy needs," Thomas said. 
   Thomas has been the lead advocate for coal research and technology during the national energy policy debate. Today's hearing discussed the EIA's outlook on trends and issues affecting the United States' energy market. 
   The report confirms the importance of coal to the nation's future energy outlook and confirms Thomas' beliefs about coal as our largest resource for electricity generation in the near-term. 
   "In 2005, you did not include any coal to liquid numbers in your projections, yet you're projecting that by 2030, more than 10 percent of future coal production will be used to generate liquid fuel from coal," Thomas asked of Guy Caruso, the sole witness at today's hearing. 
   "You also said energy consumption is expected to increase more rapidly than domestic energy supply through 2030. This will make us more energy dependent, not less. That's a troubling projection. 
   "Once our nation grabs hold of the plan set in place by the Energy Policy, we can remedy our nation's energy shortfall - but we need to take action now." Thomas was instrumental in including provisions for coal technology efforts in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   "I believe our energy transportation system is currently inadequate to meet future demands. Whether you are talking railroads, pipelines or electric transmission lines, there are some serious weaknesses. So, in addition to ramping up our efforts on coal research and technology, we need to ensure our current infrastructure as well." 
   Thomas is a member of the Senate Energy Committee. Guy Caruso is the administrator for the EIA. The report is available on the Senate Energy Committee Web site at http://energy.senate.gov.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202-224/6441.  
 
 