SEN. THOMAS INTRODUCES ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT REFORM BILL
  Sen. Craig Thomas, R-Wyo., on Friday, Feb. 16, introduced a bill which will provide needed reforms to the "Endangered Species Act" by requiring that each listing be supported by sound science and need, and be accompanied by a recovery plan that will lead to de-listing.  
   "I believe the Endangered Species Act's intention of protecting species is good, but I believe those good intentions have gone off track," Thomas said. "The ESA has serious deficiencies in meeting its goal of recovering species, not to mention putting Wyoming's ranchers, energy producers and foresters at risk of becoming endangered species themselves," Thomas said. 
   "In the 30 years since ESA was first enacted, more than 1,300 species have been listed as threatened or endangered. Yet, only a handful of species have recovered to the point of being de-listed, because agencies do not have clear standards about when a species should be de-listed." 
   The "Endangered Species Reform Act of 2007," S. 658, establishes minimum requirements for a listing petition, including: an analysis of the status of the species; its range; population trends and threats. The bill will also give the Secretary of the Interior discretion in determining if sufficient biological information exists to continue supporting recovery. Thomas' proposal would also give a more substantial role to the states and general public in determining which species are endangered. 
   "I fully support efforts to protect species that are truly threatened or endangered. Species that need protection must be protected, but we cannot lose sight of the real goal of recovery and delisting," Thomas said. "If the Secretary knows enough to list a species, we should also know enough about what will be required for recovery. This should be the case under current law, but unfortunately, it is not." 
   Thomas' bill is cosponsored by Senators Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Wayne Allard (R-Colo.), Larry Craig (R-Idaho), and Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.). 
   Thomas, a senior member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, has been pressing for ESA reform legislation since the 108th Congress. Thomas has also chaired field hearings in Wyoming to highlight specific concerns with listing and delisting for people and business owners in our state.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 