SEN. THOMAS: TINSLEY SELECTED TO HEAD RURAL DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS IN WYOMING
  Sen. Craig Thomas today announced the selection of Del Tinsley as Wyoming Director for Rural Development under the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  
   "My priorities for strategic rural development are enhanced by the key role that Del will now play in joining our team," Thomas said in congratulating Tinsley. "Wyoming's opportunities are integrally connected by those who get it from the ground up to bring the future forward." 
   "Our times in Wyoming demand strong advocates for rural people - Del will join us in leading Wyoming\'s future where families and businesses are core to communities. We need those with vision in position to direct action," Thomas said. 
   "Del's new position will be important as we work together to create new opportunities and improve the quality of life for Wyoming's rural communities," Thomas said. "He has a tremendous background in agriculture and business management and will bring a commonsense approach to his new position." 
   Tinsley grew up in Platte County in Southeast Wyoming. He has worked extensively with livestock publications like the Wyoming Stockman Farmer, the Record Stockman and the Wyoming Livestock Roundup. Tinsley spent 11 years as owner and manager of the second-largest livestock auction in Wyoming. In 1986, Tinsley obtained his Wyoming real estate license. Four years later he relocated to Worland, Wyo., where he joined the Wyoming Livestock Roundup as co-owner and publisher. He also established Wrangler Real Estate, a small agriculture brokerage and auction service. 
   Tinsley moved the publication to Casper in the spring of 1999, where he also joined the Western Land Service team as an associate broker. Tinsley has an extensive knowledge of Wyoming agriculture, real estate, advertising, and business management. His service as president of Wyoming Realtors Land Institute and the Wyoming Board of Agriculture add to his growing list of professional credentials. 
   USDA Rural Development\'s mission is to deliver programs to support increased economic opportunity and to improve the lives of rural residents. Rural Development provides equity and technical assistance to finance and foster growth in homeownership, business development, and critical infrastructure for communities. 
   For more information about a local USDA Rural Development office or about the USDA programs go to: http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 