SEN. THOMAS: DEMOCRATS CAN'T HAVE IT BOTH WAYS
  "You cannot say you are voting in favor of our troops, unless you pledge to support them with the funds and reinforcements they need," Sen. Craig Thomas said.  
   "I contend that a vote in support of the troops that is silent on the question of funds is an attempt to have it both ways. Democrats have been clear about the strategy behind this resolution: they've described it as a 'slow-bleed,' a way of tying the hands of the Commander in Chief," Thomas said. 
   The Senate voted 56-34 against proceeding to the Iraq Resolution today, just days after the majority party refused to debate the most critical aspect of this issue - funding for our troops in harm's way. Thomas voted against today's measure. 
   "I want an open and honest debate, not political posturing. Wyoming folks sent me here to take action, not waste time on non-binding and empty resolutions." 
   "Unfortunately, the Democrat majority want to vote in favor of meaningless propositions but not for funding of our Armed Forces serving in Iraq." 
   The House said yesterday that it supports the troops - but its leadership will deny the reinforcements that those troops will need in the weeks and months ahead. 
   "The Senate was created to block these ill-advised actions. I'm certainly in favor of giving our plan and our recently confirmed General a chance to make it happen over there. And to turn away those who seek to undermine what our military is accomplishing," Thomas said. 
   President Bush has agreed, very publicly in his State of the Union address, that there has been a lack of progress in Iraq. He then spent time listening to his military commanders, national security adviser and others who consulted about various options available to the nation. 
   When the President decided to commit more than 20,000 additional troops to Iraq to clear and secure the city of Baghdad and to protect its population, Senator Thomas felt that was a prudent step as long as we see benchmarks of improvement. 
   As the Senate has met here today, U.S. and Iraqi soldiers are executing the plan on the streets of Baghdad. 
   "Our military troops have already given us reasons for hope. Soon after the President's announcement, US-Iraqi forces began overcome elements of the Mahdi Army. The militia's leader fled his stronghold. And this week, US-Iraqi forces have conducted sweeps through once-violent Sunni neighborhoods with little resistance," Thomas said. 
   Senator Thomas heads to Wyoming today. He will visit Lander, Riverton, Casper, Cheyenne and Laramie over the President's Day recess.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 