SEN. THOMAS INTRODUCES VETERANS TAX FAIRNESS BILL
  Sen. Craig Thomas on Wednesday, January 17, announced that he will be the lead Republican for the "Disabled Veterans Tax Fairness Act of 2007," a bill to provide much-needed relief for disabled veterans who are denied tax refunds after being awarded disability compensation.  
   The bill will add an exception to the IRS statute of limitations for amending tax returns, allowing disabled veterans whose disability claims have been pending for more than three years to receive refunds on previous taxes paid for up to five years. 
   Currently disabled veterans can be denied refunds due to lost paperwork, administrative errors, and appeals of rejected claims that often delay thousands of disability awards. 
   "During a time when a grateful nation should be doing everything it can to honor those who have sacrificed so greatly on our behalf, we must ensure that our disabled veterans and their families are not unjustly penalized," Thomas said. "We cannot disadvantage our veterans with bureaucratic inefficiencies or administrative delays that are beyond their control. This bill will right this wrong." 
   Thomas, (R-Wyo.) and Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) introduced the bipartisan effort today. "With Senate action, we hope to see our veterans get the money they deserve," Thomas said. 
   Under current law, the IRS prohibits the filing of amended returns beyond three years. As a result - through no fault of their own - many disabled veterans are denied the opportunity to file a claim for repayment of additional years of back taxes already paid, even though the IRS owes them a refund for the taxes that were originally paid on their retiree pay. 
   The legislation is supported by the Military Coalition, a group representing more than 5.5 million members of the uniformed services and their families. 
   Thomas is a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee with jurisdiction over the tax code.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 