SEN. THOMAS: SENATE PASSES 'TOUGH' EARMARK REFORM
  Sen. Craig Thomas on Wednesday, January 17, said the DeMint amendment, which passed the United States Senate last night by a vote of 98-0, will promote fiscal responsibility and discourage wasteful spending.  
   "Reforms such as these will help us limit wasteful government spending," Thomas said. "The amendment is a victory for both fiscal responsibility and open government. We owe our nation's taxpayers the most transparent process, so they understand how their tax dollars are being spent." 
   The Senate lobby reform bill originally required disclosure of just a small fraction of congressional earmarks, leaving taxpayers in the dark about 95 percent of pork barrel projects. 
   "Thanks to Senator DeMint and the efforts of Senate Republicans, the Senate lobby reform bill now requires a much broader disclosure of earmarks," Thomas said. 
   "Thankfully, the Senate Democrats decided to work with us to pass this amendment. Senate Republicans will continue to promote transparency in the budget process and wise stewardship of taxpayer funds," he said. 
   The DeMint amendment enhances disclosure requirements for congressional earmarks, limited tax benefits, and limited tariff benefits. 
   The original Senate bill narrowly defined earmarks as targeted funds for "non-federal entities" - which only amounted to about 5 percent of all earmarks. DeMint's amendment requires full disclosure of earmarks, including pork for federal projects (such as earmarks for the Corps of Engineers and the Department of Defense), targeted tax and trade benefits, and all earmarks contained in committee reports, where approximately 95 percent of earmarks are inserted. 
   When brought to the Senate floor last week, the DeMint amendment received support from a strong majority of Republicans, as well as the support of nine Democrats. However, as the Wall Street Journal noted, the Democrat leadership used "procedural run-arounds" to prevent the amendment from being accepted. [Wall Street Journal, "Earmark Entertainment," Jan.12, 2007] Faced with bipartisan support for the amendment and pressure from Republicans, the Democrat leadership this week decided to allow the amendment to come to a final vote with minor changes.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 