SENS. THOMAS, BINGAMAN BILL LOWERS HEALTH CARE COSTS FOR SELF-EMPLOYED
  Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) and Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) re-introduced legislation that would make health care more affordable for millions of self-employed workers.  
   The "Equity for Our Nation's Self-Employed Act of 2005" would reduce the cost of health insurance for the self-employed by allowing these workers to exclude the cost of their health insurance from their income when calculating their payroll taxes. 
   "For self-employed workers in Wyoming, this bill will help keep health care costs under control. This legislation will provide some relief to the millions of self-employed people across the nation. While it doesn't eliminate the problem of rising health care costs, the measure is a step in the right direction for people who are a key part of our economy," Thomas said. 
   "It is unfair for self-employed workers to pay payroll taxes on their health insurance payments while larger businesses do not. We owe it to these hard-working men and women to give them the same treatment as large corporations." Bingaman said. "This bill would make health care more affordable for those who already have it and will encourage self-employed individuals who currently don't have health insurance to buy a policy." 
   Almost 4 million working families paid self-employment tax on their health insurance premiums, not including the millions of families that cannot currently afford health insurance. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, self-employed workers spend more than $9,000 per year to provide health insurance for their families. Because they cannot deduct this as an ordinary business expense, they pay a 15.3 percent payroll tax on their premiums resulting in almost $1,400 of taxes annually. 
   The proposal would benefit all self-employed individuals who provide health insurance to their families, saving them thousands of dollars each year. 
   The bill has been endorsed by a number of organizations including: The National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB), the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the Small Business Legislative Council, the National Association for the Self-Employed and the National Small Business Association.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 