SEN. THOMAS BLASTS DEMOCRATS FOR STALLING HIGHWAY LEGISLATION
  Citing his continued frustration with Senate Democrats, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) headed to the Senate floor today to appeal for the immediate passage of the highway bill, S. 1072, the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2003 (SAFETEA).  
   "Our nation's highway system is especially important in rural areas like Wyoming because it connects people to one of the most efficient and accessible transportation systems ever created. We need to get the bill to conference so that we can begin the process of working out differences. This bill is too important to our nation to have stalled by parliamentary tactics in the Senate," Thomas said. 
   The House passed their version of the highway bill on April 2. Since that time, Democrats have stalled progress on the bill, refusing to appoint members to the Conference Committee. 
   SAFETEA directs $1.6 billion to Wyoming's highway system over the next six years-a 38 percent increase over current funding levels. These funds will create nearly 21,000 job opportunities for folks across the state. Current law, the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21), expired September 30, 2003. Under TEA-21, Wyoming received approximately $195 million annually in highway funding. Wyoming would receive nearly $265 million per year under the SAFETEA legislation. 
   "No matter where you live in this nation, you are affected by our highway system. The negative impact of not having this vital legislation impacts our construction and trucking businesses, and it jeopardizes our safety and infrastructure. We are not able to establish and develop long-term plans without a bill," Thomas said. "I cannot understand why some have dragged their feet and impeded progress. Partisanship has prevailed over the need to help people in every corner of the country and that's unfortunate. I wish my colleagues across the aisle would take off their campaign blinders and get to work." 
   Senator Thomas sits on two key Senate Committees with jurisdiction over highway legislation - the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and the Senate Finance Committee.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 