SEN. THOMAS PRAISES RESTORATION OF RURAL HEALTH FUNDS
  During last night's consideration of the Congressional Budget for 2007, Sen. Craig Thomas praised the restoration of $235 million for the Rural Health Care budget which provides vital services in Wyoming and other rural states. 
   "In Wyoming, rural health programs have made a real difference in the quality, access, and affordability of care for folks in frontier communities. That is why I am extremely pleased to see the budget before us assume a $235 million increase for the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) over the President's request," Thomas said.  
   Wyoming's senior senator worked with the Senate Budget Chairman Judd Gregg who gave full consideration to the Rural Health Caucus and to the important rural health provisions left unfunded in the President's budget. Thomas is Chairman of the Senate Rural Health Caucus, which now boasts more than 80 members. 
   "The funding is primarily intended to support rural health programs. We must continue to help rural hospitals and providers deliver essential health care services, especially in remote and medically underserved areas," Thomas said. 
   Thomas continues to spearhead efforts for rural hospitals and doctors especially in regard to provider equity issues. He has made rural health care his main focus in talks with Senate Leadership and continues to impress upon others the critical nature of this funding to rural states around the country. 
   "Rural folks deserve the same affordable, quality health care as people receive in urban areas. I remain committed to the unique health care needs of rural and frontier areas. We all share the success of passing landmark rural Medicare equity provisions in the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. This legislation included the most comprehensive attempt to put rural providers on a level playing field with their urban counterparts," Thomas said. "Clearly, this was a significant victory, but there is much more to be done." 
   The President's fiscal year 2007 budget eliminated or severely reduced several effective and efficient rural health programs. 
   "While it is important to identify and eliminate wasteful and inefficient programs, I also believe that we must support policies that work. Rural health care programs operate on a shoestring budget and fill critical needs in Wyoming like emergency services." 
   Thomas said programs such as rural hospital flexibility grants, rural outreach program, trauma care, small hospital improvement program, health professions training, and rural access to emergency devices all play a key role in delivering services to medically underserved rural areas. 
   "The importance of these programs should not be undervalued. They meet our unique rural health needs by improving emergency medical service networks, developing chronic disease management programs, implementing quality improvement initiatives, and helping small rural hospitals unable to keep their doors open convert to Critical Access Hospital (CAH) status." 
   Thomas praised his colleagues, Sens. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) and Kent Conrad, D-N.D., for consistently partnering with him to ensure fair and equitable rural health treatment in the budget process. 
   "I look forward to working with all the members of the Senate Rural Health Caucus as we fight to ensure adequate funding for rural health programs during the fiscal year 2007 appropriations process," Thomas said. "It's clear to me that the one-size-fits-all approach doesn't work when it comes to health care.".
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 