SEN. THOMAS LAUDS PACT ON WYO COAL GASIFICATION
  A provision authored by Sen. Craig Thomas in the Energy Policy Act (EPACT) to study high-altitude coal, has garnered the support of California this week, who announced they will work to locate the coal demonstration project in Wyoming.  
   "The partnership announced by California and Wyoming is another step toward implementing advanced coal research and an endorsement of our Western IGCC provision. Wyoming's vast coal reserves will become the fuel for the most advanced coal gasification technology out there." 
   "Wyoming will have the first opportunity in the country to use western coal in a large scale, multi-million dollar project with the backing one of the largest energy consuming states in the nation," Thomas said. 
   "During the energy bill debate, we were able to gain the recognition that western coal has unique properties and needed further research to be used for gasification projects in Wyoming," Thomas said. 
   Wyoming's senior senator authored Section 413 of the Energy Policy Act to address what private industry leaders said was a concern about the use of high-altitude coal for coal gasification. The provision calls for a commercial-sized pilot project to study coal at an altitude above 4,000 feet. The effort was aimed at proving western coal at the site of the coal reserves and to prove its use in the coal gasification process. 
   He included the provision early in the debate of the energy bill and ensured that the provision was included in the final version of the bill during a conference committee with the House. 
   "Although there are some technical reasons that complicate the use of western coal for combined cycle gasification, we clearly have the most abundant coal resources. We worked aggressively during the national energy policy debate to craft a provision to take advantage of our western reserves." 
   "We certainly are hearing a lot of positive developments for IGCC usage of western coal by the States and private industry investors. I'm looking forward to working with all of the stakeholders to see this project come to life in Wyoming. It's an exciting time for us."
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 