SEN. THOMAS DISCUSSES AG ISSUES AT CATTLEMEN'S CONFERENCE
  In a speech addressing the Wyoming Cattlemen's Conference, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) said today he would continue to push for Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) and reform of the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The conference was held at the Wyoming State Fair in Douglas.  
   "Agriculture is one of the most important industries in Wyoming. It has an estimated total impact of nearly $1.5 billion on the Wyoming economy and provides 17,000 jobs in the State. U.S. agriculture feeds America and is an important player in feeding the world. Breaking down trade barriers on U.S. commodities so that we have a level playing field to compete around the globe must remain a top priority of our trade negotiators. I am confident that we can achieve success by working together to eliminate existing barriers," Thomas said. 
   Among Senator Thomas' key points during his address was the need to implement mandatory COOL. Senator Thomas said most products are currently labeled with the country of origin and that meat should be treated the same. Thomas noted that he is working with Senator Mike Enzi (R-Wyo) and Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, to ensure that COOL is fully implemented as scheduled. "Though I am frustrated with the delay, I remain committed to ensuring that consumers are given the information they need to make an informed choice," Thomas said. 
   Senator Thomas also discussed the need to reform the ESA. He pointed out that the legislation is over 30 years old and in that time, 1,200 plant and animal species have been listed as threatened or endangered. Only a handful of species have been de-listed. "We spend more time on legal action than recovering species. It is clear the system is not working and needs to be fixed," Thomas said. Thomas introduced S. 369, to improve the listing, recovery planning, and delisting processes that exist in current law. 
   On August 23, Thomas will chair a Senate field hearing in Casper to discuss reforming the ESA. 
   Other issues raised by Senator Thomas during his appearance at the conference included planning for agriculture in the future, multiple-use of public lands, trade, and drought. 
   "We have some of the most competent folks in the world working our ranches and farms. And while we can't control Mother Nature, I know that the future of Wyoming agriculture is in the best hands around," Thomas concluded.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 