SEN. THOMAS: ENERGY INITIATIVES TAKING HOLD IN WYO
  In an effort to protect consumers from skyrocketing gas prices, Sen. Craig Thomas plans legislative efforts in 2006 to boost our nation's refinery capacity. In addition, his initiatives included in the Energy Policy Act are already beginning to take shape in Wyoming with several companies taking advantage of tax incentives for energy technology.  
   "A key function of controlling fuel costs is to increase supply and refinery improvements remain the best way to address our supply issues," Thomas said. 
   "Increasing supply through converting coal to liquid fuel will be a major boost to the market, but that research takes time. It's encouraging to see companies already taking advantage of energy policies we set out last year." 
   Wyoming's senior senator will be sponsoring legislation in 2006 to streamline refinery expansion and construction and deal with other refinery needs. Thomas efforts for energy technology advances were made into law in August 2005. 
   "Having California require the production of 50-some kinds of fuel is unacceptable. California's wish list for boutique fuels costs Wyoming consumers money every time they put gas in their tank. We need to reduce the number of boutique fuels so our refineries can focus on the most common blends," Thomas said. 
   Taking action early on a refinery bill will be a high priority for the Senate Energy Committee before summer travel gets under way. 
   "Making coal into diesel puts Wyoming's in the driver's seat in improving our nation's fuel supply. At least three coal-to-diesel projects are being discussed in Wyoming - using our abundant coal resource from right here at home. We're in a unique position to take advantage of this technology because we have the coal supply and the infrastructure to ship the gas - making Wyoming the best site for this technology." 
   Thomas has also called a meeting with the Department of Energy and several Wyoming stakeholders early next week to discuss clean coal funding. Thomas and his Senate colleagues in the Energy and Natural Resources Committee will introduce legislation to bolster refining capacity early in the session. 
   The senator worked to provide significant opportunities for Wyoming companies to conduct cutting edge research into clean coal in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Among the legislative efforts for energy production are tax deductibility for gas and power lines and pilot projects for research. 
   "We're starting to see energy initiatives outlined in the Energy bill take shape in Wyoming. I'm pleased we were able to set out some strong guidelines for where we can capitalize on our state's energy sources." 
   "Several companies have already taken advantage of the tax incentives and plan to do business in Wyoming. It's a competitive process and I encourage companies to continue to grab a hold of the opportunities," Thomas said this week.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 