SEN. THOMAS: $10 BILLION MISTAKE CAUSED BY CLINTON'S DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR
  Sen. Craig Thomas asserted in an Energy Committee oversight hearing on Thursday, January 18, that it was Clinton's Interior officials and not the current Administration that left price thresholds out of the lease contracts with energy companies which may cost the American people an estimated $10 billion. 
   Thomas made his comments during a Senate Energy Committee oversight hearing on royalty management at the Department of the Interior (DOI). At the hearing Thomas queried the Inspector General (IG) for DOI, Earl Devaney, about his recent report and why it contained no conclusive information about the people responsible for the original mistake.  
   "How and why were price thresholds omitted from the 1998-99 leases? Who was responsible? There is a lot of focus on other issues and not about why this problem happened in the first place," Thomas said. 
   "We know what was done once the mistake was discovered - price thresholds were included in subsequent leases. As to why the mistake took place, we still do not have satisfactory answers. It was the Clinton Administration that made the mistake in 1998 and they became aware of that blunder two years later. We know they identified the error because they corrected their leases in subsequent years. Why then did the Clinton Administration not attempt to recover lost revenue beginning in the year 2000?" 
   "It does not make sense that the IG report is so critical of the current Administration, but lets the Clinton Administration off the hook. Both sets of officials had the same information. Yet it is the current Administration that's done something to fix the problem," Thomas said. 
   "It must be said, in defense of Johnnie Burton, that she came into her current position and was left to deal with someone else's mess. It is inappropriate and unfair to lose sight of the real issue here by attacking someone who has worked so hard to remedy the situation." 
   "Despite having no legal grounds to fix the leases, Johnnie has managed to get 6 companies to voluntarily re-negotiate their lease contracts. By doing this, she's recovered 20 percent of the $10 billion that was squandered by the Clinton Administration," Thomas said. 
   "I believe we have to support public servants like Johnnie Burton and Stephen Allred who are now charged with attempting to fix the mistakes of others. Also, we must not allow the desire to recover this money overshadow the formulation of responsible policy." 
   "Some proposals would establish the U.S. government as an unreliable party in a manner no different than Venezuela, Bolivia, and Russia. The United States must abide by the contracts it signs. We must also produce more energy here at home. To do otherwise represents an abandonment of these principles and would cause harm to the energy security goals that we all share." 
   "Unstable government policy will cause companies to take their business elsewhere. Normally, I would complete my remarks by telling you at the witness table that I look forward to hearing your testimony. Unfortunately, I believe that the people capable of answering the most important questions before us today have not been called to testify. A member of the former Clinton Administration should be here today." 
   Thomas said that among the three witnesses, it was Mr. Devaney that has the investigative tools to answer the most important questions. 
   "I have reviewed his report, however, and believe that it is nothing more than a witch-hunt for who knew about this mistake and when. Those are the wrong questions to be asking of the current Administration. We should be hearing today about who made the mistake in 1998 and why. An explanation of that error is testimony worth hearing." 
   Senator Thomas' criticism extended beyond the IG report to that office's inability to protect the information that was critical to effective oversight by Congress. 
   "Why is it that the New York Times was writing detailed accounts of your report days before members of the Senate Energy Committee were given a chance to review its contents? It is irresponsible for a report that is several hundred pages long to be summarized days in advance of its release by a media outlet. That is no way to begin an un-biased conversation about the facts at hand.".
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 