SENS. THOMAS, BINGAMAN HEALTH CARE INITIATIVE WOULD BENEFIT SELF-EMPLOYED
  Sens. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) and Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) today introduced a bill aimed at making health care more affordable for millions of self-employed Americans.  
   The Equity for Our Nation's Self-Employed Act of 2004 would reduce the cost of health insurance for the self-employed by allowing these workers to exclude the cost of their health insurance from their income when calculating their payroll taxes. 
   "When I travel back to Wyoming, I hear from self-employed individuals about the rising cost of health care. This legislation will provide some relief to the millions of self-employed people across the nation. The issue is one of fairness, and though it won't eliminate the problem, the measure is a step in the right direction," Thomas said. 
   "Right now, self-employed workers are allowed an income tax reduction for the amount they pay for health insurance. But with the rising cost of health care, it's my opinion that we can do better for these hard-working men and women. My bill would cut taxes paid by self-employed workers by allowing them to subtract from their overall earnings the amount they're paying out every month for health care premiums," Bingaman said. "This move will make health care more affordable for those who already have it, but I hope it will also encourage self-employed individuals who currently don't have health insurance for themselves and their families to invest in it." 
   In 2001, roughly 3.6 million working families paid self-employment tax on their health insurance premiums, not including the millions of families that cannot currently afford health insurance. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, self-employed workers spend more than $9,000 per year to provide health insurance for their families. Because they cannot deduct this as an ordinary business expense, they pay a 15.3 percent payroll tax on their premiums resulting in almost $1,400 of taxes annually. 
   The bill has been endorsed by a number of organizations including: The National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB), the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the Small Business Legislative Council, the National Association for the Self-Employed and the National Small Business Association.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 