SEN. THOMAS RESTORES FUNDING FOR RURAL HEALTH PROGRAMS
  Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) included a provision in the Fiscal Year 2006 budget to restore $100 million in funding for a variety of rural health programs. The budget passed the Senate late last night 51-49.  
   "Wyoming has unique health care challenges, and I will continue efforts to improve our health care system's quality and affordability," Thomas said. "I will continue to address rural health care needs because it directly affects Wyoming's quality of life," he said. 
   The amendment, co-sponsored by Kent Conrad, (D-N.D.) will restore funding for the rural flexibility program (Flex), rural health outreach grants, the small hospital improvement program, telehealth, trauma care, and rural access to emergency devices programs. 
   In total, the amendment provides $100 million for this purpose, which is offset by a reduction in overall government travel expenses. The National Rural Health Association and American Hospital Association fully supported this effort. 
   The crucial rural health programs helped by this amendment address a variety of health care needs in our rural communities including: developing rural health networks, improving emergency medical services (EMS), conducting quality initiatives, starting new public health outreach programs, and providing technical assistance to small, rural hospitals, in addition to other things. 
   The following is information on some of the rural health programs: 
   FLEX PROGRAM 
   This is a grant program that provides funding to rural communities that can be used for a variety of purposes, including: developing rural health networks, improving EMS, improving quality of care, providing small start-up grants for programs such as cardiac rehab, and for covering technical assistance costs to rural hospitals as they transition to Critical Access Hospital status. 
   RURAL HEALTH OUTREACH GRANT 
   The focus of this competitive grant program is to address rural health care needs through either development of new services or improving care that is already available in rural areas. Past grantees have used the grant to start-up a disease management program; create a suicide prevention network of hospitals and public health providers, developed a cancer prevention program and offered emergency medical education programs to members of the community. 
   SMALL HOSPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (SHIP) 
   This program helps small hospitals cover a variety of costs, including implementing Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, keeping up-to-date on Medicare policy changes, purchasing new computer software and training staff on how to use this equipment. This funding will be particularly important for hospitals to receive as they implement the new Medicare changes. 
   RURAL ACCESS TO EMERGENCY DEVICES: 
   This important rural health program was authorized during the final days of the 106th Congress. It helps communities to purchase emergency devices such as defibrillators and provides training to responders in their use as well as in CPR and first aid. 
   This and all press releases are available on Senator Thomas' Web site at: http://thomas.senate.gov.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 