SEN. THOMAS SPONSORS 'NATIONAL DAY OF THE COWBOY' LEGISLATION
  Recognizing the significant contributions that cowboys have made in the creation and development of Wyoming, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) introduced a resolution this week recognizing the "National Day of the Cowboy." Thomas' resolution will assign July 23, 2005 and July 22, 2006 as the designated dates.  
   "Our country looks to cowboys as role models because we admire their esteemed and enduring code of conduct. They have integrity and courage in the face of danger. Cowboys respect others, defend those who cannot defend themselves, and hold their families dear. They are good stewards of the land and all its creatures, possess a strong work ethic, and are loyal to their country. The Cowboy lives his life in a way most cannot help but admire," Thomas said on the Senate floor. 
   The resolution has bi-partisan support from many Western Senators. Co-sponsors of the legislation include: Sens. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Ken Salazar (D-Colo.) and Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.). 
   William Bales, Publisher of the American Cowboy Magazine said, "When we first had the idea that the American Cowboy needed a day of recognition, I could think of no one we'd more like to sponsor our idea than Senator Thomas. We are excited that he was able to introduce this legislation and we look forward to its passage. The American Cowboy is an icon and we need to take a moment to recognize the profound contributions that cowboys have made to this nation," Bales said. The American Cowboy Magazine, based in Sheridan, initially approached Thomas with the idea of creating a special day for the Cowboy. 
   The legislation will now await passage before the July 23 designation date. This and all press releases are available on the Thomas' Web site at: http://thomas.senate.gov More information on National Day of the Cowboy petition drive can be found at: http://www.cowboyday.com/
 
 