SEN. THOMAS: PARK POLICIES BACK ON SOLID GROUND
  The National Parks Chairman Sen. Craig Thomas says the newly released parks management policies put the service on solid footing for the future.  
   "If there is anything to be learned from the saga of the National Park Service management policies - it's how crucial it is for public servants to communicate and coordinate their efforts with stakeholders." 
   "To the Park Service's credit, they listened to the concerns of both employees and the public and have responded with a document which takes management of the parks to a higher level." 
   "It's a source of some pride for me to see the policies now moving in the right direction. I look forward to the hearing as we explore the revamped policy." 
   "The new policy draft recognizes the important role local communities play in the parks. It guides superintendents by encouraging them to work with the public to find answers amenable to everyone. I believe this was lacking from the 2001 draft," Thomas said. 
   "I see the clarifications as much better in this draft than the original draft's mandate about seeking to 'balance use and conservation.' Instead, the policies recognize that Congress did intend certain uses to happen in the parks and we need to manage them accordingly," Thomas said. 
   "There are innovative approaches to controversial items like cell phone towers. Instead of making cell towers a 'yes or no' decision, the policies tell managers to work with companies to find ways to make the towers less intrusive, when a permit comes up for review." 
   "These policies recognize that superintendents need to be smart about money and mindful about planning," Thomas said. 
   The National Parks Subcommittee will hold a hearing Tuesday, June 20 about the management policies. Witnesses include Deputy Director of the National Park Service Steve Martin, and President of the National Parks Conservation Association Tom Kiernan.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 