SEN. THOMAS TO REVIEW PARK MANAGEMENT POLICIES
  Sen. Craig Thomas will hold an oversight hearing in late October to review the National Park Service's management policies, which have received much media attention in their draft form.  
   "Changes in the park service policies are cause for some concern. So, those concerns have spurred some additional oversight," Thomas said. "But let's be clear that the discussion involves proposed changes. Once park service officials finish their draft, we'll take a closer look at it. The public comment period is a good time for the public to weigh in and it's a good time for an oversight hearing. As the Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on National Parks, I'm interested in any change in the balance between resource use and protection. We should look closely at any work that seeks to alter their mission," Thomas said. "Nothing is set in stone - particularly before there is oversight by this subcommittee." 
   Thomas informed the Department of the Interior two weeks ago of his intent to have an oversight hearing on the proposed changes to existing National Park management policies. 
   Thomas spoke with the Assistant Secretary Craig Manson about the draft changes on Sept. 12 and sent a letter to Interior last week. 
   In the letter to Interior, Thomas said, "...I would like to inform you that I intend to have an oversight hearing on the subject when the Park Service produces the document for public comment. In the interim, if there are changes in the development of the draft guidance I would appreciate you keeping me informed of your progress," the letter said. 
  The most recent policy changes were made in 2001 at the end of the Clinton Administration. The latest draft changes are undergoing review by senior executives within the National Park Service. The document is expected to be available for public review and comment during the latter half of October. Senator Thomas has tentatively scheduled the hearing to coincide with the comment period. Manson and Thomas agreed that the public comment period would also be the appropriate time for oversight. 
   Erroneous reports were released last week from Colorado's junior senator saying the hearing was coming at his request. 
   Thomas said the process of the Senate hearing will help air the ideas and focus on real policy rather than leaked documents and rumor. "We all love the parks. We aren\'t going to let bad things happen to them - not on my watch," Thomas said.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 