DELEGATION INVITES LANDOWNERS TO APPLY FOR FUNDING
  As follow-up action to Congressional funding for the Conservation Security Program (CSP), Wyoming's Sens. Craig Thomas, Michael Enzi, and Rep. Barbara Cubin today invite eligible landowners in Wyoming to participate in the program.  
   "We encourage all interested landowners to sign-up for the conservation program. Over the years, the CSP has contributed a significant amount of money to folks in Wyoming who assist with conservation efforts on their land," the delegation said. "CSP is unique because it rewards those landowners who meet the highest standards of conservation and environmental management." 
   Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns recently announced that the CSP sign-up will be held Feb. 13, 2006 to March 31, 2006 in 60 watersheds nationwide. 
   The State Conservationist for NRCS in Wyoming Adolfo Perez said, "While this sign-up is limited to landowners in the Lower Wind watershed, other Wyoming watersheds will be selected each year until producers in every part of the state have the opportunity to participate in the program. This may be a good chance for producers outside of this watershed to learn about the program and prepare for participation when it becomes available in their area." 
   In 2006 Wyoming's Lower Wind watershed will be funded. The majority of the Lower Wind Watershed is in Fremont County, and includes part of the Wind River Indian Reservation and extends into small areas of Hot Springs and Natrona counties. (See attached document for more details) 
   In 2005, 75 contracts in two watersheds located in the Southeast Wyoming were funded for a total of $830,148. 
   Other watersheds will be selected each year in Wyoming until landowners in every watershed have the chance to participate in CSP over the next several years. To learn more about the program and prepare for participation when it becomes available in your area contact the USDA's Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) in Casper at (307) 233-6762. 
   The CSP is authorized by the 2002 Farm Bill and administered by NRCS. It focuses on high-priority watersheds nationwide to allow NRCS staff to provide quality program and technical assistance to more applicants. A CSP self-assessment workbook is available at: www.wy.nrcs.usda.gov/programs.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 