SEN. THOMAS' BILL STRENGTHENS WYOMING'S SODA ASH INDUSTRY
  "We need to put soda ash workers back to work in Wyoming and provide for a financially sound manufacturing base in this country," Sen. Craig Thomas, (R-Wyo.) said.  
   "My bill will keep jobs in Wyoming and give workers in America a fighting chance to compete globally," Thomas said. "The health of the domestic soda ash industry is now at issue," said Thomas. 
   The Thomas bill, the Soda Ash Royalty Reduction Act of 2005, goes a long way toward assisting the domestic industry to be competitive on a global basis. 
   Wyoming accounts for 85 percent of the natural soda ash produced in the United States. The bill reduces an excessive tax on natural American soda ash; a tax that significantly impairs the ability of the soda ash industry to compete in the global markets. 
   This tax helped create a 30 percent decline in employment in this industry in Wyoming since 1997. The current 6 percent royalty on each ton of domestically produced soda ash was imposed in 1995 at a time when our exports of this important commodity, primarily used in the manufacture of glass, were rising to record levels. It was a windfall tax that recognized the industry's significant expansion. 
   "Over the last decade, export growth has been severely impacted, as several trading partners erected various barriers to United States soda ash, often to protect their own less efficient domestic producers," Thomas said. 
  "Wyoming soda ash producers remain the most efficient in the world and have been constantly improving their productivity over the last several years," Thomas said. 
   "My legislation restores the original royalty the federal government imposed on soda ash in the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920. That act set a 2 percent royalty on soda ash mined on federal leases. The move will resume the royalty rate consistent with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 that requires the Secretary of the Interior to receive "fair market value" for the use of public lands and their resources. Simply, the legislation adjusts what was a windfall tax back to its original level. 
   "The legislation is overdue and keeps our nation's commitment to United States based manufacturing and jobs. Our soda ash industry has been a good partner with the Federal government, providing additional revenue when business was flourishing," Thomas said. 
   "Now that the industry is fighting for its survival, the Federal government has the opportunity to be a responsible partner and ease its tax burden so it can survive and provide the thousands of jobs that are so important to my state," Thomas said.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 