SEN. THOMAS FIGHTS FOR LOCAL BUSINESSES DEPENDANT ON H2-B VISA WORKERS
  In his quest to keep the issue on the Senate's agenda, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) went before the full Senate to plead the case for H2-B visa recipients. Thomas petitioned that it is not too late to address this year's shortage. Roughly 1,800 visa recipients are trying to find work in Wyoming.  
   "H2-B visa recipients are in a class all by themselves. They are a unique set of workers employed in a variety of temporary work environments. In Wyoming, the majority of our H2-B visa recipients are hospitality workers who come to Jackson to work over the summer tourist season. These workers are certified for a specific period of time, a specific employer, however, when that time has expired they must return to their home country." 
   Throughout the nation, 66,000 H2-B visas are issued each year. Unlike past years, this cap has been met early, leaving local businesses strapped for hired help. States like California and Florida have a continuous demand for H2-B visas which are applied for year-round. Wyoming has a distinct summer and winter tourist season and therefore, has been left out of the H2-B visa race because of the so called "120-day rule," Thomas said. This rule states that business are not able to file for visas more than 120 days before the workers are needed. Consequently, by the time Wyoming's local businesses need their workers, they are unable to take advantage of the program because year-round tourist hubs have used up all H2-B visa slots.
   Senator Thomas is an original co-sponsor of legislation introduced by Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), S. 2258, the "Summer Operations and Services (SOS) Relief and Reform Act." This bill would revise certain requirements for H-2B employers for fiscal year 2004, bringing relief to areas such as Jackson that are dependent on these workers.
   The legislation is currently awaiting action in the Senate Judiciary Committee.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 