SEN. THOMAS: HIGHWAY FUNDING TO PROVIDE JOBS IN WYOMING
  Sen. Craig Thomas and his fellow lawmakers passed an eight-month extension Thursday of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21).  
   The extension includes a fix co-sponsored by Thomas to ensure that the current 2.5 cents of tax per gallon on ethanol-based fuel is redirected to the Highway Trust Fund rather than the General Fund. 
   This provision will ensure that roughly $1 billion will be credited to the Highway Trust Fund and distributed once a long-term bill is signed into law. 
   What this means to a Wyoming consumer buying gas is that a greater amount of each dollar for a gallon of fuel will flow directly into a fund to build highways. 
   Highway funding has a direct impact on all states because 45,000 jobs are created for every $1 billion spent on highway construction. "The jobs that are created through the highway bill funding are good quality jobs for the folks in our state," Thomas said. The senior republican senator sits on the Environment and Public Works Committee as well as the Finance Committee, both of which have jurisdiction over this legislation. Thomas supported this effort to boost the coffers of the Highway Trust Fund in the Finance Committee. 
   The extension distributes roughly $2 billion of the remaining Fiscal Year 2004 money until Congress can readdress the issue next session, as well as extending current level funding. "I've grown increasingly frustrated with the partisan politics that have stalled this issue and forced us into an extension. However, I'm looking forward to passing the six-year version of the bill," Thomas said. "The highway system is an important part of our economy." 
   Fuel suppliers who use ethanol in their gas previously had an exemption from excise tax rates. The exemption allowed the price of gasohol (ethanol mixed with gasoline) to be lower than the price of gasoline. By directing the 2.5 cents from the sale of gasohol to the Highway Trust Fund, lawmakers have found a way to contribute taxes that people pay at the pump into more funding for the roads. 
   The United States still has a significant shortfall in funding when it comes to maintaining a serviceable highway system. A major goal of the TEA-21 was to restore the integrity of the Highway Trust Fund by depositing all motor fuel taxes in the fund and then spend the money on highway and transit programs. 
   For more information on TEA-21 go to the Department of Transportation Web site.
 
 