SEN. THOMAS: 'OUR PARKS ARE A STANDARD FOR THE REST OF THE WORLD'
  Sen. Craig Thomas, Chairman of the National Parks Subcommittee, spoke on the floor of the Senate today to extol the virtues of our nation's park system during National Park Week - which runs from April 18-24.  
   Here is the official statement: 
   "I would like to bring to your attention that this week, April 18 -24, is National Park Week. Events are taking place this week throughout the Nation to commemorate our National Parks. Famed western author Wallace Stegner once said, 'National parks are the best idea we ever had. Absolutely American, absolutely democratic - they reflect us at our best rather than our worst.' 
   "Our uniquely American idea began with the creation of Yellowstone as the world's first national park in 1872. I'm proud to say that this park is in my home state. Since that time our idea has been exported, adapted and adopted worldwide. 
   "American's Gift To The World is the theme of National Park Week this year. I believe it's a fitting theme. Each year more than 260 million people from all over the world visit our 388 units of the National Park System. Collectively those sites reflect our national heritage. 
   "An amazing array of resources have been preserved and protected in our national parks. The Service includes: outstanding natural and cultural resources representing ecological communities; historical sites commemorating events, significant people and places in our history; and memorials to fallen defenders of freedom. 
   "Visitors to the National Parks enjoy these places through services provided by park employees and increasingly by park volunteers and partners. 
   "I want to recognize and thank the employees, volunteers, and partners of the National Park Service during this week for their hard work and dedication toward maintaining our National Parks under ever-increasing demands. 
   "As the Chairman of the Subcommittee on National Parks I will continue to ensure that our National Park System is the standard for the rest of the world," Thomas said.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 