SEN. THOMAS CONTINUES MARKUP OF ENERGY BILL
  The Senate Energy Committee is marking up the Energy Bill, and Sen. Craig Thomas is making his mark on a myriad of issues which will affect our nation's energy outlook for the future.  
   Here is the committee's schedule with the senator's comments about particular titles in the bill: 
   Tuesday, May 17, 2005 
   Personnel & Training 
  DOE Management 
  Indian Energy 
   (All of the above titles were approved in committee by voice vote) 
   Thomas said, "As we get set to mark-up the Senate Energy Bill for 2005, I'm reminded that we began this process several Congresses ago. Since then some situations have changed while others remain the same. 
   "What stands out to me is that we still need a comprehensive energy bill. We still rely heavily on foreign sources of oil - even more so. Renewables still make up only a small fraction of the overall energy mix. High natural gas prices have reenergized efforts on and attention to clean coal technologies. High prices at the pump have boosted hybrid and energy efficient vehicles sales. We are now talking about importing a great deal more natural gas. 
   "Since the beginning of the debate, I have urged a long-term energy plan. America deserves a plan that envisions a road map for the future. It's been more than four years since the President of the United States and his Energy Task Force came out with their energy recommendations." 
   Wednesday, May 18, 2005 
   R&D 
  Hydrogen 
  Coal 
  Vehicles & Fuels 
   The committee completed work on all of the above titles. The senators adopted, by voice vote, all four titles as amended by the 15 amendments cleared by joint staff. The amendments are on the committee website at http://energy.senate.gov 
   Thomas said, "The past few years our nation has experienced topsy-turvy prices - from high to low and back to high prices again. We've experienced blackouts. After years of talking about an energy policy, we now have a chance again this year to pass a balanced and comprehensive bill. 
   "We need reliable energy sources - this is the absolute when you consider domestic energy policy. In 2004, the U.S. imported 62 percent of its oil. We need to strive for energy independence. Development of existing reserves and improving conservation and efficiency in our homes and cars are major factors Americans must come to terms with. 
   "New technologies such as alternative fuels, clean coal, and the use of hydrogen are all possibilities as we strive for energy independence." 
   Thursday, May 19, 2005 
   Electricity 
  Efficiency 
   Thomas said, "It was 10 years ago that I first introduced electricity legislation and since then I have argued that any comprehensive energy bill must contain an electric title." 
   It is needed to: 
   1. Encourage needed investment in our transmission infrastructure; 
   2. Eliminate outdated federal laws that are an impediment to competitive wholesale markets, 
   3. Extend non-discriminatory transmission open access policies to all transmission owners; 
   4. Allow for the further development of competitive wholesale electric markets; and 
   5. Ensure greater reliability of our electricity supply by authorizing mandatory reliability standards. 
   "I will be speaking in the Energy Committee and on the floor of the Senate in greater detail once we begin to look at the details of comprehensive energy legislation. We need to take the necessary steps to enable new transmission lines that are so important in Wyoming and the West," Thomas said. 
   Monday, May 23, 2005 
   These are the titles that will be marked up next week: 
   Oil and Gas 
  Renewables 
  Nuclear Matters 
  Studies
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 