SEN. THOMAS RECREATION FEE DEMO PROGRAM PASSES SENATE
  A bill sponsored by Sen. Craig Thomas(R-Wyo.) which would enable the stewards of our national parks to improve services and continue protection of our natural resources passed unanimously in the Senate last night. The Thomas bill, S. 1107, gives permanent recreation fee collection authority solely to the National Park Service (NPS), currently a demonstration program set to expire in 2005.  
   "Our national parks are being loved to death. My legislation provides a remedy to address the much needed funding to protect our nation's treasures, and provides resources for badly needed improvement projects and ensures an enhanced experience for all visitors," Thomas said. "I believe that the National Park Service will continue to cooperate on initiatives to protect resources, increase visitor services and improve management throughout the system. We must guarantee that our national treasures are available for generations to come." 
   Currently, agencies collect fees for admission to a park or site for special uses such as boating and back country camping fees and are able to keep 80 percent of the receipts for protection and enhancement of that area. Fees are typically used for visitor services, maintenance and repair of facilities as well as cultural and natural resource management. The remaining 20 percent is used on an agency-wide basis for parts of the system, which are precluded from participating in the Recreation Fee Demonstration program. Since its inception in 1997, the Fee Demo program has collected over $708 million (through Fiscal Year 2002). 
   The issue of user fees on public lands is a difficult one, Thomas said, because our nation's parks have significant needs. The NPS alone has roughly $5 billion backlog in maintenance and infrastructure repair. There are a number of reasons for this funding shortage, including poor park management, congressional inaction and apathy from the American public. When national parks are in disrepair it hurts the tourism economy and jobs in gateway communities. 
   The Thomas bill improves upon the existing demonstration authority by requiring an analysis of the benefits and services provided to the visitor; the direct and indirect cost and benefit to the government; public policy or management objectives served; economic and administrative feasibility of fee collection; and shall avoid the collection of multiple or layered fees for a wide variety of uses, activities or programs. This business plan approach for use of the funds strengthens the accountability of the program overall, Thomas said. 
   The bill now goes to the House of Representatives for consideration.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 