SEN. THOMAS BILL IMPROVES RURAL HEALTH ACCESS FOR SENIORS
  Legislation introduced on Tuesday, March 20, Sens. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) and Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) allows additional mental health providers to utilize Medicare and aims to improve rural health access - especially for seniors.  
   The Seniors Mental Health Access Improvement Act of 2007, S. 921, allows marriage and family therapists (MFTs) and licensed professional counselors (LPCs) to seek Medicare payments for their services. 
   Currently, only psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, and clinical nurse specialists are allowed access to Medicare. 
   "Seniors have higher rates of depression and suicide than other populations," Thomas said. "We need additional health care choices for seniors, particularly in the field of mental health. This legislation will enhance seniors' ability to access services in their communities. It is especially crucial to folks who must travel long distances to receive services from mental health providers currently covered by Medicare." 
   "Rural communities already have difficulty recruiting and retaining providers, especially mental health providers. In many small towns, a mental health counselor or a marriage and family therapist is the only mental health provider," Thomas said. 
   The measure has the support of the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy, the American Association of Mental Health Counselors, the American Counseling Association, and the Wyoming Association of Marriage and Family Therapists. 
   Medicare law, as it exists today, compounds rural health problems because only psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, clinical social workers and clinical nurse specialists are able to bill Medicare for their services. 
   With this Act, the Medicare program will recognize the qualifications of mental health counselors and marriage and family therapists as well as the critical role they play in the mental health care infrastructure. These providers go through rigorous training, similar to the curriculum of master's level social workers, and yet are excluded from the Medicare program. 
   Additionally, 75 percent of the 518 nationally designated "Mental Health Professional Shortage Areas" are located in rural areas and one?fifth of all rural counties have no mental health services of any kind. 
   Frontier counties display even more drastic numbers as 95 percent do not have a psychiatrist, 68 percent do not have a psychologist and 78 percent do not have a social worker. 
   "It is quite obvious we have an enormous task ahead of us to reduce these staggering statistics. Providing mental health counselors and marriage and family therapists the ability to seek Medicare payments for their services is a key part of the solution," Thomas said. 
   "Virtually all of Wyoming is designated a mental health professional shortage area and will greatly benefit from this legislation," Thomas said. 
   Wyoming has 174 psychologists, 37 psychiatrists and 263 clinical social workers for a total of 474 Medicare eligible mental health providers. 
   "Enactment of the ASeniors Mental Health Access Improvement Act of 2007" will more than double the number of mental health providers available to seniors in my state with the addition of 528 mental health counselors and 61 marriage and family therapists currently licensed in the state," Thomas said. 
   "I believe this legislation is critically important to the health and well-being of our nation=s seniors and I strongly urge all my colleagues to support the bill."
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 