SEN. THOMAS HOSTS INTERIOR SECRETARY KEMPTHORNE FOR WYOMING TOUR
  Sen. Craig Thomas and Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne will tour several areas of Wyoming this week including Casper, Pinedale, and Yellowstone National Park.  
   "I encouraged Dirk last spring to come to Wyoming to see firsthand the concerns surrounding energy development on public lands. It's tremendously important to hear from the folks on the ground about how public land concerns are playing out. I'm pleased to have him along to see what's happening in Wyoming." 
   Thomas invited Kempthorne to tour the state during the secretary's confirmation hearing. The two will speak at the Petroleum Association of Wyoming 2006 Annual Meeting in Casper on Wednesday before touring the Pinedale Anticline and Jonah Field, and finally a visit to Yellowstone National Park on Thursday and Friday. 
   "No cabinet position affects Wyoming quite as closely as the Interior Secretary. I believe many of the opportunities and challenges facing Interior are playing out in Wyoming," Thomas said. 
   "The Secretary's visit is a great opportunity to see how federal lands are being managed on the ground. Wyoming is not only a leader in energy development on public lands, but touts world-class recreational opportunities, such as we see in our national parks." 
   Thomas and Kempthorne were colleagues in the Senate, working on a number of legislative priorities together, including reform efforts for the Endangered Species Act. 
   Thomas has stressed the need to continue efforts for reforming the Endangered Species Act; has encouraged resolution between Interior and the State of Wyoming for wolf management; and has related the need to address growing pressure on communities from energy exploration. In addition, Thomas said that our national parks have continued to foster economic growth, even amid tight budgets and the impacts of heavy visitation and have mounting economic challenges. 
   "I know that Dirk recognizes Western values, but I want him to have a keen understanding of our specific Wyoming concerns," Thomas said. 
   Thomas is the Chairman of the National Parks Subcommittee and a senior member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, with oversight over Interior programs and budgets. 
   Thomas/Kempthorne Itinerary 
   Casper 
   Wednesday, August 23 
   10 a.m. - Thomas/Kempthorne to speak at Petroleum Association of Wyoming 2006 Annual Meeting at the Parkway Plaza; press availability to follow 
   Noon - Depart Natrona County International Airport for Pinedale including aerial tour of Jonah, Pinedale Anticline and Trapper's Point areas. 
   Pinedale 
   1 to 6 p.m. - Ground tour of drilling operations at Pinedale Anticline and Jonah Oil and Gas fields 
   5:15 p.m. - Press availability at Pinedale BLM office 
   6:30 p.m. - Depart Pinedale Airport for West Yellowstone Airport 
   Yellowstone 
   Thursday, August 24 
   7 a.m. to 3 p.m. - Yellowstone National Parks related tours, meetings, tbd 
   4 p.m. - Canyon Village Yellowstone National Park, Dunraven Lodge 
   Friday, August 25 
   10 a.m. - Thomas/Kempthorne to speak at Canyon Visitor and Education Center, dedication ceremony and grand opening and 90th Anniversary of the National Park Service. 
   11 a.m. - Canyon Visitor and Education Center opens to the public; press availability 
   12:30 p.m. - Lake Lodge Recreation Hall, lunch to commemorate 90th Anniversary of the National Park Service.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 