SEN. THOMAS QUERIES NATIONAL PARK SERVICE DIRECTOR NOMINEE BOMAR
  Sen. Craig Thomas, the leading advocate for national parks in the Senate, queried Mary Bomar today in her first hearing in her bid to become the 17th Director of the National Park Service (NPS).  
   "The new director must understand the diversity among the 390 park units, be able to balance the Park Service's dual mission of visitor enjoyment and preservation and must have a cooperative spirit," Thomas said. "I'd also expect the next director to hold an ambitious vision for the future of the park system." 
   Bomar, was last assigned as NPS Regional Director of the Northeast Region. She was born in England and became at U.S. citizen in 1977. 
   Thomas, who is the Chairman of the National Parks Subcommittee, has been working with Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne to address the direction of the NPS moving into the service's centennial celebration. Thomas met with Bomar last week to discuss future plans for the NPS and specific areas of concern for parks in the West. 
   "While meeting with the nominee, I reiterated my desire to see our parks truly shine as our nation's crown jewels. The National Park Service has been marred by a maintenance backlog and management issues and it's time to head in a positive direction," Thomas said. 
   "I was pleased with the insights Ms. Bomar conveyed to me last week. It is my hope that she continues to embody the determination needed to steer our parks in the right direction. I believe she has the aptitude and resolve to ensure the future of our nation's parks," Thomas said. 
   "As we look toward celebrating the NPS centennial in 2016, I am excited about the prospect of the Centennial Challenge. I have been working with the President and Interior Secretary to craft a forward-looking plan to ensure our visitors have a high-quality experience." 
   The Energy Committee has yet to schedule a vote on Mary Bomar's nomination to be the next director.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 