SEN. THOMAS: PORT SECURITY REMAINS UNDER U.S. CONTROL
  SEN. THOMAS: PORT SECURITY REMAINS UNDER U.S. CONTROL
   "While traveling around Wyoming this week, I've heard a great deal of concern from folks about the idea of handing commercial operations at our ports over to a company from the United Arab Emirates," U.S. Sen. Craig Thomas said today.  
   "I want to allay any fears about our port security. Our ports are overseen by five different U.S. agencies, including the U.S. Border and Customs Service and the U.S. Coast Guard," he said. 
   "While I'm confident that security at the port is strong, the idea of foreign ownership of commercial activities of this nature is certainly cause for concern. Our ports serve a vital aspect of our economy." 
   "In light of our ongoing national security concerns, my intention is to provide further scrutiny of this sale." 
   "I'm disappointed that the Administration didn't better communicate their intentions before this sale to provide Americans with the knowledge of one of the major aspects of our economy and our homeland security interests," Thomas said. 
   The Administration has approved a United Arab Emirates (UAE) company to run the commercial operations at ports in Baltimore, Miami, New Jersey, New Orleans, New York and Philadelphia. 
   Dubai Ports World, a state-owned business in the UAE, recently bought a British company, Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co., who currently runs the terminal operations at the ports in question. 
   For an acquisition of this nature to move forward the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), an entity of the Department of Treasury, must find there is no credible evidence that the foreign company might take action that would threaten our national security. 
   The twelve member committee unanimously approved the sale. (The Secretaries of Treasury (chair), State, Defense, Commerce, Homeland Security, the Attorney General, Director of OMB, U.S. Trade Representative, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and other principles from government offices/agencies) 
   The United States is not selling any assets to the UAE, just simply ensuring the sale will not threaten our national security. 
   It is expected that the UAE company will rehire many of those currently employed at the terminals on top of inheriting many of the longshoremen union contracts. 
   "Let's remember - the U.S. does not outsource national port security functions to foreign countries," Thomas said. 
   While a national security function is very different from a commercial function, and the UAE company would provide only a commercial function, this process deserves to be put on hold until it can be further scrutinized and explained to the American public, Thomas said. 
   Who is responsible for our port security at out ports? 
   U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
   U.S. Coast Guard 
   U.S. Department of Agriculture 
   U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
   U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 