SEN. THOMAS: FUNDING AUTHORIZED FOR U.S. TROOPS
  Continuing his support of our troops and our nation's safety, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.), voted today in favor of S. 2766, the National Defense Authorization Act of 2007.  
   The bill authorizes spending for the Department of Defense (DoD), military construction, and national security programs. The bill passed the Senate today by a vote of 96-0. 
   "During my recent visit to Iraq, it was compelling to see the courage on the faces of our Wyoming troops. Securing the necessary resources for those who defend our freedom is vital to our military and our nation's interests," Thomas said. 
   "I was particularly pleased to see $7.6 million included for replacement of the squadron operations facility at the Air National Guard in Cheyenne. This will enable the military to stand up the newly established mission of eight C-130 aircraft." 
   The defense authorization bill provides about $518 billion for programs and the DoD, the Department of Energy, and other national security initiatives. The bill authorizes an across the board pay raise of 2.2 percent for service members and targeted pay-raises for mid-career and senior enlisted personnel. 
   Wyoming specific projects authorized in the bill: 
   * Air National Guard - Cheyenne, Replace Squadron Operations Facility 
  $7.6 million 
   (Senator Thomas was able to authorize this project after working closely with the Armed Services Chairman and Co-Chairman during a trip to Iraq in March. See "Active-Associate Unit" below) 
   * Air National Guard - Cheyenne, addition to the Fire Crash/Rescue Station, 
  $4.2 million 
   * Army National Guard - Camp Guernsey, Multi-Purpose Machine Gun Range, $1.796 million 
   * Air Force - F. E. Warren AFB, Renovation of Dormitory 320, $11 million 
   Active-Associate Unit 
   The $7.6 million for Replacement of Air National Guard Squadron Operations Facility will support the unit's increasing operations under the Active-Associate mission between the Air Guard and the Air Force. The facility will sustain the 24-hour/day operations of the airborne firefighting, aeromedical evacuation, and homeland defense missions of eight C-130 H3 aircraft, as well as additional missions. 
   The facility includes space for administration and training, intelligence, life support, survival equipment, command post, flight planning, aircrew briefing rooms, flight management, and storage. The current facility is outdated and inadequate and not conducive to day-to-day operations or training. 
   In addition to the eight C-130 aircraft, an estimated 200 airmen will soon be stationed in Cheyenne as a result of a recent Active-Associate relationship being established between the Wyoming Air National Guard and the Air Force. 
   Also in the authorization bill was an amendment Thomas cosponsored with Sen. Conrad Burns to protect the missiles from being withdrawn from service in Montana in 2007 and fund the research and development for the Remote Visual Assessment (RVA) for security at the ICBM silos. 
   The bill now must be reconciled with the version offered by the House of Representatives, H.R. 5122, which was approved on May 11 by a vote of 396-31.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 