SENS. THOMAS, BUNNING INTRODUCE COAL-TO-LIQUIDS BILL
  Sens. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) and Jim Bunning (R-Ky.) introduced a bill Monday to create a separate blending mandate for coal-derived fuels equal to the renewable fuels mandate for cellulosic ethanol recently approved by the Senate Energy Committee.  
   The Thomas-Bunning bill, S. 1443, would require a phased increase of coal-derived fuels beginning in 2016 at 3 billion gallons and ramping up to 21 billion gallons by 2022. 
   "Our nation must do everything it can to support domestic fuel production and there's no better way to do that than through coal-to-liquids technology. Consumers across the country want clean, affordable fuel for their cars and trucks. I believe that fuel derived from coal will be the most beneficial fuel source for our country over the next 20 years," Thomas said. "Coal-to-Liquid technology can provide our nation with a sound way to reduce our dependence on foreign oil." 
   Sen. Jim Bunning said, "Coal-to-liquid fuel should be a central part of American energy policy. Those who ignore coal-to-liquids are only helping the Middle East oil giants and hurting American families stuck with costly fuel bills. Advanced energy technologies mean thousands of jobs, lower energy prices, and billions of dollars of investment in America. This legislation will help America reduce pollution and take hold of its own energy future." 
   The gallon requirement amounts duplicate a standard recently put forward by the Senate Energy Committee for cellulosic ethanol, which uses biomass-only feedstock that excludes coal. 
   Thomas and Bunning believe that if cellulosic ethanol can reach such a high level so quickly, there is no reason to believe that coal-derived fuels cannot do the same, or even greater, given its successful commercialization in other countries. Plus, coal-derived fuels can be moved using existing pipeline infrastructure, while ethanol does not have the delivery infrastructure in place. 
   From a research & development perspective, the bill would create "Coal Centers for Transportation Sector Research" in Wyoming, North Dakota, Montana, Kentucky, Colorado, West Virginia, and Pennsylvania to facilitate the advancement of coal-derived fuel technology. These states were chosen because they currently produce the most significant amounts of coal and contain significant reserves of the different types of coal in the United States (i.e. anthracite, bituminous, sub-bituminous and lignite). 
   The bill also contains language to ensure that loans issued for coal-derived fuel facilities as contained in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 are issued in a manner consistent with changes for renewable fuel facilities contained in the Energy Committee legislation recently put forward by Chairman Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) 
   In addition, the bill would authorize a study, to be conducted by DOE and DOD, on the benefits of a domestic coal-derived fuel industry to national security and the ability of the military to engage in long-term contracts for the purchase of the fuels.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 