SEN. THOMAS LAUDS GRIZZLY DELISTING, SLAMS SLOWNESS
  At the news that the Yellowstone population of grizzly bear is being delisted, Sen. Craig Thomas made this statement:  
   "While it's certainly a laudable milestone for the grizzly, taking the bear off the list took far too long - 15 years too long in fact," Thomas said. "I continue to advocate for changes to the Endangered Species Act that would call for species to be automatically delisted upon reaching recovery goals. With a set trigger for delisting, we could avoid this bureaucratic and legal jumble that ties the hands of land and wildlife managers for decades. It's quite simply a waste of time, money, and resources not to have a more efficient process." 
   Lynn Scarlett, Deputy Secretary of the Department of the Interior, notified Thomas this morning that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will issue its final rule to delist the Yellowstone population of grizzly bears under the ESA within the states of Wyoming, Idaho, and Montana. 
   The delisting will be effective 30 days after it is published in the Federal Register. As soon as the rule becomes final, management of grizzly bears in Wyoming will rest with the Wyoming Game and Fish Department. 
   Senator Thomas has sponsored legislation in Congress that calls for having a recovery plan in place prior to listing a species. It also says that when recovery numbers are met, delisting should be executed immediately. 
   Wyoming's senior senator feels strongly that any reform should fulfill the intent of the law - recovering species. 
   Thomas introduced the "Endangered Species Reform Act of 2007," S. 658, on Feb. 16, 2007 which will provide needed reforms to the ESA by requiring that each listing be supported by sound science and need, and be accompanied by a recovery plan that will lead to de-listing. 
   "I believe the Endangered Species Act's intention of protecting species is good, but I believe those good intentions have gone off track," Thomas said. "The ESA has serious deficiencies in meeting its goal of recovering species, not to mention putting Wyoming's ranchers, energy producers and foresters at risk of becoming endangered species themselves," Thomas said. 
   Grizzly bears have been listed as "threatened" under the ESA since 1975. The bear population has been recovered sufficiently to warrant delisting for almost 15 years.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 