SEN. THOMAS TOUTS POSITIVES OF NUCLEAR ENERGY
  During a full committee hearing today to receive testimony regarding nuclear power provisions contained in the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Sen. Craig Thomas asserted how clean, safe, and reliable nuclear power can be, but sought clarification on the nature of financial investments in this type of generation.  
   "There are more than 100 nuclear power reactors in the United States. They provide 20 percent of our electricity, and we need more of them. Nuclear power is clean. It provides 73 percent of the nation's emission-free electricity generation," Thomas said in his opening statement. 
   Thomas raised questions about the financing of nuclear power plants in an effort to clarify the effectiveness of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 in addressing those matters. The Senator said that the longer-term nature of investments in nuclear power and the projected benefits to consumers need to be more clearly understood. He emphasized the importance of the Committee hearing as an important part of that effort. 
   Thomas said the Energy Policy Act of 2005 went a long way towards advancing this clean, safe and reliable source of electrical power. 
   EPACT 2005 includes:
   * A 1.8 cent per kilowatt-hour production tax credit. 
   * Authorization of loan guarantees for clean-air energy technologies. 
   * Standby support for construction delays caused by the government. 
   * A 20-year extension of Price-Anderson no-fault insurance coverage. 
   * A $2.9 billion authorization for nuclear energy programs.
   "In 2004, U.S. nuclear plants prevented the emissions of 697 million metric tons of carbon dioxide. That is roughly the same amount as was emitted by all U.S. cars that year." 
   "Nuclear power is safe - since September 11, the nuclear industry has spent $1.2 billion adding 3,000 security officers and upgrading the safety of their properties. We can safely re-process and store the spent fuel from our reactors. Yucca Mountain will isolate spent fuel 1,000 feet below ground and 1,000 feet above the water table." 
   "Nuclear power is also reliable. The only fuel source that produces more electricity is coal. Nuclear power plants produce one-fifth of our electricity and run for extended periods of time between re-fueling and maintenance. They supply much of the base-load generation necessary for the electricity grid to operate in a reliable and predictable manner," Thomas said. 
   "Nuclear power has great potential and the energy bill advances a good number of opportunities to use more of it," Thomas said. 
   The panel testifying in front of the Senate Energy Committee included Dennis Spurgeon, Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy at the Department of Energy; Nils Diaz, Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; James Asselstine, Managing Director of Lehman Brothers, Inc.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 