SEN. THOMAS: NATIONAL DAY OF COWBOY PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Craig Thomas, R-Wyo., today announced the Senate has approved the National Day of the American Cowboy, S. Res. 130, making the day official for 2007. The resolution recognizes cowboys and cowgirls as an integral part of American history.  
   "I'm pleased the Senate has once again recognized the need for a National Day of the American Cowboy," Thomas said. "Cowboys and cowgirls hold a special place in American lore, and they continue to provide an invaluable link in our nation's strong agricultural system. It is appropriate that we celebrate their contributions - particularly in Wyoming and the West." 
   A Senate resolution to recognize the third-ever "National Day of the American Cowboy" slates July 28, 2007 as the day of celebration. The plan is to seek the fourth Saturday of July to be celebrated as part of the history of our nation. 
   Senator Thomas was originally approached about the recognition day for cowboys by Sheridan-based American Cowboy magazine, which launched a campaign in 2004 to seek recognition for cowboys and cowgirls. 
   Senator Thomas drafted legislation in early 2005 to recognize the first day. An effort was subsequently launched by the National Day of the Cowboy Organization to build support for the day. 
   A number of events for the public good, including through education, the arts, and community activities have been jump-started by the organization. 
   The organization touts the day as one set aside by the United States Senate to pay homage to our Cowboy and Western heritage, as well as to honor working cowboys and cowgirls, rodeo athletes, western musicians, cowboy poets, western artists, ranchers, and all others who continue to contribute to the cowboy and western culture in America today. 
   Senator Mike Enzi, R-Wyo., joined 17 Senators in cosponsoring Senator Thomas's resolution. 
   For more information on the National Day of the American Cowboy go to http://www.nationaldayofthecowboy.com/ or http://www.cowboyday.com/about.php.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 