SEN. THOMAS: ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT NEEDS REFORM
  Discussing ways to improve the Endangered Species Act (ESA) was the focus of a Senate hearing chaired by Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) in Casper earlier today. Sen. Thomas chaired the field hearing for the Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife, and Water.  
   "Like most folks in Wyoming, I have a great affinity for the many plant and animal species native to Wyoming. I believe the Endangered Species Act's intention of protecting species is noble, but I believe those noble intentions have gone astray. The ESA has serious problems that must be addressed if we are to preserve Wyoming's plants and animals as well as prevent Wyoming's ranchers, farmers, and miners from themselves becoming endangered species," Thomas said. 
   Senator Thomas, in his opening statement, talked about among others, two possible improvements to the ESA. Thomas said he would first amend the ESA to ensure that decisions concerning threatened and endangered species are made using empirical, field-tested, or peer-reviewed scientific data. The ESA currently requires the Fish and Wildlife Service to decide whether to list a species based "solely on the best scientific and commercial data available." It does not require that the data be good data - just the best available. 
   Thomas' second improvement to the ESA would require agencies to establish specific recovery goals for each species and to de-list the species once those goals are met. Thomas mentioned historical facts to support his contention. Wyoming's senior senator said, "Over the more than thirty-year existence of the Endangered Species Act, well in excess of 1,200 species have been listed as threatened or endangered. Only 16 species have recovered to the point of being de-listed. One problem is that even when a species has apparently recovered, the agencies do not have clear standards about when a species should be de-listed." 
   Most witnesses expressed support for making revisions to the ESA. Witnesses also expressed frustration that monies set aside for administration of the ESA are instead, being diverted to fight lawsuits. Julie MacDonald, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks, United States Department of the Interior said, "The cycle of litigation appears endless, is very expensive, and in the final analysis provides relatively little protection to listed species. Extensive litigation has shown that the courts cannot be expected to provide either relief or an answer, because they are equally constrained by the strict language of the Act." 
   Thomas noted that when a species is listed, the burden many private citizens and local and state governments bear is significant. Sleeter Dover, Director of the Wyoming Department of Transportation (WYDOT), testified that his agency has incurred significant costs as a result of the ESA. "The USFWS (US Fish and Wildlife Service) imposed seasonal timing restrictions on highway construction activities in the Snake River Canyon southwest of Jackson to minimize disturbance to nesting bald eagles." According to Dover, "These restrictions added approximately $5 million in cost and one year in time to the Cabin Creek section contract to reconstruct a portion of U.S. 26/89 within existing right of way." Dover expressed his frustration with the requirements because the construction was on an existing road. 
   Mark Winland, President of the Wyoming Wildlife Federation, testified that his organization supports the content and intent of the ESA. Winland said, "We have shared the frustration of many over the long process of grizzly bear delisting, the confusion over the Preble's jumping mouse, the firestorm over delisting of the gray wolf, and the huge costs borne by Wyoming's hunters and anglers for management of listed and candidate species in our State." 
   Thomas concluded by saying, "Reform is needed and we must all come together-federal, state and local governments, along with private citizens to fix this ailing law. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate make much needed changes to the ESA." Thomas has filed ESA reform legislation, S. 369, which is pending in the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 