SEN. THOMAS REACTS TO STATE OF UNION ADDRESS
  "With only two years left in this President's term - our nation has much to accomplish on some very important issues. As the President outlined - and what Congress must move forward on - are topics ranging from health care and domestic energy, to border security and runaway government spending," Sen. Craig Thomas said. 
   "Health care was certainly one of the President's major topics and while I'm equally concerned about the high number of uninsured folks in the nation - we need to be careful to ensure that any broad reform makes good financial sense. Americans deserve better access to health care, but that care needs to remain affordable as well."  
   "Our nation must continue to pursue energy reserves here at home. The President addressed energy mainly from the standpoint of renewable energy. While I believe renewable energy should be a large part of our future, in the near-term, our nation must have enough power from a wide variety of current sources. I continue to advocate strongly for Wyoming to take full advantage of cutting-edge efforts to turn coal into liquid fuel. I will continue those efforts in Washington as we pursue ways to fund a commercial coal-to-diesel plant. It only makes sense for national security and for our energy needs to take full advantage of our nation's most abundant fossil fuel source." 
   "Wyoming produces more than a third of our nation's coal. Coal-to-liquids plants are ready to break ground, but we must get the federal government to be a supportive partner in these energy projects. Coal-to-liquids technology will allow us to make transportation fuel from coal in an environmentally friendly way. But while these efforts will go a long way to bring more domestic fuel to market, we have so far been unable to get the necessary funding in place to allow these plants to move forward." 
   "Similarly, another use for coal is to generate electricity. I believe we can accomplish this kind of power generation while sequestering the carbon emissions that contribute to global warming. Because renewable energy currently only powers about 2 percent of our nation's needs, in the meantime we must find environmentally responsible ways to use our fossil fuel resources like coal." 
   "The President's new strategy for Iraq and the War on Terror was certainly a key theme in his address. There must be action on the part of the Iraqi leaders to get their government up and running. That includes providing their own security, and establishing their economy and political operations as well." 
   "And finally the President spoke of his plan to balance the budget. I continue to be concerned about the size of the federal government and about wasteful government spending. We cannot pass along massive debt to future generations." 
   "I believe that the reforms recently passed in the Senate will provide the President with even more tools to hold down wasteful spending. With increased accountability and transparency in how government operates, I'm confident Congress can get its fiscal house in order and move forward on the proposals that matter most to Americans." 
   Audio and video of the senator's statement will be available on the Thomas web site at http://thomas.senate.gov Just go to "Press Information" and choose "Audio/Video" then choose a file under "Recent Audio Files" or "Recent Video Files" lower on the page.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 