NATIONAL TOWN HALL EVENT ADDRESSES METH PROBLEM
  Sighting the ever-increasing harm that Crystal Methamphetamine (meth) is causing across Wyoming, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) joined the U.S. Attorney General, Alberto Gonzalez, and other members of the Senate at a Town Hall Meeting today to discuss ways to end the meth epidemic.  
   "I spent the last month in Wyoming, and everywhere I went people are concerned about meth," Thomas said. "Meth doesn't care if you are poor or wealthy, male or female, from Minnesota or Wyoming; it will grab hold and ruin your life. It is not a new concern, but I am comforted by the fact that so many in the Senate and in the Administration are taking an aggressive approach to battling the meth pandemic." 
   "The scourge of methamphetamine is tightening its grip on communities across America. As we have heard, meth is a unique and deadly threat to our Nation. It is highly addictive. It is easy and cheap to produce. With every tragedy and every act of violence... with every child abandoned because of meth use and every life lost to meth abuse... the vise grip is turned another notch. And that means community and national leaders are being squeezed for answers - for some response to this rapidly growing problem," Attorney General Gonzalez said at the meeting. 
   Today's meeting was attended by Senators Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), and Mark Pryor (D-Ark.). Also attending was the National Drug Czar, John Walters. Today's meeting focused on prevention, enforcement of legal rules, and treatment of meth addicts. 
   "We have a significant challenge ahead of us and the fight needs to start in our communities and states, and at the national level. I am committed to getting meth off all the streets across Wyoming. We must be vigilant in our dedication to keeping all of Wyoming out of the web of destruction that meth creates," Thomas said. 
   Senator Thomas recently attended the third annual Methamphetamine Awareness Conference in Casper. About 700 people attended the two-day conference that was held in early January. 
   For more information about the meth pandemic, please go to http://justthinktwice.com/.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 