DIVERSE PORTFOLIO KEY TO U.S. ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  By Sen. Craig Thomas 
   Energy is a topic that has a profound effect on everyone's life, whether it's the gas to fill your tank or the electricity to power your lights at home. Most folks don't think past the point of flipping the switch, until those lights don't come on. Behind that light-switch is a diverse mix of fuels that generate the power to turn on your lights. If we depend only on solar or wind, for example, that switch might not work at all.  
   That's why natural gas, coal, nuclear and other renewable resources are all part of our diverse energy portfolio. Understanding what we currently use and what additional sources are available to us will shape our policies as we move forward. 
   The bipartisan energy bill currently before the Senate produces more energy, conserves more energy and diversifies our energy sources. These steps will stabilize rising energy prices, boost our economy and create jobs. 
  I'm reminded that we began this process several Congresses ago. What stands out to me is that we still need a comprehensive energy bill in order to provide a sound and reliable energy outlook for America. We remain heavily reliant on foreign sources of oil - more so every day. And renewable sources still make up only a small fraction of the overall energy mix. High natural gas prices have reenergized efforts to utilize clean-coal technologies. High prices at the pump have boosted hybrid and energy efficient vehicles sales. Those high prices bring greater attention to more unconventional fuels such as oil shale and projects like coal-to-liquids. 
   Since the beginning of the debate, I have urged a long-term energy plan. America deserves a plan that envisions a road map for the future. It's been more than four years since the President and his Energy Task Force came out with their energy recommendations. 
   Over the past few years our nation has experienced topsy-turvy prices - from high to low and back to high again. We've experienced blackouts. After years of talking about an energy bill, we now have a chance to pass a balanced and comprehensive policy. 
   We need reliable energy sources - this is the absolute when you consider domestic energy policy. In 2004, the U.S. imported 62 percent of its oil. We need to strive for energy independence. Development of existing reserves and improving conservation and efficiency in our homes and cars are major factors to improve our outlook. 
   New technologies such as alternative fuels, clean coal, and the use of hydrogen are all possibilities as we strive for energy independence. But none of these individual sources will solve our energy concerns on their own - a diverse portfolio of energy sources is the most effective path to our energy future. 
   The global energy map is changing. World energy demand is set to rise by 59 percent by the year 2030. Eighty-five percent of the increase will be fossil fuels such as coal, oil and natural gas. Two-thirds will come from developing countries like China and India. The United States must realize and react to such a significant change in the dynamics of the market. 
   Here are the facts: Oil and other fossil fuels provide about 85 percent of all energy used in the United States. Our use of renewables and research into new technologies that use hydrogen and clean-coal are part of the mix. But, the reality is that renewables, including hydroelectric power, currently only provide 7 percent of the nation's total energy needs. And without hydro power, that number drops to around 2-3 percent. 
   Our policies need to highlight coal for electricity and allow more flexible fuels like natural gas to be used for other things such as heating homes. Certainly, we should continue research and development to make coal cleaner, to advance the use of hydrogen, and to utilize other up-and-coming technologies to make energy use more efficient. 
  It was 10 years ago that I first introduced electricity legislation and I continue to strongly believe that any comprehensive energy bill must contain an electricity title. These provisions are critical for many reasons. One of my priorities is to encourage investment in our transmission infrastructure and eliminate outdated federal laws that are an impediment to competitive wholesale markets. 
   We need to take the necessary steps to enable new transmission lines that are so important to providing consumers with the power they need from resource-abundant states like Wyoming. With the proper infrastructure in place, power generated at coal mines can be put directly into transmission lines to power other places. 
   The work by Chairman Domenici, Ranking Member Bingaman and the Senate Energy Committee to create a comprehensive, bipartisan bill is a remarkable endeavor in our history. I will continue to highlight the importance of a enacting a comprehensive policy that doesn't get mired in the details of special interest. I'm pleased with what I've seen in the comprehensive bill. It provides an overall balance between incentives, production, research and development, and conservation. It makes sense for our economy, consumers' pocketbooks, and our environment. 
  We've gone further than ever before to have a bill that conserves energy and uses what we have more efficiently. It is our responsibility in this Congress to give the American people the sound national energy policy they deserve - the energy bill does just that. 
   Comprehensive energy legislation will have a tremendous positive affect on Wyoming jobs through the development of the state's numerous energy resources. Wyoming's coal, oil & gas, coal-bed methane, trona, bentonite, uranium, and wind-generation capabilities are all players in this legislation. Wyoming coal is a tremendous resource - with a 250-year supply of coal for the nation. With passage of the Energy bill, Wyoming can continue to develop itself as a premier energy source for electricity. Energy companies and research projects will provide more and more jobs and income for the state. Through new technologies and development efforts, Wyoming will continue to assert itself as a key player in the energy market.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 