SENATE PASSES DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS CONFERENCE REPORT
  The Senate approved the Conference Report for the Department of Defense Appropriation Bill for FY 2005, which benefits U.S. military personnel including those serving at F.E. Warren Air Force Base and Wyomingites serving around the world. The $416.2 billion measure funds pay raises, healthcare, research and development, and key military readiness programs, Sen. Craig Thomas said. The report passed by a vote of 96-0.  
   Thomas secured $2.8 million in the bill to help launch the Wyoming National Unmanned Systems Experimentation Environment (NUSE2). This Wyoming unmanned vehicle testing program was initiated by Thomas for research and development. The Wyoming NUSE2 operates in partnership with the Department of Defense (DoD), the University of Wyoming and the Wyoming Guard. Thomas added that Wyoming is one of seven sites in a national consortium of experimental test facility used to develop unmanned aerial, ground and water vehicles. The first unmanned tests will take place at Camp Guernsey July 28-30. 
   "This collaborative effort is nothing short of a win-win situation for this country and for Wyoming. Wyoming will play an integral role in improving the capabilities of DoDs joint robotics program to fight the global war on terrorism," Thomas said. "These unmanned vehicles have become the new eyes and ears of our military which allows us to better control the battlefield. I am pleased that DoD feels Wyoming is capable of providing one of the critical environments needed to test and evaluate a wide spectrum of unmanned vehicles." 
   In announcing the program last October, Thomas noted that DoD selected Camp Guernsey for its variable testing terrain to test unmanned systems, including its geographical features and access to the highly trained soldiers that train at Camp Guernsey. The University was a perfect match because it is a top-tier research facility and staff who are working in this cutting edge technology field. 
   "This funding will support activities designed to make the Wyoming NUSE2 partnership an extremely effective testing site for the Department of Defense's Joint Robotics Program," Thomas said. 
   The bill now heads to the President's desk for his signature.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 