SEN. THOMAS: WYOMING SSA OFFICE NEEDS PROPER FUNDING
  Sen. Craig Thomas, R-Wyo., a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, with jurisdiction over the SSA, on Wednesday, Jan. 24, questioned Michael Astrue, President Bush's nominee for SSA Commissioner, about his plans to ensure the future of Wyoming's SSA satellite office in Casper.  
   "I want to ensure the office will be fully funded and fully staffed to meet the Social Security needs in our state. Wyoming's SSA field office faces an enormous challenge to maintain their services," Thomas said. "A large percentage of their experienced employees are due to retire within the next few years, and budget cuts are impeding efforts to fill those valuable positions. In addition, those offices are already very thinly staffed, resulting in long wait times for Wyoming folks who often have to drive a significant distance to get to an office in the first place." 
   "Before the establishment of this field office, Wyoming folks who needed Social Security Administration services had to travel to surrounding states to get help with their benefits. That was unfair and impractical. Now that the state has its own Social Security office, we must ensure that it receives proper funding so we can reduce the burden on those who are receiving benefits," Thomas said. 
   Wyoming's Congressional Delegation secured approval to establish a Social Security hearing office for Wyoming in Casper in September 2005. At the time, Wyoming was the only state in the country that lacked a permanent hearing office for Social Security proceedings. 
   "I understand that the SSA has been asked to take on more and more responsibility, yet the agency budget has been slated for significant reduction. I support restoring the agency's funding to allow them to do their job and ensure that Wyoming's Social Security recipients have the high-quality service they deserve," Thomas said. 
   For more information on the hearing office, or for a Social Security Administration source, contact Diana Allen at the Office of Hearings and Appeals in Denver at (303) 844-6094.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 