SEN. THOMAS SECURES $4 MILLION IN DEFENSE
  The U.S. Senate today passed S. 2559, the Department of Defense Appropriation Bill for FY 2005, which benefits U.S. military personnel including those serving at F.E. Warren Air Force Base and Wyomingites serving around the world. The $416.2 billion measure funds pay raises, healthcare, research and development, and key military readiness programs. The bill passed by a vote of 98-0.  
   An unmanned vehicle testing program initiated by U.S. Senator Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) received $4 million of research and development funding. Thomas was proud to announce that he secured the $4 million appropriation to help launch the Wyoming National Unmanned Systems Experimentation Environment (NUSE2). The Wyoming NUSE2 operates in partnership with DoD, the University of Wyoming and the Wyoming Guard. Thomas added that Wyoming is one of seven sites in a national consortium of experimental test facility used to develop unmanned aerial, ground and water vehicles. 
   "This collaborative effort between DoD, the Wyoming Guard and the University is nothing short of a win-win situation for this country. Wyoming will play an integral role in improving the capabilities of DoDs joint robotics program to fight the global war on terrorism," Thomas said. "These unmanned vehicles have become the new eyes and ears of our military which allows us to better control the battlefield. I am pleased that DoD feels Wyoming is capable of providing one of the critical environments needed to test and evaluate a wide spectrum of unmanned vehicles. DoDs first unmanned tests are slated for the end of July, 2004." 
   In announcing the program last October, Thomas noted that DoD selected Camp Guernsey for its variable geographic features to test unmanned systems, in addition to its access to highly skilled soldiers who train at Camp Guernsey. The University also was a perfect match because it is a top-tier research facility with an expert faculty who are working in this cutting edge technology field. 
   "This funding will support activities designed to make the Wyoming NUSE2 partnership an extremely effective testing site for the Department of Defense's Joint Robotics Program," Thomas said. 
   The bill now must be reconciled with the version passed by the House of Representatives before it heads to the President's desk for his signature.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 