REP. THOMAS TAPS TRIO FOR SENATE STAFF
  Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) announced today that three new people have been hired for positions on his staff. Cameron Hardy has been hired as press secretary, Kimberly Pinter takes a post as a tax counsel, and Erin Tuggle as legislative assistant for health care.  
   Hardy comes to Senator Thomas' office after working for two years as the assistant state editor and a community news editor for the Casper Star-Tribune. 
   His journalism career began back in 1990 while serving the U.S. Coast Guard as a public affairs specialist. During his Coast Guard career he took part in the relief efforts after Hurricane Iniki which devastated the island of Kauai. In addition to being a frequent contributor to the Honolulu Advertiser and Star-Bulletin newspapers, he dealt with Coast Guard news of national and international media interest. 
   After earning his bachelor's in journalism and photojournalism from the University of Montana, he worked at several newspapers around the Northwest. He left the Star-Tribune in 2002 to begin his own public relations firm representing small to medium-sized businesses in Western Montana. He also worked for the Transportation Security Administration. 
   He and his wife, Megan Selanders-Hardy, have one daughter, Kyandra, who is 2. 
   Pinter joins the office as tax counsel. She comes from the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), where she was responsible for international tax and corporate finance policy for the last nine years. Pinter's responsibilities included developing and communicating policy to Congress, the Administration, and the media. 
   A widely recognized expert in her field, Pinter has appeared on CNN, CNBC and the BBC and in such publications as the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Washington Post, and Business Week. She has also published numerous articles and testified before the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the Senate Banking Committee. She earned a law degree from Wake Forest University, and her master's in linguistics from George Mason University. She earned a bachelor's in international affairs and Spanish from George Washington University. Pinter is a native of Titusville, Fla. 
   Tuggle is a Cheyenne native who previously worked for Senator Thomas as a legislative aide, handling welfare reform, adoption, children's issues, and social policy. 
   She comes back to Washington DC after working with the Wyoming Department of Health, Substance Abuse Division, as a substance abuse control plan coordinator and legislative liaison. Tuggle holds a bachelor's in political science and Spanish from Colorado College.
 
 