SENATE APPROVES TAX RELIEF FOR AMERICAS FAMILIES
  Making good on the promise to pass meaningful tax relief for millions of people across the nation, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) and other members of the Senate passed H.R. 1308, The Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004. The legislation passed by a vote of 92-3. It will now move to the President for his signature.  
   "I know that I'd rather spend my money than let the federal government do it for me, and we have given people that chance. This is a good thing for thousands of people across Wyoming. We have guaranteed that the financial burden on families will be reduced and that people are not penalized for having children or getting married. It's important that we have extended these tax benefits and put more money in people's pockets," Thomas said. 
   The legislation extends three expiring provisions of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 including the $1,000 child tax credit, the extension of the 10-percent tax bracket, and marriage-penalty relief. These three provisions will continue without reduction until they expire in 2011. According to the House Ways and Means Committee, without the passage of this essential legislation, American families would have been faced with a $109 billion tax bill over the next ten years. 
   Additionally, the bill will increase the child credit for military families by allowing them to include tax-free combat pay when calculating their refundable child credit. It also increases the Earned Income Credit (EIC) for military families in 2004 and 2005 by giving them the option to include combat pay when calculating the EIC. These provisions will provide $199 million to military families. 
   The bill also extends the $58,000 Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) exemption amount for married couples for one year (through 2005). It would otherwise have dropped to $45,000. Also, the $40,250 AMT exemption amount for single individuals is extended for one year (through 2005). This bill keeps it from dropping to $33,750.
   "I am pleased that we could put partisan politics aside on this issue and do something positive for millions of people. For the first time in many weeks, Republicans and Democrats have come together to do something beneficial for all Americans. I hope we can continue this bi-partisanship as we move toward the election," Thomas concluded.
 
 