PARKS CHAIRMAN TO MARSHAL CENTENNIAL EFFORT
  Sen. Craig Thomas announced today that he remains committed, as Congress's leading voice for our national parks, to see through the Centennial Challenge initiative aimed at creating a brighter future for our national parks.  
   Thomas plans to marshal the major 10-year funding initiative through Congress as part of today's announcement by Secretary of the Interior Dirk Kempthorne at a dedication ceremony for Canyon Visitor Education Center this morning on the 90th anniversary of the National Park Service (NPS). 
   "As Chairman of the National Park Subcommittee, I have long advocated for a considerably larger investment in our national treasures. As we get ready to move forward together, I feel emboldened by this support - it's extremely encouraging to have both Dirk and the President so wholeheartedly behind my vision for the parks," Thomas said. 
   "With the proper funding priorities in place, we can put our national parks on a solid financial footing leading up to the centennial. A sound financial future for our parks remains a top priority that I will certainly see the effort through in my subcommittee and in the Senate," Thomas said. 
   "Public-private partnerships for both technical assistance and funding will continue to be a sound approach for the future initiatives undertaken by our national parks. While I certainly want to preserve our parks for the 100th anniversary - I also want our nation's parks to remain a model for those around the world. With the proper investment in our national treasures we can ensure a consistently strong natural and cultural resource will be preserved for another century." 
   The National Park Service will celebrate its centennial in 2016. The Service has always made the most of its tight budgets, thanks in part to sound business practices put into place by Thomas and by the hard work of NPS employees nationwide. 
   Thomas has consistently added more funding for NPS than contained in the President's budget since his time as Chairman. In fiscal year 2005, Thomas saw through an increase in the daily operations budget for the parks of $61 million, a 6.3 percent increase. Park Comptroller Bruce Shaeffer has noted that 2005 was the first time in 10 years that Congress fully funded increases in salaries and other costs. 
   Thomas has made funding requests of between $150 and $190 million above previous year's enacted level for each of the last four fiscal years with the aim of improving our park's core operations. 
   "Many parks need seasonal rangers, improvements for visitor safety, and enhancements like the Canyon Visitor Education Center, which we celebrate here today," Thomas said after the dedication ceremony. 
   "I look forward to working with Dirk and the dedicated employees of the National Park Service to see this centennial initiative through for the parks." 
   Thomas invited Kempthorne to tour Wyoming during the Secretary's confirmation hearing. Today is the last of a three-day Wyoming tour which culminated with this announcement. 
   A National Park Service press release about the initiative can be seen Here 
   and a National Parks Conservation Association news release can be seen Here.
   Contact: ron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 