PACE ACT TO ADDRESS SCIENCE, TECH SECTORS
  A three-pronged effort to put America's most awesome resource - its people -- at the forefront of science and technology was introduced today in the Senate with the support of Sen. Craig Thomas.  
   "This measure will dovetail nicely with ideas that came out of the Energy Forum I held last October in Laramie," Thomas said. "UW students and educators will be able to seize numerous opportunities through this package of bills." 
   The PACE Act will address science and technology from the aspects of energy, education, and taxes. 
   "The aim is to invest more money in research and development and encourage students to pursue degrees in science and math fields," Thomas said. "In addition, it provides incentives for our nation's researchers to continue cutting edge efforts in their respective fields." 
   "These bills go hand-in-hand with the technology efforts I worked to include in the Energy Policy Act. There are tremendous opportunities in Wyoming to pursue technical education - the PACE Act provides even more avenues," he said. 
   Three separate bills have been introduced to reach these goals. Thomas is an original co-sponsor of the bills, introduced by Senate Energy Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, R-N.M., and several other senators. 
   "America can further its edge in science and technology by taking part in the opportunities provided by the PACE Act," Thomas said. 
   Thomas said that he and his colleagues on the Senate Energy Committee are convinced that our future energy economy depends on advances in technology for our use and development of energy. 
   "While many technological advances, like clean coal, were set out in the energy bill, this effort takes it a step further," said Wyoming's senior senator. "A recent report from the National Academy of Science has pointed to the need to implement these changes. It's vital for our nation's technological future and to improve the quality of life for our families." 
   Thomas said the bills will address research and development, education, and help improve business as we transform our knowledge into strong, lasting careers.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 