SEN. THOMAS SEEKS RESOLUTION OF AIRPORT CUSTOMS ISSUE
 Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) called for a local meeting for stakeholders to discuss keeping a customs agent presence at the Natrona County International Airport (NCIA).  
   The meeting will be held Tuesday, March 29 at NCIA with Area Director for Field Operations, Nat Aycox, of the San Francisco office of Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) and local, state, and government officials. 
   The NCIA Board originally contacted Thomas about the possibility of losing their customs office in September 2004. Shortly after being notified, Thomas took part in a strategy conference-call with the relevant stakeholders when it appeared CBP was heading toward having no presence in Casper. In early December, Thomas spoke directly with Under Secretary of Border and Transportation Security Asa Hutchinson to bring the situation to the department's attention. 
   In addition to Hutchinson, Thomas contacted the Office of the Customs Commissioner to express the importance of having customs agents to clear the incoming and outgoing flights. 
   "Not only does Casper need a customs presence, but it needs to meet new standards to ensure the integrity of our borders," Thomas said. "Casper is a unique place with a unique situation - clearly, the airport manager, Dan Mann, and the folks in Casper have been willing to consider all kinds of options," said Thomas. "They have offered to provide office space and to have their law enforcement agents cross-trained in customs functions. My hope is the community and customs officials will find some common ground to resolve this issue," Thomas said. 
   Wyoming currently has two part-time customs agents stationed in Casper. These agents clear approximately 300 flights per year including FedEx service and 19 Canadian-based companies who have business ties to the state. 
   Recent changes in Homeland Security have prompted Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) to upgrade their part-time agents to full-time. Because of this change, CBP has proposed eliminating the only Customs presence in Wyoming or making the airport a fee-for-service in which the airport is responsible for the charges of maintaining operations at about $140,000 per year for one full-time agent. The fees collected would then be used to offset the airport's liability. 
   The purpose of the meeting is to discuss options for the future staffing of a Customs' presence at NCIA. Aycox has been charged with reaching a "mutually acceptable agreement" with the airport and other stakeholders in this matter. 
   Because the situation in Casper is unique, Thomas has encouraged the local parties and Customs to find common ground on the issue. The stakeholders will discuss alternatives for maintaining a Customs' presence at NCIA and possible strategies for support for that position. 
   "This decision affects our state's business climate. Without these international flights, our state gives up an opportunity to do business with companies like FedEx and other international companies," Thomas said. "This is an issue about today's economy and future jobs."
 
 