SEN. THOMAS SEEKS TO REEL-IN SUPPLEMENTAL SPENDING
  Sen. Craig Thomas sought to strike any spending and earmarks which would exceed the President's original request for spending in the 2006 Supplemental Appropriations bill today.  
   Thomas said spending has grown completely out of control and is an abuse of the budget process. 
   "My amendment sought to strike all of the spending and earmarks that exceed the President's budget. Because we have a responsibility to the taxpayer, my amendment was designed to strike earmarks and unnecessary spending from the funding for our troops," Thomas said. 
   The Thomas amendment aimed to hold down the amount of spending being considered to the White House's original request. His amendment would have struck the bill and replaced it with Bush's original $92.2 billion request for war and hurricane, but modified to take into account Sen. Judd Gregg's border security amendment and would have retained $2.3 billion for flu preparations, for a total of $94.5 billion. 
   "Cramming additional spending into an already huge request - $94.5 billion - is irresponsible spending policy," Thomas said. "The bill we are debating is supposed to be about emergency spending - it's not an invitation to go on a shopping spree." 
   "I think it's important that we focus on what 'emergency spending' actually means. Just a little over a month ago, we stood in this chamber and passed a budget resolution that set caps on our spending going forward. By definition, the emergency supplemental breaks those caps and authorizes spending we did not account for in the budget," Thomas said. 
   "I take issue with using this procedure to provide funds for a war that is now entering its fourth year and for hurricane recovery for which we've allocated $105 billion since the hurricanes hit the Gulf Coast. We knew about both of these expenses when we passed our budget resolution, and, in that sense, there was no reason to exclude them from the regular budget process." 
   "Instead of constructing a bill to control spending, members have made this process into a catch-all for pet projects - many of which have nothing to do with hurricane recovery or the War on Terror." 
   "I won't support a bill that goes from $92 to $106 billion. The original request was far from pocket change and yet some are compelled to add significant new spending regardless. This is completely unacceptable." 
   "We have a responsibility to taxpayers to spend their dollars wisely and to operate within a budget," Thomas said. 
   The Senate voted 72-26 to table the Thomas amendment, but the President may still veto the legislation.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 