SEN. THOMAS COMMENTS ON BRIDGER-TETON LEASING
  "I expressed my concerns in 2001 about drilling in the Upper Green River and Teton County. Last year, I spoke out about drilling in the Bridger-Tetons," said Sen. Craig Thomas. "The Forest Service decision to limit the amount of acres to be leased in the Bridger-Tetons is a real victory for public input and for standing up for what is right," Thomas said.  
   "I believe in a common-sense approach to public lands management, and in giving the public a strong voice on this issue," Thomas said. "Many of those areas in Bridger-Tetons are unique and right now we should probably look to other places in the state currently involved in energy development. Many other people in Wyoming agreed and the U.S. Forest Service decided to take a longer look at what they were prepared to lease," Thomas said. 
   The Forest Service has made a decision to limit the total amount of acres to be leased to 44,600 in their Bridger Teton National Forest. The original plan was to offer 99 parcels covering 176,000 acres in the Wyoming Range. After much deliberation, they have selected 38 of those parcels for a lease sale, approximately 44,600 acres. That amounts to about one 1/4 of the original proposal. The Forest Service decision will not allow any sales in roadless areas, or areas designated as "No Surface Occupancy," or in sensitive areas, such as the areas Thomas has fought to protect. 
   Thomas encouraged the BTNF to review the original lease sale proposal, which they have done. The BTNF has now determined that only a small portion of the original sale should be allowed. "I'm pleased that they took a second look and made a common-sense determination," Thomas said. 
   "We ought to seek a balance of energy development and conservation - we can have both. Wyoming's economy is thriving because of the positive role of energy in our state. And most folks live in Wyoming because of our outstanding natural resources and quality of life," said Thomas. 
   In September 2004, Thomas questioned the recent Forest Service proposal for potential oil and gas development in some of the areas of the Bridger Teton National Forest that he considered inappropriate for drilling. 
  In 2001, Thomas was a strong advocate for protecting areas in the Upper Green River and Teton County.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 