SEN. THOMAS PURSUES FIGHT FOR PASSAGE OF COMPREHENSIVE ENERGY BILL
  Continuing his push to pass a comprehensive energy policy, Sen. Craig Thomas called on Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.) and other Democrats to stop stalling and come to the table to talk about a responsible energy plan. Sen. Thomas made his comments at the annual meeting of the Petroleum Association of Wyoming.  
   "Affordable and reliable energy is critical to the financial wellbeing of this nation. We're not just talking about prices at the pump but manufacturing costs across the nation. Energy touches all our lives and provides jobs for thousands of people. The longer we delay, the more susceptible and vulnerable we make this nation, and being dependent on foreign oil is not a place where we should be. You can talk all you want, but words are meaningless without action," Thomas said. 
   It's been three years since the President delivered his energy policy to Congress. The comprehensive energy plan laid out in the President's proposal develops a long-term strategy for the nation's energy needs. The plan promotes affordable and reliable energy, a cleaner environment, and energy independence. 
   Recently, President Bush renewed his call for the passage of a comprehensive energy package. The President said, "We need an energy plan. It needs to get to my desk - an energy plan that encourages conservation, renewable sources of energy ... [and] encourages the exploration of natural resources close to home in environmentally friendly ways. For the sake of economic security, and the sake of national security, we must become less dependent on foreign sources of energy." 
   Thomas noted that Senator Kerry voted against H.R.6, comprehensive energy legislation sponsored by Sen. Pete Domenici (R-N.M), last fall. "Though 58 senators from both sides of the aisle supported H.R. 6, Senator Kerry was not one of them," Thomas said. 
   "Senator Kerry can talk all he wants about his commitment to an energy plan, but when it comes down to it, the record speaks for itself. He has voted against an energy policy that will benefit folks from Alaska to Florida. When we talk about an energy policy we must remember that we are also talking about jobs, families, and schools," Thomas said. 
   In his address, Thomas noted that the Republican energy plan is dedicated to a long-term solution. Wyoming's senior senator, who is a key member on the Senate Energy Committee, said, "We need to be sturdy in our commitment to an energy policy that has been crafted for stability in the future. This involves using the resources we have available in our nation, as well as pursuing conservation and environmentally sound policies. It is possible to pass a good energy plan, but we need bi-partisan support to accomplish that goal," Thomas concluded.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 