SEN. THOMAS HELPS PUSH APPROVAL OF HHS SECRETARY NOMINEE
  "We have unique health care needs in rural states and Gov. Leavitt brings a great deal of expertise to a job which has considerable challenges," said Sen. Craig Thomas, R-Wyo.  
   "As I travel throughout Wyoming, almost everyone I talk to - patients, doctors, hospital administrators, and small businessmen - agree our nations' health care system is broken. 
   "We shouldn't lose access to health care in Wyoming because of the cost." 
   "I believe we have a Secretary nominee who knows there are pressing issues and will work to maintain our rural health system," Thomas said. 
   Recently, at Leavitt's hearing before the Senate Finance Committee, the nominee pledged his commitment to rural health care issues. In response to Senator Thomas' question about what Thomas asked Leavitt how he would dowork to shore up the nation's fragile rural health care system, Leavitt said, "I certainly appreciate and understand the unique challenges faced by rural providers. This Administration has made a strong commitment to rural health issues and has implemented many significant regulatory and Departmental reforms to promote rural health care providers. As Secretary, I will ensure that rural health care issues remain a top priority and continue to receive the attention they deserve." network. He also pressed the governor on what kinds of things can be done to control costs. Thomas inquired about how Leavitt might make health information technology a priority as well. One concern that Thomas made known to Leavitt was the convergence of fiscal responsibility and its impact on Medicare and Medicaid. "Is there a way to reign in entitlement spending without hurting our most vulnerable populations?" Sen. Thomas asked Leavitt during the hearing. 
   Gov. Mike Leavitt was a long-standing governor of Utah before taking the reigns of the Environmental Protection Agency. He will now take the reigns of one of the largest agencies in the federal government, with a budget of more than $500 billion and about 67,000 employees. 
   "As Chairman of the Senate Rural Health Caucus, I am committed to working with the Secretary of Health and Human Services to implementing critical initiatives that benefit folks in rural areas. "Americans pay the highest price for prescription drugs while shouldering the majority of global research and development costs, and small businesses are quickly getting priced out of the health insurance market only to join the ranks of the uninsured," Thomas said. "We need some serious change in order for working families to get quality, affordable health care services," Thomas explained. 
   "This is difficult in Wyoming where it is not uncommon for people to go without care due to long driving distances, adverse weather conditions, or provider shortages." Thomas said. 
   Gov. Mike Leavitt was a long-standing governor of Utah before taking the reigns of the Environmental Protection Agency. Once he is referred to the Senate for a vote and confirmed, he will take the reigns of the largest agencies in federal government, with a budget of more than $500 billion and about 67,000 employees. 
   "Maintaining strong rural health care networks not only ensures Wyomingites can access the quality care they deserve, but also drives economic development and job creation. I wanted to know that the HHS nominee understood our needs," said Wyoming's senior senator. 
   "The Secretary of Health and Human Services plays a key role in implementing critical initiatives, and I am committed to work in a bi-partisan, bi-cameral manner to support these programs and policies," Thomas said. 
   The Department of Health and Human Services is the United States government's principal agency for protecting the health of all Americans and providing essential human services, especially for those who are least able to help themselves. The department includes more that 300Secretary oversees programs including:such as Medicare, Medicaid, the Food and Drug Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health and the Indian Health Service. The hearing took place today at 2 p.m. in the Dirksen Senate Office Building under the Senate Finance Committee. Thomas is a member of Finance, and has worked for Wyoming's health care needs as part of the Rural Health Caucus. 
   Governor Leavitt was approved on Tuesday by the Senate Finance Committee and cleared the full Senate today by voice vote.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 