SEN. THOMAS HERALDS FED FUNDING TRANSPARENCY ACT
  Sen. Craig Thomas is heralding the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act, signed into law today by the President.  
   S. 2590, the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006, creates a searchable database for the public to access information about grants and contracts provided by the Federal government. 
   "I believe this provision will help us achieve greater transparency and accountability in government transactions," Thomas said today. "This bill is in line with my Sunset legislation aimed at reducing or eliminating out-of-date government programs." 
   "What we're seeking to do here is provide folks with better information about federal spending in a more user-friendly format." 
   The legislation calls on the Office of Management and Budget to oversee a new website through which the public can readily access information about grants and contracts. The information will be provided by federal government agencies, aside from those classified for national security reasons. 
   The Administration has implemented a number of initiatives allowing American taxpayers to see how their tax dollars are spent and what they are getting for their money. 
   Greater transparency has made programs more accountable for their performance and more responsive to the American public. Two of these initiatives include: 
   ExpectMore.gov: This website was established earlier this year to allow the American people to see how well Federal programs are performing. To date, the effectiveness of nearly 800 Federal programs, representing more than 80 percent of the Federal budget have been evaluated. Agencies post candid assessments of Federal programs in jargon-free language on ExpectMore.gov, so taxpayers will know which programs work, which ones do not, and what programs are doing to improve. 
   Results.gov: Since 2002, this website has provided detailed information on the President's agenda for improving Federal agency management. It also tracks agencies' progress in meeting their goals. Federal agencies are held accountable for developing and adopting better management disciplines under the President's Management Agenda. The status of agencies' management reform efforts is made public through scorecards updated on Results.gov every quarter. 
   The President's agenda to publicly provide federal program performance information has helped make agencies accountable for producing results. Agency management improvement efforts are measured based on clear, transparent, quantifiable goals. 
   Senator Thomas, in an effort wrestle down runaway spending over the long-term, has authored the Government Reorganization and Program Performance Improvement Act, S. 1399. The bill puts in place a Sunset Commission to inventory, evaluate, and even abolish federal programs. 
   "Some programs have achieved their intended purpose, while others have simply outlived their usefulness. And frankly, many of these programs are in areas where the Federal Government has no legitimate role.".
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 