WYOMING FIRM TO STUDY REMOVING MERCURY FROM COAL
  Sen. Craig Thomas announced today that Western Research Institute (WRI) will receive nearly $1 million grant over the next three years to study ways to reduce mercury from coal before combustion takes place.  
   The Department of Energy (DOE) grant for $995,950 will be coupled with $459,000 to study the mercury removal process and the technology's commercial application. 
   "Wyoming is the dominant coal producer in the nation, so it makes perfect sense for WRI to lead the way in an effort to produce cleaner coal. Technology is the key to the future of our nation's energy supply, and Wyoming companies need to continue to conduct cutting edge research and development," Thomas said. 
   "I have been engaged in efforts for mercury removal from coal-fired power plants as a member of the Senate Energy Committee for many years and will remain committed to Wyoming's energy research needs," Thomas said. 
   The primary focus of the DOE effort is to field test advanced, post-combustion mercury control technologies that achieve at least 90 percent mercury removal with a cost reduction of at least 50 percent. The program goal is to ready these technologies for commercial demonstration by 2010. 
   "For years, WRI has been coming up with innovative ways to enhance Wyoming's energy industries. This grant is a testament to their good work. They are one of the few companies in the nation who have been tapped to tackle this important project," Thomas said. 
   Alan Bland, Vice President for Waste and Environmental Management at WRI and the project manager said, "Unlike the post-combustion mercury removal processes that remove mercury from the flue gas, WRI's patented process removes the mercury from the coal prior to combustion. Not only is this technology competitive on a cost basis with post-combustion processes, it's also easily integrated into the power plant, and the treated coal product actually increases plant efficiency. This grant will let us work with industry partners to demonstrate these advantages for commercial-scale deployment," Bland said. 
   The WRI project will evaluate its novel pre-combustion process, applying a thermal treatment to various raw coals in an effort to remove mercury. The project will analyze the benefits of a pre-combustion process and provide an economic study of the commercial-scale application. 
   The project will span from October 1, 2006 to March 31, 2009. WRI can be reached at (307) 721-2369.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 