SEN. THOMAS: CELEBRATE AMERICA'S NATIONAL PARKS
  As the summer months creep closer, and the effects of cabin fever grow more pronounced, Sen. Craig Thomas is encouraging folks to recognize the 390 units of the National Parks System as part of National Park Week.  
   National Park Week is this week, April 22 - 30, and is an annual proclaimed week for celebration and recognition of our nation's treasures. Thomas marked the occasion with a statement submitted for the Congressional Record. 
   "America's national parks provide people of all ages with a wide range of opportunities to learn more about our country's natural environment and cultural heritage. The National Park Service provides a variety of programs and activities for children, teachers and communities designed to foster an interest in the natural environment and history, and to cultivate a future generation of park stewards," Thomas said. 
   The theme for National Park Week 2006 is Connecting Our Children to America's National Parks. This theme was chosen because of the vital role children play in the future conservation and preservation of our national parks. 
   "Through the creation of innovative education programs such as the Junior Ranger program, the National Park Service is fostering a new constituency of park stewards. Today the Junior Ranger program exists in more than 286 parks, striving to help connect youth to national parks and the National Park System, and helping them gain an understanding of the important role of the environment in our lives," Thomas said. 
   The Junior Ranger program encourages whole families to get involved in learning about, exploring and protecting our nation's most important scenic, historical, and cultural places. Children have great enthusiasm for the Junior Ranger program because it helps connect them to something big--our country and our shared heritage as Americans. 
   "During this week we should also thank the thousands of National Park Service personnel, concession and contract employees, volunteers of all ages, and others who help to make our system of national parks the envy of and example for the rest of the world," Thomas concluded. 
   Further information about National Parks Week can be found at the NPS website, http://www.nps.gov/npweek/.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 