SEN. THOMAS INTRODUCES COWBOY DAY FOR JULY 28
  In its third year, the National Day of the American Cowboy, introduced in the Senate on Wednesday, march 28, 2007, by Sen. Craig Thomas, recognizes cowboys and cowgirls as a significant part of our nation's history.  
   "The National Day of the American Cowboy has gained a tremendous following thanks to the work of non-profit organizations, country music stars, and folks around the country who want to honor cowboys and cowgirls contributions to our nation's history," Thomas said. 
   "I'm pleased to continue efforts to recognize cowboys and cowgirls for their spirit, grit, and determination - particularly in Wyoming and the West. 
   A Senate resolution to recognize the third-ever "National Day of the American Cowboy" slates July 28, 2007 as the day of celebration. The plan is to seek the fourth Saturday of July to be celebrated as part of the history of our nation. 
   President Bush has offered his support both in 2005 and 2006 for the National Day of the American Cowboy. 
   In a Presidential Message Thomas read at Cheyenne Frontier Days, the President said, "The cowboy is an American icon that holds a cherished place in our Nation's history. Our past is filled with wonderful stories of cowboys who embodied the finest American values of daring, discipline, and patriotism." 
   Senator Thomas was originally approached about the recognition day for cowboys by Sheridan-based American Cowboy magazine, which launched a campaign in 2004 to seek recognition for cowboys and cowgirls. 
   Senator Thomas drafted legislation in early 2005 to recognize the first day. An effort was subsequently launched by the National Day of the Cowboy Organization to build support for the day. 
   A number of events for the public good, including through education, the arts, and community activities have been jump-started by the organization. 
   The organization touts the day as one set aside by the United States Senate to pay homage to our Cowboy and Western heritage, as well as to honor working cowboys and cowgirls, rodeo athletes, western musicians, cowboy poets, western artists, ranchers, and all others who continue to contribute to the cowboy and western culture in America today. 
   High resolution photos of Senator Thomas on horseback are available upon request. Please send me an e-mail at Cameron_Hardy@thomas.senate.gov to request a photo. 
   For more information on the National Day of the American Cowboy go to http://www.nationaldayofthecowboy.com/ or http://www.cowboyday.com/about.php.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 