SEN. THOMAS SLATES 2-DAY WYOMING ENERGY SUMMIT
  A collection of the nation's top energy experts will come together with Wyoming's energy leaders in April for a national energy summit organized by Sen. Craig Thomas. 
   Thomas is bringing the two-day national energy summit to Casper on April 12-13, to discuss ways to seize the state's energy opportunities. A U.S. Senate field hearing will kick off the summit with an outstanding panel of nationally recognized experts. The second-day energy forum will feature several of the nation's top energy advisors together with Wyoming's leading authorities in the energy sector.  
   The summit has garnered an incredible amount of interest from individuals, local, state, and federal agencies, as well as industry leaders who want to share their current efforts and provide input about the needs of Wyoming's future energy economy. The public is encouraged to attend both events. 
   U.S. Senate Field Hearing 
   The first day of the summit will be a U.S. Senate Energy Committee field hearing to discuss Wyoming coal and a provision Thomas sponsored in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to develop efficient use of our nation's most vast fossil fuel resources. The hearing will take place April 12, 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. at the Wyoming Oil & Gas Conservation Commission. 
   The field hearing will consist of two panels. The first panelist will be the Department of Energy's Assistant Secretary Jeff Jarrett, who will give an overview of national priorities including the development of advanced technologies, research projects, and the implementation of DOE programs. 
   The second panel will include Edward Lowe, General Manager of Gasification for General Electric Company; Steve Waddington, Executive Director for the Wyoming Infrastructure Authority; Marion Loomis, Executive Director of the Wyoming Mining Association; Joe Coyne, Executive Director for the Converse Area New Development Organization; Dr. William Gern, Chairman of the Board for Western Research Institute and Vice President for Research at the University of Wyoming. 
   Energy Forum 
   The second day will be a four-panel forum to discuss developing opportunities for Wyoming's energy future. Energy leaders in the state and the nation will discuss steps being taken to coordinate Wyoming's energy efforts with the needs of the nation. The April 13 event takes place from 8:30 a.m. to noon at the Parkway Plaza Hotel & Convention Centre's Wyoming room. 
   The second-day forum is titled "Developing Opportunities for Wyoming's Energy Future": 
   PANEL 1 - 8:30 to 9:15 a.m. 
  "Achieving Economic Stability" 
   *Lisa Epifani - Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy on the National Economic Council 
   Mark Doelger - Chairman of the Wyoming Natural Gas Pipeline Authority 
   Rob Hurless - Energy and Telecommunications Policy Advisor to Governor Freudenthal 
   Dr. Sadrul Ula - Professor at the University of Wyoming 
   PANEL 2 - 9:15 to 10 a.m. 
  "Resource Development through Education & Technology" 
   * Norman R. Augustine or his designee - Chairman of the National Academy of Sciences "Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future" study 
   Clarke Turner - Director of the Rocky Mountain Oilfield Testing Center 
   Bob McDougal - Rocky Mountain Producer Advisory Group Director of the Petroleum Technology Transfer Council 
   Dr. Vijay Sethi - Western Research Institute 
   BREAK - 10:00 to 10:15 a.m. 
   PANEL 3 - 10:15 to 11 a.m. 
  "Environmental Considerations in the Energy Sector" 
   * Jim Connaughton or his designee - Chairman of the President's Council on Environmental Quality 
   John Corra - Director of the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Coalition 
   Scott Kane - Owner and Operator of Creative Energies AND Wyoming Outdoor Council Board Member 
   Tom Fuller - Wyoming Business Council (tentative) 
   PANEL 4 - 11:00 to 11:45 a.m. 
  "The Energy Policy Act of 2005" 
   * David Garman - Under Secretary of Energy at the Department of Energy 
   David Sokol or his designee - Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive Officer of the MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company 
   Dan Schwartzkopf - General Manager of Wyoming Ethanol's Torrington Plant AND Renewable Fuels Association Board Member 
   Third Participant - (pending invitations) 
   CLOSING REMARKS - 11:45 to noon 
  "Developing Opportunities for Wyoming's Energy Future" 
   Closing remarks to be made by Senator Thomas on the importance of all the issues addressed during the morning panels to successful development of opportunities for Wyoming's energy future.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202-224-6441.  
 
 