SEN. THOMAS: FUNDING FOR JOINT ROBOTICS CONTINUES
  Sen. Craig Thomas secured an additional $2.25 million for the Joint Robotics program at Camp Guernsey today as part of his vision for enhancing partnerships between University of Wyoming, the military, and the private sector. The Senate passed the 2007 DoD Appropriations bill today 100-0.  
   The partnership between the University of Wyoming and the Wyoming National Guard at Camp Guernsey continues to develop unmanned aerial, ground, and water vehicles. Thomas took part in initiating the program in 2003. 
   "My vision for the military in Wyoming is driven by developing partnerships between UW, the military and the private sector. As we develop strong new missions at Wyoming installations, we plant the seed for ensuring that Wyoming remains an indispensable part of our nation's military readiness," Thomas said. 
   The senator secured $2.8 million for the joint robotics program for 2005 and $2 million for 2006. The 2007 funding of $2.25 million was approved today. 
   The Joint Robotics program runs the National Unmanned Systems Experimentation Environment (NUSE2) program. The Wyoming NUSE2 operates in partnership with the Department of Defense (DoD) and is one of seven sites in a national consortium of experimental test facilities used to develop specialized vehicles. The first unmanned tests took place at Camp Guernsey in July 2004. 
   "In the midst of the War on Terror, we must continue to improve our military's ability to defend our nation. This collaborative effort is nothing short of a win-win situation for this country and for Wyoming. Wyoming will play an integral role in improving the capabilities of DoD's joint robotics program to fight the global war on terrorism," Thomas said. 
   Col. Steve Mount, garrison commander at Camp Guernsey Joint Training Center said "We continue to move forward with a robust robotics partnership that will ensure our nation's military forces have the best tools available to them. We strongly believe continued support and funding will keep the camp and the robotics experimentation center a viable asset for the nation." 
   Thomas said, "These unmanned vehicles have become the new eyes and ears of our military allowing them to better control the battlefield. I'm pleased that DoD has placed so much emphasis on Wyoming as one of the critical places needed to test and evaluate these unmanned vehicles." 
   Upon launch of the program, Thomas noted that the DoD selected Camp Guernsey for its variable terrain that could be used to test unmanned systems, including its geographical features and access to the highly trained soldiers at Camp Guernsey. 
   "The University was a perfect match because it is a top-tier research facility and staff who are working in this cutting edge technology field," Thomas said. 
   "This funding will continue to support activities designed to make the Wyoming NUSE2 partnership an extremely effective testing site for the Joint Robotics Program."
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 