SENS. JOHNSON-THOMAS BILL ASSISTS LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT WITH COSTS OF CLEAN-UP OF METHAMPHETAMINE SITES
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Craig Thomas (R-WY) today introduced legislation that would help states and localities pay for the costs of cleaning up methamphetamine (meth) labs.  
   The bipartisan legislation would mandate that a portion of the Forfeiture Fund administered by the Department of Treasury be made available specifically for methamphetamine lab clean-up. Currently, the money in the Forfeiture Fund is used for expenses resulting from drug seizures and forfeiture, contract services, and compensation to informers. 
   "Unfortunately, our rural communities have become a preferred place for methamphetamine production and trafficking. These same communities cannot afford the enormous cost that can result from the clean up of a meth lab. This bill would help those communities to clean up meth sites," Johnson said. "This bill was drafted in consultation with local law enforcement officials. They know first-hand how difficult clean-up can be. I thank them for their commitment to repairing these communities." Johnson introduced this legislation during the 108th Congress and welcomed bipartisan support from Senator Thomas. 
   "Small business owners and landlords bear the cost in cleaning up these meth sites," Thomas said. "It's not fair for rural communities or business owners to have to shoulder these costs alone. By using funds from seizures and forfeitures to defray the costs to clean up these sites, we eliminate a major financial obstacle for communities at no cost to the taxpayer." Thomas said. Wyoming's senior senator is a leader on many issues that affect rural communities. 
   The Johnson-Thomas Legislation would: 
   Provide payment to the designated state, local, or tribal law enforcement entity, environment, or health entity for cleaning up areas formerly used as a methamphetamine lab. 
   In the event the lab is located on private property, payment from this fund will not exceed 90% of costs and can only be utilized by property owners who had no knowledge of the existence or operation of the lab prior to a law enforcement action or if upon acquiring knowledge, a law enforcement agency is notified within 24 hours. 
   According to most estimates, for every pound of meth produced, 7 pounds of toxic wastes are produced. The clean up costs of a meth lab site can range from $3,000 to over $100,000. This is a very significant cost for our local law enforcement entities to absorb. 
   As a member of the United States Senate and as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson has sought to increase federal funding for law enforcement, drug treatment, and drug prevention initiatives, including increased funding to assist local law enforcement in the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) initiative.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 