SEN. THOMAS ANNOUNCES LUTHI APPOINTMENT TO U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
  Sen. Craig Thomas on Friday, Feb. 2, heartily praised President Bush's intention to appoint Randall B. Luthi to be Deputy Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Sen. Craig Thomas sought Luthi's appointment with the White House. 
   As Deputy Director, Luthi will be responsible for ensuring the enhancement of fish, wildlife, and plants and their habitats for the continuing benefit of the American people.  
   "We need good people in important places who understand clearly the careful balance between our special wildlife and natural resources and the people who live and work around them," U.S. Senator Craig Thomas said. "Randall is just that person. He has a passion for the outdoors - the West in particular - and will be a significant leader in the Department of the Interior." 
   Luthi, an attorney from Freedom, Wyo., is the former Speaker of the Wyoming House of Representatives and currently a partner in the law firm Luthi & Voyles, LLC in Thayne, Wyo. Previously Luthi served in Washington, D.C. as a Senior Counselor in the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration from 1990 to 1993 and as an Attorney in the Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior from 1986 to 1990. 
   "I am extremely honored by the appointment and the confidence the President and the Department of the Interior have in me to do the job well," Luthi said. "I am particularly grateful for the efforts of Senator Thomas, Senator Enzi, and Congresswoman Cubin for their encouragement and support throughout the selection process." 
   "I've known well the rewards of public service in the past, and I view this new job as a further opportunity to seek Western inspired solutions to the major challenges facing the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service," Luthi said. 
   U.S. Senator Mike Enzi said, "This is great news for Wyoming and the country. I served with Randall when I was in the Wyoming Legislature and have worked with him since I got to Washington. He is a great pick. He's got the legal expertise combined with knowledge of issue intricacy from his legislation experience. More importantly, he has the knowledge of the West that makes him uniquely qualified." 
   U.S. Rep. Barbara Cubin said, "Having a man with Randall's Wyoming-bred values and integrity in this position will be an asset to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and all those the agency serves. As someone who has made his home in areas impacted by the Endangered Species Act, he is aware of the balanced approach necessary when weighing the multiple uses of our public lands and resources." 
   In particular, Luthi said he plans to work closely on issues surrounding the Endangered Species Act and its implementation with careful consideration of the species, the affected states, landowners and sportsmen. 
   A 30-day public comment period, beginning with the publication of a notice in the Federal Register on the proposal to appoint, will precede official appointment. Luthi plans to begin serving as Deputy Director on Feb. 20. 
   Luthi is a 1979 Bachelor of Science graduate of the University of Wyoming and 1982 Juris Doctor from the University of Wyoming School of Law. Luthi also served Wyoming as an aide to former U.S. Senator Alan Simpson and Congressman Richard Cheney. Luthi replaces Ken Stansell who has been Acting Deputy Director since February 2006. 
   Luthi can be reached at the following number: (307) 690-0371 (cell).
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 