DELEGATION: SOCIAL SECURITY OFFICE FINALIZES PLANS
  The Social Security Administration (SSA) released its latest information regarding the soon-to-be-opened Social Security Administration satellite office in Casper, the Wyoming Congressional Delegation announced today. The Social Security Administration office and hearing room is expected to open on October 1, 2006.  
   "This is one step toward our goal of providing high-quality service to Wyoming's Social Security recipients. It's an issue of access to benefits. Now, instead of waiting to meet with a traveling judge, folks will have a permanent location in Wyoming. This is good news for people across the state," Senator Craig Thomas said. 
   "Social Security is vital to many Wyoming residents and sometimes there are complications with benefits. This new office of hearings and appeals will help people more efficiently resolve problems without them having to go out of state," said Senator Mike Enzi. 
   "I am very pleased the SSA has responded favorably to our request to establish a permanent office in Wyoming," said Representative Barbara Cubin. "We all know that living in Wyoming can mean traveling long distances to access necessary services. The very least we can do for Wyoming's SS beneficiaries is to provide a location that will be permanently staffed. A permanent office will mean that beneficiaries who might be having trouble receiving SS benefits can have these matters taken care of much more quickly and efficiently. I look forward to seeing this office open in October." 
   The office will be located in the Dick Cheney Federal Office Building in Casper. The Casper office will be the satellite of the Denver hearings and appeals office. In June of last year, the delegation wrote to the Commissioner of the SSA, JoAnne Barnhart, to request the establishment of the Casper office. 
   For more information on the hearing office, or for a Social Security Administration source, contact Diana Allen at the Office of Hearings and Appeals in Denver at (303) 844-6094.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 