DEVIL'S CANYON DEDICATION OPENS HUNTER, FISHERMAN'S PARADISE
  In a spectacular ceremony at the base of the Big Horn Mountain Range, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) dedicated the Devil's Canyon Ranch, 11,179-acres near Lovell that provides key recreational access to blue ribbon trout streams, camping, and world-class hunting.  
   "Devil's Canyon Ranch is truly a hunter and fisherman's paradise that contains extraordinary archaeological sites and critical non-game habitat. With the support of the local community and regional sportsmen and conservation groups, we have captured an opportunity to protect a truly unique area of Wyoming. In the process we have also ensured public access to adjacent BLM and Forest Service lands. I am extremely pleased that the public will have access to this natural treasure," Thomas said. 
   The acquisition of Devil's Canyon Ranch opens the door to more than 20,000 acres of surrounding public land in the Big Horn National Forest. This acquisition will not result in a net land gain of federal ownership because of prior BLM land relinquishments which have shifted acreage from federal to private ownership. Past public access through the property was restricted making recreational access for hunting, fishing and hiking much more difficult to access in the Big Horn area. 
   Senator Thomas obtained $4 million of Land and Water Conservation Funds for the Bureau of Land Management to acquire the land. The Trust for Public Land and the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation also played key roles by providing critical financial and logistical support to make this effort become a reality. 
   "This project has been a true collaborative effort to increase public access and recreation opportunities," Thomas said. The Ranch also contains the primary road access to surrounding Forest Service and BLM prime hunting and fishing areas. 
   In his remarks at the dedication, Senator Thomas thanked Keith Grant and the other Bighorn County Commissioners who were the first to approach him about acquiring the property. 
   "We worked with the folks with The Trust for Public Lands (TPL), the Bighorn County Commissioners, the BLM, and many others to make this effort a reality," Thomas said.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 