MEMORIAL DAY SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY FOR WORLD WAR II VETERANS
  Sen. Craig Thomas honored his father-in-law and World War II veterans this weekend as hundreds of thousands of the Greatest Generation gathered in Washington, DC to celebrate the dedication of the new National World War II Memorial.  
   Senator Thomas launched the weekend off with a reception Friday in his DC office to for the plankowners of the USS Bashaw (SS 241), a Gato class submarine on which his father-in-law, Harry Roberts served. Roberts served as the Wyoming Superintendent of Public Education from 1967-1971. The veterans were also recognized by Vice President Dick Cheney who welcomed the men and their family members. Plankowners are those who serve as the first crew aboard a newly commissioned vessel. 
   "These are indeed trying times, and it is so important that we take the time to recognize and honor those men and women who have worn their country's uniform and answered the call to arms. They have given so very much, and in many cases made the ultimate sacrifice, so that we can continue to live in freedom," Thomas said. "It is a privilege to join with these veterans to thank them for their service, and also to acknowledge as well the sacrifices made by their families. 
   The National World War II Memorial was officially dedicated Saturday. It is a fitting and overdue tribute to those millions of Americans, men and women, who came together in a unified effort at home and abroad to defeat the enemies of freedom, Thomas said. He also stopped to recognize the new generation of Americans who are currently fighting around the world. 
   "We must always keep in our thoughts and prayers the brave individuals who are currently bearing that heavy burden of defending our liberties. During this Memorial Day weekend, it is important that this nation look at the example of the World War II generation as we face the troubles of today's conflict, and remember the important lessons of that terrible war: that freedom is not free, and that united, we will win," Thomas said.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 