DELEGATION: WYO GAINS SSA HEARING OFFICE
  Wyoming's Congressional Delegation has secured approval to establish a Social Security hearing office for Wyoming in Casper. Wyoming is currently the only state that lacks a permanent hearing office for Social Security hearings.  
   "This is a matter of convenience for folks across Wyoming. People who need the services of the Social Security Administration have had to travel to surrounding states to get their complaints heard. That was unfair and impractical. With a new central location in the state, people should find it easier to get the help they need," U.S. Senator Craig Thomas said. 
   "I'm pleased that after repeated requests by Craig, Barbara and me, Wyoming is going to have its own office. Insult is added to injury when a Wyoming resident who is already having difficulty with their Social Security claim is then forced to go to Billings or Denver or another out-of-state office to participate in their hearing or appeal," said Enzi. "Having an office in Casper should allow the Social Security Administration to respond more quickly and directly to the needs of its Wyoming customers." 
   "We work together as a delegation to make sure that the taxpayers of Wyoming are treated fairly," said Cubin. "Wyoming folks shouldn't have to drive hundreds of extra miles, sometimes behind a snowplow, just for a Social Security hearing. Having this office in Casper will make the process more efficient for the people of Wyoming." 
   The Casper office will be the satellite of the Billings, Montana, hearing office. The Social Security Administration has started to look for potential office locations within Casper and is making plans for staffing the office. 
   In June, the delegation wrote to the Commissioner of the SSA, JoAnne Barnhart, to request the establishment of the Casper office. A copy of that letter is available from the Senator Thomas' office. 
   For more information on the hearing office, or for a Social Security Administration source, contact Diana Allen at the Office of Hearings and Appeals in Denver at (303) 844-6094.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 