SEN. THOMAS: FARM BILL SHOULD FOCUS ON CONSERVATION
  Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) said on Wednesday, January 31, he is optimistic about the Agriculture Secretary's efforts to hold down spending on commodity payments and believes Congress must continue to keep commodity payment costs in check in the Farm bill while putting greater emphasis on conservation programs.  
   "I have long supported reducing the commodity payment amounts each farmer can receive. It's unfair to let huge farm commodity payments continue to go out for only a small fraction of farmers who grow a select number of crops," Thomas said. 
   Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns made a public announcement today about his plan for farm legislation and Thomas used the occasion to make his own plans known. 
   "I was certainly pleased to hear of Secretary Johann's commitment to looking closely at how USDA would administer commodity payments. I have long advocated lowering the limit of $360,000 per farmer each year to $250,000. By doing this we can reduce spending by $1.2 billion over the next 10 years. I hope the Secretary's plan for commodity payments provides for even greater savings," Thomas said. 
   "More than half of the current payments are going to just five percent of the farmers. Large farms, not small family farmers, receive an increasingly larger percentage of commodity payments. I would like to see less focus on commodity programs and more focus on conservation programs that are useful to farmers regardless of what they produce." 
   Thomas said that five crops - rice, cotton, soybeans, corn, and wheat, account for 92 percent of subsidies, but only 20 percent of agricultural cash receipts. More than 60 percent of the producers receive no direct payments, but face the same challenges as 'program crop' producers. 
   According to Thomas the Farm Bill needs to go much further to get quality conservation programs put in place. 
   "We need much more focus on conservation programs in the Farm Bill," Thomas said. "The idea is to provide positive incentives to landowners who promote good farming practices and provide good stewardship of the land." 
   "There is growing support for conservation programs and a growing appreciation for the environmental benefits our production agriculture sector provides. Plus, conservation programs don't distort our trade with other countries like farm subsidies do," Thomas said. 
   Here are some of the USDA's Natural Resources Conservation Service programs that Thomas supports: 
   Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/PROGRAMS/EQIP/ 
   Grasslands Reserve Program http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/GRP/ 
   Conservation Security Program (CSP) http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/csp/ 
   Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program (WHIP) http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/Programs/whip/ 
   This and all press releases are available on the Thomas web site at: http://thomas.senate.gov.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 