SEN. THOMAS ENDORSES JOBS CREATION BILL
  Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) took to the Senate floor today to talk about the importance of creating jobs, and urged his Senate colleagues on both sides of the aisle to quickly pass the Jumpstart Our Business Strength (JOBS) Act, S.1637.  
   "Our manufacturing sector has faced many challenges over the past several years. This bill will provide them much needed relief and let the world community know that U.S. businesses are, and will remain, competitive in the world market," Thomas said. "I certainly support the passage of this bill. We here in the Senate have been hammering it out for a long time with no results. We need to act, and we need to act now." 
   Passage of the JOBS Act bill will save hundreds of thousands of American manufacturing jobs, alleviate the tax burden on businesses, and allow U.S. manufacturers to compete fairly with their European counterparts. 
   The bill, which was reported out of the Senate Finance Committee, represents a strong bi-partisan package to aid U.S. manufacturers. The bill is currently bogged down by members pushing controversial amendments unrelated to the tax bill on the floor. Senator Thomas is a member of the Senate Finance Committee. 
   The bill would: 
   * Enhance the ability of U.S. based companies to compete in international markets 
   * Provide a lower tax rate on manufacturing that brings the tax burden of U.S. manufacturers closer to that of major international competitors 
   * Enhance the financial strength of U.S. companies creating incentives for them to invest capital in workers, facilities and their communities 
   "When you have a bill that does so much for so many folks, it is critical that it's not overloaded with unrelated, controversial issues that prevent passage. It is time we all come to the snubbing post and talk about what we have to do to get this jobs bill done," Thomas said. "I am getting rather impatient with what's happening here on the floor-not only on this bill, but on constant obstruction and partisan politics. We continue to have endless numbers of unrelated amendments. Let's pass this bill, create some jobs, and help the American people."
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 