SEN. THOMAS BILL TO PROTECT TAXPAYER PRIVACY
  With "Tax Day" coming up in less than two weeks, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) has introduced legislation that will protect the privacy of taxpayers.  
   Thomas, a member of the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee, said that tax preparers have been preying on the confidentiality of tax filers by selling information to third parties, who have no restrictions on what they can do with your information. 
   "Unknowing taxpayers shouldn't have to worry about their information being sold off to the highest bidder. In the midst of all the legalese that tax-preparers throw at filers, taxpayers shouldn't have to worry about a regulation that allows preparers to disclose the personal information of a tax-filer to another party. While this practice happens with consent, it enables affiliates and third-parties to have access to your personal and financial information," Thomas said. 
   "My bill will protect taxpayer privacy by stopping the practice of allowing third-party access," Thomas said. "This is much more of an issue than just frustrating calls from telemarketers. This is about identity theft and your personal information being sent unprotected around the world." 
   "The agencies who obtain your personal information have no restrictions on what they can do with your information," Thomas said. "My bill will prevent this kind of abuse." 
   Thomas' bill is in response to proposed regulation changes by the IRS, which is trying to further loosen the regulations that allow tax-preparers to sell taxpayer information to third-parties. 
   "Tax time is rough on all of us. The last thing we need is yet another thing to worry about like, 'Is my personal information being sold and circulated?' This is a very real concern with the ease at which information is being exchanged these days. My bill will give folks some peace of mind, knowing that the mound of paper they sign when they have their taxes prepared does not include an effort to sell their information." 
   The legislation, S. 2498, is expected to be referred to the Senate Finance Committee for consideration. U.S. Senator Mike Enzi is a co-sponsor.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 