SEN. THOMAS PRAISES PASSAGE OF WOOL TRUST FUND
  Along with passage of the Pension Act last night, the Senate passed an extension of the Wool Trust Fund, a key component of improving markets for wool growers, Sen. Craig Thomas announced today.  
   "The main thrust of the Wool Trust Fund is to open new markets for wool, both internationally and here at home. I feel strongly about continuing to improve the opportunities for Wyoming wool growers. In my state, producers have used the fund to its fullest extent, conducting critical field testing, improving outreach efforts, and presenting information about the latest technology in the sheep and wool industries," Thomas said. 
   "I will continue to do what I can for hard-working folks in my state seeking to stabilize their production base. These funds help maintain our sheep and wool infrastructure and provide necessary services to the industry. One of those services is marketing - international marketing has created tremendous new sales around the world. The sheep industry has discovered many new interests and seen significant new purchases from major international companies." 
   As Thomas remains engaged in global trade concerns, he continues to advocate for trade which builds on the strengths of our industries in Wyoming. He noted that India, China and Mexico have all increased purchases in the wool market, which will help Wyoming wool producers remain competitive in the global market. 
   Thomas is a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. He is also the Chairman of the International Trade Subcommittee under Finance. 
   The Wool Trust Fund was extended through 2009 in a measure pushed by Thomas and Sen. Max Baucus, (D-Mont.). 
   In addition, a provision sponsored by Thomas and included in last night's bill, will continue to suspend the tariff on acrylic fiber tow for two years. 
   Acrylic fiber tow is used by an Evanston-based company in their manufacturing process. The product is imported to Wyoming from Japan and is manufactured into carbon fiber, which is used by other companies to manufacture graphite golf club shafts and injection molding materials for industrial applications, such as drilling. There is no domestic source of acrylic fiber tow for the company.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 