SEN. THOMAS ACCEPTING SPRING INTERN APPLICATIONS
Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) is currently accepting applications for his Washington, DC internship program for the spring 2007 semester.  
 The senator's intern program is designed to give Wyoming's youth a unique perspective into the inner workings of the United States government. 
 "I firmly believe that all of our interns walk away with a deeper appreciation and understanding of how our government operates, and what it means to serve our state and our nation," Thomas said. 
 "Interns will have a particularly interesting experience this semester due to the beginning of the 110th Congress. They will be given a unique opportunity to observe first-hand the political process in action, to see how our laws are made, and witness history in the making." 
 Interns have a wide range of responsibilities, including helping respond to constituent requests, attending legislative hearings, giving U.S. Capitol tours, and shadowing the Senator to observe his job on a day-to-day basis. In addition to their work, interns are also encouraged to take advantage of the many sights and activities that our nation's capitol has to offer. 
 Interns receive a monthly salary and are responsible for their round-trip airfare and living expenses while in DC. Senator Thomas offers four different Congressional Intern sessions each year. In addition to the four-month spring session, there are two separate, six-week summer sessions and another four-month fall session. Applicants are typically residents of Wyoming, in college, and are 21 years of age or older. 
 For those students who attend the University of Wyoming, 15 credit hours may be earned after successful completion of the University's requirements. Dr. Tracy Skopek, Assistant Professor of Political Science and Coordinator of the "Washington, D.C. Semester" Program said, "This is truly a remarkable opportunity for UW students. Spending a semester in Washington, in the throngs of government, is so much different than reading about it in a textbook or newspaper. The pool of students is not limited to those in the Political Science Department, and any interested student may apply." Dr. Skopek can be contacted at 307.766.6484. 
 Candidates should apply on-line. The application can be found on this web site. The deadline for the application is December 15. For more information, please contact Senator Thomas' office at 202.224.6441.
 Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 