SEN. THOMAS: 'WRIGHT DISASTER DOLLARS SPENT WISELY'
  Sen. Craig Thomas announced today that Wright disaster recovery funding topped FEMA's list of the best investment per dollar of any incident the agency responded to last year in any state.  
   "The local, state, and federal efforts on behalf of Wright should serve as a model for emergency response nationwide," Thomas said during a meeting this morning with the mayor, FEMA, and emergency response officials at the Wright Town Hall. 
   "With solid community involvement, proper agency coordination, and responsible use of federal funding, we've seen this town come back together," he said. "I'm impressed with the recovery and the way the effort was accomplished. The Wright disaster dollars were spent very wisely." 
   Thomas made a trip to Wright today to evaluate the federal response to the tornado that hit the town in August 2005. The senator received the results of the FEMA audit of how Wyoming expenditures of FEMA dollars were spent on disaster relief. Campbell County Emergency Management Coordinator Dave King was on hand to discuss the details of the audit. 
   In addition to positive audit results, the group also talked about federal disaster declaration criteria and about Wright's general recovery. 
   "I'm pleased the delegation's efforts to ensure a disaster declaration paid off. The state's wise use of dollars will serve us well as we continue to bolster our emergency preparedness and work to deal with our future needs. If we learned anything about natural disasters this past year, it's that they can happen to anyone at any time," Thomas said. 
   "It's important to continue to evaluate our disaster response and our use of taxpayer dollars. It's obvious that Wright handled their recovery needs the right way." 
   Wright Tornado Series of Events: 
   Friday, August 12, 2005 - Tornado hit the town of Wright severely damaging or destroying 192 residences or about one-third of the town's homes. There were two deaths. 
   Tuesday, August 16 - State of Wyoming requests disaster assistance 
   Wednesday, August 17 - Senator Thomas visits Wright 
   Senator Thomas calls Dan Craig, Director, Recovery Division, FEMA to urge flexibility in disaster declaration selection and convey urgent need for temporary housing. The Wyoming delegation sends letter to President seeking disaster declaration for Wright. 
   Monday, August 22 - President declares disaster, initiating federal assistance for Wright, the county, and Wyoming 
   Tuesday, August 23 - Just 11 days after the tornado, FEMA mobilizes in support of Wright. Some FEMA personnel have been on the ground since the tornado hit. 
   Thursday, August 25 - FEMA has done the following: 75 staff on the ground with more arriving, satellite communications in place, and a Disaster Recovery Center open 6 days per week, with plans to stay for a month to six weeks or until all needs have been met.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 