YOUTH VOLUNTEERS HONORED IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
  Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) today welcomed two Wyoming students who are being honored in Washington, D.C., this week by the Prudential Spirit of Community Awards. Zachary Styskal, 18 of Cheyenne, and Trevor Edwards, 14 of Cody, were named the top high school and middle level youth volunteers in Wyoming and are being honored for their outstanding community service work. One hundred-four students from across the nation are participating in the week-long celebration.  
   "Wyoming should be proud of Zachary and Trevor who have both demonstrated a selfless level of dedication and achievement. They both should be proud of their work as mentors and role models to those in the Wyoming Special Olympics. These two have been honored with the recognition they deserve, and I hope that their example will inspire other young people to become actively involved in their own communities," Thomas said. 
   Zachary, a senior at Cheyenne Central High School, has been volunteering as a downhill ski coach and fund-raiser for a local Special Olympics chapter for the past few years. He also helps recruit other teen volunteers to coach and assist the athletes. Trevor, an eighth-grader at Cody Middle School, volunteers to teach and assist Special Olympics athletes in skiing and swimming, and volunteers as an assistant coach, trainer and unified athlete. They each received $1,000, were presented with engraved silver medallions and an all-expense-paid trip to Washington, DC. 
   More than 20,000 youth volunteers submitted applications to the 2004 awards program last fall. The top middle level and high school applicants in each state, including Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia are visiting Washington, DC this week. The celebration kicked-off yesterday with a gala hosted by comedian Whoopi Goldberg. 
   Conducted in partnership with the National Association of Secondary School Principals, The Prudential Spirit of Community Awards were created nine years ago by Prudential Financial, Inc. to encourage youth volunteerism and to identify and reward young role models. Since then, the program has honored more than 55,000 young volunteers at the local, sate and national level.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 