SEN. THOMAS ASSERTS WYO AIRPORT CUSTOMS NEEDS
  During a hearing today to confirm a new Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Sen. Craig Thomas asserted the vital need to get the customs office at the Natrona County International Airport (NCIA) up and running.  
   Unfortunately, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has been reluctant to put a fully operational office into place. Thomas believes it is in the best interest of Wyoming and the CBP to get their operation underway. 
   While the airport has made efforts in good faith to work with Customs, the CBP has only recently let up on pressuring the airport to immediately construct a new facility in compliance with CBP standards. 
   "The airport is well aware of its obligation to provide a compliant customs facility," Thomas said. "They don't have the funds to immediately construct a new facility, but they have outlined a plan to do so." 
   "This is an extremely important position," Thomas told CBP nominee Ralph Basham. "We must strike a balance between trade and border protection missions by facilitating both security and the flow commerce," Thomas said. 
   Last year, Thomas successfully designated Natrona County International Airport as a permanent port of entry. 
   "This office is critical to the flow of commerce in and out of Wyoming for our energy sector. I'm concerned that the process of getting this office up and running has been bogged down by bureaucratic red tape," Thomas said at the hearing today. 
   "The State and local economy depend upon energy development and we have more than 20 Canadian energy companies who are regularly cleared in Casper," Thomas said. 
   Natrona County Airport cleared more than 522 noncommercial aircraft in 2005. In addition, they cleared 117 noncommercial aircraft so far this year. 
   "I'm hopeful that Mr. Basham will be committed to getting this office up and running in the very near future should he be confirmed by the full Senate," Thomas said. 
   NCIA has submitted a plan to the Denver Port Director, to construct a permanent facility in conjunction with the airport's Fire/Rescue facility rehabilitation. The project is slated for design in fiscal year 2008 with construction in 2009. 
   Interim Plans 
   In the interim, the airport has provided the US Customs officer with an office facility that meets their needs and serves the public. 
   Another question lingers as to whether or not the only agent at NCIA should be full-time or part-time. Currently, the agent has part-time status, although there is the belief that the employee's status should be elevated to full-time due to the workload at the airport.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.  
 
 