RESERVATION IRRIGATION FARES WELL WITH FUND ALLOCATION
  Sens. Craig Thomas, Mike Enzi and Rep. Barbara Cubin, all R-Wyo., have secured a $1.75 million appropriation for the Wind River Irrigation Project (WRIP). 
   "Ranchers can't survive if they're unable to irrigate their land. This irrigation system is in terrible shape with as much as a quarter of the land not receiving the water it needs. This funding will begin to address a long-standing problem with irrigation on the Wind River Reservation," Thomas said.  
   "This funding has been a long time coming and I look forward to seeing construction begin as soon as possible. Water is a source of livelihood on the reservation. This funding means progress for people and progress for the crops they grow. The project when fully completed will maximize efficiency and lessen conflicts during drought," said Enzi. 
   "I have requested funding for the Wind River Irrigation Project for several years now and I am pleased that our appropriators have finally recognized the importance of funding this vital system," said Cubin. "Repairs and upgrades are past due and necessary to ensure the future of this important irrigation system. This funding represents a small portion of what is needed, however, the fight is not over to get this system fully rehabilitated." 
   The state of Wyoming will match the funds. 
   The funding was included as part of a $7.5 million sum for Indian irrigation systems in Wyoming, Montana and North Dakota that was part of the Department of Interior Appropriations bill that became public law in August. The appropriations bill did not however, specify funding allocations, but rather left that to the Department of Interior. Thomas, Enzi and Cubin wrote to the department earlier this year stressing the importance and need of the funding for this Wyoming project. The WRIP received the most of any single reservation project that qualified for this funding. 
   Feb. 1, 2006 
  The Honorable Gale Norton 
  Secretary 
  U.S. Department of the Interior 
  1849 C Street, NW 
  Washington, D.C. 20240 
   Dear Secretary Norton: 
   We respectfully request that the Department of the Interior and specifically, the Bureau of Indian Affairs ensure that the Wind River Irrigation Project (WRIP) receives a fair share of the $7.5 million included in the fiscal year 2006 Interior Appropriations bill for rehabilitation of Indian irrigation systems. 
   The WRIP is located on the Wind River Indian Reservation, which is home to the Eastern Shoshone and Northern Arapaho Tribes. The irrigation project is owned and operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), and has been since it was first authorized by Congress. Unfortunately, the WRIP has declined to a state of extreme disrepair over the years. Due to deferred maintenance and inadequate funding, the irrigation system has inadequate and unserviceable structures, extensive seepage along delivery canals, and insufficient drainage. Of the 40,000 acres of irrigable land, approximately 25 percent is idle and lacks adequate water delivery systems. 
   As you know the fiscal year 2006 Department of the Interior Appropriations Bill (P.L. 109-54) contains the following language: 
   "The addition of $7,500,000in non-reimbursable construction funds for Indian irrigation rehabilitation is separate from the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project, which retains its own construction budget of $12,773,000. Within the funds provided for Indian irrigation rehabilitation, a number of Bureau and tribal projects are in desperate need of immediate attention to continue delivering water to users. The Bureau is expected to consult with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, in the form of a detailed proposal, prior to obligating funds. The Bureau is expected to administer these funds from the central office program level to address projects with the greatest need of rehabilitation. Construction of new projects to be addressed under these guidelines, and to be addressed in the Bureau's proposal for the obligation of these funds are: the Fort Yates Unit of the Standing Rock Sioux Project, the Blackfeet Irrigation Project, the Crow Irrigation Project, the Fort Belknap Irrigation Project, the Fort Peck Irrigation Project and the Wind River Irrigation Project." 
   It is our understanding that the BIA will soon be releasing the monies. It is a priority for us that an adequate portion of the funding be directed to the WRIP to begin its rehabilitation. Although it is estimated that approximately $60 million is needed to fully rehabilitate the WRIP, these monies are an important first step. 
   The agreement for these funds was negotiated between the Wyoming, Montana and North Dakota delegations. While we agree that there is a need for improvements in both Montana and North Dakota, we are committed to ensuring that the WRIP receives substantial funding. The WRIP must be rehabilitated for the tribes of the Wind River Indian Reservation to become self-sustaining. We look forward to working with you to make that happen. 
   Thank you for your immediate attention to our request. 
   Sincerely, 
   Craig Thomas Mike Enzi Barbara Cubin 
  United States Senator United States Senator Member of Congress.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 