SEN. THOMAS LAUDS PARK SERVICE BUDGET PROPOSAL
  Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.)on Monday, Feb. 5, lauded the President's budget request for park operations funding - the highest funding level for park operations in National Park Service history.  
   "I have long advocated for a considerably larger investment in our national treasures and for better funding of the Park Service's operations," Thomas said. "I am very pleased that the President has answered my call to address the pressing needs which face our national parks today, while ensuring their prosperity into the future." 
   "A sound financial future for our parks continues to be one of my top priorities, and I will continue in that effort through my work in the National Park Subcommittee and in the Senate," Thomas said. 
   The President's budget calls for a $250 million overall increase in park operations and an $8 million increase for Park Police. Overall, the President is seeking $2.4 billion in 2008 for the NPS budget, which is an overall increase of 5 percent over last year. 
   In September 2006, Thomas, as Chairman of the National Park Subcommittee, sent a letter to President Bush, signed by a bipartisan group of 37 Senators, calling for a substantial increase in the National Park Service's budget to strengthen visitor services and other programs in preparation for the NPS centennial anniversary in 2016. The Administration started putting together their budget requests the same month. 
   Thomas has consistently made funding requests of between $150 and $190 million above previous year's enacted level for each of the last four fiscal years with the aim of improving our park's core operations. 
   The President's budget request will fund the Centennial Challenge initiative by calling for $40.6 million for 3,000 new rangers, $20 million for flexible park base funding, $35 million for cyclic maintenance, and $4.4 million for volunteer and junior ranger programs. 
   "I applaud the President's decision to invest in the Centennial Challenge. This initiative will ensure a consistently strong natural and cultural resource will be preserved for another century," Thomas added.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 