SEN. THOMAS SPEARHEADS SUPPORT FOR PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES FUNDING
  Sen. Craig Thomas is spearheading a letter to appropriators today in support of increased funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program.  
   "Many Wyoming counties depend on the PILT program to supplement their tax base," Thomas said. "The partnership between the federal government and the counties provides for better stewardship of our nation's public lands and better services for folks across Wyoming." 
   Thomas garnered the support of 55 other senators in his request for $240 million for the PILT program, including 13 of 20 Senate appropriators. Sen. Mike Enzi is on the letter. 
   Last year, the Department of the Interior distributed $226,410,287 in PILT payments to counties. Wyoming counties received $14,810,769. 
   Appropriators will decide if the funding level being requested will be included in the 2007 Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. 
   The PILT program is designed to compensate local communities for losses in their tax bases that result from the presence of significant amounts of federal land in their counties. 
   "PILT funds are critical to the operation of local governments, who are mandated by law to provide an array of essential public services including search and rescue, law enforcement, road maintenance and education," Thomas said. 
   "Current funding levels are insufficient for the federal government to keep its commitment to public land counties. This places a fiscal hardship on our counties, who must use their limited tax dollars, combined with PILT receipts, to provide a clean and safe environment for their residents and the millions of Americans who visit national parks, forests, and other public lands," said Wyoming's senior senator. 
   "The need for improved emergency response in this era of heightened security has placed exceptional demands on our local communities. It is critical for Congress to provide regular increases in funding for PILT in order to reach the authorized level in a reasonable amount of time." 
   View a copy of the letter supporting increased funding for PILT.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 