SEN. THOMAS PRESSES CABINET NOMINEES ON WYOMING ISSUES
  Sen. Craig Thomas this week questioned Bush Administration cabinet nominees on key Western issues and pressed each to take an active role in developing solutions to challenges facing Wyoming.  
   The three, Agriculture Secretary nominee Gov. Michael Johanns, Energy Secretary nominee Samuel Bodman, and Health and Human Services nominee Michael O. Leavitt will face official confirmation hearings in front of Thomas' main Senate committees prior to a vote on their approval. 
  Today, Thomas pushed Gov. Michael Johanns during his confirmation hearing in the Agriculture Committee, about the need to deal with beef trade issues and country of origin labeling. 
   "The next Secretary of Agriculture must agree to deal strongly with trade issues, not only in terms of opening markets, but in protecting the interests of sensitive products, such as sugar beets. His response makes me believe Johanns understands our point of view and will utilize his rural background to address my concerns," Thomas said. 
   "Gov. Johanns is a strong candidate to lead the Department of Agriculture and I look forward to working with him to strengthen Wyoming agriculture," said Thomas after the hearing. 
   "He has shown a great deal of leadership as Governor of Nebraska, especially on agricultural trade issues and dealing with problems such as drought," Thomas said. "I'm confident in his background and his dedication to the needs of rural states." 
   Thomas and the Agriculture Committee voted unanimously to report Johanns to the full Senate for confirmation. 
   Thomas also met privately this week with the nominees for Energy, and Health and Human Services to talk about their backgrounds and willingness to respond to Wyoming issues. Bodman and Leavitt will have confirmation hearings on Jan. 19. Bodman's confirmation hearing will be before the Energy and Natural Resource Committee. Leavitt's hearing will be before the Finance Committee. 
   "Energy is a major component of our economy in Wyoming and health care touches the lives of all our state's residents. It's important, as these confirmation hearings move forward, to hear directly from the President's nominees on those issues that are so critical to our quality of life in the West. I want to be certain that nominees understand our point of view and will work with us to continue our success in the future," Thomas said.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 