SEN. THOMAS FIGHTS FOR WYOMING HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING
  Sen. Craig Thomas, R-WY, made the following statement on the floor of the Senate regarding an amendment that would protect Homeland Security funding for Wyoming and rural states:  
   "I was disappointed with a few of my colleagues' comments yesterday with respect to securing rural America. I didn't hear anyone talking about the rural areas that are at risk. 
   "What I did hear is that rural America does not need any homeland security funding. Most people don't know this, but Wyoming is the largest net exporter of energy in the United States. We have oil reserves, gas fields, coal mines, power plants, and uranium mines. 
   "If folks don't believe that our rail lines, transmission lines, refineries, and pipelines are not targets, they need to think again. This is the very same energy that drives our economy and keeps the lights on in Los Angeles, and New York City," Thomas said. 
   "It's important to keep things in perspective. Wyoming is nearly 98,000 square miles in size. It is a state of diverse topography, and harsh weather. We have major railroads and interstate highways that connect the east and west coast of the country that traverse the state. The movement of hazardous waste by train and vehicle put the citizen's I represent in harm's way every day. 
   "When Homeland Security grants first began, Wyoming initially received about $20 million in Homeland Security Grants. Wyoming's share has dropped to $9 million. Let me put this debate into context: My state stands to receive roughly $10 million out of $3 billion. I certainly understand cities like New York have more needs than my state. I also recognize that large urban areas have more resources to draw upon than do most rural areas. Congress has debated and established a fair system. Every state should be provided with baseline funding. And I fully support allowing the Department of Homeland Security to determine who has the greatest risks to qualify for the Urban Area security funding as current law provides. 
   "Big-city states have their own urban program, so I cannot understand the uproar and anger officials from large populated states have towards their rural neighbors. Wyoming generally doesn't ask for a lot. But my state has a lot more to offer than just 'fly-over' country for people on the coasts. 
   "Again, let me repeat for my colleagues, Wyoming is the largest exporter of energy in the lower forty eight. Protecting Wyoming's infrastructure and securing our resources are critical to the nation's well being. I would remind my colleagues who have been directly and indirectly criticizing my state, that the states they represent are not the only one's that have risks that need to be addressed. 
   "I strongly support Senator Leahy's amendment to put fairness back into the process. Protecting rural America is something that should be important to us all. No one wins by the current effort to pit big city living folks against rural America."
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 