SEN. THOMAS' AMENDMENTS DELIVER SIGNIFICANT WINS FOR WYOMING
  Sen. Craig Thomas had several key amendments accepted today as he and other House and Senate conferees reconciled the House and Senate versions of the "JOBS" Act (H.R. 4520) into a final bill. The amendments target small business, energy, rural health care, and drought relief. 
   A proposal to increase the project bond cap from $10 million to $20 million for Industrial Development Bonds (IDBs) will give Wyoming small manufacturers increased access to low-cost investment capital.
   "Manufacturing provides good, high-wage jobs, and we want those jobs in Wyoming," said Thomas. "Low-cost investment capital is essential to making that happen."
   Industrial Development Bonds are often the lowest cost investment capital available, especially in low-density rural states. "The $10 million cap established in 1978 is peanuts in 2004 dollars, especially when considering the capital-intensive nature of manufacturing. $10 million to build a new manufacturing facility just doesn't go very far. This unrealistically low limit creates a considerable and unnecessary barrier," Thomas said.
   The senior Republican Senator also championed an amendment to provide a tax credit for marginal wells. Marginal wells account for about 20 percent of oil, and 10 percent of natural gas, domestic production, an amount roughly equal to the historic oil imports from Saudi Arabia.
   A third Thomas provision will ensure that rural healthcare providers are not liable for income taxes on loan forgiveness through the National Health Service Corps. The program provides scholarships, loan repayments, and stipends for healthcare providers who agree to serve in underserved rural and urban communities.
   "I'm hopeful that this amendment will strengthen the program's ability to encourage healthcare providers to stay in Wyoming. Attracting and retaining competent health professionals in the state is important to providing our residents the quality healthcare they deserve," Thomas continued.
   "While I'm pleased that the manufacturing tax deduction in the bill was broadened to benefit our many energy companies, I'm very disappointed that a comprehensive energy tax package was not included. There is still much work to be done in this area, and I will continue the fight to make sure these important issues are addressed."
   A Thomas' amendment added earlier to the bill, changes the current IRS code to extend the time period a rancher has to replace livestock sold because of drought, flood, or other weather-related condition. The current IRS code grants a taxpayer two years and the Thomas' amendment extends the time period from two to four years. Additional safeguards are included for long-term drought, which many ranchers face in Wyoming. This provision is effective for tax returns due after December 31, 2002 and allows much needed financial flexibility to ranchers in times of extended drought.
 
 