SEN. THOMAS GRILLS DOE ON BUDGET, COAL FUNDING
  At an Energy Committee oversight hearing on Wednesday, Feb. 7, to review the DOE' s 2008 budget proposal, Sen.Craig Thomas asked tough questions of Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman about what appears to be a bureaucratic stranglehold on getting advanced coal projects off the ground in the United States. 
   "The people of Wyoming want to convert our coal to a more valuable product. We want to generate clean power and produce clean diesel fuel. These options are clearly better than digging up coal and shipping it out on railcars. We dig up quite a lot too - 36 percent of the nation's supply comes from Wyoming," Thomas said.  
   "The incredibly slow progress on the loan guarantee program and the lack of focus on getting Section 413 fully funded are very troubling. What provisions in the Energy Policy Act do you think are best suited to helping Wyoming's goal of exporting value-added coal products? Where's the money for the pipes and wires we need out West?" Thomas asked Bodman. 
   "It looks to me like we're playing the same games this year as we have in the past. We talk a lot about alternative fuels, and we need to be pursuing those things. But the ability of alternatives to make a real difference is a number of years off. We need to work on our near-term needs to make fossil fuels cleaner and more efficient," Thomas said at the hearing. "On a federal level, it is the Department of Energy's job to make sure these things happen. Congress has given you the tools to get it done with the Energy Policy Act of 2005." 
   Rocky Mountain Oilfield Testing Center 
   "Our ability to produce energy here at home is reliant upon advances in technology. Producing responsible domestic energy lowers prices and increases our security. The Rocky Mountain Oilfield Testing Center is located in Wyoming. It's not a private company and it's not a University or non-profit organization. It is the Department of Energy that owns it, runs it, and uses it to advance technologies. Yet I must seek an earmark every year to run a facility that belongs to DOE," Thomas said to Bodman. "Why doesn't your request include money for the Rocky Mountain Oilfield Testing Center?" 
   Section 413 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
   "Section 413 of the Energy Policy Act authorized a federal cost share to demonstrate IGCC in the West. The West is experiencing enormous demand growth in its electricity sector. Wyoming is ready to help meet those needs by building clean coal power plants. We ought to pursue clean coal instead of LNG terminals in highly populated areas. The federal government, and certainly the Department of Energy, needs to support these efforts," Thomas said. 
   Clean Coal Technology Account Elimination 
   "DOE has manufactured $257 million for themselves in this request by eliminating the Clean Coal Technology (CCT) account, which has been replaced by the Clean Coal Power Initiative. $108 million from CCT elimination has been sent to FutureGen and DOE proposes that the go back to the treasury. When Congress appropriated those funds, they were meant to advance clean coal technologies," Thomas said. 
   "How do you justify this disregard for Congressional intent?" 
   Secretary Bodman is expected to respond to Senator Thomas in writing on several of the senator's unanswered questions. 
   A video of the exchange between Thomas and Bodman at today's hearing will be available by satellite feed and on the web site later in the day.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 