SEN. THOMAS: MALAYSIA OPENS BORDER TO U.S. BEEF
  Malaysia announced it will open its border to U.S. beef, a move that is good news for Wyoming beef producers, Sen. Craig Thomas said today.  
   "The domino effect is taking place as more Asian markets are willing to accept U.S. beef. Today's announcement is further evidence that American beef is the safest in the world. The Malaysian government should be applauded for their decision to reopen their market to the highest-quality beef in the world. I look forward to working with their government to ensure that our trade practices remain free and fair," Thomas said. 
   The senator said the agreement announced today will allow the United States to export boneless beef from animals under 30 months of age. U.S. and Malaysian authorities are working to finalize the remaining documentation details so that shipments can begin in the near future. 
   "We all know that international trade is based on a fair exchange of goods, and the bias that has tainted American beef for upwards of three years is finally beginning to decrease. However, there is work to be done, and as Chairman of the International Trade Subcommittee, I will push for a more fair exchange of goods," Thomas said. 
   In 2003, the United States exported more than $1.9 million worth of beef and beef products to Malaysia. Following the detection of BSE in December 2003, Malaysia imposed a ban on all U.S. beef and beef products. 
   Malaysia is the sixth in a string of Asian markets that have re-opened trade with U.S. beef after Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, Hong Kong and Singapore. 
   Japan had opened their border to U.S. beef in late 2005, but recently closed their border again to U.S. beef in December after a shipment of beef came into Japan containing vertebral tissue, a practice that is common in most beef shipments, but disallowed by Japan. 
   Thomas has been at the forefront of the debate since Asian markets decided to ban U.S. beef in 2003. In addition to being the Chairman of the International Trade Subcommittee, Thomas is a key member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. 
   Thomas was recently quoted in the Tokyo Newspaper about his position on U.S. beef. He said he wants to shift the trade focus to direct negotiations with Asian markets instead of imposing sanctions as has been the case in the past. The Tokyo newspaper said beef is a food item of national pride in America, similar to rice in Japan.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 