SEN. THOMAS ASSERTS ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS
  During a hearing today to consider two commissioners for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), Sen. Craig Thomas, R-Wyo., asserted to the nominees the importance of creating modern and reliable infrastructure in Wyoming.  
   Thomas' comments come as part of his plan to develop coal to wire technology to deliver electricity to power hungry markets around the nation fueled by Wyoming coal. 
   Here is the Senator's statement from today's hearing: 
   "The FERC's regulatory oversight of interstate electricity, natural gas, and oil transactions is tremendously important to Wyoming. My state produces a huge amount of the energy for the United States." 
   "We send a tremendous amount of these products to other regions. It is a priority for me to ensure that our infrastructure is robust in the West." 
   "It is essential to the people of Wyoming, and the nation, that we are able to get the energy we produce to the markets that need it. The need for modern and reliable infrastructure was the basis for many of the provisions contained in the Energy Bill that we passed last year and the basis for many of the provisions I authored. 
   "I think FERC has done a good job of adhering to Congress's intent in that bill. All of these efforts, of course, are meant to provide Americans with affordable energy." 
   Thomas queried the nominees about the need for Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs) to pave the way for projects such as the Frontier Line. 
   Nominees agreed that Interstate Agreements allow for the collaboration necessary to make the Frontier Line possible. They said the Frontier Line is a good example of working toward a regional energy solution. FERC needs to be a part of that effort to make sure it works as well as possible. Wyoming has energy to export and there are areas where the energy is needed, the nominees agreed. 
   Thomas has led the way in encouraging FERC to build a partnership with the states to ensure a reliable power grid. While FERC has the authority to convene joint boards with state regulators, they have yet to do it.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441. 
 
 