WASHINGTON EVENTS TO HONOR FORMER PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN
  Sens. Craig Thomas and Mike Enzi, and Rep. Barbara Cubin, all R-Wyo., have provided interested Wyoming residents with a schedule of events to honor former President Ronald Reagan, as well as information pertaining to Capitol tours and office closures. In observance of the National Funeral and burial, President George W. Bush has proclaimed Friday, June 11 as a National Day of Mourning, therefore, all federal government offices will be closed, including the Washington, DC and state offices of Sens. Thomas, Enzi and Rep. Cubin.  
   The official schedule of arrivals, departures, processions, funerals and burials: 
   Wednesday 
   8:30 a.m. PDT: Reagan family motorcade departs presidential library en route to Naval Base Ventura County in Point Mogu. 
  9:30 a.m. PDT: Aircraft departs Point Mogu for Andrews Air Force Base, outside Washington. 
  5 p.m. EDT: Aircraft arrives at Andrews AFB. 
  6 p.m. EDT: Formal funeral procession to U.S. Capitol, with casket transfer onto horse-drawn caisson at 1600 Constitution Avenue, an open area near the White House and the Washington Monument. 
  7 p.m. EDT: State funeral ceremony in Capitol Rotunda. 
  8:30 p.m. EDT: Lying in state begins in Capitol Rotunda and continues through the night. 
   Thursday 
   All day: Lying in state continues for 24 hours in Capitol Rotunda. 
   Friday 
   10:45 a.m. EDT: Motorcade departs U.S. Capitol. 
  11:30 a.m. EDT: National funeral service at Washington National Cathedral. 
  1:45 p.m. EDT: Motorcade departs National Cathedral. 
  2:45 p.m. EDT: Aircraft departs Andrews AFB. 
  4:45 p.m. PDT: Aircraft arrives at Naval Base Ventura County-Point Mogu. 
  6 p.m. PDT: Motorcade arrives at presidential library. 
  6:15 p.m. PDT: Private internment service at presidential library. 
  7:30 p.m. PDT: Internment ceremony concludes. 
   The body of President Ronald Wilson Reagan will lie in state in the Rotunda of the United States Capitol from 7:00 p.m. Wednesday June 9, through Friday morning, June 11. Below is important information concerning this week at the Capitol. 
   Tours 
   The Capitol closed to tours at 4:30 p.m. Monday, June 7. The Capitol is currently closed for all tours-both staff-led and public-through Friday, June 11, and will reopen for tours on Saturday, June 12. 
   * Rotunda Arrival Ceremony - Wednesday, June 9 at 7:00 p.m. 
   An Arrival Ceremony will be held in the Capitol Rotunda following a procession up Constitution Avenue. This ceremony will be open only to President Reagan's immediate family, Senators and members of the House of Representatives, visiting heads of state, and other government officials. Due to space constraints, spouses may not attend this ceremony. 
   * Lying in State - Public Viewing - June 9, 10 and 11 
   At approximately 8:30 p.m. after the Arrival Ceremony on Wednesday, the Capitol Rotunda will open to the public. Staging for public entry will be on the West Front of the Capitol. The Rotunda will remain open to the public 24-hour-a-day until early Friday morning, June 11. Photographs are not permitted during the viewing and visitors must pass through several security check-points. Visitors are encouraged to call 202-225-6827 for recorded information regarding the public viewing. 
   * National Funeral - Friday, June 11 
   On Friday morning at 10:30 a.m., the body of President Reagan will depart the Capitol for the funeral service at the Washington National Cathedral. The National Funeral in his honor will be held at 11:30 a.m. at the Washington National Cathedral.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 