SEN. THOMAS JOINS SENATE COLLEAGUES TO GATHER MEDICARE FACTS
  Continuing his determined pursuit to provide seniors and people with disabilities access to affordable prescription drugs, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) joined with other members of the Senate Finance Committee to discuss the newly implemented Medicare Drug Discount Cards. The discount cards were activated on June 1.  
   "Whenever I travel back to Wyoming, the one thing I hear more often than anything else is about the cost of health care. I couldn't agree more and I have worked to lower drug costs. We have delivered on our promise of Medicare reform and now folks need to take advantage of the cost saving benefits of these cards," Thomas said. 
   Thomas joined his colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee to receive testimony from Mark McClellan, who is the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). McClellan said, "Today, Medicare is taking an important step forward to provide overdue help with drug costs for Medicare beneficiaries. Real discounts are now available to beneficiaries struggling with drug costs, and substantial additional financial help is available to low-income beneficiaries. Seniors and people with disabilities who signed up early are starting to use their cards today to get real savings on the prescription drugs." 
   Analysis by CMS shows that Medicare beneficiaries can expect discounts up to 18 percent of the average retail prices for name brand drugs and discounts between 30 and 60 percent on generic drugs. The amount of money each senior will save depends on the number and types of medications they take. 
   According to statistics provided by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, over 2.87 million people have signed up for the drug discount cards. Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson said, "Seniors can't afford to leave this money on the table. The only risk is in doing nothing and continuing to pay full prices for your drugs." 
   Senator Thomas is encouraging all Wyoming seniors and people with disabilities who currently do not have drug coverage to sign-up for the cards. Further information can be found at the Medicare website or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE. 
   "These cards have only been in use for a week, and we can already see benefits. I encourage everyone to learn about the program," Thomas said.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 