SEN. THOMAS: PARK POLICIES NEED MORE PUBLIC INPUT
  Sen. Craig Thomas has recommended that the National Park Service extend the public comment period for the proposed management policies. The extra time will allow the service to bring the document in line with the input gathered so far and allow additional public input.  
   "With further public and congressional input, the Park Service can develop clear guidance for park managers and employees," Thomas said. "I've encouraged the service to extend the public comment period." 
   "While each park has unique needs, the managers should be guided by a consistent vision for how to achieve both resource preservation and improved visitor services," the National Parks Chairman said. 
   "The updated policy will help the 21st century managers preserve natural resources while assuring positive visitor experiences at the parks. The focus of the park service will remain consistent with the Organic Act," Thomas said. 
   "Further, the 1998 Omnibus Act requires that these policies go a step further in ensuring a more efficient and socially relevant National Park Service for the future. I've encouraged the service to incorporate both better business practices and more efficient use of resources - management policies are part of that effort," Thomas said. 
   The management document provides park managers policy guidance to achieve the Service's mission to preserve park resources while providing for their enjoyment by present and future generations. Thomas held a hearing on the management policies on Nov. 1. 
   The 90-day public review and comment period for the proposed management policies is expected to be extended by at least 30 days. The NPS is expected to make an announcement about the comment period soon. 
   The draft was undertaken in response to interest from Congress in seeing the NPS review its policies and interest from the Department of the Interior in ensuring achievement of both the NPS visitor enjoyment and preservation mission. 
   Thomas remains confident that the NPS will come up with management polices that are consistent with the Organic Act and more useful to managers for the future.
 
 