SENS. THOMAS, ENZI CALL ON STUDENTS TO PARTICIPATE IN SENATE PROGRAM
  Wyoming Sens. Craig Thomas and Mike Enzi today announced the United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP) has begun its statewide selection process. Two Wyoming students will join 102 other delegates next February 26 through March 5, 2005 for the program's 43rd Annual Washington Week.  
   "This program is one of the best ways for a student to learn about our government, and take a first-hand look at the day-to-day operations of the government. The Senate is an incredible institution, bound by tradition and importance, and we look forward to sharing our home-away-from-home with these two exceptional students," Thomas and Enzi said. 
   The program was established in 1962 by Senate Resolution 324, which stated: "That the Senate hereby expresses its willingness to cooperate in a nationwide competitive high school program which would give several representative high school students from each state a short indoctrination into the operation of the United States Senate and the Federal Government generally, if such a program can be satisfactorily arranged and completely supported by private funds with no expense to the Federal Government." 
   Since then, more than 4,200 students have participated in this unique leadership program. Each year, this program brings two students from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity to Washington to experience an intensive weeklong governmental study. USSYP is fully funded by the William Randolph Hearst Foundation- -no government funds are utilized. 
   In addition to outstanding leadership abilities and a strong commitment to volunteer work, the students rank academically in the top one percent of their states. They continue to excel and develop impressive qualities that are often directed toward public service. Each of the 104 student delegates will receive a $5,000 college scholarship, in addition to the all-expenses paid trip to the nation's capital. The student delegates will visit Capitol Hill, the White House, the Pentagon, State Department, Supreme Court and other highlights in Washington. They will meet with Senators, cabinet officers, government leaders and policy-makers. 
   The delegate selection is administered by each state's chief school officer in cooperation with high school principals. Delegates must be junior or senior elected student officers for the 2004-2005 academic year and reside in the state where they attend school. Eligibility considerations may be made for student representatives elected or selected (selected by a panel, commission or board) to district, regional or state-level civic or educational organizations. 
   Each student must be a permanent resident of the United States and currently enrolled in a public or private secondary school located in the state (including for these purposes the District of Columbia) in which either one of his or her parents or guardians legally resides. Exceptions to the residency rule are made for the Department of Defense Education Activity and for states with schools under Interstate Compacts. 
   Names of students selected will be announced mid-December. Since application deadlines vary by state, interested students in Wyoming should contact their high school principal or the selection administrator listed below: 
   Mr. Bruce Hayes
  Wyoming Department of Education
  Facilities & School Safety Consultant
  Hathaway Building
  Cheyenne,WY 82002-0050
  (307) 777-6198
  bhayes1 @state.wy.us
  The United States Senate Youth Program received earlier notification that the selection deadline in the state of Wyoming is October 8, 2004. 
   Last year's participants were Molly Cozzens of Powell and James Kindle of Riverton.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 