SEN. THOMAS CONTINUES PUSH TO PASS HIGHWAY LEGISLATION
  After a six-week Congressional work period in Wyoming, Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) returned to Washington, D.C. today and pushed for passage of comprehensive highway legislation. The highway bill, S. 1072, the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2003 (SAFETEA), will create over three million job opportunities nationwide, and put more than $290 billion into the nation's highway system over the next six years. The legislation is currently in a Conference Committee, where the House and the Senate must reconcile their respective bills.  
   "As I traveled around Wyoming during the August break, folks talked to me about the need to pass the Highway Bill. The lack of a bill is making it difficult to draft long-term contracts, hire workers, and get to work on a number of construction projects. I cannot emphasize how important this measure is to Wyoming's economy by creating jobs for people across the state. The improvement of our transportation systems is crucial to keeping folks employed, and making our roads safe," Thomas said. 
   In the Senate version of SAFETEA, passed in February, Wyoming's highway system is set to receive $1.6 billion over the next six years-a 38 percent increase over current funding levels. This boost will help the state's economy and create nearly 21,000 job opportunities for folks across the state. 
   In a volley of offers and counter-offers, House conferees offered a $299 billion funding total for the six-year extension of the highway bill. This figure is nineteen billion less than the Senate's request for $318 billion. The Senate and House conferees continued efforts to reconcile their bills, and are inching closer to an agreement. 
   Senator Thomas, who sits on the two Senate Committees that have primary jurisdiction over the highway legislation, was at the forefront of the Senate debate to bring much needed highway funds to Wyoming. Thomas is a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and the Senate Finance Committee. 
   "I will do whatever I can to ensure that responsible legislation is passed. It is essential to the infrastructure of our nation's highway system and interstate commerce. The legislation is also crucial to the safety of America's drivers," Thomas said.
   Contact: Carrie Sloan, 202/224-6441.
 
 