SEN. THOMAS PRESSES DOE TO SET CLEAN COAL PRIORITY
  During a Senate Energy Committee hearing today to look at the Department of Energy (DOE) budget, Sen. Craig Thomas questioned Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman about his desire to execute policies laid out in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   "We set out the roadmap, now it's time to carry out our plans, not back away from them. I'm particularly distressed about the lack of support for coal - our economy can't afford to kick out fossil fuels overnight. Coal is our largest current energy resource and majority of the mineable coal is in Wyoming," Thomas said.  
   Thomas sent a letter to Bodman this week urging him to identify funding to implement Western Integrated Coal Gasification Demonstration Project authorized in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   "That is why I authored and was successful in including the Western IGCC Demonstration Project in the energy bill," Thomas said in the letter to Secretary Bodman. 
   "I agree that we need to continue to support advanced R&D proposals. However, the budget lacks bold initiatives to address the near-term energy issues facing our nation. We have insufficient domestic energy supplies and inadequate infrastructure to efficiently bring future supply increases to market," the senator said at today's hearing. 
   "I'm disappointed that the DOE proposal reduces support, particularly in the near-term, for developing new technologies for harnessing energy from our nation's most abundant fossil resource - coal. And I'm frustrated by proposals to eliminate funding for oil and gas research that is targeted at smaller independent producers," Thomas said. 
   "Today the U.S. still relies too heavily on foreign sources of oil - I think most Americans understand that observation. In 2004, the U.S. imported 62 percent of the oil it used. Price increases at the pump are hitting drivers and consumers hard. Energy costs for homeowners are taking a bigger chunk of their income. High natural gas prices are creating financial hardships for U.S. manufacturers and processors. 
   "Renewable energy still makes up only a small fraction of the overall energy mix. World demand for energy is making once reliable U.S. sources less so. While the Energy Policy Act laid out a road map for our future, we also now need to create ways to improve the short and medium term ways to improve our energy outlook. We need to increase domestic energy supplies through production and innovation. And equally vital - we need to modernize our infrastructure. By utilizing cutting edge technologies we can accelerate the protection and improvement of our environment and bring power more efficiently to consumers," Thomas said. 
   During discussions with the Energy Secretary today, Thomas said he was concerned about the lack of focus on near-term solutions, now that we have a long-term roadmap in place in terms of energy policy. 
   A copy of the letter to the DOE is available at: (http://thomas.senate.gov/_files/IGCCLetter.pdf). The Western Integrated Coal Gasification Demonstration Project is Section 413 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   A satellite feed of the exchange between Senator Thomas and Secretary Bodman will be available today from 3:45 to 4 p.m. (EST). The coordinates are AMC 1, Transponder 20 Vertical, Downlink 4100. The video and audio will be available after that time on this website.
   Contact: Cameron Hardy, 202/224-6441.
 
 