SEN. CANTWELL PRAISES PASSAGE OF WILD SKY, PUBLIC LANDS BILLS TO PROTECT WASHINGTON STATE
  Today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) praised passage of the Wild Sky Wilderness Act and a series of public lands bills that would protect some of Washington state's most sensitive, historic, and culturally significant areas. Cantwell has long been committed to protecting Washington state public lands, and worked with many of her colleagues to ensure their preservation for future generations. 
   "I am proud to work on behalf of Washingtonians to make sure these scenic and historic landmarks are preserved and taken care of so their beauty can be recognized for generations to come," said Cantwell. "These are solid bills that will boost tourism and provide more opportunities for Washington state residents, and tourists, to take part in, and enjoy our natural heritage."
   The following bills were part of the package supported by Cantwell and passed by the Senate:
   The Wild Sky Wilderness legislation led by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) would permanently protect 106,577 acres of the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest as wilderness. The area lies just north of Highway 2 in the Cascade Mountains, and is only 90 minutes by car from 2.5 million Washington residents. The bill has passed through the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and will now go to the President's desk to be signed into law.
   "Wild Sky will provide Washington state with its first new wilderness in two decades," said Cantwell. "Creating this new wilderness area in Washington means more opportunities for outdoor enthusiasts, a boost to tourism, protection for wildlife habitats and preservation of clean water sources. After years of hurdles and obstacles, I'm so proud to see this day finally come."
   The bipartisan National Heritage Area bill will designate the lower Columbian River in Pacific, Wahkiakum, Clatsop, and Columbia counties as a National Heritage area. Cantwell is an original cosponsor of the Columbia-Pacific National Heritage Area Study Act, which was introduced by Senator Gordon Smith (R-OR) last year.
   "The Lower Columbia River has played an instrumental role in the history and development of the Pacific Northwest, and this designation will help ensure the region continues to attract visitors to help support a sustainable tourism economy,"said Cantwell.
   Cantwell has long emphasized the need to protect and promote recreation on America's public lands, including in our National Parks and National Forests.
 
 