SEN. CANTWELL CONTINUES WORK TO ENSURE BETTER SAFETY AND TRAINING FOR WILDLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Wednesday, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee held a hearing on legislation introduced by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) that would implement important wildland firefighter safeguards and require a review of the effectiveness of firefighter training. At the hearing, Cantwell questioned federal firefighting officials on her legislation and on wildland firefighter safety. 
   Cantwell's Wildland Firefighter Safety Act would require that contract firefighters receive the same training as federal firefighters, and would create a federal program administered by the Secretaries of Interior and Agriculture to monitor and enforce compliance. The bill would also require a system to track the money spent on wildland firefighter safety and training, and direct the Secretaries of Interior and Agriculture to jointly submit a report on the implementation and efficacy of wildland firefighter safety and training programs.  
   [Cantwell's opening statement, as prepared for delivery, follows below] 
   "Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this important hearing on my legislation, the Wildland Firefighting Safety Act. I know that wildland firefighting and the safety of wildland firefighters is a very important subject for both of us. 
   "Mr. Chairman, when wildfires do occur we rely on courageous men and women to protect our communities and natural resources. Every summer, we send thousands of brave firefighters into harm's way to protect our nation's rural communities and public lands. 
   "Of course, fighting fires is inherently dangerous. But we must not abide preventable deaths: We must not lose firefighters simply because rules are broken, policies are ignored, and no one is held accountable. 
   "Five years ago, Washington state suffered a horrible tragedy. On July 10, 2001, near Winthrop in Okanogan County, during the second worst drought in Washington history, the Thirtymile fire burned out of control and four courageous firefighters died. Sadly, subsequent investigations revealed that they didn't have to die. The Forest Service has said the tragedy [quote] "could have been prevented." 
   "Since then, the courage of the Thirtymile families, standing up and demanding change, has had a positive impact on the safety our wildland firefighters. But we must do much more. 
   "Mr. Chairman, through training and certification we can lower the risk to the brave men and women who protect our forests and communities. It's critical that Congress is actively engaged to ensure this happens. 
   "An Inspector General's report released in March found problems in the Forest Service's oversight of contracting firefighting crews. Hundreds are contracted by the Forest Service and state agencies every year to fight fires. Roughly one-third of the records it sampled showed that fire fighters' qualification standards had not been met. Too many have been dispatched to fight fires without the necessary preparation. 
   "Mr. Chairman, this is not new. A 2003 Seattle Times report cited an internal Forest Service memo identifying the lack of accountability in the contract firefighting program. A 2004 GAO report found that insufficiently trained contract crews hampered firefighting efforts. And a 2004 IG audit found that at the time the Forest Service could not monitor the certification of more than 80 percent of its own firefighters. 
   "That's unacceptable. In light of last month's IG report and a series of other troubling reports over the years from the IG, GAO, OSHA and others, I am concerned that the Forest Service would still object to portions of my bill, S.906, the Wildland Firefighter Safety Act of 2005. 
   "This legislation is a very modest yet important proposal. The Senate has already passed it once as an amendment to the 2003 Healthy Forests legislation, but sadly, it was not included in the conference version of the bill. 
   "It is clear: this bill's provisions are still a necessary tool to ensure that Congress and federal wildland firefighting agencies are as proactive as possible in protecting the lives of wildland firefighters. 
   "First, the Wildland Firefighter Safety Act of 2005 requires the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior to track the funds they spend on firefighter safety and training. Congress and taxpayers deserve to know whether and how federal funds are being spent to ensure the safety of firefighters. 
   "Improved accountability means improved safety: I hope the Forest Service will agree to track its funds as part of the administration's annual budget request. 
   "Second, my legislation requires the secretaries to report to Congress annually on their departments' safety and training programs. We need to monitor federal firefighting agencies and ensure commitments to reform are being acted upon. An annual check-in on safety programs from Congress is essential to making that happen. 
   "Finally, my bill would require private firefighting crews working under federal contracts to receive training consistent with their federal counterparts. This is critical not only to protect those private crews but also to safeguard the federal, state and tribal employees who stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the contractors on the fire line. 
   "And so, Mr. Chairman, we have an obligation to protect and prepare the brave firefighters we send into harm's way. Despite the administration's opposition to the Wildland Firefighter Safety Act in its current form, I believe we can come together to pass this legislation. I thank the chairman and look forward to today's testimony."
 
 