SEN. CANTWELL INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO ENSURE FAIR PENSIONS, BENEFITS FOR HANFORD CONTRACT WORKERS
  Thursday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) joined a coalition of senators to introduce legislation that would ensure fair and equal pension and medical benefits for contract workers at Department of Energy (DOE) sites like Hanford. The "Department of Energy Contractor Employee Equitable Treatment Act" directs the Bush Administration to abandon a proposal that would exclude new contract workers from participation in the DOE's guaranteed defined-benefit pension plan  
   "The administration's proposal would adversely affect many of our state's 40,000 Hanford-related jobs, as well as thousands of other workers across the country," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "It would not only threaten the retirement security of Hanford workers, but would make it harder to recruit and retain workers. My bill would stop this ill-advised plan and ensure fair treatment for all Hanford workers. The federal government needs to honor the responsibilities and commitments it's made to employees and contractor employees at Hanford and throughout DOE." 
   Cantwell's legislation comes in response to a recent notice from DOE indicating that the department intended to cease funding for future defined benefit pension benefits and undermine the medical benefits for contractor employees. Under the policy proposed by the Bush Administration, current Hanford contract workers could continue participating in the existing pension and health care program, but all new contract employees would be ineligible and would have to enroll in their respective employers' packages. Cantwell's legislation would prohibit any funds made available to DOE from being used to implement, administer, or enforce this proposal, and calls for its withdrawal. 
   Last month, Cantwell met with Hanford workers in Tri-Cities to discuss potential changes to their pension plans. At a hearing last year, Cantwell questioned Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman about pensions and health screenings for Hanford workers. Earlier this week, in letters to President Bush Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman, Cantwell called on the administration to abandon the proposal. The legislation she introduced Thursday is another step in the fight to ensure fair and equal benefits for Hanford workers.
 
 