SEN. CANTWELL APPLAUDS PARTIAL REOPENING OF JAPAN TO U.S. BEEF IMPORTS, CALLS FOR FULL ACCESS
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) applauded ongoing efforts Monday to reopen the Japanese market to U.S. beef exports in light of a December 8 determination by the Japanese Food Safety Commission that American beef presents an "extremely low" risk of bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE)--commonly referred to as Mad Cow disease. The Commission's decision is an important step toward fully reopening of the Japanese market to U.S. beef. 
   "This is great news for Washington's cattle industry," said Cantwell. "Ranchers all across our state have been working hard to show our trading partners what we at home already know: Washington beef is safe and we're going to make sure it stays safe. We need to keep pushing Japan to reopen its market to American beef." 
   Japan's Health and Agriculture ministries will now review the Food Safety Commission's conclusions and make a final recommendation to the Japanese government on whether to reopen its market to U.S. beef imports. In a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Robert Portman, Cantwell called on negotiators to continue pressuring Japan to fully reopen its market to U.S. beef. 
   "Regaining complete access to the Japanese market is extremely time sensitive and of paramount importance to cattle ranchers and the rural communities in which they farm," wrote Cantwell. "I urge that you continue pressing Japanese negotiators for complete market access." 
   After the 2003 discovery of a BSE-infected cow in Washington State, Japan closed its borders to American beef, even though the calf was of Canadian origin. Since the closure, Washington state cattle producers have lost $190 million each year, and the U.S. meat industry has lost 10,000 jobs overall. Japan was the largest importer of U.S. beef prior to 2004. 
   [The text of the letter follows below] 
   December 9, 2005 
   The Honorable Robert J. Portman United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20508 
   Dear Ambassador Portman, 
   I appreciate your leadership and consistent efforts to negotiate the reopening of the Japanese market to U.S. beef exports. As you know, prior to 2004, Japan represented the largest export market for U.S. beef and beef products. Since the Japanese market was closed, the U.S. cattle industry has lost nearly $100 million each month. Although Japan's announcement today that it will ease its restrictions on U.S. beef is a significant development, I urge that you continue pressing Japanese negotiators for complete market access of U.S. beef. This goal must remain a top priority. 
   After the December 23, 2003 announcement by the U.S. Department of Agriculture that bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) had been discovered in a cow in Washington State, Japan closed its borders to American beef. As a result, the industry has lost $1.5 billion annually. Washington state cattle producers alone have lost $190 million each year. In addition, it is important to note that the U.S. meat industry has lost 10,000 jobs since December 2003-primarily due to the loss of key export markets. To reopen closed markets and assure consumers that U.S. beef is safe, USDA and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have taken numerous steps to strengthen feed standards and other safeguards to prevent the spread of this disease within the U.S. herd. Although I support FDA promulgating new rules to further strengthen our domestic feed standard, USDA's expanded surveillance program has shown that our current safeguards are robust and effective. 
   On December 8, the Japanese Food Safety Commission announced its determination that the risk of BSE from the United States and Canadian beef imports is "extremely low." However, subsequent to this determination, Japan has maintained that U.S. beef imports will be limited to meat from cattle under-21 months in age. As you know, this constitutes just a partial reopening of the Japanese market. 
   With our border reopened to Canada, the importation of live cattle continues to place downward pressure on domestic cattle prices. At the same time, skyrocketing fuel prices have exacerbated transportation costs. Due to the nature of livestock markets, it is nearly impossible for our producers to pass any of this increased cost to consumers. Therefore, regaining complete access to the Japanese market is extremely time sensitive and of paramount importance to cattle ranchers and the rural communities in which they live. 
   Once again, I want to extend my appreciation to you for your tireless efforts to reopen markets for U.S. beef. Thank you in advance for your continued diligence and commitment to negotiating full access to the Japanese market. 
   Sincerely, 
   Maria Cantwell
  United States Senator
 
 