WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  * Seeking Justice For Ratepayers, Businesses, and Utilities Gouged By Enron's Illegal Contracts
   Last week the Department of Justice Enron Task Force finally indicted former Enron CEO Ken Lay. I welcome this news, but I remain very concerned that the nation's top federal energy regulators had fallen down on the job by failing to provide justice to Americans gouged by Enron's illegal energy market manipulation. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has refused to take action to cancel Enron's contracts with local utilities, such one with Snohomish PUD in Washington state. In fact, Enron is suing Snohomish for $122 million and other utilities in California and Nevada for another $500 million. 
  I have posted documents on my web site showing that at the same time Enron traders were manipulating energy markets, Ken Lay lobbied for the appointment of federal energy regulators who would support Enron's energy market deregulation schemes. The documents are available at http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/docs/kenlayindictment.pdf (the Ken Lay indictment) and http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/docs/kenlay.pdf (the lobbying letter and memo).
  In a letter supporting the appointment of FERC Chairman Pat Wood and Commissioner Nora Brownell, Lay wrote, "any candidate should be a strong supporter of the need for FERC to continue its role in deregulating the electric industry." Lay endorsed Wood, then Chairman of the Texas Public Utility Commission, because he "supports free markets" and implemented the Texas deregulation plan. Lay supported Brownell because she "supports free markets and was the swing vote enabling Pennsylvania to open its electric markets to competition."
  Will Lay's indictment lead to justice for Americans who were gouged by Enron's illegal energy market manipulation? The Department of Justice has done its job. Why aren't federal energy regulators doing theirs? Why are they sitting on their hands? I'm going to keep pressing for answers to these questions, and justice for ratepayers.
  * Working to Protect Our Nation's Beef Consumers and Producers From Mad Cow Disease 
  I'm glad to report that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has taken an important step forward in fighting mad cow disease, and protecting our nation's consumers and beef producers. On Friday, officials announced that the FDA has reached a preliminary conclusion that it should propose removing all specified risk materials (SRMs), which include bovine spinal and brain tissue, from all animal feed. Scientists agree that SRMs cause mad cow disease and that banning them from all animal food is a critical part of preventing the spread of mad cow disease. For example, contaminated feed from a Canadian feed mill caused the case of mad cow disease in the diseased cow discovered in Mabton, Washington, late last year.
   I proposed such a ban in legislation I introduced last February. My bill would ban SRMs from all animal feed. Current rules ban feeding cattle the animal feed that includes the kinds of dangerous materials that cause mad cow disease, but since the feed is still freely available on the market and can be fed to other farm animals, it is possible for cows to consume tainted feed by mistake.
  However, despite the announcement, the FDA has not yet issued a final regulation including a ban on SRMs in animal feed. Instead, the Department will now hear public comment on how to proceed. This is an important opportunity for consumers and producers alike to voice their opinions. I have been proud to work with the consumers, cattlemen, and state officials on this issue. I encourage all of you to share your opinion with FDA officials.
  You can send your comments on FDA's proposal by mail to: Dockets Management Branch (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Room 1061, Rockville, MD 20852. You can also share your views electronically, either by emailing them to fdadockets@oc.da.gov or through FDA's web site at www.fda.gov/dockets/ecomments. Whichever method you choose, please ensure that you include in your submission the docket number 2004N-0264. FDA will accept public comment on this proposal for the next month. 
   * Visiting Washington, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I would welcome the opportunity to meet you. This week, on Thursday, July 15 at 8:30 a.m., I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington, D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a reservation form online by visiting my web site at http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html.
 
 