SENATE AGAIN APPROVES SEN. CANTWELL MEASURE TO USE UNMANNED AIRCRAFT ON NORTHERN BORDER
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) commended the Senate's unanimous approval Wednesday of a year-long pilot program to examine the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) along America's northern border. The Cantwell-championed proposal to use UAVs to boost security along our 4,000-mile-long northern border was added to legislation to fund the Department of Homeland Security during 2007. Bellingham, Washington is currently one of two operational sites that could serve as a base for these UAVs. There are three additional sites under consideration that are not yet operational.  
   "Right now, we're not doing enough to secure our northern border and it simply isn't fair to ask Washingtonians to bear the risks resulting from the federal government's failure to get serious about enforcing our laws and securing our borders," said Cantwell. "Our northern border is nearly twice as long as our southern border, with rugged stretches of uninhabited terrain in places like the North Cascades and the Colville National Forest. By using cutting-edge technology, we can deliver cost-effective enforcement and surveillance to these areas, and can save taxpayer dollars and strengthen our local economy at the same time." 
   UAVs may provide a less expensive solution than manned aircraft for conducting surveillance on our borders. For example, UAVs range from a few thousand to a few million dollars and can fly for much longer periods of time before needing to refuel. They can also eliminate the possible loss of life associated with manned aircraft. The P-3 manned aircraft used by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement cost $36 million each. Blackhawk helicopters, which are frequently used on America's borders, including Washington state's border with Canada, cost $8.6 million each. However, the benefit of the Blackhawk's relative low cost is diminished by its lack of endurance. Blackhawks have a maximum endurance of just over 2 hours before needing to refuel. 
   The bipartisan proposal, sponsored by Senators Cantwell and Max Baucus (D-MT), was included Wednesday in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2007. It was previously included in the immigration reform bill approved by the Senate in May, but this bill is now stalled. UAVs have already been tested and used along America's southern border. Using UAVs along the northern border would not only expand the reach and effectiveness of border agents in a cost-effective way, but would also provide opportunities for local UAV manufacturers like Insitu, which is based in Bingen, Washington. 
   Cameras and other sensors mounted on UAVs can identify objects as small as a shoebox from altitudes as high as 60,000 feet. UAVs can also provide precise and real-time imagery to a ground control operator for prolonged periods of time over a wide area. Ground operators can then disseminate the information gathered so that informed decisions regarding the deployment of border patrol agents to intercept illegal immigrants, drug smugglers, and other illegal activities can be made quickly.
 
 