SEN. CANTWELL MEASURES INCLUDED IN HOMELAND SECURITY LEGISLATION PASSED BY SENATE
  Thursday night, the Senate passed key homeland security initiatives championed by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) as part of legislation to fund the Department of Homeland Security during 2007. The legislation includes initiatives sponsored by Cantwell to ban border tunnels and begin a pilot program to test the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) along the northern border. It also includes Cantwell-backed measures to create a pilot program to use a new system for scanning U.S.-bound cargo containers at three foreign ports. Cantwell applauded the inclusion of these initiatives, but criticized the Senate's failure to reverse deep cuts to the Homeland Security Grant Program and other initiatives that support first responders across the country. 
   "We took a number of critical steps toward securing our ports and borders," said Cantwell. "By banning border tunnels and getting unmanned aircraft to patrol our rugged northern border, we can strengthen our nation's security. And with an improved system to screen cargo at foreign ports of origin, we can more effectively expand our borders and develop a far more reliable port security system."  
   The Senate approved a bipartisan amendment sponsored by Norm Coleman (R-MN) and supported by Cantwell that would create a pilot program at three foreign ports to test a system using integrated technologies to scan cargo containers before shipping them to U.S. ports. 
   The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2007 also includes a ban on the construction, use, or financing of border tunnels. Currently, tunnel construction is not a crime, meaning suspects only face drug conspiracy or illegal immigration charges, and are not charged for the actual tunnel construction. According to the Drug Enforcement Agency, well over 30 tunnels have been discovered along America's borders since 9/11--including a 360-foot tunnel in Whatcom County. In March, Cantwell joined Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Jon Kyl (R-AZ) to back a border tunnel ban. The legislation was later included in the immigration reform bill, but this bill is now stalled. 
   An amendment introduced by Senator George Voinovich (R-OH) and supported by Cantwell to add $15 million to the Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG) program was also added to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act Thursday. States use these grants for a wide range of multi-purpose disaster preparedness and response. Earlier this year, Cantwell wrote key Appropriations Committee leaders to request additional funding for this important program. In 2005, Washington state received $3.5 million in EMPG funding. 
   The Senate-passed Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act also contains a Cantwell-sponsored amendment to improve communication among state, local, federal, and Canadian law enforcement and security agencies in time for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia. Cantwell's amendment requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to work with the State Department, the Federal Communications Commission, and Washington, Oregon, Montana, Idaho, and Alaska state governments to develop a plan for interoperable communications. 
   "However, Congress missed an opportunity to better provide for our nation's first responders at a time when our communities remain vulnerable," said Cantwell. 
   In 2005, Congress authorized $3.61 billion for the Homeland Security Grant Program. This program aids communities through the State Homeland Security Grant Program, the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program (LETPP), and large urban areas through the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI). In 2005, Washington state first responders received more that $40 million in grants. In 2006, state grants under the program dropped by almost 30 percent. With even more cuts planned this year, Cantwell joined Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY) to sponsor an amendment to add $790 million to the Homeland Security Grant Program during 2007 and bring the funding level up to $3.61 billion. The amendment failed on the Senate floor Wednesday night. Earlier this year, Cantwell sent letters to Appropriators requesting additional funding for several Homeland Security Grant Program initiatives.
 
 