SEN. CANTWELL: NO MAJOR MILITARY BASES IN STATE ON LIST OF BASE CLOSURES
  Sen. Maria Cantwell applauded the Department of Defense announcement to keep all major Washington state military bases in operation, a decision which recognizes the state's importance to our nation's defense. Despite some minor closures and realignments, the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) report released today by the Pentagon actually recommended the state gain a net total of 760 military and civilian personnel. 
   "The Pentagon's announcement is a testament to the hard work our men and women in the military do and the purpose they serve," Cantwell said. "Washington state is a strategic location for our military entering the 21 st Century, and the Pentagon recognized that." 
   "Not only does it appear that no major bases will be closed, Washington state will actually see a net gain of jobs."
   "We've always known the importance of our military bases in Washington state and their contribution to our local communities and economy. Today the Pentagon showed that our bases are equally important to our nation's defense," Cantwell commented. 
   While no major bases in Washington state were recommended for closure, some National Guard and Reserve facilities were on the list for closure. They include the Vancouver Barracks, the Navy-Marine Corps Reserve Center in Tacoma, the Army National Guard Reserve Center in Everett, the U.S. Army Reserve Center Fort Lawton in Seattle, and the 1LT Richard H. Walker U.S. Army Reserve Center. All together, these closures would represent a loss of 267 personnel. (197 military and 70 civilian) 
   Overall, though, Washington state would actually gain 760 personnel. Naval Station Bremerton would gain 1,401 personnel, Naval Air Station Whidbey Island would gain 139, Fort Lewis would gain 230, and Human Resources Support Center North west would gain 23. 
   Three Washington bases were slated for realignment. McChord Air Force Base would lose 567 total personnel, 169 of which belong to a medical unit slated to move to Fort Lewis. Fairchild Air Force Base was recommended to lose 198 total personnel, including the fleet of eight KC-135R tankers to Iowa. Also at Fairchild, the 141 st Air National Guard unit will now be associated with the 92 nd Air Refueling Wing. Submarine Base Bangor would lose 1 civilian position. 
   Washington state's military bases currently employ over 83,000 military and civilian personnel, contributing more than $3.7 billion in payroll to the state's economy each year. If you also consider the full economic impact of the bases, job impact numbers jump to almost 188,000, and payroll climbs to almost $7.3 billion.
   While recommending base closures, the Pentagon considers the current efficiency and uses of the base, plus whether expansion is possible should a future need arise. Other criteria include total saved costs, economic impact on communities near each base, and the environmental costs associated with converting a closed base to civilian property.
   The BRAC process was established by Congress in response to the end of the Cold War, and the changing needs of the military. It sought to cut costs and increase efficiency by shifting the military's resources.
   Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld will hold a press conference later this morning to formally release the list of recommended base closures and realignments. Rumsfeld announced yesterday that the Pentagon decided to recommend closure for fewer major bases than previously expected.
   A nine-member commission, named this past March, will now have until September 8 to present a revised list to the President. In order for the commission to add a base to the list, a supermajority vote (seven of nine) from the commission is required. Only a simple majority - five of nine - is required to remove a base from the list.
   The President has until September 23 to approve the list in full and send to Congress, or disapprove of the list and return it to the commission. If the President returns the list, the commission has until October 20 to submit a new list to the President, who must certify it and send to Congress by November 7.
   If Congress, after receiving the list from President, does not reject it within 45 days, the list becomes law.
 
 