SEN. CANTWELL PORT SECURITY PROPOSALS BECOME LAW
  Friday, as the president signed comprehensive port security legislation into law, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) touted several measures she included in the bill that will help address vulnerabilities at our ports and on our ferries. She also highlighted provisions she was able to add to the Homeland Security Appropriations Act, signed into law by the president on October 4, to increase funding for explosives detection research and development and strengthen northern border security.  
   "Our nation's security must always be our top priority," said Cantwell. "These real, commonsense solutions will boost ferry security, port security, and border security, and will help give law enforcement the resources they need to make our nation a safer place. By confronting known vulnerabilities at our ports, on our ferries, and along our border, we've taken important steps toward protecting America's citizens and communities alike." 
   The comprehensive port security legislation, introduced by Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Patty Murray (D-WA) and signed into law Friday by the president, includes Cantwell-sponsored provisions to strengthen ferry security in Washington state. It also includes Cantwell's proposal to create a pilot program to develop radiation detection technology to scan containers loaded directly onto rail cars from cargo ships. Currently, U.S. customs officials do not scan these containers. 
   Cantwell's ferry security proposal would direct the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and U.S. State Department to work with Canadian officials as well as local ferry operators to develop a plan to conduct explosives inspections of passengers and vehicles on each U.S.-bound ferry before the ferry departs from Canada. At present, explosives screenings on Washington State Ferries take place when passengers and vehicles traveling from Canada disembark at ports in the U.S., leaving ferries vulnerable in transit. 
   A modified version of Cantwell's legislation to accelerate the Coast Guard's inspection of foreign ports that ship cargo to the U.S. was also included in the final port security bill. This provision authorizes re-inspection of foreign ports every three years. 
   The final version of the Homeland Security Appropriations Act, given final approval by Congress on September 29 and signed into law by the president on October 4, contains Cantwell-sponsored provisions to criminalize border tunnel construction and financing, and increases investment in bomb detection research and development. The bill also includes Cantwell-sponsored legislation to test the use of unmanned aerial systems (UAS) to patrol the northern border, and test a new Integrated Container Scanning System (ICIS) at three foreign ports.
 
 