SEN. CANTWELL ANNOUNCES SENATE PASSAGE OF HER UPPER WHITE SALMON PROTECTION BILL AT WASHINGTON CONSERVATION VOTERS BREAKFAST
  During the Washington Conservation Voters breakfast today in Seattle, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) announced that her legislation to protect about 20 miles of the upper White Salmon River and Cascade Creek in the Gifford Pinchot National Forest has passed the Senate. 
   "This is an exciting day for local business leaders, environmentalists, and whitewater sports fans," Cantwell said. "The protection of these portions of the White Salmon River and Cascade Creek will ensure that this river will be enjoyed by area residents - and visitors who provide important revenue for the local economy - for many years to come." 
   Cantwell's bill would protect about 20 miles of the upper White Salmon River and Cascade Creek, all currently within the Gifford Pinchot National Forest, as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. The designation will permanently safeguard important wildlife habitat along the upper third of the White Salmon River, maintaining a premiere recreational destination, and an economic resource for Southwest Washington. 
   Cantwell (D-WA) announced the introduction of her bill in August 2003 during a press conference at the Vancouver headquarters of the United States Forest Service. In a show of support, several local business leaders joined her at the announcement, including Dean Hostetter, the owner of "The Farm" Bed & Breakfast in Trout Lake. 
   Hostetter said, "Senator Cantwell has done a great job of developing her Upper White Salmon Wild and Scenic Rivers Act and moving it through the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Environmental and business interests are both well served by this bill. Our bed & breakfast will benefit so much from passage of her bill, and 20 miles of this beautiful river will receive permanent protection." 
   Cantwell herself has been whitewater rafting along the White Salmon River and spent part of her most recent August vacation enjoying the beauty of the area. 
   Cantwell's bill passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, of which Cantwell is a member, on September 15. With the full Senate's approval coming late Sunday night, Cantwell hopes the House of Representatives will pass the legislation before Congress adjourns for the year. 
   The Bush administration declared its support for the bill during testimony at a subcommittee hearing on July 21. 
   Mark Rey, Department of Agriculture Undersecretary for Natural Resources and the Environment, said, "The department supports enactment of S. 1614, the Upper White Salmon and Scenic Rivers Act." 
   At that same hearing, Cantwell showed her colleagues a petition supporting her proposal signed by 102 local citizens, with 30 of those individuals representing businesses. 
   The local petition read, "This is a magnificent gem of a river, with waters that plunge through rugged canyons and provide many benefits for small towns on the way - organic herb and dairy farms; river rafting; kayaking; bed and breakfast enterprises; tourism; hiking; fishing; camping; wildflower viewing; sales of gas and food. These are only a few of the businesses and recreational activities that provide livelihoods for residents of our rural region." 
   The Washington Conservation Voters hosted their "Wake Up for Your Environment" event this morning at the Westin Hotel in Seattle. 
   Senate passage of her White Salmon legislation came less than a week after Cantwell's bipartisan bill with Rep. Jennifer Dunn to expand Mt. Rainier National Park was signed into law by the president. Both houses of congress have also approved Cantwell's legislation with Rep. Brian Baird (D-WA-03) to create a Lewis & Clark National Historic Park, which now awaits the president's signature.
 
 