SEN. CANTWELL WINS KEY COMMITMENT FOR SENATE ACTION ON ACCURATE GAS MILEAGE LEGISLATION
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today won a key commitment from top Senators to consider her fuel efficiency "Truth In Labeling" measure in upcoming transportation legislation.  
   Senate Commerce Surface Transportation Subcommittee Chairman Trent Lott (R-MS) and Ranking Member Daniel Inouye (D-HI) made the pledge during a Commerce Committee meeting in Washington , DC today. 
   "Gas mileage stickers that appear on today's new cars inflate vehicles' true fuel economy performance by anywhere from 10 percent to 30 percent," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate's Commerce and Energy Committees. " That's because federal government laboratory tests rely on out-dated procedures and false assumptions." 
   "For example, they assume that people drive 48 miles per hour on the freeway and never use their air conditioners." 
   Cantwell's measure would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and federal Department of Transportation-which provide gas mileage information for the stickers-to update their fuel economy testing to reflect today's real-life driving conditions. 
   "We need to make sure American consumers are given the accurate information, so they can make smart choices about the cars they buy," Cantwell added. "American drivers spent hundreds of dollars more on gas last year than they thought they would, because of the inaccurate information they got when they bought their cars. With gas prices going through the roof, the least we can do is make sure the federal government is providing consumers accurate data so they can make informed purchasing decisions." 
   Accurate consumer information about gas mileage is particularly important in view of predictions that world oil markets will remain volatile for the foreseeable future, with entities such as the International Monetary Fund and investment bank Goldman Sachs predicting that prices could spike to more than $100 a barrel in coming years. Oil prices have hovered at about $50/barrel so far in 2005, compared to the $30/barrel range at this time in 2004. Meanwhile, gasoline prices in Washington state have risen almost 56 cents per gallon compared to last year at this time. According to the Energy Information Administration, gas prices in Washington are now averaging $2.44 a gallon. 
   Cantwell secured the commitment at a mark-up this morning, at which the Senate Commerce Committee considered the Surface Transportation Safety Improvement Act of 2005. While the panel did not vote on any amendments before approving the legislation today, the Committee's leadership promised Cantwell to consider including her fuel efficiency "truth in labeling" provisions in the bill when it is brought to the Senate floor.
 
 