FARM BILL PASSES SENATE WITH KEY INVESTMENTS IN WASHINGTON AGRICULTURE
  As part of her on-going commitment to improve the quality of life and economic vitality of rural Washington, Friday U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) praised the final passage of the Food and Security Act of 2007 by a vote of 79 to 14. The bill includes critical provisions that will benefit Washington state farmers, who grow more than 250 varieties of fruits, vegetables, as well as wheat and other crops. Washington is ranked first in the nation in the production of several specialty crops, including apples, red raspberries, sweet cherries, pears, and Concord grapes. With $2.2 billion directed towards fruit and vegetable programs, the 2007 Farm Bill is the best in history for specialty crop growers, and is likely the best in history for Washington state. Additionally, the bill contains strong nutrition and conservation titles-both priorities for Cantwell.
  "This Farm Bill is the strongest in recent memory and directly benefits Washington's agriculture economy and farmers," said Cantwell. "Not only does it improve the economic vitality of rural communities, it enhances nutrition, conservation, and energy security across the country. It also invests in expanding food and nutrition programs for families, the elderly, the disabled, and will improve the health and wellness of American children."  
  Earlier this week Cantwell led the charge to defeat Republican leadership's attempts to strip the Asparagus Market Loss Program from the 2007 Farm Bill. The Asparagus Market Loss Program would provide $15 million to compensate asparagus growers for industry losses as a result of the Andean Trade Preference Act and the Peru Trade Promotion Agreement. Market loss funds will be used to offset costs to domestic asparagus producers to plant new acreage and invest in more efficient planting and harvesting equipment. Washington is ranked second in the nation in the production of asparagus.
  From her seat on the Finance Committee, Cantwell set aside funding that is critical for specialty crop and wheat growers, as well as many other farmers, in a disaster relief trust fund to help farmers when crops are destroyed after natural disasters. This trust fund is unique in that it sets aside a permanent disaster relief fund to be used when a disaster strikes, as opposed to the current method of disaster relief through ad hoc appropriations that must be passed after a disaster has occurred. Having funds already set aside will mean that our growers receive help when they need it, as opposed to years later.
  Cantwell also successfully included language refining the Tree Assistance Program (TAP) and continues to work to ensure the program is implemented effectively so farmers have access to crucial funds. While other programs provide only for disaster assistance involving apples, cherries, pears or other crops themselves in the event of a disaster, TAP focuses on helping growers replace and replant the actual tree on which their crop is grown. This program is of particular importance for Washington, given that one-half of the state's agriculture economy depends on specialty crops, many of which are grown on trees. Cantwell's amendment had six co-sponsors, including Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Ron Wyden (D-OR). 
  "Additionally, this bill provides for biomass and bioenergy research programs and focuses in part on cellulosic feedstock, which is key for Washington's farmers," Cantwell continued. "These research programs are not only critical to the creation of new, clean energy sources and reducing our dependence on foreign oil, they provide another valuable domestic market for our farmers. By focusing our efforts on expanding the involvement of our farmers in creating clean renewable energy, we are helping our farmers, helping our environment and being good stewards of the taxpayer dollar."
 
 