SEN. CANTWELL WORKS TO PROTECT NATIONAL SECURITY BY INCREASING OPPORTUNITIES, DEVELOPMENT IN PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN
  In an effort to protect U.S. national security interests, today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) introduced legislation to increase economic development, while helping curb extremism and narco-trafficking in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Cantwell's bill would give the president the authority to establish "Reconstruction Opportunity Zones" (ROZs) in Pakistan's frontier area with Afghanistan and within Afghanistan. These ROZs would permit non-trade sensitive exports (i.e. textiles, apparel, agricultural products, and hand-crafted goods) from these areas to enter the U.S. duty-free, creating a strong incentive for private sector investment and job-creation. 
   "We hear countless stories about increased violence and a lack of economic development in Pakistan and Afghanistan," said Cantwell. "Creating ROZs will promote opportunities as alternatives to extremism and narco-trafficking. Our country's national security is too important to ignore the fact that too many Pakistanis and Afghanis are resorting to any means necessary to support their families. By teaching someone to use a sewing machine rather than a gun, we can foster economic opportunities that benefit all our countries. ROZs should become part of a long-term international strategy to promote sustainable economic development in the region."
   In order for an area to be designated as a ROZ so that goods may qualify for benefits, the president must determine that Pakistan or Afghanistan have established, or are making continual progress towards establishing: a market-based economy; the rule of law; the elimination of barriers to U.S. trade and investment; the protection of intellectual property; efforts to combat corruption; policies to reduce poverty; policies increasing availability of health care and educational opportunities; an the protection of human rights and internationally recognized workers rights.
   Establishing ROZs will address the lack of economic development and jobs that has led to areas of Pakistan and Afghanistan becoming a breeding ground for insurgents, terrorists, and drug production. ROZ's create a pathway for economic opportunity thereby replacing zones of instability. A similar program has helped to create thousands of jobs and significantly increased exports from Jordan.
   Congressman Chris Van Hollen (MD-08) will be introducing companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives.
 
 