WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  Holding Enron Accountable and Seeking Justice for Northwest Ratepayers
   I'm happy to report that on Friday night, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued an order tonight that, for the first time, found Enron in violation of its market-based rate authority at the time the Snohomish PUD inked its power sales contract with the now-bankrupt energy giant. In its order, FERC for the first time found that "the termination payments are based on profits Enron projected to receive under its long-term wholesale power contracts executed during the period when Enron was in violation of conditions of its market-based rate authority." 
   Despite mounting evidence of Enron's schemes to manipulate power markets during the Western energy crisis of 2000-2001, Enron has sued Snohomish PUD for collection of $122 million in "termination payments" associated with the contract. Our ratepayers shouldn't be forced to reward criminal activity. Federal regulators have finally begun to do their jobs to stop this wasteful $122 million lawsuit, but I won't rest until ratepayers get the justice they deserve.
   Protecting the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
   This week, I will introduce legislation to prohibit drilling for oil in the wild of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. I have long been opposed to opening this natural treasure to oil exploration for no more than a six month supply of oil that would take a decade or more to extract. I believe this issue is about more than just protecting a unique and irreplaceable part of our country's natural heritage: it's about setting our national priorities for a secure and sustainable energy plan for the future.
   That's why I am particularly troubled that the Senate leadership has chosen to try to sneak language that would open the Arctic Refuge to oil companies through the Senate as part of the massive budget resolution that we will consider this week. I believe this issue is of such importance that it merits a debate of its own. Moreover, the type of budget sleight-of-hand employed by the Republicans violates Senate rules. My bill, an amendment to the budget resolution, will block this manipulation of the rules, and force the issue to be debated on its merits, not hidden by budget chicanery.
   Advancing Bipartisan Tsunami Preparedness Legislation
   The Senate Commerce Committee Legislation has approved legislation I co-sponsored to improve the tsunami warning system for the Pacific coast. Our bipartisan legislation, the "Tsunami Preparedness Act" (S.50), will improve the system of tsunami monitoring buoys off the coast of Washington and across the globe. The bill also includes several provisions I wrote to help these communities - including those in Puget Sound - fund local warning systems and evacuation planning. One such provision will ensure comprehensive vulnerability assessments and inundation mapping for inland bodies of water, including the Puget Sound and Strait of Juan de Fuca. Mapping has been completed for the 45,000 Washingtonians who live within a mile of the coastline, but not for at-risk areas near inland bodies of water, which are home to another 250,000 state residents. Our bill now has 25 Senate co-sponsors, and I'm hopeful that the full Senate will consider and pass it soon.
   Working to Create 10,000 Jobs in Pierce County
   Last week the Senate Indian Affairs Committee my legislation to help the Port of Tacoma expand its Evergreen Shipping Terminal, which could potentially bring more than $450 million in economic investments to the region and creating nearly 6,000 permanent jobs and 4,000 construction jobs in Pierce County. My bill will put tribal-owned land within the Puyallup Indian Reservation into trust status. This legislation is a key part of implementing a win-win-win economic agreement between the Port, Pierce communities, and the Puyallup Tribe, and will benefit all of South Puget Sound, and I'll work hard to pass it through the full
  Senate.
   Visiting Washington, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I would welcome the opportunity to meet you. This week, on Thursday, March 17, at 8:30 a.m., I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington, D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a reservation form online by visiting my web site at http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html
  http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html.
   For more information, please visit my web site:
  http://cantwell.senate.gov
 
 