SEN. CANTWELL METH FUNDING EFFORT PASSES SENATE
  Tuesday, the Senate unanimously approved a bipartisan measure sponsored by Sens. Jim Talent (R-MO) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) to supply states and local communities with $99 million to fight meth through the Hot Spots program.  
   "If we don't fight meth nationwide, we're going to see this problem continue to grow all across the country," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. "Washington is sixth in the country in meth production, and first in the number of children found on meth sites. We need to help local law enforcement shut down labs, investigate violent meth-related crimes, and educate the public about the dangers of meth before even more families become victims. We passed the Combat Meth Act because state and local law enforcement officers need all the help they can get in this fight. Today, we are following through on our commitment to get these funds to local law enforcement officials working to keep our families and communities safe." 
   Earlier this month, Congress approved the Combat Meth Act, which authorized $99 million for the Meth Hot Spots program. However, the president only requested $40 million for this vital anti-meth initiative in his budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2007. The Talent-Cantwell amendment to the pending Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution calls for the full $99 million. 
   The Meth Hot Spots program provides grants to states and communities to train state and local law enforcement officials to investigate and convict meth offenders. In 2005, Washington state received almost $2 million through the program. 
   In January 2005, Cantwell joined Senators James Talent (R-MO) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to support the bipartisan Combat Meth Act, and has fought continuously for increased meth funding and to move precursor drugs used in meth production behind drug store counters nationwide. Cantwell is also the sponsor of The Arrest Methamphetamine Act to curb meth trafficking across the U.S.-Canadian border into Washington, and legislation to investigate the link between meth crimes and identity theft. The growing connection between identity theft, the nation's fastest-growing crime, and the use and production of methamphetamines, is an issue raised often during Cantwell's frequent meetings with Washington state law enforcement officials.
 
 