WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  A WIN FOR FUEL ECONOMY
   Last week the Senate Commerce Committee passed landmark fuel economy legislation that would increase vehicle efficiency for the first time in 20 years. Under the bill passed by the committee, the nationwide average fuel economy for all passenger vehicles sold in the U.S. (including SUVs and light trucks) would rise from 25 miles per gallon today to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. For the first time, the legislation also puts in place fuel economy standards for medium and heavy duty vehicles, and would close the SUV loophole.  
   The legislation also included four additional provisions I authored: a federal gas price gouging ban, a requirement that automakers make 80 percent of their vehicles biofuels capable by 2015, a requirement that car tires be labeled for energy efficiency properties, and a requirement that the government review the accuracy of fuel economy window stickers every five years. More accurate window stickers and detailed tire labels will help consumers make energy efficient choices and save money. Making sure the majority of cars and trucks can run on biofuel blends will provide some competition at the gas pump, while simultaneously cutting air and greenhouse gas emissions and reducing our overdependence on foreign oil. Manufacturers who can prove that compliance would result in a significant economic hardship could get a temporary exception from this biofuels requirement. 
   CARING FOR TROOPS AFFECTED BY TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
   Traumatic brain injuries sustained in the line of duty are devastating to our troops and their families. We owe it to them to improve research and treatments, and to make absolutely certain no one gets caught up in red tape or goes without the care they need along the path to recovery. Traumatic brain injury, caused by concussions resulting from improvised explosive devices, is a signature injury of the war in Iraq. To improve research and care, I've joined Senator Richard Durbin in backing legislation to establish a program within the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs devoted specifically to screening for traumatic brain injury and coordinating care for those affected. Better research and care is critical for our troops who have to deal with this difficult-to-diagnose injury.
   LEVELING THE PLAYING FIELD FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY
   Private investment in renewable energy is an indispensable part of reducing emissions and curbing our overdependence on fossil fuels. To get consumers cleaner, more efficient energy options, I've introduced new legislation to encourage more private investment in this area. My bipartisan bill would help renewable energy compete with fossil fuels. It would enhance and expand tax credits that encourage increased investment, establish predictable incentives for the construction of energy efficient homes and power plants, and encourage broader use of more efficient materials and technologies. It would enhance the ability of public power systems to undertake renewable energy projects and extend credits for the generation of renewable electricity. Making clean energy generation more cost-competitive will reduce America's fossil fuel consumption and make our economy much stronger in the long-run.
   KEEPING OUR OCEANS HEALTHY
   Last Thursday, I chaired a hearing on the effect of greenhouse gasses on ocean health. We cannot continue to ignore the effect these emissions have on our oceans, marine life, and the health of Puget Sound. Human-caused CO2 emissions have increased the global atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration by 35 percent. Over half a trillion tons of carbon dioxide-or one third of all CO2 emissions since the start of the industrial revolution-have been absorbed by our oceans. We're already seeing the impact of climate change in the Pacific Northwest and off our coasts in the Pacific Ocean. Atmospheric CO2 also causes oceans to become more acidic. More acidic oceans could threaten the very foundation of our marine ecosystems, preventing coral from building, and eroding the shells of tiny creatures at the base of the food chain. If we fail to address climate change and increased acidification, we'll be jeopardizing local fishing jobs, the Puget Sound, our coasts, and our Northwest salmon runs. With our scientific expertise, Washington is well-poised to lead the way in confronting this challenge. I've sponsored legislation-The Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act-to help us learn more about this troubling trend, and will continue to make sure we do not ignore this issue.
 
 