SENATE PASSES SEN. CANTWELL-BACKED MEASURE TO EXTEND INVESTIGATION OF IRAQ RECONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
  Tuesday, the Senate unanimously approved a measure backed by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) to continue looking into waste, fraud, and abuse in Iraqi reconstruction. Without the extension, the term of the Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction would have expired on October 1, 2007. The legislation, sponsored by Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI), Susan Collins (R-ME), Cantwell, and others, extends the term until late 2008, ensuring that the important work of the Inspector General continues.  
   "We need more accountability in Iraq, and that includes watching closely how billions of taxpayer dollars are spent on reconstruction," said Cantwell. "The Iraqi people still do not have adequate access to basic services like electricity, clean water, and sanitation. Efforts to rebuild Iraqi hospitals and clinics are behind schedule and millions over-budget; some projects may never be completed. Meanwhile, the Inspector General has uncovered mismanagement, waste, fraud and abuse in reconstruction efforts. Accountability is key to changing course in Iraq and extending the term of the Inspector General is essential to that goal." 
   The measure extending the Inspector General's term was included Tuesday as an amendment to legislation to fund military construction and the Department of Veterans Affairs during 2007. The Inspector General currently oversees approximately $32 billion in Iraq reconstruction contracts and grants, and plays a key role in uncovering and reducing fraud and waste, saving taxpayers millions of dollars. To date, the Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction has issued 73 audit reports and 65 project assessments, resulting in five arrests and the seizure of more than $17 million in assets. 
   Cantwell has called for improved oversight and a change of course in Iraq, and has stressed the need for Iraqis to take charge of their own security so the U.S. can begin bringing our troops home. In August, the Senate passed a resolution sponsored by Senators Cantwell and Joe Biden (D-DE) prohibiting the establishment of permanent U.S. military installations in Iraq.
 
 