SENATE PASSES SEN. CANTWELL MEASURES TO BOOST PORT SECURITY
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) applauded the Senate's approval late Wednesday night of two important amendments she offered to a broad port security package currently under consideration. The first Cantwell amendment would authorize more resources to speed the Coast Guard's inspection of port security in foreign countries that ship cargo to the U.S. The second Cantwell amendment would initiate a pilot program to test technologies that can scan cargo for radiation at ports like the Port of Tacoma where containers are loaded directly onto rail cars.  
   "Reliable port security is absolutely critical, and with the approval of my provisions yesterday, the Senate made improvements to an already strong piece of legislation that will make our country safer," Cantwell said. "To protect our economy and the safety of all Americans, we have an obligation to make certain our ports are secure and Americans are safe." 
   Cantwell's Coast Guard inspection amendment would authorize the Coast Guard to add the personnel needed to complete the inspection of foreign ports by the end of 2008 and maintain a two-year cycle for re-inspection. At present, there are currently only 34 Coast Guard inspectors who review security at foreign ports and the Coast Guard has only been able to inspect ports in about 59 out of the 140 countries that trade with the U.S. The agency currently maintains a re-inspection cycle of 4 to 5 years. 
   The second Cantwell amendment would improve security at ports that load containers directly onto and off of rail cars. Currently, U.S. customs officials do not scan containers that are loaded directly onto rail cars. Cantwell's amendment would direct the Department of Homeland Security to establish a test center at a U.S. port to test technologies that can scan rail containers for radiation. 
   The port security legislation, introduced by Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Patty Murray (D-WA) and backed by Cantwell, would establish minimum cargo container security standards, provide incentives to encourage shippers and importers to improve security beyond minimum standards, and take other important steps toward enhancing security at America's seaports including the authorization of $400 million in port security improvement grants. 
   Also included in the bill is language authored by Cantwell to improve security on Washington State Ferries by directing the Departments of Homeland Security and State to work with their Canadian counterparts and ferry operators to develop a plan to inspect passengers and vehicles on each U.S.-bound ferry before the ferry departs from Canada. At present, explosives screenings take place only when passengers and vehicles traveling from Canada disembark at ports in the U.S.
 
 