SEN. CANTWELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON CONFIRMATION OF JUDGE MARTINEZ
  Today Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) voted to confirm Judge Ricardo S. Martinez for a seat on the District Court for the Western District of Washington. The Senate unanimously approved Judge Martinez's nomination on a 98-0 vote. 
   "I applaud today's vote to confirm Judge Martinez," Cantwell said. "The people of Western Washington will be well-served by this talented and fair jurist. Given Judge Martinez's reputation for even-handedness and thoroughness, it's fitting that he was recommended by a bipartisan selection committee that I believe is a sound model for other states. Members of Washington state's legal community, the White House, and my colleague Sen. Patty Murray and I worked together to review a group of applicants. Together, we all agreed that Judge Martinez is the right person for the job."
   Before today's vote, in a statement Sen. Cantwell reiterated her support for Judge Martinez and urged her colleagues to confirm him. Senator Cantwell's full statement follows below:
   "It is my privilege today to discuss the incredibly talented nominee for a vacancy on the District Court for the Western District of Washington, Judge Ricardo Martinez. The people of Western Washington will be well-served by this talented and fair jurist. 
   "Given Judge Martinez's reputation for even-handedness and thoroughness, it's fitting that he was recommended by a bipartisan selection committee that I believe is a sound model for other states. Members of Washington state's legal community, the White House, and my colleague Sen. Patty Murray and I worked together to review a group of applicants. Together, we all agreed that Judge Martinez is the right person for the job." 
   "Judge Martinez has ably served the people of Washington state as a public servant for more than two decades: as a prosecutor in the state's largest county for ten years; as a Superior Court judge for eight years; and as a United States Magistrate Judge in the Western District of Washington for the past five years. 
   "While serving on the King County Superior Court, Judge Martinez took the lead in helping to create an innovative "drug court" to address the unique challenge of recidivism among drug offenders. He helped build a consensus to try a new approach, and presided over the new court for three years. 
   "And it worked. The "drug court," one of the first in the nation, has helped reduce recidivism rates among those people who successfully complete the program and it has been emulated by many jurisdictions across the country. 
   "Judge Martinez's commitment to his community extends beyond the courtroom. He has volunteered countless hours to help those in need and the homeless; to mentor young people as a coach in several sports; and to raise money for college scholarships for young men from disadvantaged backgrounds. 
   "Those who have worked with Judge Martinez attest to his fundamental sense of fairness and justice. The ABA rated him as "well-qualified" - its highest rating - on a unanimous vote. He also enjoys strong support from the federal bench, and was encouraged to apply for the vacancy by all of the incumbent judges of the Western District. 
   "I am pleased to offer Judge Ricardo Martinez my full support, and I urge my fellow Senators to approve his nomination."
 
 