COMMITTEE CLEARS SEN. CANTWELL'S MEASURE TO STRENGTHEN FEDERAL ANIMAL FIGHTING BAN
  Thursday, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved legislation introduced by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) to bolster federal anti-animal fighting laws. Cantwell's bipartisan Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act calls for felony-level penalties of up to three years in jail for knowingly buying, selling, or transporting animals for the purpose of fighting. It would also make it a felony to knowingly sponsor or exhibit an animal fight, or to buy, sell, or transport weapons for animal fighting. Currently, violating many federal animal-fighting laws only carries a misdemeanor-level punishment of no more than a year in jail.  
   "We need to put an end to this cruel, inhumane practice" said Cantwell. "Getting tougher federal penalties on the books is an important step and will help give law enforcement a new tool in stopping this appalling activity. Heightening aggression and breeding extreme violence in animals for sport, and forcing them to fight and kill, is not acceptable." 
   During an October 2004 raid, Vancouver police found 21 pit bulls along with training logs and other evidence of animal fighting in a Vancouver basement. While building their case, prosecutors discovered a loophole in state law: entering a dog into a fight was a felony, punishable by up to five years in prison and a $10,000 fine, but possessing or training animals for fights carried a far lighter sentence. In May 2005, Governor Christine Gregoire signed an anti-animal fighting bill inspired in part by the Vancouver case. The new state law makes owning, breeding, training, buying, or selling animals for the purpose of fighting a felony. It also makes it a felony to organize or advertise an animal fight, to transport spectators to fights, and to act as a stakeholder for money wagered on animal fights. 
   Cantwell's legislation would implement a similar law at the federal level, bringing federal penalties in line with existing penalties in Washington and other most states. When the current federal animal fighting law was enacted in 1976, just one state had a felony animal fighting penalty. Today, dog fighting is a felony in 48 states while cockfighting is a felony in 33 states. Cockfighting is only legal in New Mexico; no states allow dog fighting. Animal fighting often has connections to other illegal activity, including drug trafficking, unlawful gambling, and illegal firearms use. Children are often present at fights, and dogfighters sometimes steal pets to use as bait while training their dogs. Chickens used in fighting pose a risk of transmitting diseases among animals as well as people. 
   Cantwell's bill has 33 cosponsors and broad, bipartisan support. Cantwell co-sponsored similar legislation during the 107th, 108th, and 109th Congresses, and while the measure passed the Senate during the 109th Congress, it was never passed by the House. This year's companion House bill has 303 cosponsors and was approved by the House Judiciary Committee last month. Endorsements include the National Sheriffs' Association, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the poultry industry.
 
 