SEN. CANTWELL TO FIGHT EFFORTS TO DRILL FOR OIL IN ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today announced that she will introduce an amendment to stop the Bush Administration's plan to drill for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Sen. Cantwell, the chief sponsor of the amendment, was joined by other senators, religious leaders, sportsmen's and labor leaders.  
   "Drilling in the Arctic is not the right answer to national security problems. Drilling for oil on protected lands is the wrong approach at the wrong time," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate's Energy Committee. 
   Even under the most optimistic scenario, drilling for oil in the Arctic would take over ten years and provide only 6 months of oil supply. 
   "Drilling in the Arctic won't lower the costs of gasoline, but it will fill the pockets of big oil companies," Cantwell added. "The combination of innovation and efficiency will do more for America 's energy independence than scatter-shot drilling in pristine lands. 
   Recent estimates by the U.S. Geological Survey suggest there are between 3.2 to 5 billion barrels of economically recoverable oil. The U.S. as a whole was on track to use more than 7.4 billion barrels in 2004, or about 20.4 million barrels per day, according to the federal Energy Information Administration (EIA). The EIA has also estimated that it would take seven to 10 years for oil from the Arctic to reach the market, meaning it would have no effect on today's high gasoline prices. 
   "We can't drill our way to energy independence in the Arctic . Most Americans agree that destroying a natural treasure forever-to secure a six month supply of oil a decade from now-just isn't worth it. There are far better options on the table that rely on American ingenuity, strategic investment, and revitalizing existing sources of oil supply." 
   Cantwell was joined today by Savannah Rose Walters, a 12 year-old from Florida who has created her own public education campaign to try to save the Arctic Refuge. Her Web site is located at www.pumpmeup.org . Also in attendance were Alaskans opposed to Arctic drilling, including Episcopalian Bishop Mark McDonald and members of the Gwich'in tribe. 
   The Senate Budget Committee included in its version of the Fiscal Year 2006 budget resolution provisions that would pave the way to opening the Arctic for oil drilling. As written, the budget directs the Senate Energy Committee to come up with legislation by June 6 that would produce $2.7 billion in new federal revenue, including $2.5 billion from opening up the Arctic Refuge's coastal plain to oil exploration and development. Special rules that guide consideration of this "budget reconciliation" measure would put drilling in the Artic on the fast-track to Senate approval. The amendment Cantwell will offer this week would strip the budget resolution's "reconciliation instruction" to the Senate Energy Committee. 
   During the last Congress, Senate Republicans tried a similar procedural maneuver, attaching Arctic drilling to the Fiscal Year 2004 budget resolution. On March 19, 2003, the Senate struck that provision down on a 52-48 vote. 
   Also joining Cantwell were Sens. John Kerry (D-MA) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT), both cosponsors of her amendment to protect the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
   Cantwell expects to offer her amendment on Wednesday, March 16.
 
 