SENATE APPROVES SEN. CANTWELL, REP. DUNN'S EFFORT FOR LARGEST EXPANSION OF MOUNT RAINIER NATIONAL PARK IN 70 YEARS
  Today the U.S. Senate approved a bill that expand the boundaries of Mt. Rainier National Park by roughly 800 acres - the largest expansion in over 70 years. Sen. Maria Cantwell and Rep. Jennifer Dunn both had bills that would improve access for visitors to the park, allow for a new campsite to be built, and save taxpayers money that will no longer be needed to repair damages to a road that frequently gets washed out. Today is a victory for their bipartisan efforts. 
   "This is great news for everyone in the Northwest," Cantwell said. "Expanding Mount Rainier National Park will ensure that our children will be able to enjoy this majestic regional icon. This expansion is also a win for our local economy. " 
   According to a recent study conducted by Michigan State University, visitors to Mount Rainier spent over $24 million in 2001, supporting nearly 800 jobs and $13 million in personal incomes in communities surrounding the Park. In addition, it is estimated that Mount Rainier visitors spent $6.75 million at local restaurants and bars, and $5.5 million at regional lodging facilities. 
   Specifically, the bill will authorize the purchase of a three-mile strip of land along the Carbon River, extending Mount Rainier National Park's northwest boundary and adding approximately 800 acres to the park. 
   The area that would be set aside for park protection contains one of the last inland old-growth rainforests in the country. It will also link Mount Rainier National Park to Pierce County's Fairfax Forest, creating a corridor that can be used by migrating elk and other animals. 
   The Mount Rainier National Park Boundary Adjustment Act of 2003 (H.R. 265) has already passed the U.S. House of Representatives and now awaits the President's signature. When the President signs the bill, he will approve the largest expansion of Mount Rainier National Park in more than 70 years.
 
 