SEN. CANTWELL: SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES $1.5 MILLION FOR YAKIMA BASIN WATER STORAGE LOCAL IMPACT STUDIES
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee approved her request of $1.5 million for the Bureau of Reclamation to continue the Yakima Basin Storage Study. The ongoing study will provide recommendations on various water storage alternatives, including the Black Rock Reservoir, when completed.  
   "As our state suffers through another low water year, it is essential that we examine solutions to address our critical water needs," Cantwell said. "I applaud the citizens of the Yakima Valley for fighting so hard to get this study completed; we deserve to have a plan for water storage."
   Cantwell has worked to secure $4 Million in federal funding for the Bureau of Reclamation to continue a multi-year study to evaluate possible solutions to the basin's water storage needs. 
   Sid Morrison, Chair of the Yakima Basin Storage Alliance, said, "Senator Cantwell's continued efforts to secure funding towards the completion of the Yakima Basin Storage Study represent her commitment towards protecting the agriculturally-based economy of Central Washington . Maria's dedication to important issues throughout the region has been invaluable." 
   More water storage would mean new jobs - especially in agribusiness, more reliable and affordable municipal water supplies, and improved habitat of fish and wildlife in the Yakima River Basin . Additional water storage capacity has not been added to the 460,000 acre Yakima project since the Lake Cle Elum Storage Project was completed in 1933. 
   A tributary of the Columbia River, the water of the Yakima River serves multiple purposes including supplying municipal water needs, providing irrigation for numerous crops, and its historic purpose as habitat for anadromous fish. Numerous years of below-average precipitation and the related negative economic impact, have exposed the need for additional water storage on the Yakima Project. During the 2001 drought, the region's economy suffered a $750 million hit as a result of the agricultural struggle. 
   Cantwell invited now-Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid to Washington State in 2003 to tour the site of one of the proposed water shortage projects, including the proposed Black Rock Reservoir. After the tour, Cantwell worked with Reid to increase federal funds for the study. 
   The funds were included in the fiscal year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill by the Senate Appropriations Committee. Cantwell hopes the full Senate, and House of Representatives, will also approve funding for the plan.
 
 