WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  THE PENTAGON AGREES: STATE'S MILITARY BASES VITAL TO OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
   Last Friday, the Department of Defense released its recommended list of military base closures and realignments. I am proud to report that no major bases in Washington state were listed for closure.  
   The base closure process was established by Congress in response to the end of the Cold War, and the changing needs of the military. The process sought to cut costs and increase efficiency by shifting and rearranging some military resources. By recommending that all of our major bases remain open, the Pentagon showed just how strategic our location is for the military in the 21st Century. 
   There's also no denying how important military bases are to our economy. Some 188,000 jobs, producing $7.3 billion in wages, are dependent on these bases. Entire communities - and even counties - rely on these bases to support their economies. While the Pentagon's report did recommend some minor closures and realignments, Washington state would actually gain 760 total personnel. 
   There are still several remaining steps in the base closure process, including review by an independent commission, and approval of the President and Congress. As the process moves forward, I will continue to work with community leaders and the rest of the Washington congressional delegation to make it clear how vital our state's military installations are to America's security. 
   GAS MILEAGE LABELING: BIG WIN FOR CONSUMERS
   Last month, I introduced my "Fuel Economy Truth in Labeling Act," which directs the Environmental Protection Agency to update the way it calculates gas mileage to reflect today's real-life driving conditions. I am happy to announce today that Senate leaders have added this provision to a highway transportation bill that is expected to pass the Senate tomorrow. 
   This is a big win for consumers facing a painful reality at the gas pump. The least we can do is make sure the mileage stickers on cars match up to the reality of the road, so families can plan their budgets and make more informed choices about the cars they buy. It's a simple matter of truth in advertising. 
   Car dealerships display government-approved gas mileage numbers on price stickers, but unfortunately these estimates inflate vehicles' true fuel economy performance by anywhere from 10 to 30 percent. The EPA wrote the formulas for gas mileage decades ago - and today even the agency admits the estimates rely on out-dated procedures and false assumptions. For example, they assume that people drive on average 48 miles per hour on the freeway and never use their air conditioners. 
   AAA endorsed my proposal because consumers are getting frustrated by unrealistic mileage estimates. We need to make sure consumers are given accurate information, so they can make smart choices about the cars they buy. I will work hard to make sure my provision becomes law. 
   AMERICAN ENERGY PLAN FOR 21ST CENTURY NEEDS HOME-GROWN INGREDIENT
   Yesterday I visited Laurelhurst Oil in Seattle, which recently opened two pumps selling biodiesel fuel. Biofuels are a cleaner alternative to foreign fossil fuels, and - with technological advancements and government assistance - they can soon be a cheaper alternative, too. Unlike with fossil fuels, we aren't going to run short on rapeseed (canola) and wheat straw, both of which can be converted into biofuels, and are grown here in Washington state. 
   Prices for biodiesel in Washington state typically reach about $3.00 per gallon, over 80 cents more per gallon than average prices in the Midwest. This is, in part, due to the expensive costs of transporting soybean oil from the Midwest to produce our biodiesel. If we start producing biofuels from crops like canola, which is grown in Washington, we can lower Northwest biodielsel prices by 25 to 50 cents per gallon. 
   I plan to offer an amendment in the Senate Energy Committee this week that will provide incentives to build better infrastructure closer to home, so we can use agricultural products from Washington state to produce biofuels. This will eliminate the costs of transporting soybean oil from the Midwest, reduce our prices at the pump, and provide a new revenue stream for Washington state farmers. 
   I will use my seat on the Energy Committee to make sure biofuels - and incentives making them more affordable in Washington state - are central to a new 21st Century national energy plan. 
   VISITING WASHINGTON, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I would welcome the
  opportunity to meet you. This week, on Thursday, May 19, at 8:30 a.m.,
  I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington,
  D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to
  attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a
  reservation form online by visiting my web site at
  http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html
 
 