SEN. CANTWELL APPLAUDS SENATE APPROVAL OF ADDITIONAL HOME HEATING ASSISTANCE FOR FAMILIES IN NEED
  Thursday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) applauded the Senate's vote to authorize an additional $3.3 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This would fund LIHEAP at $5.1 billion--the level authorized by the Energy Policy Act of 2005.  
   "This will help get an additional $28 million to help Washington state's neediest families and seniors make it through the winter without having to decide between paying bills, and buying food and medicine," said Cantwell. "This is an important step that will help deliver real help to Washingtonians struggling to make ends meet." 
   The amendment to the pending Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2007, introduced by Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) and co-sponsored by Cantwell, passed on a 51-49 vote. The funding authorized by the Senate would be added to the $1.8 billion in LIHEAP funding included in the president's fiscal year 2007 budget request. The president's request represents a 17.5 percent cut versus the funding level approved by Congress for fiscal year 2006. 
   Cantwell has fought for months to secure additional funds for LIHEAP. In a letter to the president earlier this month, Cantwell joined Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Jack Reed (D-RI), and others to call on the president to release the remaining $101.5 million in LIHEAP contingency funds. The $101.5 million was included in an appropriations bill passed last year, but can only be released by the Bush Administration, or by a mandate from Congress. In addition, last Tuesday, Cantwell voted with a majority of Senators to deliver additional funds directly to states, including $462,000 for Washington state, and makes more contingency funds available for use at president's discretion. 
   LIHEAP is a federal block grant program that provides states with annual funding to operate home energy assistance programs for low-income households. In addition to helping low-income families and the elderly pay their energy bills, LIHEAP funds energy crisis intervention programs, low-cost residential weatherization, and other energy-related home repairs. There are 300,000 households eligible to receive LIHEAP assistance in Washington state.
 
 