TO SPUR COMMERCE, SEN. CANTWELL ENCOURAGES NON-STOP FLIGHTS BETWEEN CHINA, SEATTLE
  Monday, on the eve of Chinese President Hu Jintao's visit to the Seattle area, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) encouraged the introduction of non-stop air service between SeaTac International Airport and China. In a letter sent on April 17, 2006 to President Hu, Cantwell said that direct flights to and from China would boost trade and strengthen cultural connections between the two countries. The White House also received a copy of the letter.  
   [The text of Cantwell's letter to President Hu follows below] 
   April 17, 2006 
   Dear President Hu: 
   I am looking forward to welcoming you later this month to Washington state. Our state has a rich tradition of partnership with China and has enjoyed strong trade and cultural relations for many years. I am writing today to encourage you to cement further our relationship through the introduction of non-stop air service between China and Seattle-Tacoma International Airport. 
   Our trading partnership date back to the mid-1880s and when China and the U.S. resumed relations in 1979, the first Chinese ship to visit the U.S. called the Port of Seattle. Since that time, trade between my State and China has continually expanded, and China remains one of Washington's most important trading partners. As you are aware, the State of Washington is the home to many international corporations like Boeing, Microsoft, Starbucks, and others that have significant and consistent business with China. In fact, two-way trade between Washington and China in 2004 surpassed $20 billion and continues to increase. 
   Today, Seattle is the largest West Coast market, and second largest market in the entire United States, without the benefit of non-stop air service to China. The introduction of new non-stop service between Seattle - Tacoma International Airport represents the next step in strengthening our relationship. I am confident that the high percentage of business and leisure travel in Washington state will sustain a non-stop air route from Seattle to Beijing or Shanghai. 
   With our ever expanding business relationships and the fact that the China will be hosting the summer Olympics in Beijing in 2008 and the proximity of Seattle to the winter Olympics in Vancouver in 2010, now is an excellent time to implement this service. 
   I look forward to an opportunity to visit with you during your trip to my home state to discuss this opportunity to expand our successful partnership. 
   Respectfully, 
   Maria Cantwell
  United States Senator
 
 