WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  Saving Clean Energy Jobs and Investing in the Future
   With the country shedding 80,000 jobs in March, and American families and businesses concerned about rising electricity bills, I was pleased the Senate overwhelming passed the Clean Energy Tax Stimulus Act of 2008 which I authored with Senator John Ensign (R-NV). Adopted by a vote of 88 to 8 our amendment to The Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008 would extend expiring clean energy production and investment incentives and other vital energy efficiency tax credits which together will save over a hundred thousands jobs and $20 billion in investment in 2008. According to industry estimates, our legislation will facilitate enough investment in renewable energy over the next few years to satisfy the needs of 35 cities the size of Seattle. At a time when people are uncertain about our economy's future, I was thankful the Senate rose to the challenge and was able to agree to provide certainty to these promising clean energy industries, infuse money into our economy, and create high-paying, long-term jobs that will help Americans get through these tough economic times.
   Dialogue between China and Dalai Lama is essential 
   Following my recent trip to China and South Korea, I joined eight of my colleagues last week to introduce a bipartisan resolution condemning the violence in Tibet. The resolution, which was passed in the Senate last week, also calls on China to open substantive dialogue with His Holiness, the Fourteenth Dalai Lama of Tibet. The resolution was introduced in the wake of protests that have swept across Tibet. Chinese and Tibetan sources report dozens of fatalities, and the arrest of more than 1,000 protesters in the Tibet Autonomous Region and surrounding Tibetan areas of China. During my visit to China in March, I was immensely concerned about the current situation in Tibet with government officials. In order to reach its full potential as a global leader, China must respect human rights and religious freedom of all its citizens. By opening a dialogue with the Dalai Lama, China can make progress toward cultural and religious freedom.
   Preserving and Protecting Washington State's Valuable Public Areas
   Last week, I was pleased to see the Wild Sky Wilderness Act and a series of public lands bills pass the Senate that will protect some of Washington state's most sensitive, historic, and culturally significant areas. I have been committed to protecting Washington state public lands, and worked with many of my colleagues to ensure their preservation for future generations. I am proud to work on behalf of Washingtonians to make sure these scenic and historic landmarks are preserved and taken care of so their beauty can be recognized for generations to come. These are solid bills that will boost tourism and provide more opportunities for Washington state residents, and tourists, to take part in and enjoy our natural heritage.
   The Wild Sky Wilderness legislation, led by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA-02). will permanently protect 106,577 acres of the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest as wilderness. The area lies just north of Highway 2 in the Cascade Mountains, and is only 90 minutes by car from 2.5 million Washington residents. Wild Sky will provide Washington state with its first new wilderness in two decades. In addition, the National Heritage Area bill will designate the lower Columbian River in Pacific, Wahkiakum, Clatsop, and Columbia counties as a National Heritage area. I am an original cosponsor of the Columbia-Pacific National Heritage Area Study Act, which was introduced by Senator Gordon Smith (R-OR) last year.
   Long Overdue Bainbridge Island Memorial Passed in the Senate
   Another bill passed last week by the Senate was the Bainbridge Island Japanese American Memorial Bill. The bill, which I sponsored in the Senate, and Rep. Jay Inslee led (D-WA-01) in the House of Representatives, will give National Park Service historic site status to the Japanese American Memorial at the Eagledale Ferry Dock on Bainbridge Island, Washington, from where the first Japanese Americans were sent to internment camps during World War II. The dedication of this memorial will serve as an important reminder of the injustice suffered by Japanese American citizens and will provide an opportunity for future generations to learn from the past.
   The Bainbridge Island Japanese American Memorial will be a satellite unit of the Minidoka Internment National Historic Monument. The Minidoka site in Jerome County, Idaho marks the place where many of those forcibly removed from Bainbridge Island were eventually sent. The dock site marks the place where the first 227 Japanese Americans interned during World War II were forcibly removed from their homes and communities. Construction of the memorial began in 2006 with the help of funding from private donors and the State of Washington.
   Years ago, I met with the oldest surviving internee from Bainbridge, which reaffirms the importance of this memorial. Her story, as well as thousands of others, should be shared with the entire country. I am proud that we are finally recognizing this important part of our nation's and state's history and hope that it will be signed into law quickly.
   Tax Day is Tomorrow, Lookout for Your Stimulus Check
   With 24 hours left until the tax filing deadline, I remind Washingtonians to be on the lookout for stimulus checks they may be receiving. In order to receive the stimulus checks, residents of Washington state must fill out a tax return for the 2007 filing year, and file their return by tomorrow, April 15. During this time of economic uncertainty, these stimulus checks will help put extra money in the pockets of hard working American families
   Starting in May, the U.S. Treasury will begin sending economic stimulus payments to taxpayers. Taxpayers must have a valid Social Security number, $3,000 of income, and file a 2007 federal tax return. Eligible taxpayers will receive up to $600 ($1,200 for married couples), and parents will receive an additional $300 for each eligible child younger than 17.
   For more information on stimulus checks and to calculate the total of your check, please visit: http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=177937,00.html
 
 