WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  Monday Memo on Hold until November:
   I wanted to let you know that this will be my last Monday Memo until November. According to Senate rules, no senator may send electronic newsletters during the 60-day period immediately preceding any primary or general election in which the senator is a candidate. With Washington's 2006 primary set for September 19, we hit the 60-day mark this Friday, meaning today's Weekly Update will be the last newsletter I send you until after November 7. Throughout the summer and fall, I'll continue posting press releases online, so please visit my website for the latest information on my work in the Senate and please do not hesitate to contact me by phone, postal mail, or email during the coming months with any comments or questions you have. 
   A Victory in the Fight Against Meth: 
   Last week I told you about pending legislation I'm backing to deliver desperately-needed resources to help children caught up in the meth epidemic. On Thursday, we scored a big victory for these children when the Senate passed this proposal unanimously. Once passed by the House and signed into law, this legislation would provide $40 million in new annual funding for drug prevention, treatment, training, and counseling to help curb the effects of meth on children. Senate passage is a big step toward curbing the harmful effects of meth on children and will help keep meth from destroying even more lives. I'll continue to do all I can to make sure this important help gets signed into law.
   Cleaning Up Washington's Most Toxic Sites:
   According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), there are ten Superfund sites here in our state where human exposure to toxic chemicals and hazardous materials is still not under control. Nationwide, a total of 146 sites meet this description and there are an additional 148 sites where the EPA has insufficient data to determine whether or not human exposure is under control. At far too many dangerous toxic sites across our country there seems to be inadequate information and no cleanup timeline. We even have a site in Washington where cleanup is reported complete, but where the EPA still says human exposure is not under control. To help fix this pressing problem, I'm pushing the EPA to produce a detailed report on the human exposure threat at each Washington site and outline what is needed to control human exposure. We need to get this process moving and get cleanup started as quickly as possible.
   Preventing a Devastating Oil Spill in the Pacific Northwest:
   Last year, oil tankers and barges made around 4,500 trips through the Puget Sound, many passing through the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary at the entrance of the Strait of Juan de Fuca on their way to our state's ports and refineries. This heavy vessel traffic and the area's rough weather and rocky coast make Washington's outer coast and the Strait of Juan de Fuca particularly vulnerable to a large oil spill. Even though it was identified as a priority action in the Sanctuary's 1994 Management Plan, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has yet to conduct an oil spill response exercise in the isolated Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary. This exercise would provide an opportunity for agencies to test their response capabilities and practice using oil containment and cleanup equipment. Therefore, I've asked NOAA to conduct such a field exercise as soon as possible so that we can be prepared to respond to the worst-case scenario. I also called for an oil spill drill in my Oil Pollution Prevention and Response Act, introduced earlier this year, which includes a number of other provisions to reduce the risk of oil spills including improved tug escort procedures, a year-round rescue tug in Neah Bay, and financial support for Washington's Oil Spill Advisory Council. This is a commonsense action that will help ensure we have the equipment and resource coordination necessary to protect the diverse marine life, productive fisheries, and scenic shorelines off Washington's northwest coast.
   Helping to Find Peace in Darfur:
   Following the resignation of Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick, the U.S. has been without a high-ranking official to work directly toward a peaceful end to the tragic, multi-year conflict in Darfur, Sudan. To make sure recent positive developments continue, I've joined a coalition of my Senate colleagues in introducing a resolution calling on the president to appoint a new special envoy to Darfur charged with coordinating policy, leading negotiations, and monitoring compliance with peace agreements to help resolve this violent conflict as soon as possible. 
   I've also joined a group of fellow senators to back the Stop Tuberculosis Now Act, which would deliver vital funding and support in the worldwide fight against this devastating disease. Each year, tuberculosis kills 2 million people-one person every 15 seconds-more people than any other curable infectious disease. TB also accelerates the progression of AIDS and is responsible for up to one-third of AIDS deaths. The Stop TB Now Act sets a goal of reducing TB deaths by half in 2015-and would take a big step forward in the fights against both tuberculosis and AIDS. 
   Providing Hope through Cutting-Edge Research:
   This week, the Senate will consider critical legislation that would open the door to federal support of stem cell research. Today, 35,000 Washingtonians suffer from Parkinson's disease, 5,000 live with spinal cord injuries, and 300,000 have diabetes. Each year, 160,000 Washingtonians struggle with heart failure. Stem cell research has the potential to help each one of these individuals, and I believe that Congress must not stand in the way of the promise science offers. At the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center in Seattle, researchers are already applying ground-breaking science and using adult stem cells to treat blood cancers, and they're looking to do the same with kidney cancers. We at the federal level need to ease restrictions on this important research. I've heard from dozens of Washingtonians who find hope in the great promise of stem cells and I will fight to get this vital legislation through Congress. I will also help lead the fight to override any presidential veto this life-saving legislation faces.
   Reducing Oil Imports by Improving Gas Mileage:
   A new report by the Environmental Working Group shows that the U.S. can reduce oil imports by 20 percent simply by applying real-world gas mileage to current fuel economy requirements. Current gas mileage estimates for cars and trucks are based on outdated formulas that I've long tried to correct. Most recently, in June, I joined a bipartisan Senate coalition in introducing legislation to improve the fuel efficiency of America's vehicles for the first time in 20 years. The Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act also includes legislation I authored to require the EPA to provide more accurate fuel economy estimates for the window stickers on new vehicles, and would apply these new, more accurate mileage estimates to fuel economy compliance tests. Current window labels overestimate real-world fuel economy by 20 to 50 percent, assuming Americans drive an average of 48 miles per hour on the highway, never drive over hills, and don't use air conditioners. Current corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) compliance tests are based on a similarly outdated formula. It's ridiculous that we still rely on an inaccurate, 30-year-old fuel economy test that consistently overestimates the mileage American drivers get in real-world driving conditions. We need to fix this blatant gap in our fuel economy standards, improve the gas mileage of America's vehicle fleet, and reduce our reliance on imported oil.
 
 