SEN. CANTWELL, MAJOR GENERAL LOWENBERG CLAIM PENTAGON MADE RECOMMENDATION TO MOVE FIGHTER JETS WITHOUT CONSULTING WASHINGTON NATIONAL GUARD
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Major General Timothy Lowenberg sent a message to the Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC) that Washington state Air National Guard was not consulted before the Pentagon recommended relocating the F-15 fighter jets that protect Washington state skies.  
   Next week the BRAC will hold hearings on the Pentagon's proposal. Cantwell is sending a letter today to BRAC Chairman Anthony Principi to make sure he understands that the Pentagon did not try to seek input from Washington state before making recommendations that could leave us vulnerable. Earlier this month, the BRAC sent a letter to Department of Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld requesting him to testify next week and answer a number of questions, including if states were consulted before the Pentagon suggested changes to the Air National Guard. 
   Cantwell wrote, "We believe that the Department should have done more to consult with State leaders in devising its recommendations and does not fully understand the homeland security impacts these realignments will have on our region and nation." 
   The issue at hand is the Pentagon's recommendation to relocate 15 F-15 fighter jets from Portland, OR to New Jersey and Louisiana. These fighter jets patrolled the Northwest skies for three days after the September 11 th attacks, and continue to provide security to the Northwest skies. If these planes are relocated, the nearest fighter jets available in an emergency may be as far away as Fresno, CA. Relying on jets so far away could delay response times to heightened security threats in the Northwest. 
   "These realignments overlook the critical role these air assets play in ensuring the security of the Pacific Northwest and our nation," Cantwell explained. 
   "This plan is like turning on your home security system and leaving the front door open - we need every opportunity to eradicate security threats before it is too late," she added. 
   Last month Cantwell and Major General Frank Scoggins, the commander of the Washington Air National Guard, called on the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission to reconsider the Pentagon's recommendation to relocate all 15 of the Portland-based fighter jets. 
   "The realignments proposed for air assets in the State of Washington and the North west will have negative impacts on the protection of our homeland," Commander Scoggins said. "The proposal would have serious unintended long term consequences if fully adopted." 
   Text of Cantwell letter to BRAC Chairman below: 
   July 17, 2005 
   Anthony Principi 
  Chairman 
  2005 Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission 
  2521 S. Clark St., Ste. 600 
  Arlington, VA 22202 
   Dear Chairman Principi, 
   First, allow me to thank you for your continued work on the Base Realignment and Closure Commission. The task before you and the commission is an important and arduous one. Your willingness to serve our nation in this capacity is appreciated. 
   I am writing in advance of the Commission's upcoming hearings on July 18 and July 19. I appreciate the fact that in your July 1 letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld in advance of the hearings you asked the Secretary to explain the process undertaken by the Department of Defense to work with the States affected by the proposed reductions in Air National Guard forces. In addition, you inquired about the potential impact of the reductions on homeland security and defense. 
   As I know you heard at the June 17 BRAC Commission hearing in Portland , Oregon , the Congressional Delegations of Washington and Oregon and many State military leaders believe that the realignment and reduction of Air National Guard could have significant impacts on the security of our region and the Pacific Northwest region. 
   In the Northwest, we remain concerned about the proposed realignment of important Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve assets away from the Pacific Northwest . As you know, The Department of Defense has recommended the realignment of all 15 F-15 fighters of the 142 nd Air National Guard (ANG) fighter wing based at Portland International Airport (PDX). In addition, the Pentagon has recommended the realignment of 8 tankers of the 939 th Air Force Reserve refueling wing based at PDX and all eight of the tankers assigned to the 141 st ANG wing at Fairchild Air Force Base. 
   These realignments overlook the critical role these air assets play in ensuring the security of the Pacific Northwest and our nation. For more than three days after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the fighters of the 142 nd ANG wing provided 24-hour air patrols over population centers, major military bases, and other high value targets across a three state region. The patrols helped protect our citizens and provided invaluable security in the very uncertain hours after the terrorist attacks on our nation. The nation continues to require a comparable level of responsiveness to counter potential threats to its Northwest region. 
   Air refueling tankers are vital assets in the rapid projection of forces around the world and have played critical roles in past and present military operations. If the Pentagon plan is implemented, the number of active duty, guard, and reserve air refueling tankers in the Northwest will have been reduced by more than 50 percent since the terrorist attacks of September 11th. These reductions will strain force projection capabilities, limit Air National Guard training capacity, increase the average time to run sorties throughout the Pacific Rim, and will reduce available air refueling capabilities. 
   I know that the Department of Defense believes that it has adequately consulted with the States in formulating and understanding the impacts of its recommendations. In my consultation with the Adjutant General of the State of Washington and the Commander of the Washington Air National Guard, we believe that the Department should have done more to consult with State leaders in devising its recommendations and does not fully understand the homeland security impacts these realignments will have on our region and nation. 
   I hope the Commission will keep these issues in mind as you hear testimony from the Department of Defense this week and continue your work in formulating the Commission's list of realignments and closures in the weeks to come. Like the Commission and the Pentagon, I want to ensure that our nation is well positioned to protect itself from threats, both foreign and domestic. Our military assets in the Northwest remain well positioned to protect the homeland and to help ensure the national security of the United States . We hope to work with you to implement the current base realignment and closure round to ensure the improved security of our great nation. 
   Sincerely, 
   Maria Cantwell 
  United States Senator.
 
 