SEN. CANTWELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON CONFIRMATION OF ROBART
  Today Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) voted to confirm attorney James Robart for a seat on the District Court for the Western District of Washington. The Senate unanimously approved Robart's nomination on a 99-0 vote. 
   "In one sense, today's confirmation vote is a homecoming for Jim," Cantwell said. "Early in his career, he served as an aide to Senator Scoop Jackson. I am sure that he would be proud of his accomplishments during a long and productive legal career, and would whole-heartedly endorse his confirmation."
   Before today's vote, in a statement Sen. Cantwell reiterated her support for Robart and urged her colleagues to confirm him. Senator Cantwell's full statement follows below:
   "Mr. President, this afternoon it is my privilege to introduce you to the incredibly talented nominee for a vacancy on the District Court for the Western District of Washington, James Robart.
   "In one sense, today's hearing is a homecoming for Mr. Robart. Early in his career, he served as an aide to Senator Scoop Jackson. I am sure that he would be proud of his accomplishments during a long and productive legal career, and would whole-heartedly endorse his confirmation.
   "Following his public service as a staff member in both houses, Mr. Robart returned to Washington state, where he has worked as an attorney for the past three decades. During his considerable years of practice in federal court, he has earned a reputation for fairness and integrity.
   "Mr. Robart's nomination is the result of a bipartisan selection process that has worked very well for Washington state. Members of Washington state's legal community, the White House, and my colleague Sen. Patty Murray and I worked together to review a group of applicants. This cooperative approach has produced a number of highly qualified judicial nominees, and I believe it is a sound model for other states.
   "I am confident that James Robart will make an outstanding federal judge, and that the people of the Western District of Washington will be well-served by his presence on the bench.
   "I am pleased to offer Mr. Robart my full support, and I urge my colleagues to approve his nomination."
 
 