SEN. CANTWELL'S MEASURE SUPPORTS ENGINEERING PROGRAMS AT WASHINGTON UNIVERSITIES
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today was successful in adding to the Senate energy bill an amendment providing federal support for power and transmission engineering programs. Washington state's universities are at the forefront of educating the next generation of engineers in this sector. 
   "Electricity keeps our nation's economy running," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "We can't let a looming shortage of qualified engineers jeopardize the reliability of our transmission grid. Luckily, Washington state's universities are helping lead the way, training the next generation of power engineers and innovators."
   Cantwell today added an amendment to the proposed Senate energy bill's "personnel and training" title, which will require the Secretaries of Energy and Labor to monitor workforce trends in the area of electric power and transmission engineers and identify critical national shortages of personnel. Cantwell's amendment also authorizes the Secretaries to establish a grants program of up to $20 million a year to enhance training - including distance-learning - in electric power and transmission engineering fields.
   Today, many believe the utility industry is bracing for a critical shortage of engineers, as approximately half of the individuals employed in science and engineering fields are expected to retire in the next 20 years. A 2003 Cantwell-authored report polled utility and energy technology firms in the Pacific North west and found that 100 percent expressed a concern about finding a skilled workforce in the next five to ten years; all respondents also suggested there is particular difficulty in recruiting qualified engineers.
   While fewer than 15 universities nation-wide offer world-class, PHD-level programs in power engineering, both Washington State University and the University of Washington offer strong programs in this area. In addition, Gonzaga University this year established a specialized Masters of Science Degree and certification program in transmission and distribution engineering, for which Cantwell helped secure $750,000 in federal support during last year's appropriations process. A key element of Gonzaga's plan is to eventually offer a distance-learning program for professionals already employed in engineering fields.
   Today marked the first day of the Senate Energy Committee's effort to craft a new energy plan for America. The Committee's mark-up is expected to last two weeks.
 
 