WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  NEAH BAY WHALE KILLING 
  I was deeply concerned to learn of the recent unsanctioned killing of a grey whale by a few Makah tribal members. It's wrong that these individuals bypassed an ongoing legal process and took the law into their own hands. Last week, I met with individuals from the Makah tribe here in DC and we discussed the incident. There are many outstanding questions and ongoing investigations surrounding this incident, and I will continue to monitor closely. 
   GENERAL PETRAEUS AND AMBASSADOR CROCKER TESTIMONY
  Last week, General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker testified before House and Senate Committees on the current state of Iraq. The Congress has several received several similar reports over the past few weeks. While there has been some success in stabilizing Anbar Province, I am concerned that violence remains high and the surge is not working. It is past time to transition the mission of U.S. forces out of a combat role and for the president to let the Iraqis know that U.S. troops will not remain indefinitely. Iraqis must stand up and take control of their own security and make the compromises needed to stabilize their country. On Thursday, President Bush took the Petraeus recommendations and addressed the nation to talk about the state of Iraq. I believed he failed to offer a new strategy. Clearly, the status quo is not acceptable. Our troops, their families, and the Iraqi people deserve better. 
   INDIAN HEALTH CARE LEGISLATION APPROVED
   As a member of the Finance Committee I was pleased to approve legislation last week to improve health care access and address health disparities for Native Americans nationwide. The Indian Health Improvement Act will modernize health care services and delivery, address behavioral and mental health, and allow for in-home care for the Indian elderly population. In my mind, this is a long overdue step towards getting improved services and access to health care for Native Americans. American Indians and Alaskan Natives continue to suffer from disproportionately high rates of alcoholism, diabetes, and tuberculosis. The life expectancy of a Native American in Washington is approximately four years shorter than the rest of the population--an alarming increase from the nearly three years reported in 1994. This bill ensures that all Indian health programs receive adequate federal funding to expand access to health care and to limit out-of-pocket expenses for Native Americans.
 
 