SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES NEW PLAN TO INCREASE PAYMENTS TO WASHINGTON STATE COUNTIES
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee approved bipartisan legislation supported by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) that would bring Washington state counties almost $3 million more per year from the federal government, finally delivering fair reimbursement to counties with non-taxable federal lands.  
   "This is simply a matter of fairness," said Cantwell. "If this bill becomes law, counties will get more funds to help pay for the basics like schools, roads, and better tools for firefighters." 
   The payments help counties that have tax-exempt federal lands within their boundaries by offsetting the costs of providing services to federal employees and users of the public lands. Without the payments, local taxpayers would have to bear the financial burden alone for those services, including education, solid waste disposal, law enforcement, search and rescue, health care, environmental compliance, firefighting, housing, social services, and transportation. 
   If the bill becomes law, Washington state's counties will see their total "payments in lieu of taxes" (PILT) from the federal government rise from $5,879,878 to $ 8,680,924 next year. For some counties, this means hundreds of thousands more dollars per year, allowing them to deliver critical public services and reduce the burden on local taxpayers. [see chart below for county-by-county funding data] 
   According to Lewis County Commissioner Eric Johnson, "Lewis County has nearly 475,000 acres of federally owned land within its borders. Funding from PILT is vital if our local government is going to be able to continue to provide road and transportation services, public health and safety, criminal and civil justice, and a variety of other general government activities." 
   Even though funding for PILT is authorized at adequate levels, it consistently falls victim to the competitive federal appropriations process. Since 1995 the PILT program has not received more than two-thirds its authorized amount, leaving Washington state short millions of dollars each year. 
   Skamania County Commissioner Al McKee explained the importance of full PILT funding for his county. 
   McKee said, "PILT funding helps Skamania County provide essential services to over 800,000 federally owned acres. We are concerned that the Federal government continues to acquire land in Skamania County, while Congress only partially funds its authorized level of PILT payments. We support legislation that would appropriate full PILT funding, providing Skamania County with an additional $75,000." 
   Cantwell co-sponsored the "PILT and Revenue Refuge Sharing Permanent Funding Act" (S. 511) to make funding 'mandatory' that was previously considered 'discretionary.' Now that the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, of which Cantwell is a member, has approved the bill, Cantwell is hopeful that the full Senate will pass the bill before the Senate adjourns this year. If the bill becomes law, full funding would go into effect beginning October 2006. 
   Pend Oreille County Commissioner Mike Hanson recognized Cantwell's efforts. 
   Hanson said, "Senator Cantwell's legislation will help address the ever-growing need for additional resources to fund local law enforcement. The increased PILT dollars will help Pend Oreille County continue to partner with federal agencies in protecting our nation's northern border." 
   In addition to guaranteeing full funding for PILT, the bill would also provide full funding for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's Refuge Revenue Sharing program. Both programs compensate counties for losses in revenue caused by having federal lands within their jurisdictions. 
   A chart with PILT payments to Washington state's counties during Fiscal Year 2004, along with each county's project payments should S. 511 become law, 
  follows below: 
   (Table omitted: See http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/releases/2004_09_17_pilt.html)
 
 