SEN. CANTWELL, OREGON NATIONAL GUARD LEADERS: PENTAGON'S PROPOSAL TO MOVE NORTHWEST'S F-15S, TANKERS ILLEGAL
  The week before the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission votes on its final recommendations, Sen. Maria Cantwell and leaders of the Oregon National Guard made one final argument for keeping vital aircraft in the region: moving them would be illegal. Cantwell agrees with state homeland security chiefs from around the country that closing National Guard units requires the consent of the state's governor.
   "I stand by the Governors of Washington and Oregon who did not consent and were not consulted about these cuts to our states' Air National Guard," Cantwell said. "These cuts are illegal, and I hope the BRAC Commission recognizes that the Pentagon's proposal jeopardizes regional security." 
   Cantwell sent a letter [text below] to the BRAC Commission, urging them to reverse the Pentagon's recommendation to relocate all 15 Portland-based F-15 fighter jets and KC-135 tankers from Portland and Spokane. Cantwell stressed that the tankers are an important part of the emergency toolbox available to governors in the case of wildfires, floods, and other natural disasters.
   "Removing these aircraft from the region will compromise our national security and ability to respond to emergency situations in the Pacific Northwest," Cantwell added.
   Cantwell was joined Thursday in Portland by the deputy director of the Oregon Military Department, the commander of Oregon's 142 nd Air National Guard Fighter Wing, and the president of the Oregon National Guard Association. The group reiterated that the Pentagon's recommendation to move all fifteen Portland-based F-15 fighter jets would create homeland security risks for the region. 
   "The safety and security of our region is on the line - the BRAC Commission has to take the opportunity to fix the Pentagon Plan and protect the safety and security of the entire region," Cantwell added.
   In May, the Pentagon issued its recommendations to the BRAC Commission. In addition to moving KC-135 tankers from Spokane and Portland, the Pentagon recommended that all fifteen Portland-based F-15 fighter jets be moved to New Jersey and Louisiana. These fighter jets patrolled the Northwest skies for three days after the September 11th attacks, and continue to provide security to the Northwest skies.
   Cantwell talked with BRAC Commissioner James Bilbray at the end of June, urging him to press Air Force officials on their lack of consultation with governors and State Adjutant Generals as they prepared to publish their proposed realignment and closure list in May. When Bilbray questioned Air Force officials about the issue at a hearing last month, they confirmed the lack of state consultation.
   In addition to her conversation with Bilbray and the letter released today, Cantwell has sent two previous letters to the BRAC Commission asking them to reconsider the proposed realignment of these critical air security assets.
   The text of Cantwell's letter to the BRAC Commission follows below:
   August 18, 2005
   Anthony Principi 
  Chairman 
  2005 Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission 
  2521 S. Clark St., Ste. 600 
  Arlington, VA 22202
   Dear Chairman Principi:
   First, allow me to thank you as you near the completion of your work on the Base Realignment and Closure Commission. The task before you and the commission is an important one, and I appreciate your willingness to serve our nation in this capacity.
   I am writing in advance of your final deliberations next week. As you know through my previous written correspondence, I have major concerns with the proposed realignments of Air National Guard units in the State of Washington and throughout the Northwest. While I believe the proposed realignments of the Air National Guard would have major impacts on our national security, recent wildfires in my State also serve as a reminder of the types of emergency situations that make the availability of National Guard resources important.
   As I know you heard at the June 17 BRAC Commission hearing in Portland, the Congressional Delegations of Washington and Oregon as well as many State military leaders believe that the realignment of Air National Guard wings could have significant impacts on the safety and security of our nation's citizens.
   In the Northwest, we remain concerned about the proposed realignment of important Air National Guard assets away from the region. As you know, The Department of Defense has recommended the realignment of all 15 F-15 fighters of the 142nd Air National Guard (ANG) fighter wing based at Portland International Airport (PDX). Additionally, the Department of Defense has recommended the realignment of all eight KC-135 tankers assigned to the 141st ANG wing at Fairchild Air Force Base.
   These realignments overlook the critical role these air assets play in ensuring the security and safety of citizens in the Pacific Northwest and our nation. For more than three days after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the fighters of the 142nd ANG wing provided 24-hour air patrols over population centers, major military bases, and other high value targets across a three state region. The patrols helped protect our citizens and provided invaluable security in the very uncertain hours after the terrorist attacks. The nation continues to require a comparable level of responsiveness to counter potential threats to the Northwest.
   From a security standpoint, the proposed realignment of eight ANG air refueling tankers assigned to the 141st ANG wing at Fairchild Air Force Base is problematic. Air refueling tankers are vital assets in the rapid projection of forces around the world and have played critical roles in past and present military operations. If the Pentagon plan is implemented, the number of active duty, guard, and reserve air refueling tankers in the Northwest will have been reduced by more than 50 percent since the terrorist attacks of September 11th. These reductions will strain force projection capabilities, limit Air National Guard training capacity, increase the average time to run sorties throughout the Pacific Rim, and will reduce available air refueling capabilities.
   Further, of recent importance to the Northwest have been the challenges associated with containing wildfires. More than 55,000 acres have burned in my state during recent weeks. Last Thursday, Washington Governor Christine Gregoire declared a state wildfire emergency and put Washington National Guard units on alert status for potential deployment to wildfire containment operations. While I am relieved to know that the dedication of wildland firefighters in my State has allowed significant progress to be made in containing these blazes, the ability of the Governor to rely on the resources and equipment of the National Guard in responding to emergencies is critical.
   Wildfires have not been the only use of the men, women, and resources of the National Guard. The men, women and aircraft of the 141 st Air National Guard Wing have responded to many emergencies within the State of Washington and along the Pacific Coast. Presently, the 141st wing stands prepared to deploy emergency personnel throughout FEMA region 10 should such a need arise.
   With these challenges in mind, I hope the Commission will take seriously the lack of consent to realign National Guard units under the jurisdiction of Governor Gregoire and Oregon Governor Kulongoski. As you know, other states have pursued legal remedies in federal court believing that current law prohibits the removal, relocation, or realignment of National Guard resources under the command of the Governor. I believe the absence of required gubernatorial consent combined with the Pentagon's lack of direct consultation with affected states on realignment and closure proposals related to the National Guard has the potential to undermine the entire BRAC process.
   As you know, BRAC legal counsel analyzed the issues associated with these realignments for members of the Commission. BRAC Counsel has noted that implementing the Pentagon Plan for National Guard realignments, "...would require the Commission to ignore the inherent authority of the chief executive of a state to command the militia of the state and the unique, dual nature of the National Guard as a service that responds to both state and Federal authority." Thus, I believe the Commission has an opportunity to not only protect the safety and security of the Northwest but also to ensure that the closure and realignment recommendations are consistent with federal law.
   I hope the Commission will keep these issues in mind as you commence final deliberations to complete your closure and realignment list. Like the Commission and the Pentagon, I want to ensure that our nation is well positioned to ensure the safety and security of the public. Our National Guard assets assigned to the Northwest remain well positioned to protect the homeland and ensure the national security of the United States. I hope to work with you to implement the current base realignment and closure round to ensure the improved safety and security of our great nation. 
   Sincerely, 
   Maria Cantwell 
  United States Senator
 
 