SEN. CANTWELL BACKS STEM CELL RESEARCH; SENATE VOTES TO REMOVE RESTRICTIONS, OPEN DOOR TO FEDERAL SUPPORT
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) voted to remove restrictions and open the door to federal support for stem cell research. Cantwell called Tuesday's vote an important victory for science and a source of hope for the millions of Americans living with diseases like Parkinson's and diabetes.  
   "This is an important step forward in the fight to find cures for devastating diseases like Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, diabetes, and other conditions," said Cantwell. "I'm hearing from people from all across my state who suffer from these dreaded diseases and find hope for a better future in this ground-breaking research. Today's vote is a victory for each of the 35,000 Washingtonians with Parkinson's, the 5,000 living with spinal cord injuries, and 300,000 diagnosed with diabetes. I will do everything I can to make sure this bill becomes law." 
   Tuesday afternoon, the Senate passed three stem cell bills, including the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 810), which would expand the number of stem cell lines eligible for federally funded research. The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act passed on a 63-37 vote. It has already been approved by the House. Cantwell has promised to work to overturn the president's announced veto. 
   The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, cosponsored by Cantwell, lifts current restrictions on stem cell lines derived after August 9, 2001, allowing federal funds to be used to study and examine them. It does not allow federal funds to be used to derive the lines. The legislation also imposes ethical rules that are tighter than current law. It specifies that federally funded research can only involve embryos that are donated to in vitro fertilization clinics but would never be implanted in a woman because they are in excess of the needs of the individuals seeking treatment and would otherwise be discarded. Further, the individuals who donate the embryos must give written, informed consent.
 
 