SEN. CANTWELL APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF MAGNUSON-STEVENS FISHERIES MANAGEMENT BILL
  Monday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) applauded the Senate's passage of legislation reauthorizing the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (S.2012), the country's premiere law guiding fishing in federal waters. As ranking member on the Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, Cantwell cosponsored the bill and worked closely with Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) to develop sound, bipartisan legislation. Cantwell played a key role in securing provisions important to Washington state's commercial fisheries and fishery managers including national guidelines for fishing quota programs that will improve safety at sea, reduce fleet overcapitalization, and ensure productive fish stocks in the future. In addition, the Senate bill strengthens the role of coastal states in fisheries law enforcement and ensures science-based management decisions.  
   "We are grateful that thirty years ago, former Washington State Senator Warren Magnuson had the wisdom to set up an enduring fishery management system," said Cantwell. "The bill we passed today builds on his legacy by incorporating specific recommendations made by the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy to improve fishery management and promote conservation while supporting a robust national fishing industry." 
   "Although we've had strong fisheries management in place for thirty years, overfishing is still occurring in some areas of the country," continued Cantwell. "This bill ensures sustainable fish stocks while maintaining the flexibility necessary for fisheries managers to consider the needs of coastal communities. Only through careful and wise use of these resources can we guarantee that this important industry continues to benefit fishermen, consumers, and the nation well into the future. I strongly support this balanced approach and look forward to working with my House colleagues to see it into law." 
   Several Magnuson-Stevens reauthorization bills have been introduced in the House of Representatives, but only one is likely to pass. Although this House bill, sponsored by Representative Pombo (R-CA), is similar to the Senate bill, it contains provisions that would weaken important safeguards currently in place to recover overfished stocks, as well as controversial language that would allow Regional Fishery Management Councils to circumvent the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). 
   The Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976, known as the Magnuson-Stevens Act is the landmark law guiding the management of our nation's commercial fisheries in federal waters - valued at more than $31.6 billion. The commercial fishing industry contributes as much as $3 billion to Washington state's economy each year. There are approximately 3,000 vessels in Washington's fishing fleet, employing about 10,000 fishermen. Seafood processors employ 3,800 Washingtonians, and fish wholesalers employ an additional 1,000.
 
 