SEN. CANTWELL TO PRESIDENT: VETO OF STEM CELL RESEARCH DENIES HOPE TO MILLIONS OF AMERICANS
  Following the president's veto of legislation to open the door to federal support for stem cell research, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) vowed to work with House and Senate Republicans to override the president's veto.  
   "I am extremely disappointed in the president's veto and will do everything I can to make sure this groundbreaking research proposal still becomes law," said Cantwell. "Only one of the bills we passed Tuesday delivers real promise for a cure to millions of Americans. Yet this is the bill the president vetoed. The federal government should not stand in the way of a cure for some of the most debilitating diseases faced by Americans today." 
   The Senate passed the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 810) Tuesday night on a 63-37 vote. This legislation was vetoed by the president on Wednesday. While the Senate also passed two additional Cantwell-backed stem cell bills, only H.R. 810 takes the ethical, commonsense steps needed to remove restrictions and encourage groundbreaking embryonic stem cell research. Embryonic stem cell research offers the greatest promise to American's suffering from ailments like Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, and spinal cord injuries. 
   Immediately following the Senate's approval of the proposal Tuesday night, Cantwell joined 40 of her Senate colleagues in calling on Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to urge the president to reconsider his announced plan to veto the critical legislation. In their letter to Frist, Cantwell and her colleagues emphasized the potential of stem cell research, saying that current federal restrictions prevent stem cell research from fulfilling its potential to save lives and alleviate suffering. The senators also asked Frist to work with House leaders and Senate Republicans to ensure that the legislation becomes law in the event of a veto. 
   "Millions of patients and their families across the nation cannot afford to wait any longer for the enactment of this urgently needed legislation," the senators wrote. "We are counting on your leadership to help ensure that this legislation becomes law so that we may finally clear the way for research that could lead to treatments and cures for debilitating diseases and conditions." 
   The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, cosponsored by Cantwell and approved by both the House and Senate, lifts many current restrictions on stem cell lines derived after August 9, 2001, allowing federal funds to be used to study and examine them. It does not allow federal funds to be used to derive the lines. The legislation also imposes ethical rules that are tighter than current law. 
   [A copy of the senators' letter to Frist can be viewed at http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/07_18_06_Stem_Cell_Letter.pdf]
 
 