SEN. CANTWELL SPEAKS ON FUTURE OF REGION'S ECONOMY
  Thursday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) joined local business leaders, researchers, and representatives from the University of Washington and Edmonds Community College to emphasize the important role manufacturing will play in the future of Washington state's economy. During her featured remarks, Cantwell discussed Washington's leadership role in composites development and use, not just in new aircraft like the Boeing 787, but in a broad range of other industries as well.  
   "To take advantage of incredible new opportunities we need the right investments and the right strategy," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Commerce and Small Business committees. "This means sustaining our cutting-edge research efforts, continuing high-quality workforce training, and ensuring we maintain our region's strong manufacturing base. This will not only mean a stronger aerospace industry, but will also help composites companies expand beyond their aerospace roots to drive regional economic development and create high-skill, high paying jobs." 
   At Thursday's expo, Cantwell, a national leader in encouraging composites research, development, and workforce training, highlighted her vision to reinforce the existing manufacturing hub in Washington state. 
   Washington's composites expertise is currently helping to make Boeing's 787 aircraft a success. Composites also play a key role in new fuel efficient big-rig trucks developed by Bellevue-based PACCAR and armor for our troops developed by Armor Systems International in Vancouver. According to Boeing, as much as 50 percent of the 787's primary structure will be made of composites, allowing the aircraft to use 20 percent less fuel than today's similarly sized airplane. All together, advanced materials like composites currently represent a $25 billion-a-year global industry that with tremendous growth prospects. 
   The composites expo, hosted by the Snohomish County Economic Development Council, included displays from several local businesses involved in the composite industry, and featured speakers from local composites companies. Mark Tuttle from Advanced Materials in Transportation Aircraft Structures (AMTAS), a Center of Excellence Cantwell helped create at the University of Washington, was also in attendance, as were representatives from the Edmonds Community College Advanced Materials Science program - the nation's foremost composites workforce training program. 
   Soon after taking office, Cantwell passed legislation as part of the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill creating a Center of Excellence for applied research and training in the use of advanced materials in commercial airplanes. Established at the University of Washington in 2003, the AMTAS Center of Excellence is made up of business, academic, and government interests working to coordinate research efforts and encourage the broader use of advanced structural materials, including composites and aluminum alloys, in future aircraft like the 787.
 
 