SEN. CANTWELL APPLAUDS WASHINGTON STATE INCLUSION IN NATIONAL SEX OFFENDER DATABASE, CONTINUES CALL FOR TOUGHER LAWS
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) applauded the Justice Department's addition Wednesday of Washington state to the National Sex Offender Public Registry. The registry, launched in June, provides citizens with access to nationwide sex offender data through a single search engine, and is a powerful tool for informing parents of sex offenders living in or near their community.  
   "Linking Washington to this registry means tangible improvements in protecting our state's children from sex offenders," said Cantwell. "We need better, more efficient information and this registry helps make it easier for parents to keep their children safe by knowing where sexual predators are living. Keeping track of these criminals is critical to protecting children everywhere." 
   The National Sex Offender Public Registry was launched in June 2005 and now includes 38 states, the District of Columbia, and one territory. The site allows parents and other concerned citizens to search publicly available information on sex offenders through a single, centralized search engine. Today's action links Washington state databases to the Registry, and will allow Washingtonians to access important information through the federal site at http://www.nsopr.gov. 
   Cantwell has long fought to give citizens better access to information on sex offenders. Earlier this year, she joined a bipartisan effort to strengthen the laws protecting children from sex offenders by advocating for passage of "The Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act." The legislation, cosponsored by Cantwell, would better link state tracking systems and create a more comprehensive national sex offender database to prevent sex offenders from escaping tracking systems through a move to another state. The bill would also put in place stronger, nationwide registration standards, expand the scope and duration of sex offender registration and notification requirements, and provide additional tools to law enforcement officers working to keep our communities safe. The legislation makes failure to follow registration requirements a felony, punishable by 3 to 10 years for first offenses, and 10 years to life for second offenses. The measure was passed out of committee on October 20, 2005 and now awaits consideration by the full Senate.
 
 