SEN. CANTWELL, REP. LARSEN INTRODUCE GI BILL FOR LIFE TO BOOST EDUCATION, JOB TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES FOR VETERANS
  Tuesday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) reintroduced her GI Bill for Life Act to improve education and job training opportunities for veterans by removing the 10-year time limit placed on GI Bill benefits. Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, will introduce similar legislation in the House later this week. While almost all service members contribute to the GI Bill program, only half take advantage of the education benefits before they expire. 
   "GI Bill benefits should not come with an expiration date" said Cantwell. "When our service members leave the military, family obligations, work commitments, and economic difficulties often get in the way. We need to remove this arbitrary time limit and make sure our veterans can get valuable skills training when the time is right for them. Veterans should have access to their education benefits for life. "  
   "Times have changed, and we owe it to our veterans to keep up," said Larsen. "In today's changing economy, veterans should be able to get the education they need when they need it. Almost half of veterans who pay into the GI Bill system don't use their GI Bill benefits within the time allowed. There should be no time limit on honoring their service to our country." 
   Washington state veteran and former state VFW commander Frosty Hulsey said, "This legislation will allow veterans that have earned their GI Bill entitlements to use those entitlements to keep up with changes due to technology over the course of their lifetime, thus keeping them more employable. Our state has the Guaranteed Education Tuition that once paid into is available at any time so why not do the same for our nation's heroes, our veterans. This bill is a long time overdue. It makes sense and is the right thing to do." 
   The Montgomery GI Bill, which became law in 1944, includes an active duty program as well as a reserve program. Enrollees in the active duty program contribute a total of $1200 toward their education benefits. They can then use these benefits-up to $1,000 per month for 36 months-for college, business, technical, or vocational courses, correspondence courses, apprenticeships, job training, and flight training. Enrollees in the active duty program have 10 years from the day they leave the military to take advantage of the program. Enrollees in the reserve program can receive up to $288 per month for 36 months in education benefits. Benefits for reserve members expire after 14 years. 
   Unfortunately, many veterans are unable to use their GI Bill benefits within the time limit. In 1999, while 96 percent of all active duty soldiers enroll in the GI Bill program, only about 57 percent took advantage of the benefits before they expired. Cantwell and Larsen's Montgomery GI Bill for Life Act of 2007 would remove this time limit, allowing veterans to take advantage of their GI Bill benefits at anytime. 
   After leaving the military, to support their families, some service members postpone going to school. Others face long rehabilitation due to disabilities associated with military service. Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs has only limited discretion to grant time extensions to those who are unable to use their benefits due to mental or physical handicaps. Since 1944, the GI Bill has provided our country with over 450,000 engineers, 238,000 teachers, and 91,000 scientists.
 
 