WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  URGING THE PRESIDENT TO SIGN THE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE BILL
  Last week, I urged President Bush to sign legislation passed by the Senate to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and provide health care coverage to 38,500 additional kids in Washington and nearly 10 million children nationwide. The bill has cleared both the House and Senate and is headed to the President who has already said he would veto the bill. This is a sensible and compassionate bill and it reflects the good that we are capable of achieving when we come together to work on solutions to our health care crisis. It is unacceptable that people who are working hard and trying to make ends meet are unable to keep their families healthy. Opponents of the bill want to tell you that we're going too far, that this is an unchecked expansion of government health care. And I've heard plenty of talk about this bill providing coverage to families who make more than enough to pay for their kids' health coverage. I'm surprised at those comments because this bill is clearly designed to reach those kids who need coverage the most. The president needs to sign this bill--we need to help these families.
  At Swedish Medical Center this past weekend, I continued to call on President Bush to sign the reauthorization of the Children's Health Insurance Program I joined hospital CEO Dr. Rod Hochman; nurse Joanne Metroplos; Jon Gould of Children's Alliance; Hugh Ewart of Community Health Centers and president of the Children's Health Coalition; along with the Delgado family from Kent, who rely on the program for their three young kids. If President Bush has his way, we'll be taking a step backwards. Congress has done its job, now its time for the president to do his.
   LONG-AWAITED HATE CRIME BILL PASSES IN THE SENATE
  The Senate has passed legislation that expands the definition of hate crimes to include crimes motivated by gender, disability, sexual orientation or gender identity of the victim. The bill strengthens efforts of state and local law enforcement and the Department of Justice to assist with their investigations and prosecution of hate crimes. It also provides grants to help state and local governments meet the high costs involved in hate crime cases. I commend the Senate's passage of this important legislation. America was created based upon the idea that all people are created equal. Now we can give law enforcement the tools to vigorously prosecute crimes motivated by hate or bias regardless of race, color, national origin, religion, gender, disability, or sexual orientation. 
   INCREASE IN STUDENT FINANCIAL AID SIGNED INTO LAW
  Last week, the president signed legislation that provides the largest increase in student financial aid since the GI bill was signed into law. The College Cost Reduction Act will cut interest rates, cap monthly loan payments, and offer loan forgiveness to those in public service careers like, public school teachers, law enforcement, firefighters, E-M-Ts, public health doctors and nurses. The bill would raise the maximum Pell Grant from $4,310 to $5,400 by 2012, and simplify the financial aid process making it much easier for students to access loans. Washington state is estimated toreceive $33 million more in the first year and an estimated total of $334 million over the next five years. This would increase the average grant in the state by $360 in 2008 to $2,870 and increase the eligibility for students to receive a maximum grant reward. Making sure everyone has access to affordable education, is of great importance. With the help of federal Pell Grants, I was the first member of my family to graduate from college.
 
 