SEN. CANTWELL ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR CRITICAL ENERGY, WATER PROJECTS FOR WASHINGTON STATE
  U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today announced that she has secured funding in the fiscal year 2008 Senate Energy and Water Appropriations bill covering a range of projects which vary from the Odessa aquifer studyto the Snohomish County Biodiesel Initiative. The funding for these programs was included in the omnibus spending package passed by the Senate on Tuesday night. The House passed the bill on Wednesday, and sent it to the President for his signature. 
   "These funds in the Senate Appropriations bill make achieving funding goals in sight for imperative Northwest issues such as energy and water. These projects are of particular importance and I will continue taking steps to make sure these projects appear on the final appropriations bill," said Cantwell.
   Odessa Subarea Special Study, Columbia Basin Project - $1.185 million will be used to make an alternative of Columbia Basin Project water to replace ground water, as deep well irrigation is depleting the aquifer. This requested amount of funding is necessary to keep the study no schedule for completion in 2010.
   Electric Utility Transmission and Distribution Line Engineering Program - $800,000 requested in partnership with Gonzaga University Engineering and Applied Science the funding will be used for curriculum design and renovation of laboratory space and the purchasing of equipment.
   King County Biogas and Nutrient Reduction Project - $500,000 to help reduce waste disposal costs for local farmers and serve as a pilot to convert biomass to energy.
   Snohomish County Biodiesel Initiative - $350,000 requested to allow for phase three of the Biodiesel Initiative, which will form a cooperative, secure local planting and harvesting equipment, and continue the two cent per pound incentive.
   Yakima River Basin Feasibility Study - $1 million to continue the feasibility study putting emphasis on the storage of Columbia River water and the potential Black Rock Reservoir, along with determining the benefits of additional storage to threatened fish, irrigated agriculture and the municipal water supply.
   Elliott Bay Seawall Feasibility Study - $600,000 for the City of Seattle and Army Corps of Engineers Seattle District Office, to complete all planning and economic analysis required to determine a preferred federal plan.
   US Army Corps of Engineers Mud Mountain Dam Construction Funding - $2.378 million will be used in beginning the reconstruction of the diversion dam. This construction project is essential to avoid fish passage challenges.
   The U.S. Senate is expected to approve these projects in the upcoming months. Once approved, a conference committee will work out differences between House and Senate versions of the legislation. The final legislation will then go to both the House and Senate for final approval.
 
 