SEN. CANTWELL DISAPPOINTED BY REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP'S REFUSAL TO EXTEND TAA BENEFITS
  U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) is disappointed Republican leadership refused a 3-month extension of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA). The program provides health insurance tax credits, financial assistance, and training to workers who lost their jobs due to increased trade or offshoring. Cantwell has been a longstanding supporter for providing training and skills to workers who are transitioning into a new career. 
   "This is fundamentally about fairness," said Cantwell. "America's workers are the best in the world and if this program expires, thousands of workers will lose benefits that are helping them compete in the new global economy. We need to do more, not less, to make sure that America's workers have the skills, training, and financial assistance they need to grow as part of our economy. This is not the time for Republican leadership to continue blocking an extension of TAA. This is the time to be thinking about how to do more to help thousands of workers get more from a better program."
   TAA was established under the Trade Act of 1974. The TAA program provides aid to workers who lost their jobs or whose hours of work and wages are reduced as a result of increased imports. The program offers a variety of benefits and services to assist unemployed workers to prepare for and obtain suitable employment. Workers may be eligible for training, job search and relocation allowances, income support and other reemployment services. Cantwell has been a leader in the Senate for advocating TAA training and Workforce Investment Act training programs.
   In 2007, Cantwell cosponsored a bill with Senator Max Baucus (D-MT) to renew and expand the TAA program to services sector workers and workers affected by offshoring to countries like China or India. It also creates a new TAA program fro rural and distress communities. Senator Cantwell is the lead Democratic sponsor of Senator Elizabeth Dole's (R-NC) bill to expand TAA eligibility to displaced workers whose jobs are moved to a country with no trade agreement with the U.S. The bill would provide automatic TAA eligibility for displaced textile and apparel employees.
   In response to a request from Senator Baucus, the Department of Labor stated it would continue the TAA program through 2008 with funds provided in the omnibus spending package passed by Congress this week. Senator Cantwell hopes that the Department of Labor will live up to its commitment, and urges Republican leadership to work with Democrats next year on a meaningful extension of this critical program.
 
 