FLOODING: SEN. CANTWELL URGES PRESIDENT TO QUICKLY APPROVE GOVERNOR'S REQUEST FOR INDIVIDUAL FEDERAL ASSISTANCE
  Today, U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell joined members of the Washington delegation in sending a letter to President Bush urging him to quickly approve individual federal assistance requested by Governor Chris Gregoire for King and Snohomish Counties. Earlier this month, Senators Cantwell and Murray joined Governor Gregoire and Congressman Norm Dicks (D-WA-06) to tour flood zones and meet with residents. In addition to Senator Cantwell, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Representatives Jay Inslee (D-WA-01), Jim McDermott (D-WA-07), Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) and Dave Reichert (R-WA-08) signed the letter. 
   [The text of the letter follows below]
   December 20, 2007
   President George W. Bush
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   We write to respectfully request your full support of Washington state Governor Chris Gregoire's request for King County and Snohomish County to be added to FEMA disaster 1734 (DR-1734) for Individual Assistance. This action will allow victims of the December storms to begin receiving federal assistance.
   As you know, King and Snohomish Counties were declared for Public Assistance on December 19, 2007. In addition to the significant damage to public infrastructure and facilities, each county also received a large amount of damage to private property. Homes, businesses and farms in these two counties were all severely damaged.
   This flood event was dramatically different from previous flooding events in that it affected residents who are simply not accustomed to flood disasters. The damages in King and Snohomish Counties are significantly concentrated, impact special populations (low-income residents and seniors), and are placing substantial emotional strain on victims.
   In order to help those affected, we request your immediate attention and action to ensure adequate federal assistance is available to those who have suffered. We urge you to work with King County and Snohomish County to provide appropriate relief.
   Thank you for your consideration to the needs of our constituents affected by this disaster.
   Sincerely,
   Sens. Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray, Reps. Jay Inslee, Jim McDermott, Rick Larsen and David Reichert
   Cc: Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency R. David Paulison;
   FEMA Region X Director Susan Reinertson;
  Washington state Governor Chris Gregoire.
 
 