SEN. CANTWELL ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR FIRST RESPONDERS AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES FOR WASHINGTON STATE
  U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today announced that she has secured funding for programs benefiting Washington state first responders, police and sheriffs departments. The funding for these programs was included in the omnibus spending package passed by the Senate on Tuesday night. The House passed the bill on Wednesday, and sent it to the President for his signature. 
   "These funds will help first responders and law enforcement agencies throughout Washington keep their communities safe and secure with the equipment they need to get the job done," said Cantwell. "I am proud to have supported these programs that address the needs of our communities."
  Below is a list of programs secured by Senator Cantwell in the omnibus package. They were originally included in the Appropriations bill for the Departments of Commerce, Justice and State.
   Citizens for a Safe Yakima Valley - $357,200 to fund patrol sweeps, new technology and equipment and costs associated with establishing a neighborhood presence in communities most affected by violence. Six sweeps will be conducted over the course of a year, digital equipment would be implemented and equipment and technology would be provided to new police substations.
  DNA Stranger Rape Pilot Program - Phase II: $491,150 to enhance the ability to solve stranger rape cases quickly, but bring rapid closure to the victim and save resources by reducing law enforcement investigation time while removing the offender from the streets.
   Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative - $1.41 million to continue to provide resources and support to community-based Meth Action Teams, fund collaboration efforts between law enforcement and community-based prevention programs and support community outreach and public awareness programs and campaigns.
  Whatcom County Multi-Jurisdictional Data Integration Project - $223,250 to implement the Whatcom Exchange Network which will increase officer and public safety in our connected communities by providing efficient access to real time data from 11 different jurisdictions. It will also eliminate redundant data entry and facilitate the efficient sharing of information.
   City of Bellevue - $357,200 to provide equipment upgrades for local law enforcement.
  (MORE)
   King County, Washington Sheriff's Office - $329,000 for the Sheriff's Department to hire four School Resource Officers to protect students, administrators, teachers, and support staff in unincorporated districts that lack the resources of city districts.
  King County, Washington Sheriff's Office of Gang Intervention Initiative - $352,000 to allow the Sheriff's Department to coordinate gang suppression, prevention, and treatment strategies with local, state and federal law enforcement.
   Washington State Methamphetamine Research - $517,000 to develop a WSU Methamphetamine Research Center in Spokane.
  City of Bellevue (NORCOM) Regional 911 Center - $1.41 million to provide technology systems and other start up costs associated with consolidating centers, including a computer assisted dispatch and mobile data are records management systems.
   Pierce County, Washington Sheriff's Office Automated Finger Imaging System - $1,198,500 for upgrades to allow Pierce County to deploy portable finger imaging recognition devices in the field.
   King County, Washington Court Technology -$305,500 to integrate the court's juvenile and family justice technology systems.
   Rainier Communications Commission - $235,000 for approximately 60 wireless routers for use in sheriff squad cars and other emergency vehicles to enable the pilot testing of the network.
 
 