WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  GETTING OUR TROOPS THE BODY ARMOR THEY NEED
   As we look for a new direction in Iraq, protection for our men and women in uniform is essential. The president should never deploy our troops without the best technology and equipment, including full body armor. Yet many of our soldiers are still without the armor they need. According to a 2005 Defense Department report, side armor plates could have prevented many fatalities. However, despite assurances from former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that side armor plates would be delivered, a January 25 report uncovered ongoing shortages. We need a plan immediately, and I've joined other senators from both parties in calling on Defense Secretary Robert Gates to take immediate steps to get our troops the body armor they were promised. Two years after this problem was first reported, it's unacceptable that American soldiers in Iraq are without full body armor. 
   ADDRESSING SHORTAGES AMONG HEALTH CARE WORKERS 
   Chronic, severe shortages in a broad range of healthcare occupations in our country-including lab technicians, EMTs, health information managers, and dozens of other professions that require advanced training-are having a serious effect on hospitals in our state and real consequences when it comes to fast and effective patient care. To address this long-standing problem, I've reintroduced my legislation to address staffing shortages in these fields-known as the allied health professions-and confront under-enrollment in training programs that prepare students to fill these high-quality jobs. My Allied Health Reinvestment Act would set up education, practice, and retention grants to boost enrollment in training programs, develop new training techniques, encourage graduates to work in underserved communities, and promote career advancement for allied health personnel. A recent national survey reported nationwide under-enrollment as high as 55 percent in some allied health training programs. In addition, the Washington State Hospital Association reports vacancy rates above 10 percent among ultrasound technologists, radiology technicians, and nuclear medicine technologists. These professionals play critical roles in the fast diagnosis and treatment of life-threatening diseases. Quality care depends on filling these persistent vacancies.
   REPLACING THE AGING COAST GUARD FLEET
   At a Coast Guard Subcommittee hearing I chaired last Wednesday, we put a spotlight on the Coast Guard's troubled Deepwater program. Deepwater-a partnership between the Coast Guard, Lockheed Martin, and Northrop Grumman-is a 25-year, $24 billion initiative to replace the aging fleet of Coast Guard assets used in missions more than 50 miles from the coast. The program is plagued by cost overruns, serious design flaws, ships and technology that fail to meet basic contract requirements, and a contract structure that takes oversight power away from the Coast Guard and gives primary decision-making authority to Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman. Four recent independent reviews show just how widespread these problems are, pointing to hundreds of millions of dollars in waste and new ships with debilitating structural flaws. We must demand better if we want to keep our country secure and I will work with the Coast Guard to get this program back on track. We are going to find a solution to end waste and get the Coast Guard the assets it needs. 
   MAKING SURE CORPORATE POLLUTERS CLEAN UP THEIR TOXIC SITES
   To stop corporate polluters from continuing to use bankruptcy loopholes to avoid cleanup responsibilities, I recently reintroduced my Cleanup Assurance and Polluter Accountability Act. Based on what we learned from Asarco and recommendations from a Congressional Research Service report I requested in 2002, my bill would close loopholes in bankruptcy law that some polluters have used to avoid cleanup at superfund sites they own. It would also force parent companies to cover the liabilities of their subsidiaries, and require businesses to maintain better financial assurances of their ability to meet potential cleanup obligations. My bill will make sure that it's the responsible party, not the American taxpayer, who pays to clean up toxic sites.
 
 