SEN. CANTWELL LEGISLATION URGES U.S.-CANADIAN AGREEMENT TO END NORTHERN BORDER TRAFFICKING OF METH PRECURSORS
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today announced details of her legislation to curb the spread of methamphetamine abuse. Cantwell's "Arrest Methamphetamine Act of 2005" (S. 430)-introduced this week-would urge the President to negotiate a bilateral agreement with the Canadian government to curb the Northern Border meth precursor trafficking problem. In addition, Cantwell's legislation authorizes $100 million in anti-meth funding for the current federal fiscal year, and establishes a stable federal funding source to combat meth abuse through 2010.  
   "We need to provide steady federal support for the law enforcement and first responders on the front lines of the meth epidemic, rather than shifting the burden onto local communities," Cantwell said. "We also need a smart, coordinated approach to stop the spread of meth - rather than just pushing it across international and state borders." 
   Cantwell's legislation also requires the U.S. Attorney General to establish a national clearinghouse of information, so that when one state or local jurisdiction finds an approach to the meth problem that works, the solution is shared nationwide. The national clearinghouse will help establish "best practices" and provide technical assistance for these state and local agencies. 
   Cantwell detailed her legislation today at a roundtable discussion at Everett Fire Station No. 1, including local law enforcement, drug task force members, meth victims, and local elected officials. First responders were also on hand to walk participants through the dangerous process of first seizing and then cleaning up a meth lab. 
   Last month, Cantwell sent a letter to President Bush asking that his Administration to come to the aid of local communities by doubling federal funding to fight the meth problem. Instead, the Administration's Fiscal Year 2006 budget released earlier this month cut these funds in half and would provide only $20 million nationwide. 
   Unfortunately, the President's proposed decline in federal support for meth funding follows recent budget trends. In fiscal year 2002, meth enforcement and clean-up efforts received $70 million in federal support. The fiscal year 2005 appropriation fell 25 percent, to under $52 million. As a result, local communities currently have to depend on annual earmarks for assistance in the fight against meth, as there is no formal federal program that is specialized to deal with the problem. Cantwell's legislation would reverse this trend by providing $800 million over five years. 
   Under this legislation, funds would be divided under a new formula grant for states with programs to combat meth. In order to be eligible to receive a grant, states must have a comprehensive, long-term plan to address meth use, manufacture and sale, and have enacted or be in the process of enacting a law to limit the sales of precursor products (the commercially available products used to make meth, such as pseudoephedrine). Under Cantwell's bill, states would have flexibility and discretion to decide how to use grant funds. States receiving a grant would be allowed to fund a broad range of activities, including: seizing clandestine labs and cleaning up the hazardous materials they often contain; hiring officers and conducting specialized training for law enforcement; supporting community policing; and promoting awareness, prevention and community based education, among other strategies. 
   Although Washington state received $2 million in fiscal year 2005 federal funding to fight meth, it received $4 million as recently as fiscal year 2002. As a state, Washington spent $56 million fighting meth in fiscal year 2004.
 
 