SEN. CANTWELL APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF IMPORTANT WATER PROJECTS LEGISLATION THAT WILL SAVE STATE MILLIONS
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) applauded the Senate's approval Wednesday night of the Water Resources Development Act, which authorizes vital maintenance and improvements on our nation's waterways. This important, long-overdue legislation also includes a permanent extension of an important Army Corps of Engineers authority that allows the Corps to expedite the permitting process for local infrastructure development. 
   "The Water Resources Development Act will provide important tools to support waterborne commerce and efficient infrastructure development for communities throughout our state," said Cantwell. "By expediting projects like dredging, and other infrastructure improvements, we can facilitate economic growth, make the improvements we need, and keep our economy growing. I look forward to working with my House colleagues to make sure this critical legislation becomes law."  
   The Water Resources Development Act would extend a permitting authority known as "Section 214," which allows permit applicants to cover the cost of additional Army Corps of Engineers permitting officers to expedite the permitting process. Section 214 currently operates under a temporary extension set to expire on December 31, 2006. The City of Seattle was the first public entity in the country to develop and use Section 214 after it first became law in 2000. In the first three years since the city began working with the Seattle District Corps under Section 214, the average review time per project was reduced from over 804 days to 69 days, saving the city an estimated $5 million. 
   For example, using the permitting authority provided by Section 214, the Jackson Park Detention Ponds Project was completed 2 years ahead of schedule. This project was a critical component of efforts to improve water quality, habitat, and public health and safety in Seattle. Using Section 214, the City was able to complete the project in one work season rather that two. The Jackson Park project was one of the first of over 100 City of Seattle projects to benefit from this provision. 
   Specifically, Section 214 allows public entities to provide the Corps with funds to hire additional staff to process their permits expediting the processing of their permits and adding more permit processing capacity for all applicants. Section 214 does not provide entities that fund additional permit processing with preferential treatment in the review of their projects. The City of Seattle, the Port of Tacoma, and the Port of Seattle currently use Section 214 authority. With the upcoming expiration of Section 214 authority, the Seattle District of the Army Corps of Engineers is no longer accepting new agreements. 
   The Water Resources Development Act also included language to end current restrictions on the use of federal hopper dredges like the Essayons and Yaquina, which are used for maintenance of the Columbia River Channel. Current law has restricted the number of days annually the dredges can operate. The Senate version of the bill ends these restrictions, providing more flexibility for dredging operation while creating an opportunity for more efficient use of federal dredges. 
   The Water Resources Development Act provides the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers with the authority to study water resource problems, construct projects, and make major modifications to current projects. It reauthorizes Army Corps of Engineers projects to improve inland waterways and ports, reduce flood and coastal storm damage, and restore damaged ecosystems. It also authorizes projects to improve water quality and storage, and begin necessary environmental remediation and watershed planning throughout the United States. The differences between the Senate and House versions of the legislation must now be worked our in a conference committee. 
   Wednesday's passage of the Water Resources Development Act followed a letter sent by Senators Murray and Cantwell last year requesting Senate floor consideration of the legislation.
 
 