WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  Tanker Contract Does Not Add Up
   Last week, I sent a letter, with seven of my colleagues, to President Bush expressing concern that the Air Force's decision to award the tanker contract to Northrop Grumman/ Airbus may have unintended effects on U.S. trade enforcement efforts against illegal foreign subsidies in many sectors from aerospace, softwood lumber, steel, auto parts, to semiconductors. The Northrop/Airbus tanker, the KC-30, is based on the A330 platform, which was developed and financed through billions of dollars in illegal foreign government subsidies. The same week we sent the letter to President Bush, I also met with representatives from the Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace (SPEEA) and visited Boeing 767 workers in Everett to get their insights. In the days ahead, I will continue to question how the flawed process led to a flawed decision that is wrong for our men and women in uniform and bad for the American workers. 
    President's Climate Change Speech Should Go Straight Into the Recycling Bin
   Although I commend President Bush for finally acknowledging climate change is real and serious problem, his speech last week did not convince me that the White House has changed its tune after seven years of trying to block every legislative or judicial effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Or, for that matter, that he suddenly understands the urgency of making our nation a clean energy leader. The best thing for the environment would be if the President recycles the paper his speech was written on. While tackling climate change is the most urgent and important environmental challenge facing our generation, we need to make sure that any greenhouse gas reduction strategy is efficient, effective, and puts consumers first.
    NBA Moves the Sonics
   Last Wednesday, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and I sent a letter to NBA Commissioner David Stern urging him to allow good faith efforts aimed at keeping the Sonics in Seattle before holding a vote to relocate the franchise. Since sending the letter, the NBA has approved the Sonics move to Oklahoma City. For decades the Sonics have been part of the Seattle community and its culture. As an avid sports fan, I'm extremely disappointed at the league's decision. I will not accept this as the final word of NBA basketball in Seattle.
    Filmmakers in Nigeria Return Home
   Last week, I announced the release of Sandy Cioffi, Tammi Sims, Clifford Worsham, and Sean Porter, as well as the release of a Nigerian citizen, Joel Bisina, who were detained by the Nigerian military and security service. I was thrilled to welcome the filmmakers the home this past weekend. I believe it is important to stand up for the internationally recognized human right of freedom of expression. The filmmakers were working to shine light on poverty and injustice in Nigeria, which is the best way to work towards conflict resolution and peace. I also plan to work to raise awareness about human rights abuses, and corruption and environmental devastation in Nigeria.
 
 